
Home Print Edition Features
Sometimes one hears a peep from them
A pleasant surprise awaited Arab Knesset members a week ago Wednesday during another one of those vociferous altercations that erupt regularly with right-wing MKs.
By Aryeh Dayan	Jan. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM

A pleasant surprise awaited Arab Knesset members a week ago Wednesday during another one of those vociferous altercations that erupt regularly with right-wing MKs.

The start of the incident was routine. Minister Without Portfolio Danny Naveh (Likud), as is his wont, included a provocative sentence in his speech aimed at the Arab MKs. During a speech on Israel's moves to prevent Arafat from visiting Bethlehem for Christmas, he claimed that the Tanzim and Palestinian police routinely sexually harass Christian girls in Beit Jala.

Arab MKs, as usual, did not let Naveh's provocation pass without comment and proceeded to respond obstreperously. "Naveh's a Nazi" and "Danny Goebbels" were just two of the catcalls they hurled.

MK Michael Kleiner (Herut-National Movement) and other right-wing parliamentarians joined in the ruckus which, for the umpteenth time, almost deteriorated into a free-for-all tussle.

The end of the incident was also familiar: Four Knesset members - Ahmed Tibi (Arab Movement for Renewal) , Talab A-Sana (United Arab List), Mohammed Barakeh (Hadash) and Muhammed Kanan (Arab National Party) - were ejected from the hall by the chairman of the session.

What made the incident different and surprised the Arab MKs was that they were joined by three Jewish MKs - Ophir Pines-Paz (Labor), Zahava Gal-On (Meretz) and Joseph Paritzky (Shinui) - who left the hall in protest against Naveh's statement. Pines-Paz even filed a complaint against Naveh in the House Ethics Committee.

The next day, Pines-Paz decided to convene the Knesset Law, Constitution and Justice Committee, which he chairs, to discuss four proposals from Arab MKs concerning equality for the Arab population. Pines-Paz explained that the discussion was intended as a response "to the organized and planned attack and incitement" which he says extreme right-wing parliamentarians are waging against Arab MKs. At the same time, he agrees that some of the language used by Arab MKs "riles unnecessarily."

Most Arab MKs welcomed Pines-Paz's response but also expressed regret that it did not reflect the behavior of most Labor and Meretz MKs. Some even went so far as to say that leftist MKs who should show solidarity with Arab MKs instead "sacrifice" their Arab colleagues to the right. "Their response to the attacks on us are always too limp," said A-Sana. "Once in a while I hear a peep out of them but I've never heard them take an unequivocal stance in condemning the racist attacks on us. They act wishy-washy. Neither here nor there. They don't identify with us, and they don't defend us."

"The sharp response of Pines and Paritzky was heartwarming, precisely because it was unusual," added Tibi. Tibi contends that that MKs from the Zionist left have become alienated from Arab MKs, caving in to Jewish public opinion which has become more extreme. "Their motto is `An eye looks to consensus.' [instead of the line from Hatikva, `an eye looks to Zion']", he said.

This alienation is not only limited to the Knesset, he argues. "When an IDF soldier at the Qalandiyah roadblock shoots warning shots above my head and the head of MK Barakeh, they didn't say a word. A soldier fires at representatives of the public, and not one of them is shocked. When police beat me and MK Issam Makhoul [Hadash] at a demonstration against the Trans-Israel Highway and both of us needed medical treatment, their reaction was even more disheartening. Minister Ephraim Sneh, a member of the Labor Party, reacted exactly the same way as Deputy Public Security Minister Gideon Ezra [Likud]. Both of them argued that we were to blame for the beatings we got. The Zionist left apparently thinks that only Jewish parliamentarians are allowed to demonstrate."

Barakeh, head of the Hadash faction, is convinced that Meretz and Labor MKs take their cues from sentiments among doves. "In private discussion, they tell me that their behavior stems from party considerations. I explain to them that any such party consideration is dwarfed by the price they will pay for this. If the Arab population in Israel feels that no one is the Israeli peace camp is willing to lend an attentive ear, it is likely to get discouraged with politics. That's dangerous. Yisrael Katz [Likud] wants Israeli Arabs to get out of politics and create apartheid. The Jewish peace camp must understand that without Arabs in politics, the right will be victorious on every front."

Deteriorating discourse

MKs Ran Cohen and Anat Maor of Meretz are not impressed by such arguments. "I accept the argument that the right is conducting a racist attack against them," says Maor. "But I also think that they have to understand that there are things that we cannot accept. When an Arab MK calls a Jewish MK `Goebbels' or `Nazi,' he erodes the level of political discourse and uses connotations that must remain outside such a discourse. When a Knesset member - and it is irrelevant if it a Jewish one or an Arab one - sits next to a leader of Hezbollah, he hurts the peace camp and plays into the hands of the right."

"The argument that we keep our distance from Arab MKs in order to satisfy Jewish public opinion is simply untrue," contends Cohen. "We don't distance ourselves from the Arab public at all, but only from its representatives, who even before October 2000 began making all sorts of extreme nationalist declarations that are unacceptable. The call of MK Abdulmalik Dehamshe to break the hands and legs of police was heard before the murder of Arab demonstrators in the events of October."

He opines that Jewish-Arab cooperation, which has been painstakingly built since the 1950s, has crumbled due to several processes within the Arab leadership. "They identify completely with all of Arafat's illusions, and some of them identify with the ideology of Hamas. Every week they are ejected from the plenary, but I have never seen them even once going berserk on behalf of the disabled, the unemployed or residents of the Negev."

Such statements make A-Sana's blood boil. "I'm not willing to tolerate this patronizing attitude any longer," he says. "It is unconscionable that MKs from Meretz continue to think that they know better than we do what is good for us or that they try to dictate the stand we should take. They must understand that we want a partnership, but we are not willing to be collaborators. There's a big difference between a partner and a collaborator."

The deep rift highlights the growing gap between the Zionist left, where anti-Arab sentiment even among Jewish doves has intensified, and Hadash and Arab parties, which reflect intensifying anti-Zionist and pro-Palestinian sentiment among the Arab population.

The rift has grown so big that it has almost been forgotten that just two-and-a-half years ago, in the summer of 1999, these parties joined Meretz and Labor in supporting Barak's bid to become prime minister.

Barak's behavior after the election helped bring about the rift. His refusal to invite Hadash and the Arab parties for coalition talks left scars on the Arab parties and their public, which gave Barak more than 90 percent of their votes. The weakening of Hadash, which has an Arab-Jewish character, and the strengthening of Balad and the Islamic Movement, which have an agenda different from that of the Israeli peace camp, deepened the rift. The burgeoning of parties in the Arab sector (represented by 10 MKs from four factions and seven parties) increases competition among Arab MKs for media attention and causes them to express themselves in ever more extreme terms.

The collapse of the Oslo process has only added to the rift. The accumulative effect of all these processes is highlighted in proceedings of the Knesset plenary. The conflicts between the right and Arab MKs become ever sharper, and most MKs from the Zionist left choose to watch from the sidelines.

Not a sacrificial lamb

Barakeh accuses his leftist Jewish colleagues of losing their political and moral backbone. "The mistake of Meretz and Labor is that instead of thinking strategically, they take the easy way out politically. They must understand that the process of delegitimization will not stop with Arabs. Yossi Beilin and Yossi Sarid are already termed these days as traitors. Zvi Hendel [Likud] has even put Shimon Peres on the list of traitors. The left must learn from the lessons of history. It starts with the minority and spreads to the majority."

"The strategy of the right is absolutely clear," adds A-Sana. "They are delegitimizing us because they know that the left will never be able to get back into power without the Arabs. From the moment that the right manages to make us illegitimate and pulls us out of the Knesset as Yisrael Katz has proposed, it will have succeeded in neutralizing the influence of the left and will gain control of the state. It is a smart strategy and the left is responding to it in a stupid manner."

Some Arab MKs, such as veteran politician Hashem Mahameed [United Arab List], don't limit themselves to criticizing only the Jewish left but also reserve ammunition for their own camp. Mahameed, unlike some of the other Arab MKs, says he doesn't feel like the "sacrificial lamb" of the Zionist left. He distances himself from the style of some of his Arab colleagues and contends that part of his role is to "clarify to the Jewish public, which is the majority in this country, that the struggle we are waging is not against Jews or against the state but rather against the establishment and the government."

Most Arab MKs, Mahameed is convinced, fail in this task. "When I heap all the blame on the Jews, when I fail to recognize the state and when I declare that the struggle is between two peoples, between Jews and Arabs, I serve Kleiner, Landau and Danny Naveh.

"The role of an MK," he adds in a hint at MK Azmi Bishara, "is to lead the public without distancing oneself too much from it. A person who dispenses slogans on autonomy for Israeli Arabs, is doing something irresponsible. It's a dangerous idea. All of us are aware of the danger of transfer. I don't want us to wave around radical slogans today and cry tomorrow over the results."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Jerusalem should take a look at Belfast
It's hard to believe, but someone returning nowadays from Belfast carries some baggage full of optimism and hope that perhaps all is not lost in Jerusalem.
By Meron Benvenisti	| Jan. 10, 2002 | 12:00 AM

It's hard to believe, but someone returning nowadays from Belfast carries some baggage full of optimism and hope that perhaps all is not lost in Jerusalem. Those who remember the warnings of the 1970s and early 1980s that Jerusalem could yet turn into another Belfast - and the intercommunal violence deteriorate into a conflict like Northern Ireland's - can now say to themselves: If only Jerusalem could be like contemporary Belfast.

Things have changed so much that the comparison itself seems farfetched: How can one compare communities that have decided after generations of violent conflict to give up the violence and channel the conflict between them onto the political plane, with communities whose relationship is based on violence, coercion, delegitimizing the other and mutual terrorism?

Or maybe the two cities are on two different places along a historical time line leading from conflict to conciliation. Belfast is already a generation ahead of Jerusalem, situated in that positive realm between political arrangements and conciliation, while Jerusalem is stuck far behind, sinking ever deeper into the abyss of alienation and brutality.

A Jerusalemite visiting Belfast immediately notices the similarities between his ancient city and the very different Irish-British city.

In both places, the world is divided into two: "Us" and "them," "theirs" and "ours." Both are polarized cities, in which tribalism interprets itself from the interpersonal into political structures, and in particular into territorial homogeneity, painting their neighborhoods with national colors: orange and green in Belfast, blue and green in Jerusalem.

The seams between the neighborhoods are more dramatic in Belfast than in Jerusalem. No fewer than 25 dividing lines, built of brick and iron walls, divide the Protestant and Catholic communities, with the lines emphasized by huge wall murals making tangible the national identities of the residents.

These lines of division, euphemistically called "peace lines," are the focal point of serious violence nowadays, as well. The number of barriers between the armed Protestant and Catholic communities not only didn't decrease since 1994, but indeed grew. In Belfast, one learns the difference between political arrangements and genuine intercommunal reconciliation. Since the start of the Good Friday process that gave birth to the local joint government, the segregation between Protestants and Catholics has grown, only now it's called "benign apartheid."

The reduction of the conflict between the armed militias did not eliminate all the violence, but changed its nature: now it's aimed inward, to punish "deviants," or criminal elements, as well as the violence of youths and warring drug gangs. That teaches us that eliminating the external threat brings the internal differences into focus, and "peace" is not a utopian state.

Many in the Protestant majority are furious about what they perceive as "overly generous concessions" by their leaders and their government, who sold the other side their privileges, sacrificed political interests and sacred symbols. That, too, is the price paid for "painful concessions," and it endangers the stability of the process.

So, if that's the situation in Belfast, why the optimism? The optimism is derived from the way the political, academic and social elite manages the public affairs and informs the public discourse. A broad network of government, semi-governmental and voluntary agencies successfully runs what they call "a divided society in transition."

Organizations from both sides are partners in this endeavor and characteristic of their activities is the way they avoid any activity that is not aimed at building bridges, and forbid emotionally-loaded terminology.

For example, you won't hear the term "terror" or "terrorist"; after all, "a terrorist with blood on his hands" is now education minister in the province.

So, if it is possible in Belfast, maybe all is not lost in Jerusalem. A visit to Northern Ireland is warmly recommended to the mayor of Jerusalem and the Public Security Minister.


Home Print Edition News
South Africa's Tutu says Mugabe has gone `bonkers'
By Reuters	| Jan. 13, 2002 | 12:00 AM

JOHANNESBURG - Veteran anti-apartheid campaigner Archbishop Desmond Tutu said yesterday Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe had gone "bonkers in a big way" for disregarding the rule of law and assuming greater powers.

In an interview with the Saturday Star, Tutu joined mounting international criticism over Mugabe's leadership and said the sensible thing for the Zimbabwean leader would be to step down.

"Mugabe seems to have gone bonkers in a big way. It is very dangerous when you subvert the rule of law in your country, when you don't even respect the judgments of your judges...then you are on the slippery slope of perdition," Tutu said.

"It is a great sadness what has happened to President Mugabe. He was one of Africa's best leaders, a bright spark, a debonair, well-spoken and well-read person," the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize Winner told the newspaper.

Zimbabwe's parliament, where Mugabe's ZANU-PF has a comfortable majority, passed two controversial laws on Thursday - one that criminalized criticism of Mugabe and gave sweeping security powers to the government and another banning independent election monitors for the March 9-10 presidential polls and denying voting rights to millions of Zimbabweans abroad.

Faced with growing international isolation and the threat of sanctions, Zimbabwe said on Friday it would accept international observers for the elections, but strictly on its own terms.

The European Union is under mounting pressure to impose economic sanctions on Zimbabwe and suspend development aid. There are also calls for Zimbabwe to be suspended from the 54-nation Commonwealth.

South Africa broke a two-day silence on developments in its northern neighbor on Friday, saying it was "unacceptable" for the Zimbabwean army to signal it would only accept a victory by Mugabe, 77, in the election.

South Africa's President Thabo Mbeki said in a separate comment that "wrong things are happening in our neighborhood."

Tutu said Mbeki's government needed to take a stronger stance and its policy of quiet diplomacy had failed.

Mugabe, in power since 1980 when the former Rhodesia gained independence from Britain, faces a serious election challenge from Morgan Tsvangirai, leader of the main opposition Movement for Democratic Change.


Home News
Truth commission set for traumatized East Timor
By Reuters	| Jan. 16, 2002 | 12:00 AM

JAKARTA - East Timor will formally open a truth and reconciliation commission next week in a major step toward shedding light on widespread human rights abuses committed during Indonesia's brutal rule over the territory.

Similar in principle to the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission that probed apartheid-era crimes, officials said the East Timor body was vital to helping Timorese traumatized by the past deal with their suffering.

Officials said seven Timorese national commissioners were scheduled to be sworn in on Monday to mark the official opening of the body, although hearings would not start immediately.

"Many Timorese want answers from those who caused their loss and suffering," Xanana Gusmao, East Timor's independence hero and the man expected to become the territory's first president, said in remarks carried in commission documents obtained by Reuters.

"With answers, people can start the healing process and close the horrible chapter in their lives."

The establishment of the Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in East Timor comes as Jakarta moves closer to putting 19 suspects, including three generals, on trial over alleged major human rights abuses in East Timor linked to the territory's vote for independence in 1999.

The vote prompted pro-Jakarta militias, with support from the Indonesian army, to go on a rampage in which the UN estimates more than 1,000 people were killed.

East Timor, currently administered by the United Nations, will become formally independent on May 20.

Indonesia's 1975 invasion and subsequent 24-year occupation of the former Portuguese territory left more than 200,000 people -- a quarter of the population -- dead from fighting, famine and disease. The United Nations never recognized Jakarta's rule.

The commission, being set up by the UN administration with widespread support from Timorese political leaders, will operate for two years. It can extend for a further six months if needed.


Home Print Edition News
PM okays plan to `envelop Jerusalem'
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon yesterday approved a heightened security plan to "envelop Jerusalem" and said it should also include certain Jewish West Bank communities and Palestinian communities in Area B.
By Haaretz Staff	| Jan. 30, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon yesterday approved a heightened security plan to "envelop Jerusalem" and said it should also include Jewish West Bank communities such as Ma'aleh Adumim, Givat Ze'ev, and Har Gilo which are outside the capital's jurisdiction, and Palestinian communities in Area B.

Sharon emphasized that Jerusalem would be treated as a "single whole" that "includes Jewish and Arab neighborhoods as one." Among the Palestinian communities to be included are Bir Naballah, Biddya, Abu Dis and Azzariyeh. Sharon noted that the political status of Area B Palestinian communities included in the plan would not change. Area B communities are supposed to be under Palestinian Authority civil control and Israeli military control.

Sharon discussed the plan yesterday with National Security Adviser Uzi Dayan and afterward said he considered it to be "an essential element in securing Jerusalem." He ordered the National Security Council and the Ministry of Public Security to make the necessary changes to expand the area covered by the plan so that it can be presented soon to the security cabinet for budget approval.

The plan, drafted jointly by Dayan and Jerusalem Police Chief Mickey Levy, calls for the construction of an 11-kilometer wall along the seam line between East and West Jerusalem; the establishment of roadblocks between the eastern and western parts of the city; the installation of video cameras along the seam line; the creation of five Border Police units to patrol the seam line and the introduction of new identification technologies such as thermal sensors and night-vision equipment.

Expanding the plan beyond the borders of Jerusalem would mean some of the checkpoints currently around the city will be moved further away. But government sources said the inclusion of Jewish communities outside of Jerusalem had political significance and was not only a security consideration. It signaled a revival of the concept of a "greater Jerusalem," they noted.

Though parts of the plan may be adopted, it seems unlikely to be approved in full. Sharon, as well as Public Security Minister Uzi Landau and Jerusalem Mayor Ehud Olmert all object to walls or fences that could be interpreted as a repartitioning of the city. When Landau described the plan to the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee on Monday, he insisted it would not include any fences within the capital. It would merely channel people entering the city from outside through a number of well-guarded routes, he said.

Police sources yesterday expressed skepticism that the government would agree to fund the plan. "These plans come up for discussion after every wave of attacks, but in practice nothing happens," said one senior police officer.

Palestinian officials, reacting to reports of the plan, said it would never succeed in protecting Israelis.

"These oppressive Israeli military measures in East Jerusalem will not give Israelis security," said Ziyad Abu Zayad, who holds the Jerusalem Affairs portfolio in the Palestinian Authority. He said Arab East Jerusalem communities had already been cut off from each other due to military trenches and checkposts. "Those measures did not give Israelis security and neither will the new plan. The problem is not a security one but a political one and therefore it cannot be solved by military oppression," he said.

Yasser Abed Rabbo, minister of information and culture in the PA, said the plan constituted "heightened provocation" by the Sharon government. He said it showed Sharon was not interested in a political situation and wanted only to "create bantustans," a reference to the semi-autonomous Black regions created by apartheid South Africa. Both Abed Rabbo and Abu Zayad said the PA was working through international diplomatic contacts to sabotage the "enveloping Jerusalem" plan.


Home Print Edition News
News in Brief
Feb. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM


Doctor says Arafat's checkup overdue

Yasser Arafat's routine checkup is overdue and it is "inhuman" of Israel to keep him from medical attention, a leading Jordanian neurologist who regularly examines the Palestinian leader said yesterday. "Mr. Arafat must undergo medical checkups regularly, but he can't do that because Israel is locking him up and tanks are parked outside the walls of his headquarters," said Dr. Ashraf al-Kurdi. "It is inhuman to lock up a man who needs medical attention." He declined to discuss Arafat's health. (AP)

Toddler `sleepwalks' streets before dawn

A 40-year-old Ashdod mother is being questioned after her 2-and-a-half year old son was found by residents at 4 A.M. yesterday, half-naked and shivering from cold, and wandering a local street. Police managed to find the mother when an officer remembered the same boy being found in similar circumstances six months ago. The single mother told police the child sleepwalks. Social welfare authorities have taken the boy into care. The woman may face charges of criminal negligence. (Aliza Arbeli)

Orient House NGO comes under scrutiny

The Institute for Arab Studies, based in Orient House in East Jerusalem, has violated its charter as a research center and promotes the interests of the Palestinian Authority in Jerusalem, according to a report Amiram Bogat, the registrar of NGOs (non-government organizations) sent to Interior Minister Eli Yishai. He will send the report to Minister of Public Security Uzi Landau today and will recommend opening a criminal investigation into the institute. (Mazal Mualem)

Israeli held in Thai teen sex investigation

Police in Thailand have arrested a 62-year-old Israeli suspecting of having sex with male Cambodian teenagers, aged 15-17. He was arrested in a town 90 minutes' drive from Bangkok. Amnon Kalmer, the Bangkok consul, met with the suspect who told him he has been living in Thailand and Cambodia and is innocent. "I gave one of the teenagers keys to stay in my room there while I traveled to Cambodia. I am innocent," he told the consul. A local judge will soon decide whether to prosecute the suspect. (Itim)

Undercover snoops check airline security

Israel sends "undercover" passengers on foreign flights that land at Ben-Gurion International Airport to examine their flight security procedures. As a result of lapses found by these undercover passengers, Transport Minister Ephraim Sneh has ordered airport authorities to start banning flights by companies whose security procedures do not meet required standards. The companies in question are mostly from the CIS and Eastern Europe. The undercover experts observed security flaws on their flights, such as the lack of a secure door separating the pilots from passengers. (Zohar Blumenkrantz)

NII workers vow to step up strike actions

Workers' committees from the National Insurance Institute meet today and are expected to escalate work disputes, which have been going on for the past two-and-a-half weeks at all NII branches. Among other measures, the workers might refuse to handle entitlements paid to victims of terror. Another possible new measure could be a refusal to handle new entitlement requests that have been sent in by mail. NII workers are demanding that 150 to 200 new employees be added to branches around the country, and also that security measures be beefed up, in light of violent incidents involving unhappy entitlement seekers at NII branches. (Haim Bior)

Jazeera squabbles with CNN over tape

DOHA - Al-Jazeera TV yesterday accused CNN of getting a copy of its October interview with Osama bin Laden in "an unknown way," of broadcasting excerpts without prior permission, and then questioning Jazeera's integrity for not airing it. "Jazeera sees a need to discuss this issue in the framework of the cooperation agreement," Jazeera said yesterday. "Jazeera does not accept any doubt on its credibility from any source." Jazeera, which had a cooperation arrangement with CNN, earlier said it was severing its relations with CNN and would "punish the individuals who stole this video and distributed it illegally." (Reuters)

Court evicts Winnie from Mandela home

JOHANNESURG - A Johannesburg court ordered Winnie Madikizela-Mandela to vacate the home she once shared with former President Nelson Mandela. Mandela bought the house in 1990, shortly after he was freed from prison, where the South African apartheid state jailed him for 27 years. He divorced Madikizela-Mandela in 1996, and bequeathed the house to the private Soweto Heritage Foundation the following year. Madikizela-Mandela, a ruling party lawmaker, asked a court to set the transaction aside. In the meantime, she turned the four-room house into a museum, charging a $1.30 entrance fee. (AP)

Kuwaiti oil minister to resign over oil field fire

KUWAIT - Kuwait's oil minister said yesterday he would resign to take responsibility for a deadly oil field fire that has temporarily halted production in four northern fields. Thursday's fire at Rawdatain, Kuwait's second-largest oil field, was sparked by an oil leak at a gathering center. Four workers died and 19 were injured. Oil Minister Adel al-Subaih said he had written and signed his resignation and would submit it yesterday or today. (AP)

Zimbabwe backtracks on media control

HARARE - Zimbabwe yesterday backtracked on its sweeping media control laws, indicating the measures will not be imposed immediately and may not be enforced at all, a state-run newspaper reported. The state's Herald newspaper, a mouthpiece for official policy, said it learned from the office of the Attorney General, the government's chief law officer, the bill "may take quite some time before it becomes law, if at all." The laws, widely condemned by the international community and journalists, still have to be signed into law by President Robert Mugabe. (AP)

India, Pakistan trade fire, seven die in Kashmir

JAMMU - Indian and Pakistani forces exchanged mortar and heavy machine-gun fire across the cease-fire line in disputed Kashmir yesterday as seven people died in separate incidents in the troubled region, according to a senior Indian police official. The official described the firing as "routine and below average." Police said seven people including six militants had been killed in different incidents in Jammu and Kashmir state since Friday evening. (Reuters)

Jail for Malaysian allegedly tied to Sept. 11

KUALA LUMPUR - A former army captain who allegedly hosted two September 11 hijackers and other suspected al-Qaida members during their stay in Malaysia in January 2000 has been sent to a prison camp without trial for two years, a government official in Kuala Lumpur said yesterday. Yazid Sufaat, 37, was detained along with 22 others for interrogation in an anti-terrorism crackdown launched last month under the Internal Security Act, which provides for indefinite detention without trial. Police said the suspects belonged to a group that was trained by al-Qaida in Afghanistan and had links with Islamic groups in Indonesia, the Philippines and Singapore. (AP)


Home Print Edition Features
Waiting for the peace marchers
According to a well-placed military source, just before Tanzim commander Raed Karmi was killed, Yasser Arafat was closer than ever to a decision to order the armed intifada to switch to nonviolent civil disobedience.
By Akiva Eldar	| Feb. 5, 2002 | 12:00 AM

According to a well-placed military source, just before Tanzim commander Raed Karmi was killed, Yasser Arafat was closer than ever to a decision to order the armed intifada to switch to nonviolent civil disobedience. The terrorist attacks and the shootings that followed Karmi's "work accident," as Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer referred to his assassination, postponed the change - but didn't cancel it. At the Palestinian Authority offices in Ramallah, officials are studying the way South African blacks challenged apartheid. Arafat has lately been speaking of a march on Jerusalem. The flood of articles written by Palestinian leaders for the Israeli and American press are an indication of the desire to turn the swords into plowshares.

Israel's security services have also heard about the attempt to organize nonviolent demonstrations. At various levels of the army, they are trying to figure out how to cope with a scenario in which thousands of unarmed Palestinians march from Ramallah, Jericho and Bethlehem, toward the army checkpoints with which the IDF has surrounded Jerusalem.

One question bothering the field commanders, for example, is what should a platoon commander do if his soldiers are faced with hundreds of women and Palestinian school children carrying only peace placards, walking toward the settlement of Psagot? What if dozens of marches leave at the same time from all over the West Bank, heading toward the settlements that surround them? The answers coming up in the internal discussions are that tanks and helicopters are useless against demonstrators armed with peace posters.

The IDF is also preparing for an opposite scenario: how to deal with the PA's own security forces if they launch a coordinated assault on the settlements. What would the IDF do if Jibril Rajoub and Mohammed Dahlan, who have begun coordinating their activities, decide they have nothing left to lose and officially turn the PA into the "enemy"? The answer: tanks and choppers will demolish the police headquarters and reconquer the Palestinian cities. But the tanks and helicopters won't be very useful running occupied Palestinian cities. It turns out that the civil administration has not tried to run hospitals and schools in Ramallah for a long time.

The most fashionable expressions nowadays in army slang are "civilian leverage" and "the price of defeat." During military exercises, one can hear a commander urging on his officers with "give them some civilian leverage," or "make them feel the price of defeat." Translation: Cut off the electricity to a neighborhood in Ramallah, or bomb the Palestinian TV station.

Along with "security for the residents of Binyamin" - meaning settlers - which leaves no room for doubt about what the IDF is fighting for, the "strategy" coming down the chain of command from Chief of Staff Shaul Mofaz to the unit operations officers is uniform and unified: "The price of defeat the Palestinians have to pay must be as high as possible, to guarantee that our situation in the negotiations after we win the war will be better than it was beforehand." That's the same Mofaz who charged the opponents of military service in the territories with hidden political motives.

Ever the tactician

After he heard about Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's meeting with the three Palestinian leaders, another Palestinian official, who was not invited to the prime minister's residence, asked an Israeli acquaintance to explain why the premier needed the meeting - and why he then hurried to tell everyone about it as soon as it was over, getting himself into trouble with Benny Elon.

"Don't tell me Sharon needs to please the Americans before he goes to Washington," said the Palestinian. "We all know that there's no American pressure on him to change his policies."

The Palestinians are convinced that the American-Israeli game is fixed. But, presumably along with the reports of the warm greeting he can expect in Washington, Sharon also has read about the pressure the Europeans, Egyptians and Saudi Arabians are applying on the Americans. The EU's Javier Solana, for example, is telling the Bush administration that the Mitchell report, which Solana helped write, has exhausted its usefulness.

The meeting with Arafat's envoys was therefore meant to provide Bush and his people with ammunition for repelling the ideas raised by the Europeans and the Arabs - like holding a Palestinian election or referendum. The Europeans suggest that after the voting, the international observers of the ballot boxes could move over to the Palestinian prisons, to make sure the Palestinians do indeed keep the arrested terrorists under lock and key.

Sharon - and Shimon Peres - stubbornly reject the European and Canadian offer to bring the observers in through the back door, by beefing up the small European unit that conducts security coordination in the territories. Its head, Alistaire Crooke, has experience in Ireland and Afghanistan, and is doing a lot behind the scenes to calm things in the territories.

But mostly, the late night visit to the Sharon's official residence was meant to serve Sharon's real purpose: to keep Peres shackled to the government. People in the government and Knesset corridors say Peres has his sad sack look. His associates insist that he's been looking for a way out of the government, which makes no effort to even express readiness for a political settlement with the Palestinians. If Peres was looking for an excuse, the meeting between Sharon and the three Palestinians on Wednesday night, and the leak about it on Friday, has undermined the search completely.

Coalition games

Yossi Beilin, whose political patron was Shimon Peres, has stopped counting on an exodus of his friends from the Labor Party. Last week he and Yuli Tamir went to a meeting where the Peace Coalition decided to start the largest, most expensive peace campaign since the start of the intifada. Yesterday they took off for Germany, to take part in a meeting with Palestinians organized by German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who wants to prove that Arafat and Sharon aren't everything.

Seven organizations are participating in the events that begin the day after tomorrow: Peace Now, Meretz, Labor doves, the Kibbutz Movement, Shomer Hatzair, Netivot Shalom, and Green Line. Hundreds of activists have already begun organizing for a series of demonstrations to take place between now and June. They plan to invade the highway intersections, offering drivers a sheaf of bumper stickers, with slogans like "Leave the territories to return to ourselves," "Leave the territories and clean up the economy," and "Leave the territories and save the state."

At the end of a lengthy debate with Tamir, among others, Beilin finally agreed to include a call for "some unilateral steps" that would include immediate evacuation of the settlements in Gaza and in the heart of the Palestinian population in the West Bank. It will be interesting to see if Knesset Speaker Avraham Burg, one of the new activists in the Peace Coalition, shows up on Thursday for the demonstration aimed against the policies of the coalition in which his party continues to star.


Home Print Edition News
Reserve generals back unilateral withdrawal
After four months of intense discussion, the Council for Peace and Security are to mount a public campaign for a unilateral Israeli withdrawal from all of Gaza and much of the West Bank.
By Lily Galili	| Feb. 18, 2002 | 12:00 AM

After four months of intense discussion, the Council for Peace and Security, a group of 1,000 top-level reserve generals, colonels, and Shin Bet and Mossad officials, are to mount a public campaign for a unilateral Israeli withdrawal from all of Gaza and much of the West Bank.

Taking care to avoid the term "separation" - council member Shlomo Avineri, a former foreign ministry director general, said it smacks of apartheid - the organization is calling for evacuating Gaza, dismantling 50 settlements, the immediate establishment of a Palestinian state, and immediate peace talks with Palestinians, whether there is a cease-fire or not.

The debate inside the organization involved some 300 of its members, and about 80 percent of the full membership has signed on to the campaign. It will include public appearances, bumper stickers, and a pamphlet titled "Saying shalom to the Palestinians." During the debates, many members raised objections to a unilateral withdrawal from the territories. The arguments ranged from how it would forestall talks with the Palestinians, because a withdrawal would be seen as similar to the "escape" from Lebanon, to the opinion that the council should not deal with withdrawal, which implies leaving settlements.

But as the debate continued, a consensus evolved to encompass 80 percent of the membership that believes the immediate establishment and recognition of a Palestinian state would force the Palestinian leadership to change its behavior. Council sources said Palestinians shown the plan are firmly opposed to it because they fear the new lines to be drawn - mostly along the Green Line - would become permanent, if only de facto, borders.

"I went into the discussions without a firm opinion," said reserve major general Danny Rothschild, president of the council. "But I was convinced by the contacts I have through back channels with Palestinians in recent months. I've learned from them that the street has taken over the entire moderate camp, and the moderate positions they take behind closed doors change the minute there's fear that they will be exposed to the threatening street. I also took into account the demographic issue, and without any chance right now for negotiations, it requires withdrawal in order to preserve the Jewish character of the state."

But more than anything else, Rothschild said the deciding factor for him was the sprouting movement of soldiers refusing to serve in the territories, even before the officers letter issued late last month that has already grown to more than 200 signatories. "Four months ago it was clear to me that the movement would grow if we continue calling up reserves to accompany settlers to music lessons and to protect real estate that has nothing to do with ideology."

According to Rothschild, the council members "said to ourselves that precisely because we aren't politicians, but people who look at the situation through a security perspective of how to use power, it was clear that those two jeeps and a tank that accompany a settler who refuses to use a bypass road, would do much more good if they were on the seam," meaning on both sides of the Green Line, the pre-1967 armistice lines. "Shifting a company of soldiers from protecting a settlement to protecting the seam is the proper use of force," says Rothschild.

Unlike some of the other unilateral withdrawal plans, like "Life Fence," for example, the council's plan involves evacuating some 40-50 settlements, where some 15 percent of the settlers live. The council has detailed maps, but it won't make them public yet to avoid being perceived as an alterative to the army.

The council plan will be dubbed "Saying shalom to the Palestinians," using the double meaning of both farewell and peace for the word shalom, and includes a full withdrawal from Gaza, except for a narrow zone along the international border with Egypt; new military deployment along a new line east and south of the Green Line in the northern West Bank, and east and north of it in the south Mt. Hebron area. The Green Line would become the new line in the Bethlehem and Ramallah areas. According to the plan, Israelis would remain - at this stage - in the Jordan Valley, the Gush Etzion bloc, the Ariel finger, and in Kiryat Arba and in the Jewish neighborhood in downtown Hebron.

The plan does not touch on the issue of Jerusalem, except for noting that by moving troops out of other places, more will be available for protecting Jerusalem. "This is not a 100 percent solution," Rothschild admits, "but the plan solves the anomaly of there being the most number of troops in the places with the least number of settlers to protect."

One of the most vehement of the council member opposed to the plan is reserve major general Shlomo Gazit, a member of the council's executive. Gazit argued for redeployment to new lines, but said as much as possible has to be left to negotiations. Indeed, Gazit seems to be expressing the ambivalence in other organizations that back unilateral separation but are afraid it will sabotage any negotiations with the Palestinians.

Thus, the Peace Coalition, comprised of Peace Now, Meretz and Labor Party doves, is speaking in two voices as it calls for unilateral separation and for negotiations. Indeed, the bumper sticker the Council for Peace and Security encompasses that ambivalence: "Withdrawal for security, talks for peace."

In the past, the council threw its considerable weight behind the Oslo agreements, most of whose architects are now opposed to a unilateral withdrawal. But Rothschild has a different view. "The negotiations for a permanent agreement have to be based on Oslo. But an army commander cannot be dogmatic. When conditions change on the ground, he must change his behavior. If Oslo is dead, it's because we killed it, and now we're shooting. But now there's no choice except to do what's best for us."

At the latest session of the council's executive, last week, which was attended by among others reserve major generals Nati Sharoni and Ami Ayalon, the former Shin Bet chief, the executive challenged Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's policy of refusing to negotiate with the Palestinians under fire. The council called for immediate talks, under fire, with the Palestinians, and for the immediate evacuation of isolated settlements that require a large military presence to protect.

Sharon refused to meet with them

During the months of preparation, discussing the plan, council members met with a host of figures, including Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and former justice minister Yossi Beilin, who oppose unilateral withdrawal; Haim Ramon who favors unilateral withdrawal and a permanent agreement with international peacekeeping forces, which the council rejects; Minister Dan Meridor, who supports separation primarily for demographic reasons, and with Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, who opposes evacuating settlements.

As part of their planned public campaign, the council was supposed to meet with the Labor Party Knesset faction this week, to present the plan. But the meeting was canceled at the last minute, with the conventional wisdom saying Ben-Eliezer did not want to provide a platform to the proponents of unilateral withdrawal, like Ramon.

The council is due to meet President Moshe Katsav and former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, to present the plan. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has refused to meet them.

The council has an appointment at Rafael in two weeks time to examine new technologies, including a new security fence, developed by the state-owned weapons R&D firm, that could be integrated into their security plan.


Home News
Arafat rejects PM's separation plan as 'violation of agreements'
By Reuters	and Haaretz Service	| Feb. 23, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat on Saturday rejected Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan to create buffer zones between Israel and Palestinian territories. "This so-called separation plan is a violation of the agreements," Arafat told Reuters in an interview in his office in the West Bank city of Ramallah.

"It creates cantons in our Palestinian areas, and the Oslo (1993 interim peace) agreement prevents cantons Sharon is trying to create. He has no right to do this. It's in violation of international law."

Arafat said Sharon's address "was not a speech of peace." The Palestinian leader said Israel's killing of some 40 Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in the past week "was terrorism practiced by the occupation against our people, and a military escalation."

Arafat again called for the implementation of a U.S.-backed truce-to-talks plan and for the deployment of international observers "to end this aggression and this siege imposed on our people and areas." He said the Palestinians had been ready to make contact with Israelis at all levels, and noted senior Palestinian officials had met Sharon on February 1. "Unfortunately, all these meetings ended without results," Arafat said. "I repeated my call for a ceasefire on Thursday and Israel's response was more military escalation."

Arafat said he welcomed an appeal made to him and Sharon in Stockholm on Saturday by leaders of Europe, South American, South Africa, New Zealand and Canada to end the bloodshed. "This is one of the most difficult crises (I've gone through). But I can see it coming -- God willing -- a Palestinian child will raise the Palestinian flag on the walls of Jerusalem, whether they like it or not, and we are pursuing this path," he said.

Gulf media slam 'racist' Israeli buffer zone plan Gulf Arab media blasted Sharon's plan to set up "buffer zones" as a "racist" move modeled after South Africa's defunct apartheid system.

Many commentators in Saturday's newspapers said such a move, which Sharon proposed in a speech late Thursday, would "imprison" both sides and fail to solve the conflict. "In his speech, Sharon surpassed the racist orders that the world witnessed in Rhodesia and South Africa," Saudi Arabia's al-Watan newspaper said in an editorial.

There has been no official reaction by Gulf Arab states to Sharon's speech in favor of "security separation" to protect Israelis from a Palestinian uprising against occupation. But Gulf newspapers usually reflect government stances.

"The zones would only increase Israel's isolation and deepen its nature as a racist oppressive regime, similar to the one the world fought in South Africa," said the United Arab Emirates' Arabic daily al-Ittihad. It said there was also a danger that buffer zones would lead to a future independent Palestinian state that was fragmented.

The Saudi al-Riyadh daily said forming what it called "Israeli ghettos" would widen the rift with the Palestinians. "Sharon's zones can be called adjoining cells for Palestinians and Israelis," it said. "The mind imprisoned in historical complexes cannot envision the future. The mind must progress to respond to the echoing voice of peace."

Sharon's plan to set up buffer zones drew Palestinian outrage Friday. Palestinian Information Minister Yasser Abed Rabbo condemned the move, which followed a day of Israeli reprisal raids that killed eight people, as an attempt to "create jails for the Palestinian people within their cities, towns and villages."

Palestinian cabinet minister Saeb Erekat said Friday that the intentions behind Sharon's plan are to annex 58 percent of the territories to Israel and to give the Palestinians only 42 percent. "No Palestinian will accept this," Erekat said.

Palestinian cabinet minister Nabil Shaath said Thursday that Sharon's address offered "no hope" in ending the nearly 17 months of fighting.

"This speech offered... no complete suggestions, and opened no way to ending the confrontation and heading back to the peace table," he told CNN. "If separation is intended to stop suicidal missions, it has failed. If it's intended to stop trade and communication between the two people, it has succeeded to the misery of both."

Mustafa Barghouti, a Palestinian analyst, described Sharon's address as "an amazing speech of a defeated man." He said Sharon looked "desperate, tired, confused and bankrupt" because all of his policies have failed.

A U.S. State Department official said Friday that Sharon's plan could amount to the kind of unilateral action which Washington has opposed, but said the United States was reserving judgment. However, U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said Friday that the United States was concerned about a "serious escalation" in the violence.

"We are concerned. As soon as I get back to Washington, I'll spend a good part of the weekend re-engaging both sides," he told reporters aboard Air Force One returning from a trip to Asia with President George W. Bush.


Home Print Edition Sports
Spearhead Donald hangs up test boots
By Reuters	| Feb. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM

JOHANNESBURG - Allan Donald, who announced his retirement from test cricket yesterday, spearheaded South Africa's bowling attack for almost his entire career. The 35-year-old played 72 test matches for his country, taking 330 wickets at an average of 22.25, with a career-best haul of eight for 71 against Zimbabwe, in Harare, in 1995-96.

Donald took five wickets in a test innings 20 times, and 10 in a test match three times.

The only South African so far to take 300 test wickets, Donald will be remembered as one of the finest fast bowlers of his generation. He is also, perhaps, the best produced in a country that also gave the game the likes of Trevor Goddard, Mike Procter and Peter Pollock.

Donald was one of the few world-class players to represent South Africa after its post-apartheid return to international cricket in 1991; and he often carried an otherwise ordinary attack.

Heavy workload

This led to Donald shouldering more than his share of the workload and pressure, leaving him especially vulnerable to injuries. His decision to retire was prompted by the hamstring strain he suffered on the opening day of the first test against Australia in Johannesburg last Friday. The tourists won the test by an innings and 360 runs on Sunday.

Donald will continue to play one-day internationals until the 2003 World Cup, and he said yesterday that he would remain available to the South African team in a non-playing capacity.

Donald bowled with a classical sideways-on action and, until recent seasons, at express pace. His natural aggression was most apparent during his epic duel with England's Mike Atherton at Trent Bridge in 1998, with the latter only finishing on top because an umpire missed a gloved catch to the wicketkeeper.

That series saw Donald at his most devastating: In the five tests, he took 33 wickets at an average of 19.78. He took 20 or more wickets in a series four times.

Post-apartheid

The Afrikaans-speaking Donald came from a working-class Bloemfontein family. At the age of 20, he was selected to represent then-isolated South Africa against a rebel Australian team in 1986-87.

When South Africa returned to the international fold with three one-day internationals against India in 1991, Donald celebrated the occasion in style, taking five for 29 in the first match at Eden Gardens.

He returned match figures of six for 144 on his official test debut, when South Africa returned to test cricket, meeting the West Indies in Barbados in 1992.

Donald made his first-class debut for Free State against Transvaal in 1985-86 and first played for Warwickshire, where he served as overseas professional, in 1987.

In 306 first class matches to date, he has taken 1181 wickets, at an average of 22.68 runs.


Home Print Edition Features
The Bedouin have had enough of roaming
Bedouin tribes are settled on land that they claim is theirs but that the State of Israel still won't officially recognize.
By Ruth Sinai	and Anat Cygielman	| Feb. 28, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Salama Abu Kaf's official residence as stated in his identity card is "the Abu Kaf tribe." His other address is the village of Om Batin, but the state still does not recognize this settlement.

Some 400 families live in the Abu Kaf tribe's settlement, close to the Shoket junction, just one of dozens of Bedouin settlements spread through the northeast Negev. Around 70,000 people live in these settlements, but to the Interior Ministry, they have no known address. They are registered only according to their tribal affiliation. Recent attempts by the Bedouin to register their unrecognized villages as their place of residence have been frequently met with opposition.

The state's refusal to recognize popular centers outside of the seven towns purposely built for Bedouin citizens is not just a symbolic matter - it means that their homes, be it a tent, a shack or a brick house, are considered illegal and are under the constant threat of demolition.

The residents are reluctant to invest in infrastructure or in developing their homes. The houses are not hooked up to the water of electricity networks, and the residents have to improvise: Some connect to the pipes which run across the ground, providing boiling water in summer and ice-cold water in winter. Others draw water from the Mekorot water company service points, while still others rely on the containers system.

They buy generators to provide electricity, but these are run according to financial capability, and usually only in the evenings. In winter, everything leaks - rain falling on the tin roofs produces a deafening noise, and all the access roads are swamped in mud. Burning fires inside the buildings provides warmth, but endangers the residents.

In these no-man's-lands, the schools built by the Education Ministry, some of them brand new, all of them in prefabricated buildings, stand out the most. They are also evidence of the government's contradictory policies - it does not recognize the settlements, and does not provide basic services such as water or electricity, but it does build schools, health and mother and baby clinics, most of them following a High Court of Justice ruling.

The petitions filed in recent years by Bedouin residents of the unrecognized villages at the High Court, with the assistance of human rights organizations, reflect the Bedouin's growing awareness of their civil rights and their refusal to continue living as "non-existent people," as Supreme Court Justice Mishael Cheshin once put it. This awakening is seen particularly in their active involvement in the planning of the area where they live.

The Bedouin have had enough of roaming and now want to set up their own permanent settlements. Signs point visitors to these areas. "Welcome to the Abu Solov clan," reads one on the Be'er Sheva-Dimona road. Mini-markets, cafes and gas stations, all illegal, can be found near the signs.

Part of the reason why the state refuses to recognize these settlements is to pressure them to move to the seven towns set up especially for the Bedouin over the last 30 years. But the harsh lessons learned from the failure of towns like Rahat and Tel Sheva have caused the Bedouin to rebel - now they want to be fully involved in planning the seven new towns approved by the state in 1999 and 2000.

"A Bedouin in the 1980s did not have the tools to deal with the state. He was uneducated. Today, we pit planning against planning, knowledge against knowledge. Knowledge is power - power we use to alter the reality," says Dr Amar Al-Huzayl, the strategic planner of the Regional Council of Unrecognized Villages. The council is a political body set up by the Bedouin in 1996 which claims to recognize some 85 percent of the diaspora population. The council is very active, and deeply involved in discussions on the planning of the new towns.

The Israeli authorities refer to the spontaneous Bedouin settlement outside of existing towns as "a diaspora." The Bedouin meanwhile talk of "unrecognized villages." These definitions come with their own attitudes, and political agenda.

Al-Huzayl wants the state to recognize 45 currently unrecognized villages, scattered mainly around Be'er Sheva and Dimona and Arad. He says the total area of these villages is about 180,000 dunams, which the Bedouin say they own. "The district and national outline plans ignore the Arab population in the Negev, particularly the unrecognized villages," he says. Al-Huzayl wants to see these settlements recognized as villages in the places where they currently stand, and wants to see them under the auspices of one regional council, which would have municipal jurisdiction over 1.153 million dunams of land.

Yaakov Katz, head of the Israel Lands Administration's Bedouin division, rejects this classification. "What is a village? A village has a central road, a public area and a residential area. Most of the diaspora [settlements] are not villages, rather a random distribution of buildings, with no connection between them and with no logic. There are only seven or ten clusters that have signs of a settlement."

Aerial photographs illustrate this, showing enormous lands, dotted with buildings hundreds of meters a part, near groups of houses.

The number of these settlements in a key question. According to Nahum Donsky, who heads the planning team for the Be'er Sheva metropolis master plan, there are 100-150 "centers of significant population with more than 10 buildings." But establishing so many new villages, or even the 45 that Al-Huzayl wants, is impossible. "Land and water are finite resources, agriculture as a financial base is shrinking in the Jewish and Bedouin sectors, and infrastructures cost money. The balance between needs and the possibilities and limits has been found in the planning of the new settlements," says Donsky.

Because of the urgent need for services for the Bedouin community, "service centers" are being built, which will form the core of the future settlements, and help prove to the Bedouin that the government is sincere in its desire to end their plight.

"Every time a ministerial committee, or a committee of directors-general, is set up, they make decisions, but never implement them. Each stage is so complicated, so bureaucratic, and it always seems as if the ministries are there not to help, but to hinder," says Dodik Shoshani, a member of Kibbutz Lahav, who has been following the Bedouin's struggle for rights for decades and who headed the Bedouin Administration in the late 1990s.

Every service center will include schools, kindergartens, a clinic, mosque, sports hall, open-air market, council building, old-age home and employment center. Donsky says that pipes for water system for the centers are already being put into place.

The planners of the new settlements claim that they have learned from the failings of the first group of towns. This time round, there will not be centers of enormous tension between a couple of tribes, but the towns instead will overlap existing settlements, built mostly on land which the residents say is theirs and meant for only one clan. Only the town of Marit will be made up of five "development nucleus," which will each be inhabited by one tribe, separated by agricultural "buffer zones." Each clan, however, demands its own village, and they are currently embroiled in drawn-out discussions with the authorities in an attempt to reach a compromise.

Similar talks are underway which each one of the clans who are earmarked for a village. Katz says that the planning of two towns has reached an impasse "because the residents are not cooperating." The two in question are Mulda, where the tribe has five quareling sects, and Om Batin where the members of the Abu Kaf clan can't decide who represents them.

The dialogue is a long, slow process, and reveals differences of opinion within the Bedouin society - not just between those who may get their own town, but it also raises questions of principles, such as what is a village and what character will the new settlements have? How will the land be divided between the residents? All the while, feuds between the various clans continue.

Al-Huzayl, who wants to see one rural model for each of the 45 villages he demands, wants 30 dunams of land each for 70 percent of the individual families. He believes that this will be enough to meet the natural growth of the population, which he expects to top 200,000 by 2020. Ibrahim Abu Kaf, however, another spokesman for the Abu Kaf clan and the head of the community council of the unrecognized villages, is opposed to this equality, saying that Al-Huzayl has failed to take into account that some families have more land than others. "He thinks families will agree to an equal division, and that is a very big mistake," says Abu Kaf, whose family claim historic ownership of 400 dunams in the area.

Katz claims that the existing towns, the planned extensions and the ones on the way, will house the residents of 38 of the 45 villages Al-Huzayl is demanding. Every one of the new towns is situated in the geographic center of the tribe, but those branches living further off will have to pull up roots and move.

Furthermore, according to Al-Huzayl"the Bedouin Administration is an illegitimate body." He wants to see the responsibility for planning the towns taken out of the administration's hands, which invest NIS 12 million in the projects in 2001.

Alongside the negotiations with the authorities, Al-Huzayl and his planners are putting together alternative plans for settlements, with funding from the New Israel Fund. "If they want the Bedouin to live in this country as citizens, then they have to at least recognize our lands. Moshe from the Moshav sits on state-owned land, but what is state-owned land? The nation's land. And who is the nation? The Jewish people. I do not belong to the Jewish people and so the state-owned land is not mine. How can I be a citizen when I am outside the definition of the nation's land. We are not citizens, but natives. We want to go from natives without land to citizens with a right to land," says Al-Huzayl.

However he emphasizes that, "our struggle is purely civilian. Our successes are also for the state - a democratic country cannot allow itself such a reality of apartheid."


Home Print Edition Opinion
The war's seventh day
Israel's security cannot be based only on the sword; it must rather be based on our principles of moral justice and on peace with our neighbors - those living next door and those living a little further away.
By Michael Ben-Yair	Mar. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The Zionist dream's realization and the Jewish people's national rebirth through the creation of Israel were achieved not because of the Jewish side's superior number of tanks, planes or other aggressive means. The State of Israel was born because the Zionist movement realized it must find a solution to the Jews' persecution and because the enlightened world recognized the need for that solution.

The enlightened world's recognition of the solution's moral justification was an important, principal factor in Israel's creation. In other words, Israel was established on a clear, recognized moral base. Without such a moral base, it is doubtful whether the Zionist idea would have become a reality.

The Six-Day War was forced upon us; however, the war's seventh day, which began on June 12, 1967 and has continued to this day, is the product of our choice. We enthusiastically chose to become a colonial society, ignoring international treaties, expropriating lands, transferring settlers from Israel to the occupied territories, engaging in theft and finding justification for all these activities. Passionately desiring to keep the occupied territories, we developed two judicial systems: one - progressive, liberal - in Israel; and the other - cruel, injurious - in the occupied territories. In effect, we established an apartheid regime in the occupied territories immediately following their capture. That oppressive regime exists to this day.

The Six-Day War's seventh day has transformed us from a moral society, sure of the justice of Israel's creation, into a society that oppresses another people, preventing it from realizing its legitimate national aspirations. The Six-Day War's seventh day has transformed us from a just society into an unjust one, prepared to expand its control atop another nation's ruins. The discarding of our moral foundation has hurt us as a society, reinforcing the arguments of the world's hostile elements and sowers of evil and intensifying their influence.

The intifada is the Palestinian people's war of national liberation. Historical processes teach us that no nation is prepared to live under another's domination and that a suppressed people's war of national liberation will inevitably succeed. We understand this point but choose to ignore it. We are prepared to engage in confrontation to prevent an historical process, although we are well aware that this process is anchored in the moral justification behind every people's war of national liberation and behind its right to self-determination, and although we are well aware that this process will attain its inevitable goal.

This is the background of the difficult testimony we have received about actions of Israel Defense Forces personnel in the occupied territories. No need to repeat the details of the painful phenomena entailed in the occupation regime and in our battle to prolong it. Suffice it to recall the killing of little children fleeing for safety; the executions, without trial, of wanted persons who were not on their way to launch a terrorist act; and the encirclements, closures and roadblocks that have turned the lives of millions into a nightmare. Even if all these actions stem from our need to defend ourselves under an occupation's conditions, the occupation's non-existence would render them unnecessary. Thus, a black flag hovers over these actions.

This is a harsh reality that is causing us to lose the moral base of our existence as a free, just society and to jeopardize Israel's long-range survival. Israel's security cannot be based only on the sword; it must rather be based on our principles of moral justice and on peace with our neighbors - those living next door and those living a little further away. An occupation regime undermines those principles of moral justice and prevents the attainment of peace. Thus, that regime endangers Israel's existence.

It is against this background that one must view the refusal of IDF reservist officers and soldiers to serve in the territories. In their eyes, the occupation regime is evil and military service in the occupied territories is evil. In their eyes, military service in the occupied territories, which places soldiers in situations forcing them to commit immoral acts, is evil, and, according to their conscience, they cannot be party to such acts. Thus, their refusal to serve is an act of conscience that is justified and recognized in every democratic regime. History's verdict will be that their refusal was the act that restored our moral backbone.

The author was attorney general from 1993-96.


Home Print Edition News
After Four Mothers, the Seventh Day arrives
The name Four Mothers Movement was coined on March 4, 1997. Five years to the day, another new movement that also calls for withdrawal - this time from the territories - has been established.
By Ruth Sinai	| Mar. 7, 2002 | 12:00 AM

On March 4, 1997, a name was coined for a protest group whose activities contributed to the historic decision to pull out of Lebanon - the Four Mothers Movement. Zohara Antebi, one of the four, sees symbolic significance in the fact that five years to the day, another new movement that also calls for withdrawal - this time from the territories - has been established.

It is called The Seventh Day - the day that will follow and complete the Six Day War, 35 years after it began.

The comparison with Four Mothers is inevitable, even though only some of the seven signatories to the declaration of intention of the new movement were members of the other protest group. And unlike the motivation of many of the activists in Four Mothers - fear that their sons would die without reason in Lebanon - this time the vision is broader. "Then it was an outburst of anguish. Today it is more the result of a process," Antebi says.

Four Mothers sprang spontaneously from the disaster in which two IDF helicopters on their way to Lebanon crashed, killing 73 soldiers. The Seventh Day is the product of another movement, Mabat L'Ofek (The Vista), set up by Antebi and other Four Mother activists with the aim of having a dialogue with the settlers.

The topic was not withdrawal then, but an attempt to work out together what shape the country's future should take. The dialogue led to a split in Four Mothers and some of those who were opposed to the dialogue are currently organizing into a group called The Fifth Mother, with the aim of withdrawing from the territories. Unlike The Seventh Day, its members are all women and its tone is motherly.

Needless to say, the call for a withdrawal from the territories is not new and different movements have tried to advocate it for years. But because of Four Mothers' reputation as a grassroots movement - largely of women - that succeeded in influencing military and political policy, the new movement is arousing a great deal of excitement.

In the three days since news of the movement got out, support is spreading in leaps and bounds. "It's great," says Antebi while the telephone does not stop ringing in the background. "Four Mothers was small change compared to this."

Local and foreign TV crews, well known and anonymous peace activists, are all contacting the group to hear more. Not all the responses are favorable. On one Web site where the new movement was mentioned, surfers responded by calling them "four terrorists" and there have been threatening telephone calls. They are used to the threats from the Lebanon days.

They say that the "Lebanonization" of the territories dictates a "Lebanonization" in response - namely, a withdrawal more or less to the 1967 borders. But, with that, the comparison ends.

Danny Reshef, a former intelligence officer who was a member of Four Mothers, says Lebanon interested about 3 percent of the population - those who lived in the range of the Katyushas

in the north and those who had sons serving in Lebanon. "Now we are talking about something that touches the very heart and shape of our society," he says. "A leadership that is demanding that the public stand firm must present it with an aim and explain why. We are suggesting an aim and a kind of hope."

The group's aim is a democratic Jewish state that does not occupy another people and does not practice apartheid. The hope is that the terror will one day end, even though Reshef does not delude anyone that it will be immediately or as the result of a withdrawal. But a withdrawal from the territories will make it possible to invest in Israel's social fabric - in development towns, education, in social and economic affairs.

In the same way as Four Mothers broke the taboo of withdrawal from Lebanon and made it a political issue, so The Seventh Day hopes to create a public debate and to give legitimation to expression for a desire to withdraw from the territories.

Members of the movement have come out openly against the group of reserve officers who refuse to serve in the territories and against left-wing activists who see the only key in dialogue with the other side. Antebi says that neither the Lebanese nor the Palestinians, but only the Israelis themselves, can decide on the nature of Israeli society.

The founders, like those of Four Mothers, are all residents of kibbutzim and moshavim in the north. In the Four Mothers this caused a split and the departure of most of the activists from the center of the country. "The movement ends in Haifa," they used to quip.

The rifts were hidden from the public eye so as not to jeopardize the efforts to bring about a withdrawal. The movement's major strength was its ability to gain the attention of the media, including grabbing many headlines that were not always accurate.


Home Business
Balata has fallen
When all is said and done, the army is waging a deluxe war: It is bombing and shelling defenseless cities and villages, and that situation is convenient for both the army and the settlers.
By Ze'ev Sternhell	Mar. 8, 2002 | 12:00 AM

There was something surreal about the television appearance, last Saturday night, by the commanders of the two brigades that operated in the refugee camps of the northern West Bank. The commander of the Paratroop Brigade declared: Balata camp has surrendered. Indeed, the refugee camp was "conquered" by elite forces, using state-of-the-art weaponry, and backed up by tanks, armored personnel carriers and helicopters. If the whole thing were not sad and grotesque, it would be amusing.

But this is a story that is characteristic of the road that has been followed by heroic little Israel, which was admired by the whole Western world, until this terrible period. There were times when the paratroopers were known as the fighters of the Mitla Pass, Ammunition Hill and the Chinese Farm. The Golani Brigade used to be famed for breaching the fortifications of Rafah, as the fighters of Tel el Faher and the Hermon outpost. Their sons and grandsons have fallen to the level of breachers of walls in shacks built of blocks and boards. And they are no longer ashamed to speak of war when what they are really engaged in is colonial policing, which recalls the takeover by the white police of the poor neighborhoods of the blacks in South Africa during the apartheid era.

There was a time - on the first day of the 1967 Six-Day War - when the commander of a tank company in 7th Brigade, Avigdor Kahalani, stopped his tank column in the midst of advance to contact near Rafah so he wouldn't run over two frightened Bedouin children. He waited until their mother came to collect them. Later that day, Kahalani's tank was hit and he suffered extensive burns. To the division commander, Major General Israel Tal, the behavior of the young officer, and not just his fighting, was exemplary.

Today, again in Rafah, army men of a different generation watch as children play next to a booby-trapped bomb that was placed there by the IDF and don't lift a finger. It must have been clear to all of them that if the children touched the bomb it would explode, with loss of life. When the military advocate general finally decided to launch an investigation into the incident - in which five children were killed - the division commander did everything in his power to prevent the probe from taking place.

In colonial Israel, and more especially the Israel in which advocates of "transfer" sit in the government, human life is cheap - and therein lies the most serious danger to our future. A society in which dozens of children are killed as a result of army operations can easily lose its last remaining moral inhibitions. The fact that the Palestinians are also killing indiscriminately cannot absolve us of responsibility for what is going on in the territories. The killing of innocent people is gradually becoming a norm, and that norm is being implemented in the service of a goal that seeks to deprive another people of its freedom and its human rights: The Sharon government is turning the territories into one huge jailhouse, and is turning its citizens in warders who are called upon to suppress a prisoner uprising. That was not quite the purpose of Zionism.

If the army is dominated by shamelessness, and if purely military actions by the Palestinians, such as successful attacks on army outposts and checkpoints, are included under the rubric of terrorism, the settlers' camp is doing all it can to label our inability to cope with the Palestinians' war of independence as the "Rosh Hashanah War." This half-baked attempt to create symmetry between a just war and a campaign of colonialist suppression is not merely a curiosity: It is the desecration of the memory of those who fell in the 1973 Yom Kippur War. It won't be long before we are told that the battle in which tank crews risked their lives on the banks of the Suez Canal and the effort in which an Israeli tank destroys a Palestinian car containing a mother and her three children is the same war.

We should take note here of an interesting phenomenon. The number of Israeli civilian casualties in the past year is far greater than the number of soldiers who have been killed or wounded. When all is said and done, the army is waging a deluxe war: It is bombing and shelling defenseless cities and villages, and that situation is convenient for both the army and the settlers. They are well aware that if the army were to sustain casualties on the same scale as occurred in Lebanon, we would now be on our way out of the territories.

We perceive the death of civilians in shooting attacks or at the hands of crazed suicide bombers in the heart of our cities, including the extinction of whole families, as a decree of fate or as a kind of act of nature. However, the death of soldiers immediately poses the critical question: What are the goals of the war? For what end are the soldiers being killed? Who sent them to their death? As long as the conscript troops do not pay too heavily, as long as the reservists are not called up in massive numbers to protect and defend the occupation, the question of "why" does not dictate the national agenda.

However, the atmosphere in the country is rapidly approaching the boiling point. More and more people are beginning to understand that the Israeli reprisal operations only engender despair, and despair gives rise to suicide bombers. Today, when the whole political system is paralyzed, it looks as though it will be possible to bring an end to the madness that is raging here, only if people take to the streets en masse and demand an immediate start to negotiations.


Home Life Books
Territorial imperative
"Eretz Yisrael Hashlema: Emuna Vemediniut" ("Greater Israel: Theology and Policy") by Aryeh Naor, Haifa University and Zmora-Bitan, 421 pages, NIS 92
By Yehoshua Porath	Mar. 8, 2002 | 12:00 AM

"Eretz Yisrael Hashlema: Emuna Vemediniut" ("Greater Israel: Theology and Policy") by Aryeh Naor, Haifa University and Zmora-Bitan, 421 pages, NIS 92

In order for a territorial unit to be perceived as complete, it must have a clear and recognizable identity. This identity is usually the product of physical-geographical conditions, i.e., land features that make an area distinct from its surroundings - by being surrounded on all sides by water, for example (as in Britain), or a settled area in a barren desert with a great river cutting through it (like the Nile Valley in Egypt and Sudan).

A territorial unit can also have its own special character without natural features: History can be the determining factor. If an authoritative regime rules a certain region for many generations, and this regime is distinguished by cultural features, no one will dispute its distinctness as a territorial unit. The wholeness of such a territorial unit will be perceived as flawed or threatened in the wake of any change wrought by political or military initiatives within this traditional domain, or any demand to turn back the clock and restore the old order.

This was the argument of the Polish patriots who, in their bid to regain independence, demanded that Poland recover all the land that once belonged to the Kingdom of Poland, including Lithuania and the Ukraine, up to the Dnieper. What mattered in their eyes was the historical connection; the ethnic differences between Lithuanians, Ukrainians and Poles mattered little.

This was also true of the French demand that Alsace-Lorraine be reinstated as part of the republic because these two provinces had belonged to France beginning in 1648. Again, ethnic distinctions were dismissed as insignificant. The Frenchmen who sought a northeastern border along the Rhine during the reign of Napoleon I were motivated by geographical considerations: Such a border would create a natural demarcation, similar to the Mediterranean, the Pyrenees and the Atlantic Ocean.

What is common to all holders of such views is insensitivity to ethnic, linguistic and cultural differences and the desires of the inhabitants themselves. After all, geographical or historical borders do not always coincide with the ethnic reality or the national affiliation of the resident population.

Supporters of the "Greater Land of Israel" approach - or "Israel on both banks of the Jordan," as the Revisionists used to say - cannot lay claim to continuous historical rule over this region, and certainly not natural borders that create a clear distinction between Israel and its neighbors. What they have in their bag is a long history of emotional attachment to ancient Israel, from which the Jews were exiled thousands of years ago, but without a clear territorial definition.

The boundaries of the British Mandate for Palestine became a new factor in the argument. When the victors of World War I divvied up the booty, Great Britain was given the mandate for Iraq and Palestine. In practice, establishing the borders of Iraq, and afterward drawing the line between French rule in Syria and Lebanon, and British rule in the south, produced a map (on paper, at least).

Out of pan-Middle Eastern considerations, however, the British mandatory authorities did not protest when Emir Abdullah of Hejaz seized control of mandated territory that became Transjordan and instated a separate administration in the eastern part of Palestine. Most importantly, he convinced the League of Nations to exclude Transjordan from the area to which the Balfour Declaration applied, thereby closing it to Jewish settlement.

In this way, Palestine was "ripped apart," putting an end to "Greater Israel." The entire Zionist movement, including Jabotinsky, Ussishkin, Tabenkin and Rabbi Berlin of Mizrahi, surrendered in 1922 to the British ultimatum, according to which any objection of the Zionist movement to the cutback in territory would result in Britain's blocking approval of the mandate by the League of Nations. Later, however, all of these Zionist figures expressed their opposition to this territorial "breach" (the "first partition of Palestine"), each in his own style and employing arguments that fit in with his world view.

After resigning from the Zionist Executive in 1923 and founding his own party, the Union of Zionists-Revisionists, Ze'ev Jabotinsky turned this opposition to partitioning Palestine and his insistence on the return of the Jewish people to "both banks of the Jordan," into the foundation stone of radical Zionism, which was presented as an alternative to the conciliatory and conformist approach of the leaders of the Zionist movement, and especially Dr. Chaim Weizmann.

Both the radicals and the realists, it must be said, shared the idea that the Jewish people enjoyed full rights over Palestine on the strength of an emotional and religious attachment of thousands of years. All believed that the opposition of the Arab residents to the return of the Jews was no match for this bond, which was also the source of their right to the land - a right that was confirmed by the British Mandate and the League of Nations. Radicals and realists alike were convinced that the majority of Jews would return. They would do so because the harsh reality in their countries of residence would force them to, even if the Zionist movement was unable to mobilize broad active support at the time (the 1920s and 30s).

If the meteoric rise of the anti-Zionist Bund movement in Poland during the second half of the 1930s seemed to indicate the opposite trend, the Zionist movement could cite Germany as proof that a large Jewish community, assimilated and mostly anti-Zionist, could be forced into altering its traditional approach and embracing Zionism, steadily increasing its participation in Zionist affairs and rate of immigration to Palestine.

The real argument between radicals and realists was not over the matter of right but over capability. The radicals insisted that the Jewish people was capable of turning Palestine into a Jewish homeland. After all, the majority of Jews would move there. The realists understood that this capability was limited, and that not all Jews would settle in Palestine. They realized that the opposition of the Arabs and their national demands would have to be taken into account, and that Britain would be sympathetic to the Arabs because of its multiple interests in other Arab countries.

The conflict between these two camps rose to new heights in the summer of 1937, when an important British body, the Peel Commission, submitted a proposal to divide Palestine into three parts: a Jewish state on 15 percent of the land, a perpetual British mandate over 5 percent (the corridor between Jerusalem and Jaffa) and the annexation of all the rest to Transjordan, which would remain temporarily under British Mandatory control.

Opponents of this proposal in the Labor party were concerned that the territory allotted to the Jewish state would not be large enough to accommodate the millions of Jews they anticipated. Some of them (like Berl Katzenelson) were prepared to consider a more equitable division of territory. Leaders of the Mizrahi movement who opposed the plan objected on the grounds that the Jewish people owned all of the land, which had been promised to them by God. The Revisionists cited historical-legal arguments: the Jews' historical ties to the land, the promises of the Balfour Declaration as a binding contract, and the need for a home for millions of Jews.

In 1937, when radical Revisionists like Uriel Halperin-Shelach - better known as the poet Yonatan Ratosh - realized that Zionist goals could not be achieved under the British, they proposed seizing control of the country by revolution and organizing the immigration of 18 million Jews, whose presence would turn the demographic scales completely. Ratosh, like other Revisionists, was convinced that Arab national resistance was not a source of concern.

The 1947 partition plan aroused less controversy. After what had happened to the Jews in World War II, even a truncated state seemed preferable by far to the continuation of British mandatory rule, with its restrictions on immigration and gradual transfer of the country to the Arabs.

After the conquests of the Six-Day War, the dispute flared once more, this time with greater intensity than ever before. The British component was out of the picture, and the Arab forces had been roundly defeated. So great was the victory, that the religious Zionist public, and even, little by little, the anti-Zionist Haredi community, believed that it was a miracle, a product of divine intervention, and an important step in the direction of messianic redemption, as envisaged by the rabbis Kook, father and son.

But ethnic-geographic reality has proved to be the strongest of them all. Slowly, it has become clear that the Zionist dream cannot be achieved as the Arab population in this region continues to grow. Menachem Begin and the Herut party were forced to give up eastern Transjordan. Today's supporters of a Greater Israel are clenching their teeth and painfully coming to terms with the idea that parts of western Israel will remain under Palestinian Arab control.

Of course, those who are in favor of an apartheid regime and believe they can maintain it in the face of opposition from the enlightened West, and those who believe that one day we will find a way of getting rid of the Arabs, have continued to cultivate the dream of Greater Israel. They are still founding and building up isolated settlements like Netzarim and Tapuah in the heart of Arab territory, thereby imposing a heavy military and economic burden on the State of Israel, and doing it no good politically.

Aryeh Naor has written a fascinating and credible book that analyzes all these developments, explores the various arguments put forward over decades of debate, and exposes their overt or hidden weaknesses. As we read, we are led down the path that Naor himself has traveled, toward acceptance of the idea that this country must be divided between two peoples if our interest in preserving separate ethnic identities takes precedence over our territorial attachment to this jointly claimed stretch of land. Naor's book should be required reading for anyone who has ever voiced an opinion or taken a stand on the ideological dispute still raging among us.

Prof. Yehoshua Porath's biography of Yonatan Ratosh, "Shelah Ve'et Beyado," was published by Zmora-Bitan.


Home Print Edition News
Palestinians charge ahead in British propaganda war
LONDON - While Israelis argue over who will emerge with the upper hand in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Palestinians are busy chalking up impressive achievements in the war of images they have been waging in Britain for a year.
By Sharon Sadeh	Mar. 17, 2002 | 12:00 AM

LONDON - While Israelis argue over who will emerge with the upper hand in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Palestinians are busy chalking up impressive achievements in the war of images they have been waging in Britain for a year.

The gradual erosion in Israel's status in the United Kingdom is, at least in part, due to the vigorous activities of Arab and pro-Palestinian organizations, with the assistance of dozens of British volunteers, who wish to see Israel portrayed as a racist, pariah state. This propaganda campaign is being waged in a number of areas.

The Palestine Solidarity Campaign, a volunteer-based group, is in charge of the political, trade and media arenas. Its Web site www.palestinecampaign.org includes a detailed list of campaigns and events, with a view to raising questions on the legitimacy of Israel's existence, and to encourage embargoes on Israeli produce in Britain, which it calls being "an accomplice to Israel's brutal military occupation of Palestinians."

The site also lists British firms and bodies who have "sinned" by cooperating with the "Zionist tyrant," and the names of Israeli firms operating in Britain.

The Israeli Embassy in Britain claims that the main part of the campaign, entitled Boycott Israeli Goods, has been a virtual failure. Most British businesses have refused to cooperate, despite protests outside supermarkets and department stores, and the distribution of tens of thousands of leaflets.

Two London department stores, Selfridges and Harrods, which initially agreed to take goods produced in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and Golan Heights off their shelves, soon reversed the decision, though they did put up tags stating where in Israel the goods had been produced. Harrods' Egyptian owner, Mohammed Al Fayed, stressed that he had no intention of boycotting Israeli goods, or becoming embroiled in any trade boycotts or disputes, while fully endorsing "the importance of free trade between all countries in the Middle East."

The trade balance between Israel and Britain - Israel's third largest export market in the European Union - shows, however, that there has been a 15 percent fall in trade between the two countries, from $4.073 billion in 2000 to $3.439 billion in 2001. In addition, there has been a 30 percent fall in tourism from Britain, and these trends are expected to continue.

Israeli representatives tend to put the above down to the economic slowdown in both countries coupled with the worsening security situation in Israel, though they do admit that Israeli companies are finding it harder and harder to operate in the British market.

Talks between the Israeli wine producer Yarden and a large supermarket chain fell through, apparently over financial, rather than political, differences. British companies who operate or invest in Israel have refused to have their logos included in Israeli public relations films, fearing that this could damage their business in Britain and other countries.

Ha'aretz has also learned of cases where senior Jewish officials in British firms have hesitated and sometimes even avoided contacting and cooperating with Israeli companies.

Britain's Department of Trade and Industry may have declared Israel a "target market" because of its purchase potential, but it is stalling on issuing export licenses for selling military components to Israel. In addition, the Foreign Office recently ordered Israel to explain why it had modified British Centurion tanks into armored personnel carriers, despite a written assurance from Israel in November 2000 that no British component was being used as part of the army's activities in the territories. Palestinians, with the assistance of British Members of Parliament, are now trying to thwart the sale of anti-tank artillery produced by Rafael, the Israel Armament Development Authority, claiming that the missiles had been used against the Palestinians during the current uprising.

The pro-Palestinian groups' achievements are even more impressive in the field of education. Israeli students and lecturers were shocked to discover recently that one of the leading colleges at Oxford, St. Anthony's, had allowed student members of the Arab Cultural Society to invite Joseph Massad of Columbia University to the college some two weeks ago to give his lecture "On Zionism and Jewish Supremacy."

Massad claimed in his lecture that the "Jews are not a nation" and that "a Jewish state is a racist state" that does not have the right to exist. Oxford University looked into the matter following a number of complaints, and found that although Massad's comments were certainly controversial, it was legitimate to voice them. The university admitted that it had "reservations about the title, which implied reference to the "Protocols of the Elders of Zion."

A motion which states that anti-Zionism is not anti-Semitism and that Israel is an apartheid state was recently tabled at students union meetings around the country, a joint-initiative of ultra left-wingers, and Palestinian and Muslim activists. It was passed by the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies' Student Union, which also prohibited the sale of Israeli goods on campus.

A similar motion won a majority at the University of Manchester Student Union, but did not pass as it did not have the required two-thirds majority. The rejection of the motion at a university where some 600 Jewish students are enrolled, was reportedly met by a wave of anger and frustration by Muslims and Palestinians, with Jewish students being attacked, bricks thrown at Hillel House, the Jewish student digs, and a knife was thrust into the door of a Jewish student's dormitory room.

The anti-Israel wave currently washing over Britain is leaving its mark. Almost all events aimed at increasing understanding between Jews and Muslims have been called off, and a similar fate has befallen Israeli-Palestinian initiatives. Jewish communities security personnel report a steady rise in assault attempts and vandalism on Jews and synagogues, and many Jews are now concerned that a significant escalation in violence between Israel and the Palestinians, or even a U.S.-led attack on Iraq, could even lead to attempted murder.


Home Life Books
Days of Ubuntu
It all began at Bergen-Belsen The first two people I spoke with about national reconciliation in South Africa were murderers; the third is the current minister of education. "When did you first hear the term Ubuntu," I asked Ntobeko Penni, who answered that he'd heard his father use it when he was six years old. "Ubuntu" - humanness in Zulu - is an African outlook on life, the essence of which is that a person is a person through other people. Some say this perspective on life is largely
By Tom Segev	and in Cape Town	| Mar. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM

It all began at Bergen-Belsen

The first two people I spoke with about national reconciliation in South Africa were murderers; the third is the current minister of education. "When did you first hear the term Ubuntu," I asked Ntobeko Penni, who answered that he'd heard his father use it when he was six years old. "Ubuntu" - humanness in Zulu - is an African outlook on life, the essence of which is that a person is a person through other people. Some say this perspective on life is largely what led to the foundation of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), after apartheid's collapse in the latter half of the 1990s.

Penni, 28, was one of four young black men who murdered Amy Biehl, a young American woman who came to South Africa to show her solidarity with the black struggle. Penni and his comrades attacked her in the street and tore her to shreds.

Education Minister Kader Asmal said he only heard of Ubuntu in the past few years, after the term began to be used by the media as part of an attempt to root the TRC in the African tradition.

Asmal is a short, mustachioed man of 68, a Muslim of Indian descent, who looks and sounds like a British professor. No wonder - a graduate of the London School of Economics, he was not permitted to return to his homeland, and spent the next 25 years teaching law at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland. Asmal was born in Natal province; his father was a shopkeeper. When Asmal was 11, he told me, he sneaked into a whites-only cinema. It was 1945. He doesn't remember what film was shown, but the newsreel that day changed his life. It was about the British Army's arrival at the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. He has never forgotten, and never will, the images of bulldozers clearing away piles of bodies, said Asmal. Afterward, he hurried to tell his mother that despite her wishes, he would not be an imam, but that he wanted to study law, so he could help those subjected to political persecution. And so he did. His legal and political activities led to his exile.

While living in Britain and Ireland, said Asmal, he spent a lot of time studying the history of Nazi Germany, the annihilation of the Jews and the Nuremberg trials. The more he learned, the more he expanded his political activity, and became one of the chief spokesmen in Europe against apartheid. One dream kept him going: Someday the evil regime in South Africa would collapse, and he would return home and devote himself to bringing to trial the criminals of the white regime; it would be an African Nuremberg trial.

In September 1990, Asmal was permitted to return. He accepted a university post as a professor of human rights, and began preparing for the trials he'd been envisioning for all those years. But Oliver Tambo, the legendary leader of the African National Congress (ANC), the leading underground group, decided there would be no trials in South Africa akin to those held for Nazi criminals, as such trials were vindictive, and were liable to tear up South Africa instead of uniting and building it. South Africa needed reconciliation, not revenge, he said. Other people involved in the establishment of the TRC confirm Asmal's story - up to here. Nor is there any argument that Tambo's and especially Nelson Mandela's wisdom and forethought, prevented Nuremberg-style "trials of revenge."

According to Asmal, Tambo asked him to think of another way to expose the truth about the crimes of the white regime. After some thought, Asmal suggested that instead of a trial, the government set up a public commission of inquiry. At first they wanted to call it the "Truth Commission," but in order to prevent any critics from dwelling on the Orwellian origins of the name, they settled on "Truth and Reconciliation Commission." The idea was implemented after much discussion, to which many voices contributed. One was attorney Albie Sachs, another champion of human rights.

Mama said

Sachs, of Jewish descent, is now 67. He was arrested during the apartheid era for his activities on behalf of the ANC. He was held in isolation and eventually forced out of his country. At first he settled in England, but later moved to Mozambique, where as a law professor he continued his anti-apartheid activities. The South African authorities must have felt that he had strong influence; they dispatched secret agents to Mozambique, who planted a bomb in his car. Sachs was miraculously saved, but the intensity of the blast caused him to lose his right arm and one eye. He, too, went home in 1990, and he now serves as a justice of the Constitutional Court.

The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Sachs told me, was not born so as to settle accounts with the white regime, but as the result of the need to deal with crimes of the ANC itself. The story begins with a session of the ANC's National Executive Committee in August 1993, held about eight months before the first-ever democratic elections in South Africa. It was a difficult meeting. The issue was how to deal with a report of an internal commission set up by the ANC to expose the barbaric interrogation methods used by its members against collaborators with the apartheid regime. Aside from the horrific tortures administered during interrogations, ANC men would detain suspected collaborators, place tires around their necks, and set them aflame. Sachs is proud that the ANC made the decision to investigate itself. It may be the only liberation movement to ever have done so, he says.

However, the feeling of self-satisfaction was not enough; the findings were atrocious, and something clearly had to be done. Discussion of the report continued for a long time. It was embarrassing, as the ANC was poised to assume control and lead South Africa into a new era. Finally, one of the participants stood up and asked simply, "Let us think for a moment what my mama would say about it." When he said `my mama' he meant the healthy logic of a simple, unsophisticated woman who may be unaware of politics but is blessed with a robust sense of decency and justice.

The speaker then offered the answer: "We are simply crazy. Here we are, examining our own weaknesses and faults, and exposing our nakedness to the whole world - which maybe has to be done - while in the meantime those rascals and villains on the other side, who for decades and centuries murdered, mutilated and tortured our people, are getting away scot-free." The others nodded their heads, and then Kader Asmal proposed a truth commission, which would expose all of the evil in its entirety, of all the evildoers, whites and non-whites alike.

Previously, there had been much discussion in South Africa about the possibility of setting up a forum for clarifying the historic truth. Committees had been formed, surveys held, experts from other countries consulted. There was a study of how other countries, such as Argentina, Chile and Zimbabwe, had handled the issue.

The upheaval

The apartheid regime evolved over the years and did not collapse all at once. It gradually crumbled, primarily, it seems, as a result of the international sanctions enacted against South Africa. The breakup of the Soviet Union nullified the main factor that justified the apartheid regime, besides the racist ideology itself. Many whites truly believed that the evil regime was necessary to protect their country from the Communist threat. In retrospect, everyone now speaks of ideological laxity, fatigue, a general feeling of "we can't go on this way" among the whites. The governing party had become a doormat, the economic situation deteriorated. There was a feeling that everything was falling apart, and masses of people were leaving the country.

In the 1980's, the authorities began to cancel some regulations of "the petty apartheid," which forbade blacks from sitting in public parks on white-only benches, or using telephone booths or public restrooms designated for use by whites. However, the fundamentals of discrimination, including the lack of a parliamentary vote for blacks, were supposed to remain unchanged. But the willingness to nibble at the foundations of apartheid seems to have done to South Africa what perestroika did to the Soviet Union. The authorities were unable to control the narrow cracks that opened in the wall of repression, the cracks grew wider and the walls fell. The journalist and commentator Vessel de Kock explained to me that as more black workers were being allowed to live in close proximity to white-owned factories, over time a mixed economy developed: The political system was no longer suited to the economic situation and therefore had to be changed. Meanwhile, the ANC was growing stronger.

Colin Eglin, a veteran parliamentarian, told me that Frederik Willem de Klerk, the last white president, decided to hold talks with the blacks shortly before he lost everything. Nelson Mandela accepted the offer shortly before he was to win everything. The result was a uniquely realistic compromise. Many whites in South Africa, if not all, and numerous foreign observers, assumed that with the collapse of apartheid, the blacks would rise up, drive out the whites, and slaughter any that stayed behind, to avenge centuries of racism, during which the evil was, at its height, equivalent to that of the Nazis. That this did not happen is referred to by some as "the miracle of South Africa."

I spent some time asking people to explain this "miracle" to me, but I eventually stopped. The question itself shows a prejudice, journalist Zubeida Jaffer told me. We aren't a primitive tribe of man-eaters. She suggested I read the ANC publications dating back to its inception in the early 20th century, and especially the freedom charter it adopted in the early `50s. The movement had never threatened to kill the whites. On the contrary, it had always called for reestablishing life on the basis of full equality, calling for South Africa to be a state of all its citizens, blacks and whites and all the others too.

Jaffer is a well-known political commentator. We sailed to Robben Island, where Mandela was held prisoner for 18 of the 27 years of his incarceration. On the way there, she spoke of her own arrest and torture. As a talented reporter with good sources, she was able to report exclusive news about the black struggle. The authorities suspected her of belonging to an underground organization, and had her arrested. The interrogators threatened to rape her - but did not do so, although they did beat her, and forced her to swallow a drug that caused nausea, and pain all over her body. At the time of her second arrest, she was pregnant. The interrogators threatened to "burn her fetus," but she was released before her daughter's birth. Only recently has she begun to recover. Prior to her arrest, Jaffer was allowed to visit prisoners held on Robben Island together with Mandela. The current visit to the prison as a tourist, with me, provoked strange feelings.

Island of Good Hope

Robben Island has served as a place of detention almost from the day Vasco de Gama dropped anchor there 500 years ago, as a quarantine camp for slaves and lepers, and a prison for criminal convicts and political opponents. Some of the men imprisoned together with Mandela now serve as guides, sharing their memories with the tourists. At the height of the tour, the visitor arrives at Mandela's cell.

Conditions were harsh, and the wardens abusive. Mandela and his comrades spent part of the time working in a nearby quarry; the dazzling light severely damaged his eyesight. The long years on Robben Island had an effect on his worldview: the prolonged struggle for improving prison conditions made him more acutely realistic, taught him to better assess what can and cannot be achieved, judge when to be stubborn and when to yield.

The more the whites withdrew from their positions, the more the security forces demanded that any settlement be conditioned upon a blanket amnesty for anyone involved in the crimes of apartheid, including expulsions, liquidations, faked terrorist attacks, torture, murder, rape, plunder and corruption. At one stage, the talks nearly broke down over this demand. Several army leaders threatened to start a civil war. On this point, the nation's jurists, including Justice Minister Dullah Omar, seem to have played a significant role. Albie Sachs' wisdom and prestige also aided in resolving this disagreement.

A blanket amnesty was out of the question, of course, Sachs explained to me. But the controversy threatened the acceptance of the new constitution, which may be the best and most righteous constitution in the world. Its acceptance saved South Africa from a civil war and perhaps from complete destruction. Sachs feels the constitution was worth conceding on the sensitive issue of granting amnesty to apartheid criminals. After much effort, the sides reached a compromise: no blanket amnesty - instead, separate discussion of each and every case as part of the TRC hearings. Along with granting amnesty, the commission was also authorized to rule on compensation to victims of the regime.

Amnesty seekers had to comply with two main conditions: First, they had to disclose the truth about their crimes, although they were not required to express remorse. Second, they had to prove that their acts were performed as part of their political position. This was new: Most people accused of crimes against humanity defend themselves by arguing that "they were only carrying out orders." This line of defense has not been accepted, partially because of the duty of refusing a blatantly illegal order. In South Africa, they took the opposite course: Anyone who could prove he committed the acts while serving the country, or even while serving its political ideology, qualified for amnesty. Many of those harmed by apartheid, especially the families of its victims, had a hard time accepting the idea of criminals going unpunished. Sachs is not happy with the amnesty arrangement, either, even though he had much influence on its acceptance.

Sachs told me about the day that a man named Henry appeared in his chambers. A former South African army officer, he told Sachs that he had been involved in gathering the intelligence prior to the booby-trapping of Sachs' car. Sachs tried to draw him out: He was an excellent officer who evidently believed he was dispatching a dangerous enemy. They sat together for nearly two hours. "He looked at me almost with a measure of jealousy. I was a judge of the Constitutional Court, and he had been cast aside and was unemployed. He too had injuries, he told me. He had been shot in the leg and walked with a slight limp. We could have gone on eyeing each other and talking forever. I stood up and said: `Henry, (a cheap emotion surged in me. I was tempted to say: `I cannot shake your hand. You know why.') I cannot shake your hand now. Go to the TRC, tell them your story, do something for South Africa and then maybe we'll meet again.' He looked so uncomfortable, uneasy and sad when he left."

Henry is one of thousands of witnesses who have appeared before the commission and requested amnesty. The two men eventually did see each other again, at which time Sachs shook the other's hand. Sachs did not ask if Henry had received amnesty. He thinks he did. The number of amnesty recipients is relatively low: about 2,000 of the 7,000 who applied for it. The granting of amnesty has not added much luster to the commission's prestige, and in retrospect, along with its successes it has had its weaknesses. Mary Burton, a member of the commission, told me about them.

More...


Home Print Edition Features
Ben-Eliezer's true thoughts
A number of the leaders of Peace Now who walked out of Benjamin Ben-Eliezer's office last Friday had to remind themselves that they had just met with the defense minister.
By Akiva Eldar	| Mar. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM

A number of the leaders of Peace Now who walked out of Benjamin Ben-Eliezer's office last Friday had to remind themselves that they had just met with the defense minister - the man who bears supreme responsibility for the actions of the Israel Defense Forces and the settlers in the territories - and not the left-wing opposition leader, who is opposed to such actions.

Attending Friday's meeting were former minister Prof. Yuli Tamir, a number of the founders of Peace Now and members of its management: Prof. Arie Arnon; Prof. Dan Jacobson; Elon Portugali and Yair Yanov; the secretary of the National Kibbutz Movement, Gavri Bargil; the director of Peace Now, Moria Shlomot; her predecessor, Gabi Lasky; and the organization's spokesman, Didi Remez.

The meeting was held under the shadow of the new Settlement Sites report compiled by the organization and published the day before in the press. The bureau of the defense minister vehemently denied that since Ben-Eliezer had taken office, no less than 34 new settlement outposts had been established in the West Bank. The minister reiterated his claim that he had given "an unequivocal order" that no mobile home could move without his authorization.

The guests laid out aerial photographs of the settlement sites on the table. Ben-Eliezer had a quick look and then shrugged his shoulders. "It's all marginal. When you are being shot at from 14 different directions, you have to focus on the primary objective," he declared. "I have more important fronts with the settlers."

To appease his guests, Ben-Eliezer asked one of his military aides to look into the matter and to report back to them with his findings as soon as possible.

The minister was clearly trying to find favor in the eyes of his visitors. He knows that if, on election day, these people were to move their protest banners to the courtyard of the Labor Party headquarters, his next boss would be opposition leader Yossi Sarid. According to Yossi Beilin, certain surveys show that a party that unites all the left-wing forces has a pretty good chance of outstripping Ben-Eliezer's party.

The defense minister made an effort, at first, to explain the "cleansing" of the refugee camps to his left-wing guests. He said that the principal terror-makers were concentrated in these camps. The left-wing guests reminded him that various IDF sources were claiming that the incursions into Area A only boosted terrorism.

The defense minister did not contradict these statements, nor did he argue with the forecast that the government would soon have to pass on the "irrelevant" title from Yasser Arafat to Marwan Barghouti. Some security officials, both Israelis and Westerners, are claiming that, following the "cleansing" operation, the status of the Tanzim leader in the territories is enough to already make him worthy to be declared a non-partner by the government.

Ben-Eliezer hinted that the incursions into the refugee camps and towns of the West Bank had been nothing more than a show for domestic purposes. "The neighbors keep telling me that we should slaughter them all," the Labor Party leader confessed to his guests. And someone who wants to be prime minister certainly has to take the neighbors into account.

Prof. Tamir, Ben-Eliezer's most senior Labor Party colleague at the meeting, refused to comment on the defense minister's statements, saying that the participants had agreed not to publicize the contents of the talks. She added she hoped that such an agreement would not undermine the promise to review the claims with regard to the illegal settlement outposts.

Ben-Eliezer prefers Netanyahu

The defense minister agreed that the government of which he is a senior member has no set path, aside from the one dictated to it by the settlers. He confirmed that he was unaware of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon having any political plan. If it had been up to him, he said, he would accept the Saudi initiative and begin negotiations in accordance with the Clinton outline.

Ben-Eliezer also spoke of Palestinian leaders who were quietly telling him that the right of return was no longer an obstacle to an agreement that would be based on the principle of two states for two nations.

"So what are you doing in this government?" the left-wing guests asked and Ben-Eliezer was ready with a response. "I want to bring about implementation of the Tenet plan and the Mitchell report," he said. "Immediately thereafter, we will have to resign because the government won't get further than that."

In contrast, in closed discussions during which he appears to divulge what he truly thinks, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres expresses expectations from Sharon that do not reach implementation of the Mitchell report, which involves a freeze on settlements and the beginning of negotiations toward a permanent agreement. Peres' favorite excuse for staying glued to the government still remains the threat that Benjamin Netanyahu will return to power.

But Netanyahu doesn't scare Ben-Eliezer. On a number of occasions, the defense minister has said that, based on surveys at his disposal, his problem is in fact Sharon. The center, which has an aversion to the old and extreme Netanyahu, finds it hard to believe that the former prime minister has changed and, despite everything, it prefers Sharon.

Whatever the case may be, the working assumption of Labor's leadership is that it holds the key to the date of the coming elections. According to information in the hands of Labor, National Union-Yisrael Beiteinu and the National Religious Party have reached an understanding with Netanyahu that if Ben-Eliezer and his colleagues were to call it a day, the right-wing leaders would not assume the formers' places in the vacant Volvos.

Eitam didn't show

The review with Brig. Gen. (res.) Effi Eitam was supposed to have taken place Sunday night with the head of the National Security Council, Major General Uzi Dayan, who also serves as chairman of the Forum for National Responsibility. Dayan also invited Prof. Yuli Tamir, a member of the forum and head of the Rabin Center. Toward the end of last week, Tamir, one of the initiators of the Kinneret Covenant, asked Dayan to publicly announce that Eitam had disqualified himself from being among the signers of the covenant and thus to "drive out the evil from among us."

Tamir wrote to Dayan that the statements voiced by Eitam in an interview to the Ha'aretz weekend supplement blatantly contradicted the covenant to which he had set his hand. "While the covenant declares a commitment to equal rights for Israel's Arab citizens and recognizes their cultural, language and national rights," Tamir wrote, "Mr. Eitam declares that `Israel's Arabs are, to a certain degree, ticking bombs,' the dangers of which are like the dangers of a cancer eating away at the body of the state, and that they have become a fifth column."

Such statements, which contradict the contents of the covenant and the spirit of equality on which it was based, Tamir continued, disqualified Eitam from being among the signers of the document. She reminds Dayan that when she formulated the covenant, she and her colleagues agreed that any individual who was prepared to accept its principles and sign it would be able to do so. Now, however, she believes that Eitam's statements have made his signature worthless.

In light of such, Tamir is asking Dayan to report to all members of the forum that in her opinion, "If they do not take determined steps to remove Eitam from among them, they are likely to come across as seeing [Eitam's] positions as positions that fit well with the values of the covenant."

Eitam did not show up for the meeting, presumably in protest against criticism launched at him by Tamir a few hours earlier on television. Tamir's gauntlet has been thrown down at the feet of the signatories, most of whom are enlightened and sensitive individuals. They must decide if their signatures to lines such as "all persons were created in the image of God" and "each citizen is equal to all others" can rest alongside the signature of a man who equates a significant number of the citizens of Israel with a cancer.

Anat Gov, who also signed the covenant, said yesterday that after speaking with most of the 60 members of the forum, she had been able to determine that they were averse to Eitam's statements and had deemed him unrepresentative of its signatories. Nevertheless, Gov said, the one to explain to the world and himself how his statements in the interview corresponded with his signing of the covenant was Eitam.

Gov added that the decision whether to remove Eitam from the forum would be taken in light of his response to the comments of its members. The Rabin Center for Israel Studies, which has taken the forum under its wing, is currently witnessing a stormy debate over how to treat an individual whose messianic messages contradict Rabin's heritage. The final decision, so it appears, will rest with Dayan.

From immoral to illegal

More than 30 years have passed since Prof. Yeshayahu Leibowitz ruled that service in the occupied territories was immoral. Now, his grandson, attorney Shamai Leibowitz, has determined that it is also illegal. He has been distributing among conscripts and reservists a legal opinion, under the heading "The Obligation to Refuse," that determines that the very order to serve in the territories is illegal and that the Military Jurisdiction Law exempts all soldiers from obeying the order.

Leibowitz bases his opinion on a 1957 ruling (the Melinki affair), according to which a military directive that involves harming civilians, causing damage to their property, the withholding of medical treatment and the like is totally invalid as an order. In 1957, the court ruled that "The constitution of the State of Israel" forbids executions without trial or the destruction of the facilities and infrastructures of a civilian population. Furthermore, the 1957 ruling determines that an order is illegal if it constitutes a contravention of an international law or an undermining of fundamental moral principles.

Leibowitz quotes from a book, "Tsedek Ba'mishpat," written by retired Supreme Court justice Haim Cohen and published, incidentally, by the Defense Ministry publication house: "The positivist theory according to which `a law is law, an order is an order,' and no one has the right to question them, served tyrannical, fascist and totalitarian legislators as a large tree on which to hang the laws of oppression and exploitation, persecution and discrimination, plundering and robbing, that were the heartfelt desires of absolute rulers."

In the face of the standard argument that in a democratic state, one must obey the orders of the army even if they appear immoral, Leibowitz contends there is no democracy, but only an apartheid regime in the territories.

Leibowitz is convinced his legal opinion will serve as a shield for public figures who publicly call for a refusal to serve in the territories. He argues the IDF captains know they have no way of dealing with his opinion and are, therefore, shying away from a conflict on the matter.

Virtual managers

A few weeks ago already, the spokesman for the Israel Broadcasting Authority confirmed to me that Amnon Nadav, the so-called manager of the Voice of Israel, is not even authorized to ask his secretary for a cup of coffee or to send his driver around the corner. As is the case with the managers of the Arabic radio and television stations, Nadav's contract also expired many months ago and he is being held in place only by his political ties.

The reform proposal of MK Ra'anan Cohen ended with the resume of the minister responsible for the IBA. Instead of the IBA being nursed back to health, the spoils are continuing to be divided between the Prime Minister's Office and the right-wing representatives on the IBA's management committee. There, no one seems very impressed with the Vardi Report, which advised - already a few years ago - replacing the IBA's management, including the manager of the Voice of Israel. The accountants' report on advertising services at the IBA was not very complimentary toward Nadav either.

The politicians have learned that senior officials whose contracts are up in the air tend to develop a marked dependency on the government. As an example, Voice of Israel reporters present Nadav's decision to strip Nili Amir - seen by the former as a "lefty" - of her position as permanent editor of the station's midday news magazine program.

It is unclear why serious journalists take any notice whatsoever of virtual managers.

By the way, Nadav sent his secretary to edit a talk show and he sent his driver to present a song program.


Home Print Edition News
In Ramallah, visiting writers stress the power of words
At a press conference yesterday, members of the delegation spoke of the need to be exact with words, of awareness and of the need for intellectuals to intervene. The delegation had come to visit Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish, one of the parliament's founders, and other intellectuals.
By Amira Hass	| Mar. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM

At a press conference yesterday, members of the delegation spoke of the need to be exact with words, of awareness and of the need for intellectuals to intervene. The delegation had come to visit Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish, one of the parliament's founders, and other intellectuals.

"The masters of words have no need for rhetoric before the eloquence of blood," Darwish said. "Therefore our words will be as simple as our rights: We were born on this land and of this land. We knew no other mother, nor any mother-tongue but its own. And when we realized that it has too much history and too many prophets, we understood that pluralism is an all-embracing space and not a prison cell, and that no one has a monopoly over land or God or memory."

Darwish returned recently from Amman and the writers will no doubt find that the Jordanian capital is more accessible - to those who have the money - than Nablus or Bethlehem, and much closer for Palestinians than East Jerusalem.

IPW president Russell Banks, from the United States, spoke of the "corrupted and abused" language used to describe the situation. He said the writers would try to correct this language when they returned home.

Juan Goytisolo of Spain said that Israel was employing state terrorism. We have come to show solidarity with the Palestinians living in ghettoes, he said.

Breyten Breytenbach, who spent eight years in jail for opposing apartheid in South Africa, was asked by a Palestinian journalist if he did not fear he would be termed anti-Semitic. "We have to reject this kind of cultural terrorism that sees every criticism of Israeli crimes against the Palestinians as an expression of anti-Semitism," he replied.

Nobel Prize-winner Jose Saramago of Portugal said that, before his visit to Ramallah he knew there were Israeli tanks there and that PA head Yasser Arafat had been confined to his offices. "I didn't know that two colonies with army posts overlook Ramallah," he said. "I didn't know that every Palestinian settlement is under a separate siege." He said that "the spirit of Auschwitz" was linked to what was going on in Ramallah. "This place is being turned into a concentration camp," he said.

Asked by Ha'aretz where the gas chambers were, he replied; "So far, there are none." He added that, as a writer, it was his prerogative to make emotional comparisons in order to shock people into understanding.

IPW executive director Christian Salmon later told Ha'aretz that the comparison did not reflect the views of the parliament.

Today the IPW delegation will tour the Gaza Strip where the siege is even more obvious than in Ramallah.


Home Life Books
Days of Ubuntu - part 2
We are all guilty She was born in Argentina and came to South Africa with her husband, whom she met while studying in Europe. It was the early 1960's. Her husband and his family opposed apartheid and voted for the progressive opposition, but like many other whites, they thanked God that their party was not winning the elections, says Burton. She is not cynical by nature, but the years have taught her to delve behind the slogans and cliches; an impressive woman. She volunteered for a chari
Mar. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM

We are all guilty

She was born in Argentina and came to South Africa with her husband, whom she met while studying in Europe. It was the early 1960s. Her husband and his family opposed apartheid and voted for the progressive opposition, but like many other whites, they thanked God that their party was not winning the elections, says Burton. She is not cynical by nature, but the years have taught her to delve behind the slogans and cliches; an impressive woman. She volunteered for a charity organization operating in the black townships. The more she struck roots in her new country, the more questions she had. At one stage, she found herself among the women of the "Black Sash," a sort of South African version of Women in Black. The two organizations are in contact with one another. It was legal, extra-parliamentary activity. She was arrested only once, briefly. The Black Sash women opposed the granting of amnesty to apartheid criminals.

This, in fact, caused Burton to rethink acceptance of her appointment to the 17-member commission, who were selected by President Nelson Mandela from a list of candidates who were approved after a hearing that was broadcast on television. None were politicians; most were former anti-apartheid activists. It is not the sort of appointment that is easily turned down, and Mary Burton eventually overcame her hesitancy.

It was a difficult experience. Members of the commission were divided into three sub-committees: one heard evidence of gross human rights violations from 1960 onward; a second handled amnesty requests, and a third dealt with applications for aid to victims and their families, including financial aid and compensation. The hearings went on for two years; the commission heard thousands of witnesses who were first classified by a staff of investigators. A sum of $20 million was allocated to the commission. The testimony they heard was harrowing and heartrending.

At one point or another, every member of the commission reached his or her breaking point, Mary Burton said. She reached hers when hearing a rather ordinary story: A boy of 15 had gone to a grocery store, walked into the crossfire at a demonstration, and was killed. His mother told the story to the commission, while the father sat and looked on. One commission member asked him what he would say to his son's murderers if he met them. Burton feels the question was improper, but the result was almost too hard to bear. Because the father suddenly stood up and gave vent to a colossal outburst of pain and hatred and mainly of helplessness. She does not know why this story is the one that broke her.

The commission was headed by Archbishop Desmond Tutu. He designed its hearings to be a purifying and corrective religious experience. His deputy was Dr. Alex Boraine, a Methodist minister and former MP who now teaches law in New York. Mary Burton said she and several other commission members had some serious arguments with Tutu. They objected to the religious dimension he placed on the hearings. They asked him not to appear at commission hearings wearing his priestly vestments, or to open sessions with a daily prayer. But Tutu, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, stood his ground. It may have been more than a mere matter of style: The entire character of the proceedings, and especially the idea of amnesty being issued by the commission in exchange for revelation of the truth, was deeply rooted in Christian theology.

Often there was something superficial about the proceedings: All it took was for an individual to confess the truth and he was assured of forgiveness. It is doubtful whether this could have worked as simply between Jews and Muslims. In fact, the conflict in South Africa was resolvable because, unlike the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it contained no elements of religious rivalry. Most residents of South Africa are Christians, and Tutu used Christianity as a source of inspiration for reconciliation.

Another source of inspiration was the doctrine of Ubuntu. There are still arguments over what had a greater effect on the character of the hearings - Christianity, Ubuntu or politics. The hearings about crimes committed by the black organizations, including those of blacks against blacks, created a "we are all guilty" atmosphere. When everyone is guilty, no one is really guilty, and some critics felt that Tutu seemed to be wrapping his purple robes around everyone. He, on the other hand, saw it as a requisite basis for national reconciliation.

Tutu often sobbed as he listened to the harrowing stories. From time to time he would also call for dramatic gestures of reconciliation. One of the heights of this came as Winnie Mandela completed her testimony. She had been called in to clarify certain facts about the death of a boy named Stompie. He was murdered at her home, evidently with her active and sadistic participation. After her testimony, Tutu suddenly called on the boy's mother to come to the front of the hall, and asked her to embrace Winnie Mandela. He had given her no prior warning. The mother, a simple woman, did as she was asked. It was a big show of reconciliation. Mary Burton was not fond of these scenes. She could barely believe her ears when I told her about my meeting with the murderers of Amy Biehl.

Amy Biehl was here

Hanging in the entry to the central Cape Town offices of the Amy Biehl Foundation is a large photograph in which she is smiling happily, a black child in her arms. Amy, her parents told me, was raised on anti-apartheid; even as a child in California she would wear hats adorned with the slogan "Free Nelson Mandela." It was therefore quite natural for her to visit South Africa as an adult. A graduate of Stanford University, she arrived as a Fulbright scholar and took on all sorts of communal projects. Working with the blacks in South Africa was a reflection of her world view: she believed in the equality of human beings and in multi-racial democracy.

Her four black killers attacked her with stones and knives - they shattered her skull and mutilated her body practically beyond recognition. Peter and Linda Biehl - rather wealthy people, not especially religious - decided to continue her life's work. The foundation they established underwrites education, health and professional training projects, as well as artistic and musical activities - all among blacks, all in the spirit of Amy.

Her four murderers were arrested, tried and sentenced to 18 years in prison. Linda Biehl was present at several court sessions. She says she felt nothing as she sat across from her daughter's murderers. Albie Sachs told her it would be good if she could make some sort of contact with the father of one of the murderers, who was also sitting in the court. At one stage, their eyes met, and at that moment she felt a sadness: He too was about to lose a son, she thought. They shook hands.

The murderers later applied to the TRC and asked that the lynch be recognized as a political act. This was the first step on the road to amnesty. They explained that before committing the murder, they had attended a gathering of a radical black group. The speaker had instructed his listeners to kill any white who happened to cross their path. Amy Biehl happened to be the one. When Peter and Linda Biehl heard of the amnesty request, they called Tutu from their home in California and said they had no objections to granting the amnesty, but that they wanted to be at the hearing. "We wanted South Africa to know that we respect the reconciliation efforts it is making, and we wanted an opportunity to tell South Africa and the entire world about our Amy," Linda Biehl explained to me.

Arriving at the hall, they found themselves in a narrow corridor. Suddenly the four murderers appeared before them. Without thinking too much, the Biehls held out their hands. Linda Biehl said that once again she felt nothing. The commission complied with the request of the four men, who were given political amnesty, and released. I asked the Biehls what they thought about the murderers. Linda Biehl says that two of them are detestable thugs, but that the other two were sort of "political soldiers." What they did was a result of the brainwashing done to them, and they had in the meantime realized their error. I asked how she knew that, at which point the conversation took a shocking turn. "Actually, they're really nice guys," says Linda Biehl. "They have nice girlfriends, and tomorrow we're taking all of them out to see the musical `Cats.'"

It was hard to hide my stupefaction. Linda Biehl said they hadn't yet seen the musical, and it was now playing in Cape Town. I asked if we were really talking about two of her daughter's murderers and their girlfriends. Had I really understood her right? She and her husband were taking them out? Linda Biehl chuckled, and said that a lot of people are amazed when they hear that she and her husband employ the two murderers in their foundation. For a second, I thought she was pulling my leg, but Linda Biehl chuckled again and said, "Oh, I thought you knew. Didn't you notice the fellow sitting by the front door next to the computer? That's Ntobeko."

While I was still wondering what to say, Mrs. Biehl called the two fellows over to join us. The other one's name is Easy Nofemela. For the next 45 minutes we sat together - Amy Biehl's two murderers, her two parents and me.

Ntobeko Penni is 28, Nofemela is 30. Both now work at the foundation. "They didn't have any work when they got out of prison, and we needed people," explained Peter Biehl. Penni actually wanted to be a social worker or journalist, but has a good head for business. The foundation is supposedly helping him to start a driving school; that is his dream. Nofemela will receive a bakery, if I understood Peter Biehl correctly. "We thought that would fulfill the reconciliation. This is the meaning of Ubuntu," says Biehl.

I told the two killers that I could not understand Amy's parents, and asked them to explain to me the meaning of the Biehl's attitude toward them. Ntobeko Penni said that he didn't really understand it, either, but that he is grateful to them. He calls Linda Biehl "Makulu" - grandmother in Zulu. Linda Biehl said it was so, and that it makes her happy, because her new grandson Alexander, born in America, also calls her Makulu. Ntobeko said that it was definitely harder for me to understand the relationship since I evidently don't understand what Ubuntu is.

Anthropologists have studied the term, and explained the concept of reconciliation that derives from it. If I correctly understand what I read, when a person harms his fellow man, he also harms the perfection of his own humanity, and thereby also harms the perfection of his victim's humanity. When the victim forgives him, he restores the humanity of the attacker, and in so doing also restores his own humanity. Ntobeko Penni explained that Ubuntu also has meaning in everyday life, the essence of which is mutual aid. If someone has nothing to eat, someone will share his bread with him. If someone has nowhere to sleep, someone will offer him a place in his home.

There are local reconciliation committees on every street, operating as quasi magistrate's courts: If two people are fighting, the neighborhood reconciliation committee sees to it that they settle the argument. Penni said that Ubuntu, which he learned in his childhood from his father, also requires one to show respect and dignity to every person, in other words, a sort of African humanism.

I said that it indeed sounded very noble and asked him, then, why he murdered Amy. "Ahhh," Ntobeko Penni said, "The rules of Ubuntu don't apply to whites." "No, no," said Linda Biehl, "Ubuntu doesn't apply to whites."

More...


Home Life Books
Days of Ubuntu - part 3
Where are the graves? Mary Burton believes that much of the truth will come out and that this is certainly important, because, like Archbishop Tutu, she believes there can be no healing without truth. But a significant share of the truth is not being revealed. Burton is referring mainly to the acts committed by heads of the military and political establishments. Many of them just don't give a damn about the commission. The law empowered the commission to subpoena and interrogate witnesses
Mar. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Where are the graves?

Mary Burton believes that much of the truth will come out and that this is certainly important, because, like Archbishop Tutu, she believes there can be no healing without truth. But a significant share of the truth is not being revealed. Burton is referring mainly to the acts committed by heads of the military and political establishments. Many of them just don't give a damn about the commission. The law empowered the commission to subpoena and interrogate witnesses, but too many people avoided the hearings, lied to the commission or simply ignored it. The commission missed many opportunities, says Burton. She blames herself, too. She and the other commission members weren't strong enough.

Cape Town District Court Judge Dennis Davis took me one morning on a climb to the peak of Lions Head, to gaze at the ocean. The view from the mountain top is breathtaking: Cape Town is rightly considered one of the most beautiful cities in the world. As we were climbing, the judge explained that the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's work had convinced him that the criminal law process was better suited to uncovering the truth. The fact is, Davis said, that the chance of getting an amnesty had not convinced the generals and leading statesmen to appear before the committee.

Constitutional Court Justice Albie Sachs disagrees. He unwillingly admits to the limitations of the judicial system, but in his estimate, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission exposed much more information than might have been exposed by the ordinary wheels of justice. No, Sachs confirmed, not all of the criminals had paid their debt, but the commission had achieved a great deal, including the revelation of what befell many of the people who had disappeared, and where they were buried. The commission could not bring the dead back to life, but at least it gave graves to their relatives.

Essentially, it gave them something even more important: an opportunity to tell their story. In that respect, the commission hearings are a little like the Eichmann trial. It too was designed as a sort of national spectacle, the sentence known in advance. But the trial enabled Holocaust survivors to tell a story that until then Israel was not ready to hear, and in those terms it opened up a process of national therapy. The same sort of thing happened in South Africa. That process is still in its infancy.

The Eichmann trial gave birth to an important theory about the nature of the murderer and the "banality of evil." The TRC hearings only partially confirmed this thesis. Many apartheid criminals did what they did out of a firm belief in their cause, after undergoing a gradual process of hardening. Like the Nazis, they did not see the blacks as human beings like themselves, and the more they humiliated and abused them - the more the humanity of their victims was reduced, and the ideology seemed to fulfill itself.

Transcripts of the commission's proceedings can provide an important basis for investigation of the subject, but Mary Burton says the commission did not take the required steps to ensure that its work would be properly archived and available for research purposes. She therefore fears that the hearings will in time be forgotten. But the biggest blunder has to do with compensation, she feels. That is also of greatest concern to Anglican priest Michael Lapsley.

Where is the money?

Lapsley came to South Africa from New Zealand. He did not arrive with political opinions, but influenced by the situation, he joined the ANC. Members of the group ascertained that his life was in danger, and sent him to Zimbabwe. One day he arrived home from a lecture tour in Canada and began opening the letters that had piled up in his absence. Lapsley pulled off the plastic wrapper of an envelope of theology journals, detonating the explosives inside. He remembers flying into the air; he remained fully conscious the entire time. Lapsley lost both hands and one eye. He is now the director of the Institute for Healing of Memories, a sort of workshop that helps victims of the former regime to cope with their traumas. Lapsley offers this caveat: All of the achievements of the TRC could come to naught if the government does not compensate victims of the old regime.

This was one of the commission's main recommendations. About 20,000 persons harmed by the regime are supposed to receive $2,000 each, in six annual payments, totaling approximately $40 million. But the government has not yet paid, and many victims of apartheid feel betrayed. This does not encourage a mood of reconciliation.

And it's not the only thing: South Africa is rife with unemployment, crime and Aids. About 250,000 people are dying of the plague every year; most are black. I asked Minister Kader Asmal about the compensation, and he offered, in a bureaucratic tone of voice, that the commission must first submit its final report, meaning that it must still compose two more volumes of mainly technical material. It is amazing how quickly underground fighters can adopt the excuses of government.

Kader's friends

Asmal invited me to a family celebration. He and his English wife Louise were celebrating their 40th wedding anniversary. For the occasion, they had rented the restaurant in the world-famous Kirstenbosch botanical gardens. A special menu had been printed on gold paper: The appetizers were Mediterranean style, the main course was a chicken curry. The guests, most of whom were Indian or black, came in formal wear. Many drove up in Mercedes sedans. Men with clear plastic buttons in their ears walked about in the parking lot and entrance; before being allowed into the restaurant, the guests were asked to pass through metal detectors. And Nelson Mandela was there, too.

Mandela, 85 and white-haired, radiates nobility and charisma; his presence at the celebration will presumably be considered one of the high points of the minister's career. Half a dozen ministers attended Asmal's celebration, and guests came from abroad as well, anti-apartheid activists from England and Holland. Mandela sat at the head table. Some of the guests dared to approach him; a few were honored with an invitation to sit down with him for a minute or two. He wore an African shirt, and put on an informal mood. But the whole gathering seemed like a party-event. Asmal had met his wife while working for the ANC; everything they'd been through together was related to the national struggle. Their life was the struggle, the struggle was their life.

Once Mandela left, the men loosened their ties, the minister's grandchildren recited humorous rhymes to Grandpa Kader and Grandma Louise, and there was also dancing, to music that was a blend of Western and African beats. I had the impression I was with a new elite celebrating its victory with comfort, not yet with arrogance. This, I imagined, is how Mapai insiders celebrated in the 1950s. And if they were close enough - David Ben-Gurion might even grace their parties. The future was theirs. At Tony Leon's party, on the other hand, a dejected atmosphere prevailed. The guests were bogged down in the past.

Tony's friends

Tony Leon, leader of the opposition, heads a small party that is not unlike Shinui and Meretz. It isn't easy being the opposition to a national unity government; the ANC shares rule with the National Party, which was the party of apartheid. The National Alliance, which Leon heads, recently lost a few parliament deputies, who went over to the government's side.

He is an impressive man who exudes great personal charm. Leon lives in a nice home with an Israeli wife, Michal (nee Even-Zahav), and their two children. Leon, his wife and two children attempted to set a relaxed atmosphere, but the folks gathered round the family swimming pool were in no mood to celebrate. They know, of course, that the white time is passing. I spoke at length with Colin Eglin, a MP who with Helen Suzman and others cried for many years the cry of their beloved country, of liberals and patriots against the injustice of apartheid. I believe I learned a lot from him, there alongside the Leon family pool. The zeal with which the old regime oppressed its enemies infused their struggle with hope. Eglin spoke of those days almost nostalgically.

We spoke about the rewriting of history. Everyone now uses history for political purposes. After the flag and the anthem, they start changing names of entire cities, to adapt them to the whims of the current regime. There is a new museum in Johannesburg that documents the apartheid, which visitors are required to enter in two separate lines, one for whites, one for blacks. A guide beckoned me over to a wall that commemorates over 160 underground fighters sentenced to death during apartheid. One case provides an especially detailed description. It is no coincidence that this one was selected - the judge who handed down the death sentence was Ramon Leon, whom the guide emphatically explains is the father of Tony Leon.

Regrettably, it would be hard to say that the old regime collapsed as the result of activities of the liberal opposition. Many whites now claim that they had always, either openly or not, opposed apartheid. This is also the dominant trend in the new Jewish museum in Cape Town. In a somewhat pathetic attempt to adapt history to the new situation, the museum emphasizes the part played by Jews in opposing discrimination against blacks, as if they represented the entire community. The truth is that some Jews stood out for their role in the struggle against apartheid, but most of them made their peace with the old regime and benefited from the privileges they were granted as whites. The museum does not conceal the fact, but minimizes it as much as possible.

It reminded me of a line in Nadine Gordimer's "July's People": "The present was his; he would arrange the past to suit it." Nadine Gordimer attended several sessions of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. She can identify with those willing to forgive and reconcile, she told me, but she can also understand those who refuse to reconcile, and demand vengeance. She mostly identified with victims of the regime who refuse to forgive, but do not seek revenge. She thinks this is how she would react if she were in their shoes. She would want not want to have anything to do with the hearings, she said.


Home Print Edition News
S. Africa decries anti-Semitism at Durban racism conference
By Benjamin Pogrund	| Mar. 27, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
The South African government has condemned the anti-Semitism at the non-governmental conference against racism held in Durban last August. Referring to the "disgraceful events," Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Aziz Pahad said the conference was hijacked and turned into an anti-Semitic event.

Pahad made his comments in a speech earlier this month at the annual conference of the South African Zionist Federation in Johannesburg.

Pahad also used the speech to confirm what he said were "immutable pillars" of South African policy: "unequivocal and unchanging support" for Israel's right to exist within defined borders, in peace and security with its neighbors; utter condemnation of terrorism against Israeli civilians; and total support for an independent Palestinian state.

The South African stand carries considerable weight because of the country's post-apartheid moral voice and its leadership role in Africa and the non-aligned movement.

The anti-Semitism in Durban, described by Jewish participants as the most virulent seen in public since the 1930s, shocked Jews throughout the world. It caused grave anxiety among South Africa's own 80,000-strong Jewish community, especially because of the rise of militant Muslim groups in the country.

The South African government kept silent at the time, to the dismay of those who applauded its commitment to fight group hatred. The conference of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) immediately preceded the United Nations World Conference against Racism.

The events of September 11 overtook the Durban conferences and has pushed them into the background. But the anti-racism declaration issued by governments is an enduring message and is being pursued. At the same time, the NGO declaration which labelled Israel an "apartheid state" and Zionism as "racist" is being picked up by some to attack Israel.

Pahad said that he wanted to make it "unequivocally clear" that his government recognized that the NGO part of the conference "was hijacked and used by some with an anti-Israeli agenda to turn it into an anti-Semitic event." It was why the world's governments had refused to take the NGO statement into their final document.

"Additionally, the South African government as chair worked hard to ensure an acceptable and honorable outcome of the final document which avoided singling out Israel for exclusive criticism in regard to the current crisis in the Middle East. So successful were our efforts in this regard, that our president was personally thanked for South Africa's role in ensuring that outcome by Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres," he said.


Home Print Edition News
Palestinians urge world to act against `conspiracy of silence'
By Joseph Algazy	Apr. 1, 2002 | 12:00 AM

A group of Palestinian intellectuals, backed by Israeli couterparts, have issued a call for world public opinion to "break the conspiracy of silence over the war the Sharon government is waging against the Palestinian people."

Among those signing the Palestinian statement were Dr. Hanan Ashrawi, Dr. Mustafa Barghouti, and Dr. Haider Abed Shafi. Among the Israelis who signed a letter of support are professors Baruch Kimmerling, Avi Oz and Yehuda Shenhav.

The declaration calls for international efforts to cease the "all-out war against the Palestinians ... and an end to the 35 years of occupation." They say the Israeli invasion of the Palestinian Authority's central headquarters in Ramallah is meant to topple the PA.

They call on all those opposed to occupation, apartheid, ethnic cleansing, war crimes and all those committed to justice and peace "to break the conspiracy of silence" in which the governments of the world enable Israel to conduct military operations against the Palestinian people. They call the U.S. a full partner to Israel's actions, which the group says includes war crimes and violations of international humanitarian laws.

The open letter calls for demonstrations, an end to military aid to Israel and an end to economic ties with Israel.


Home News
Jordanian FA urges FIFA to ban Israel from soccer events
By Reuters	| Apr. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The Jordanian Football Association urged world soccer's governing body to freeze Israel's participation in FIFA events in the same way it had banned once-apartheid South Africa.

The JFA said in a letter obtained Wednesday that its request to FIFA was prompted by Israel's intensified military escalation against the Palestinians and refusal to abide by United Nations resolutions and withdraw from Palestinian territories.

"In order to uphold its banner of 'fair play,' the entire football community should freeze Israel's participation in this noble sport," said JFA President Prince Ali in a two-page letter dated Tuesday.

Ali, who is a half brother of Jordan's King Abdullah II, said Israel should be banished "the same way it (FIFA) did with the former apartheid South Africa."

The ban should remain "until such time when Israel abides by international law, United Nations resolutions and the will of the world and restores the dignity and freedom to the occupied people of Palestine," Ali said in his letter.

Ali is in charge of an elite commando unit supervising the security of the monarch, but he holds no political portfolio under the constitution that bans royal family members from holding public office.

His remarks, however, underline official frustrations with Jordan's policy of peace with neighboring Israel. Amman on Monday threatened to take unspecified measures in its relations with Israel, ratified under a 1994 peace treaty.

Senior government officials have said any decision, such as dismissing Israeli Ambassador David Dadonn, will be carefully studied.

Ali is also head of the West Asian Football Federation, which groups Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Iran, Jordan and the Palestinian territories.


Home Print Edition Sports
Jordanian FA calls on FIFA to freeze Israel's matches
AMMAN - The Jordanian Football Association urged world soccer's governing body to freeze Israel's participation in FIFA events in the same way it had banned once-apartheid South Africa.
By The Associated Press	| Apr. 4, 2002 | 12:00 AM

AMMAN - The Jordanian Football Association urged world soccer's governing body to freeze Israel's participation in FIFA events in the same way it had banned once-apartheid South Africa.

The JFA said in a letter obtained yesterday that its request to FIFA was prompted by Israel's intensified military escalation against the Palestinians and refusal to abide by United Nations resolutions and withdraw from Palestinian territories.

"In order to uphold its banner of `fair play,' the entire football community should freeze Israel's participation in this noble sport," said JFA President Prince Ali in a two-page letter dated Tuesday.

Ali, who is a half brother of Jordan's King Abdullah II, said Israel should be banished "the same way it (FIFA) did with the former apartheid South Africa."

The ban should remain "until such time when Israel abides by international law, United Nations resolutions and the will of the world and restores the dignity and freedom to the occupied people of Palestine," Ali said in his letter.

Ali is in charge of an elite commando unit supervising the security of the monarch, but he holds no political portfolio under the constitution that bans royal family members from holding public office.

His remarks, however, underline official frustrations with Israel's peace policy. Amman on Monday threatened to take unspecified measures in its relations with Israel, ratified under a 1994 peace treaty. Senior government officials have said any decision, such as dismissing Israeli Ambassador David Dadon, will be carefully studied.

Ali is also head of the West Asian Football Federation, which groups Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Iran, Jordan and the Palestinian territories.


Home Print Edition News
Knesset approves 3 new ministers
By Gideon Alon	| Apr. 9, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The Knesset plenum yesterday voted in favor of three new ministers joining the government, bringing the number of cabinet ministers to 27.

Fifty-one MKs from the Likud and the right-wing parties cast their votes in support of the two new ministers from the National Religious Party, Effi Eitam and Yitzhak Levy, and of David Levy from Gesher - while 32 MKs from Labor, Meretz, Hadash, Shinui, the Center Party and the Arab factions voted against.

The Labor and Center Party ministers did not attend the session. Herut MK Michael Kleiner abstained. All three ministers will not have portfolios but Eitam and David Levy will be in the security cabinet.

The appointment of Eitam, who expressed extremist views in a recent interview with Ha'aretz, was received with mixed feelings in the plenum. As he stepped down from the dais, Eitam was surrounded by all the right-wing MKs who came to congratulate him, while most of the Labor faction members and the Arab MKs left the hall. Ta'al MK Ahmed Tibi shouted out: "You give Haider a bad name. You are the devil. You are a fascist."

Opposition MKs tried their best, up to the last minute, to prevent approval for the new appointments. Meretz faction chair Zahava Gal-On said that, contrary to the law, the MKs had not been made party to the coalition agreements with the two new factions in the government. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon responded that there had been no new agreements and that the original guidelines were binding on the new ministers who had joined the government unconditionally.

Several speakers criticized the appointment of Eitam. "I am ashamed, as a Jew and an Israeli, to live in a country where people with racist views, who believe in transfer and Haiderism, sit in the cabinet," Opposition leader Yossi Sarid declared. Nehama Ronen (Center) said that appointing a cabinet minister who believed in apartheid destroyed the moral basis of the coalition.


Home Print Edition Sports
Levy urges FIFA to ignore suspension calls
Israeli FA chairman Gavri Levy yesterday called on FIFA president Sepp Blatter to ignore pleas from Arab states to ban Israel. In a letter addressed to the head of world soccer's governing body, Levy wrote, 'We utterly reject this proposal.'
By Ori Lewis	Apr. 11, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Israeli FA chairman Gavri Levy yesterday called on FIFA president Sepp Blatter to ignore pleas from Arab states to ban Israel.

In a letter addressed to the head of world soccer's governing body, Levy wrote, "We utterly reject this proposal."

Last week Jordan and Syria called for a ban on Israel from playing in internationals after the the invasion of West Bank towns by Israeli troops.

In a letter to Blatter, Prince Ali, head of the Jordan Football Association and brother of King Abdullah, said Israel's participation in international soccer should be put on hold.

"In order to uphold its banner of `Fair Play', the entire football community should freeze Israel's participation in this noble sport, in the same way it did with the former apartheid South Africa," the letter said.

Frank Bouzo, president of the Syrian football federation, also wrote to Blatter, asking the international soccer body to suspend Israel, the Danish daily newspaper EkstraBladet reported on its Web site.

"We want to appeal to FIFA's executive committee to suspend Israel's FIFA membership and forbid all Israeli football activities in FIFA. Such a decision would be in harmony with FIFA's brave decision to suspend South Africa due to apartheid," the newspaper quoted Bouzo's letter as saying.

Levy urged Blatter to ignore the appeal. "I hope that you, Mr President, will brush aside any threat made on an association which has always backed FIFA and acts in accordance with sporting principles," he said.

Levy also pointed to the fact that the IFA is an independent body and is not under the influence of Israel's politicians.

"Unlike in many countries, the IFA is not connected to politics and is not influenced in any way by the government or even by the sports minister."

Levy also reminded Blatter that the IFA had backed the Palestinian FA's request to join the body. He also pointed out that 30 percent of Israel's registered clubs hail from the Arab sector, and the Arab sector has four of the 29 delegates on the IFA's management body. At least 10 others sit on various committees.

"Since our formation over 70 years ago, the IFA has acted under one agenda - complete equality and mutual respect," Levi wrote.

He also listed the names of five Israeli Arabs who have, over the years, played for, or still play, in the national team - Ali Othman, Rifat Turk and Zahi Armeli (all retired) and current players Walid Badir and Najwan Grayeb.

Levy also sounded an optimistic note: "The whole world is fighting terror, in Israel terror is a stumbling block to peace. We look forward to the day the national team can play in Gaza, Cairo and Damascus. I am certain that this day will come despite all the difficulties."


Home Print Edition Sports
Mbeki: Israel repeating mistakes of apartheid rulers
By Reuters	| Apr. 12, 2002 | 12:00 AM

CAPE TOWN - Israel is repeating the mistakes of South Africa's apartheid rulers in its effort to crush a popular rebellion, South African President Thabo Mbeki said on Friday.

Mbeki said in a weekly online letter that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was wrong to demand an end to Palestinian violence as a pre-condition for talks.

South Africa has consistently criticized Israel's handling of the crisis, but Mbeki said he was equally concerned about the rights and the losses of both Israelis and Palestinians.

"When we call for respect for life, we must state firmly that we refer both to Israelis and Palestinians," he said.

"However...we must proceed from the concrete reality that the Israelis have their own independent state and homeland. The Palestinians do not."

Israeli forces launched a military offensive in the West Bank two weeks ago to try to crush Palestinian militants blamed for a series of suicide attacks that killed dozens of Israelis.

Mbeki said South Africa's own experience, in which tens of thousands of people died in the uprising against white minority rule, had shown that an oppressed people fought because they had "nothing to lose but their servitude", not because they were told to fight.

South Africa's white rulers, who negotiated themselves out of power between 1990 and 1994, fought for 30 years to maintain their exclusive hold on power.

Police and government agents shot protesters, assassinated civic leaders, jailed activists and banished high-profile opponents in a bid to break the uprising that eventually forced them into talks.

"The rulers of Israel are repeating the costly mistakes made by the captains of apartheid in our country," Mbeki said.

"Everything that has happened in the Palestinian territories in almost two years says, in action, that the Palestinians and especially the youth are ready to march against tanks and armoured cars because it is no longer possible for them to live as a dispossessed people.

"The attempt to search and destroy so-called agitators and terrorists in their midst, in the belief that these are the instigators of the rebellion, without whom the rebellion would cease, is to live in worse than a fool's paradise," he said.

Welcoming U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell's peace mission, he said "The leaders of both the people of Israel and Palestine have a common responsibility to take advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State to break the chain of violence."

Powell, on a Middle East peace mission, is due to hold talks with Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat on Saturday at Arafat's offices in Ramallah, besieged by Israeli forces.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Divide the land or divide democracy
The future of the State of Israel lies in the expanse of territory between the post-Zionism of Azmi Bishara MK and the messianic Zionism of Minister Effi Eitam.
By Yuli Tamir	| Apr. 14, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The future of the State of Israel lies in the expanse of territory between the post-Zionism of Azmi Bishara MK and the messianic Zionism of Minister Effi Eitam. The accord between ideological and territorial expanses is unique to nation-states. An immigrant or civil state requires clearly-defined borders, but these can expand and contract without affecting its character. Nation-states are obliged to be modest in their territorial ambitions.

The Israel instance is a salient example of this principle. The equation is simple - territorial modesty equals a substantive and stable democracy and a Jewish state. Territorial hunger equals the downfall of democracy or the destruction of the Zionist vision.

The attempt to create an alternative equation gives rise, on the extreme right, to singularly anti-democratic visions - from Rehavam Ze'evi's "transfer" notion, which his son and Benny Elon MK are propagating, through to the old-new idea of "enlightened residency" that Effi Eitam bears on high.

According to Eitam's idea, Israel will be populated with some three million people who have no chance of ever becoming citizens. They will, according to Eitam in an interview with Ha'aretz, be able to secure "dark citizenship in the Arab states" or in the State of Palestine, if and when it is established in Jordan and in the Sinai, but not in their country of residence.

This is a distorted and incorrect interpretation of the democratic idea. It is especially grave when it comes to natives of the land who have lived here for generations. A democracy, it is worth mentioning, has the right to determine entry laws, but it does not have the right to decide which of the country's residents will be enfranchised.

Elon and Eitam are aware of the concerns that their position is stirring, and they are trying to ease them. Elon maintains he is talking about "a voluntary transfer" while Eitam divests himself of the transfer notion because it is not something "that can be swallowed now from a moral point of view."

Eitam, therefore, does not rule out the transfer idea in principle. "And if we are forced into an all-out war," he says, "if they do not meet us half way, if there is no regional solution and the Palestinian offensive continues, the dynamic will shift toward an all-out war that is liable to bring down a tragedy on the Palestinian people." This tragedy has a name - transfer.

Eitam is a master of doublespeak. On one hand, he signs the Kinneret Covenant and promises that he accepts all its principles, including full equality for Israel's Arab citizens; on the other, he declares in Newsweek that "if you don't give the Arabs the right to vote, the demographic problem solves itself."

On one hand, he signs the coalition government's guidelines that are committed to UN Security Council Resolution 242; on the other, he declares that Israeli sovereignty will stretch as far as Jordan and "there will be no partitioning."

This doublespeak is not coincidental, it is essential. It is essential because the Israeli consensus is stuck on the idea of a Jewish and democratic state. Eitam, like Elon and the young Ze'evi, cannot accept the territorial significance of this idea, but make cynical use of it, until the hour of redemption arrives - the moment of the liberating war or the messianic vision.

The territorial perception of the extreme right, which is coming to redeem the Promised Land rather than establish a modern state, gives rise to a willingness to sacrifice democracy on the altar of the territories. Hence, Eitam and Elon's obligation to democracy, like Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's obligation to peace, is no more than a word-game designed to curry favor with the public.

No one in Israel yet dares to speak ill of democracy, but more and more people are tailoring the democratic notion to suit their territorial objectives. Instead of proposing a division of the country, they are suggesting splitting the idea of democracy. This approach would leave the Land of Israel whole, but its democracy would be divided into districts - the district of the Jews, the district of the Arab citizens of the state, and the district of the residents.

The inhabitants of each district would have different rights, based on their ethnicity and national belonging. A Hebrew name has yet to be found for such an idea. In other places it was known as apartheid.

The State of Israel can still retreat to districts that would allow it to remain democratic and Jewish. The path of political Zionism, territorial compromise and civil equality can still be followed. To achieve this objective, there is a need to tackle any attempt to alter the definition of democracy or impose it in a selective manner.

A Jewish and democratic state will not arise in all of the territory of the Land of Israel. Therefore, the division of the land must take precedence over the division of the idea.

Yuli Tamir is a professor at the Philosophy Department of Tel Aviv University.


Home News Diplomacy and Defense
'Divest in Israel' call surfaces on U.S. campuses
By Reuters	| Apr. 14, 2002 | 12:00 AM

BERKELEY, Calif. - As Middle East violence intensifies, a small but growing number of U.S. students are calling on universities to divest from companies that do business in Israel - an echo of the successful drive to isolate South Africa's former apartheid regime.

Led by activists at the University of California, Berkeley, a famous hotbed of student protest, pro-Palestinian and human rights groups are organizing demonstrations and staging sit-ins, hoping to force officials to pull billions of dollars out of investments in Israel.

While their pleas have received a cool reception from university authorities - and they themselves admit that the Israeli divestment would be a complicated endeavor - they say the time has come for major U.S. investors to take what they call a moral stand for Palestinian human rights.

"Something, no matter how small, must be done to express our utter opposition to what is being done by Israel," said Sarah Weir, a Berkeley senior and member of the group Students for Justice in Palestine (SJIP).

While loudest at Berkeley, the divestment call has also been made at Princeton, the University of Illinois and several other large U.S. schools.

Jewish student groups have been quick to condemn the divestment campaign, which they say is stoking campus tension, fostering overt anti-Semitism and threatening to undermine America's sole Democratic ally in the Middle East.

"The type of people who are attracted to this are radical and closed-minded," said Oren Lazar, co-chair of Berkeley's student Israel Action Committee. "We want to have dialogue, but if the same rhetoric, and same lies, keep being spread, it is nearly impossible to do."

The South African model Pro-Palestinian activists say Berkeley should be a leader in the drive to exert financial pressure on Israel. The school, the centerpiece of the vast University of California system, has long been one of the nation's most politically active, and played an important role in opposing the Vietnam War.

More specifically, they say Berkeley's 1986 move to divest itself of some e3 billion in companies that did business with white-ruled South Africa was a turning point in the campaign to isolate and eventually end the apartheid government there.

"With South Africa, we learned that divestment can be a very useful tool to organize," Weir said.

Launched with the beginning of the latest Palestinian uprising in September 2000, Students for Justice in Palestine demanded the university's Board of Regents take steps to drop more than $6.4 billion invested in companies that do big business in Israel, including General Electric, Raytheon, Hewlett-Packard, Cisco Systems, AOL Time Warner and Microsoft.

At Princeton, where a group called Students for Progressive Education and Action has mounted a pro-divestment petition, students say the university should ditch at least $100 million in investments in companies ranging from Johnson & Johnson to McDonalds Corp.

"We are trying to get people on campus interested in this issue," said Vincent Lloyd, a Princeton junior helping to organize the campaign. "We feel that the time has come for the university to recognize where its money is going."

Not so easy University of California regents have poured cold water on the divestment idea, saying their responsibility to retirees, scholarship recipients and research endowments requires that financial considerations remain "the highest priority" in investment decisions.

Spokesman Trey Davis noted that the Regents regularly field divestment calls - from Tibet, from Burma, from pharmaceutical companies and health care organizations - and in most cases have chosen not to act.

"If we are put in the position of arguing the merits of all of these different requests, it would require the university to adopt a very different investment policy," he said.

The structure of the university's investment portfolio also makes Israeli divestment unlikely, officials said.

Unlike the 1980s, when university investments were often made directly in companies doing business with South Africa, the university now channels most of its money through index funds which spread investments across a wide range of companies for the greatest return.

Berkeley's pro-divestment campaigners are undeterred, and say their message is spreading. But tensions have risen on the Berkeley campus. Last week, some 79 protesters were arrested after a raucous protest that coincided with efforts by Jewish students to commemorate victims of the Holocaust.

While pro-divestment students say their efforts are increasing campus awareness of the effects of U.S. support for Israel, Jewish student groups say they see the campaign as a thinly veiled drive to spread anti-Semitism.

"The issue of divestment is predicated on the assertion that Zionism is racism, and we reject that," said Jeff Rubin, director of communications for Hillel, the largest Jewish campus organization in the world.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Get the dogs out As the last suicide-bomber in Haifa apparently boarded the Jerusalem-bound Haifa bus at Haifa's Central Bus Station, Egged should consider using police dogs trained to sniff and detect explosive materials. Such dogs (and their handlers) could also be present at major bus stops along the road, such as, Um al-Fahm, Hartuv, Kastina, etc., thus thwarting terrorists' plans. Many airports use police dogs with success and their absence here is puzzling in light of our recurring
Apr. 15, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Get the dogs out

As the last suicide-bomber in Haifa apparently boarded the Jerusalem-bound Haifa bus at Haifa's Central Bus Station, Egged should consider using police dogs trained to sniff and detect explosive materials. Such dogs (and their handlers) could also be present at major bus stops along the road, such as, Um al-Fahm, Hartuv, Kastina, etc., thus thwarting terrorists' plans. Many airports use police dogs with success and their absence here is puzzling in light of our recurring problems with suicide bombers on public transportation.

Rivkah Fishman

Jerusalem

Do not despair

What a terrible time you are suffering! Here, on the other side of the world, we watch with horror the events that are unfolding as a part of your daily life. Please, try not to despair, and, please, do not feel abandoned and alone. While we may be in Australia, you must know that our every thought is the constant anguish that you and the State of Israel are currently suffering. While we are not physically with you, you are a constant in our minds, hearts, prayers and lives.

With unflagging love, support and dreams for a brighter future,

Zandy and Tony Fell

Melbourne, Australia

Sick about Jenin

It seems so long ago that Ari Shavit wrote of "European sophistication" in Israel - I think that was after the Moment cafe suicide bombing. Since then Effi Eitam has joined the government and Israel has "eliminated" hundreds of people in the Jenin refugee camp. While photojournalists were banned by order of the Israel Defense Forces, the word pictures that came through here in Europe were awful .

Now there is news of a 5 percent tax on all Israelis to support the war effort - in effect everyone gets to subsidize Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's "Death Squads." It's like hearing about El Salvador in the 1980s except you aren't in South America and the Salvadoreans never aspired to be "European sophisticates." I get a sick feeling every time I hear the Jenin operation mentioned, and I know that the nation which allowed that to happen will allow other atrocities.

I try to encourage Gush Shalom with my donations but I know that they are a minority. A friend said yesterday that the past two weeks have shown the true face of Israel - what could I say to that? There seems to be something rotten at the core of your country. I would like to reach out to all the good people in Israel who are currently silent - we need to hear your voices.

Your country is unraveling and the process is very disturbing. Will anyone stand up to Sharon and say loudly to him and the world that he is not Israel? His vision is one of death - he does not represent you. I am waiting to hear that just as I waited for an Afrikaner voice to say that apartheid was not his way. Eventually we heard the Afrikaners. How long before the voice of Israeli understanding is heard above the sounds of murder?

Jean Baptiste Beniet

St. Sulpice, Switzerland

Women and children

CBS anchorman Dan Rather recently reported on Israel's war on terrorists in Jenin. He reported that after all the Palestinian fighters were round up, the army removed the women and children, and then bulldozed the houses in the refugee camp. I wonder if he realizes that he has compared Israelis favorably to the Palestinians who don't remove women and children before their actions and compared us favorably even to the Americans, who indiscriminately bomb innocent Afghani citizens, including women and children.

Chaya Goldberg

Hatzor Haglilit


Home News Israel
There is another solution
To change the picture to our benefit, we have to show the Palestinian masses that there is another solution that will relieve them of their distress, and it is a path preferable to blood and fire.
By Uzi Ornan	Apr. 21, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Other than the war-loving zealots on their side and ours, it's clear to all of us that in the future we will be living near our neighbors and alongside them. Therefore, our behavior now has to be based on a vision of the future. Shouting about "an iron fist" or vaguely promising "an agreement is preferable to war" won't help.

There is no guarantee the terror won't return, and there's no doubt that our enemies' aspirations, like the right of return, will not be able to be fulfilled in their entirety. Therefore no "agreement" will quieten them - the idea of "a united Arab nation" negates any permanent existence of a non-Arab entity on "Arab land."

So, we'll never be able to lay down the sword. The war-lovers among them prefer to live without us. When one side believes there is a chance the enemy will break, they will continue striking, and so it is clear that we have to prove there's no chance they will break us. But an old adage remains true - in addition to a stick, one must offer a carrot. To change the picture to our benefit, we have to show the Palestinian masses that there is another solution that will relieve them of their distress, and it is a path preferable to blood and fire.

There is no need for negotiations with their current leaders for the solution being proposed here. The war is over ideology. A precondition for dissolving their ideology is to create trust among Palestinians that the "Jewish state" truly wants peace and can live in peace, with real equality for non-Jews. We've often said that Israeli Arabs are a "bridge to peace," but Israel only takes care of its Jews.

It expropriates land from Arabs, demolishes their homes, and befouls their harvests. "Expropriation for public purposes" is usually nothing more than a legal cover for dispossessing Arabs - public land mostly goes to Jews. Announcements about public service jobs or public housing are for "veterans" - a euphemism for Jews. Even the yeshiva students who "register for the draft" (but don't actually serve) are considered veterans for these purposes, but Arabs aren't even called to register, so they aren't veterans.

Israel's image as egotistically Jewish is clear inside the Green Line. Seemingly all citizens are equal, but the building permits don't go to Arabs, and the budgets for Arab townships are only reluctantly provided. Jews who only arrived in the country recently have more rights than veteran citizens who are not Jewish. More than 50 years after the Declaration of Independence promised equality for all citizens, that equality is being denied over and over again.

If these are the relations between Jews and Arabs inside Israel, who is going to believe that the Jews really want peace and cooperation? From every side, people here say "for peace we'll make painful concessions," but the only painful concessions that might prove the Israeli people wants peace would be conceding their privileges that are not enjoyed by non-Jews - or granting them the same privileges.

No territorial withdrawal will help. To build trust, scandals like poisoning the harvests of the Bedouin in the Negev must not take place. House demolitions of citizens who have been deliberately denied building permits must be avoided; the racist restrictions on the distribution of public land must be ended, and there must be a halt to the prohibition against any Israeli citizen living in any city or village in the country.

A statutory, legal status of equality must be given to all citizens. Democracies around the world do not include two types of citizens in their laws. Only in Israeli democracy is there "a citizen by virtue of return," meaning a Jew, and a "citizen by virtue of residence," meaning a non-Jew.

The law defining citizenship according to the law of return must be canceled. Israeli citizenship must be the result of birth or residence only. Our new image would cancel all the charges of apartheid against us. It may be a long road, but it will surely be shorter than the incessant spilling of blood that will only go on for generations.

The writer is chairman of Ani Yisraeli (I'm Israeli), an NPO devoted to Israeli nationhood.


Home News
Bishara: IDF offensive aimed at 'apartheid'
By Reuters	| Apr. 22, 2002 | 12:00 AM

DUBAI - Arab MK Azmi Bishara has slammed Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's incursion into Palestinian cities as part of what Bishara called a wider plan to set up an "apartheid" system.

Speaking to reporters in Dubai on Sunday, Bishara also charged that U.S. policy favoring Israel was an "incentive towards extremism".

Bishara stood trial in February, charged with support for a terrorist organization after he praised Hezbollah guerrillas and urged Palestinians to emulate their resistance against Israeli occupation. He could face up to three years in jail. Bishara says the charges are politically motivated.

The Knesset has lifted Bishara's immunity from prosecution, making him the first parliamentarian to be tried for political actions since the Jewish state's founding in 1948.

"We are at the threshold of a new stage...They want to set up an apartheid regime in Palestine starting with Jenin and Jerusalem to establish security areas behind buffer zones," Bishara said.

"It is an operation to implement demographic segregation on the ground between the Arabs and Jews," he said.

The IDF withdrew from two West Bank cities on Sunday but kept up a siege of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's headquarters in Ramallah and Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity, where gunmen are holed up.

Sharon said the campaign had achieved significant results, pledging that Israel's "struggle against terrorism" would go on "according to a different method". He was apparently referring to buffer zones that he wants to establish inside the West Bank to prevent Palestinian suicide bombers from reaching Israel.

Arab nations have criticised Washington for not pressing Israel hard enough to end its offensive. A peace mission last week by U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell failed.

Bishara said U.S. support for Israel was only encouraging extremism among moderate Israelis.

"The United States has become a party in the conflict. For the first time American policy is...an incentive towards extremism," he said.


Home News
Berkeley votes down Israel boycott, divestment proposal
By Associated Press	Apr. 24, 2002 | 12:00 AM

A city famous for its foreign policy edicts has voted down a measure that would have divested Berkeley, California finances from companies doing business in Israel, and which would have called for the boycott of products from Israel and the territories.

Backers had compared the divestment proposal to the anti-apartheid movement of the 1980s. Berkeley was at the forefront of that campaign, voting in 1979 to divest from companies doing business with South Africa.

Opponents said the measure was biased against Israel. Councilwoman Betty Olds pointed out that a list of affected companies attached to the resolution were all doing business with Israel.

The emotionally charged City Council meeting Tuesday night was held over the shouts of protesters rallying outside City Hall.

"I don't think this does anything to advance what probably every person in this room wants and that is a peaceful resolution," said Mayor Shirley Dean. "There's no sense in dividing up into warring camps."

But Councilwoman Maudelle Shirek said the conflict "is our business. These resources that are going for war (are) being taken away from our schools, from health care."

Last October, the city received hundreds of angry e-mails from people around the country after a 5-4 council vote supporting a resolution that asked thegovernment to "help break the cycle of violence" and stop bombing Afghanistan as soon as possible.


Home Print Edition Features
The Intifada reaches the ivory tower
European scientists are calling for a boycott of Israel.
By Tamara Traubman	| Apr. 25, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The first time that the international scientific community imposed a boycott on a state was during the apartheid regime in South Africa. The second time is being considered at present, and now the boycott is directed against Israel and its policy in the territories.

Several manifestos calling for the imposition of a boycott, on various levels, have been published in recent days by professors from abroad; a number of Israeli scientists have signed the manifestos, arousing a great deal of anger on Israeli campuses.

In the United States, students are applying pressure on the universities, demanding that they stop supporting companies and foundations that cooperate with Israel. The initiative began with students from the University of California at Berkeley half a year ago, and recently it has spread to universities such as Princeton.

Members of prestigious scientific bodies, such as the Norwegian Academy of Sciences, have condemned Israel's actions in the territories, and criticized their Israeli colleagues for their indifference to the situation of Palestinian researchers, and the damage to academic institutions in the Palestinian Authority. According to Israeli diplomatic sources, steps to have Israel join several large European projects have been postponed until further notice - for example, accepting Israel as a member of a particle acceleration project at the CERN laboratory in Geneva. The contacts that began behind the scenes have been halted at this stage.

The Israeli scientists, usually half asleep and holed up in their laboratories, organized counter-manifestos calling for the continuation of cooperation with Israel, and the Israel National Academy of Sciences and Humanities (the most important umbrella organization representing the scientific community in Israel) has appointed a committee that will be responsible for this activity.

British manifesto

The first manifesto published abroad was initiated by a pair of British researchers, Professors Hilary and Steven Rose of Britain's Open University. The manifesto suggests that European research institutes stop treating Israel like a European country in their scientific relations with it, until Israel acts according to UN resolutions and opens serious peace negotiations with the Palestinians. (Israel enjoys the status of a European country in many European research programs.)

The manifesto was signed by over 270 European scientists, including about 10 Israelis. Although it is the most moderate of the boycotts being formulated these days against Israel, the manifesto aroused a great deal of anger in the Israeli scientific community. Outstanding Israeli scientists such as Prof. Joshua Jortner, former president of the National Academy, sent letters of protest to The Guardian, in which the manifesto was published, and three researchers from the Hebrew University [HU], Dr. Eva Illouz and Dr. Aaron Ben Avot of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, and Prof. Hillel Shoval from Environmental Studies, initiated a counter-manifesto that sharply condemns the British document.

Dr. Illouz believes that in the present circumstances, boycotts will not achieve their aim, but will rather arouse animosity toward the European position. She says that they are in total contradiction to the principle of academic freedom - one of the basic principles of scientific ethics. The Israeli counter-manifesto was signed by about 4,000 scientists from Israeli, the United States and European countries. Ben Avot says that "the signatories come from a wide array of opinions about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, ranging from members of `Professors for National Strength' to people who are usually identified with the left, such as Prof. Baruch Kimmerling."

The signers of the British manifesto believe that the anger against them is exaggerated, and that most of those who oppose the manifesto, which is written as an implied suggestion, either didn't read it carefully or didn't understand its content. Many of them, like Prof. Eva Jablonka, of the Cohn Institute for the History and Philosophy of Science in Tel Aviv University, the first to sign the manifesto, report that they received hate e-mail as a result of the manifesto.

"I'm surprised that my colleagues don't read text," says Jablonka. "I received very emotional reactions, as though I am betraying them and personally working against them." According to her, "Israel is the only country in the Middle East that has the rights of a European country in the scientific community; the idea of the manifesto is that as long as Israel does not begin negotiations, a moratorium against its special privileges must be considered. None of the people who signed this manifesto are in favor of a sweeping academic boycott, canceling all relations; all the people I know who signed are people who care and want the State of Israel to survive, as an ethical country, as a country of peace."

Last Wednesday, the board of directors of the organization for professors and teachers in higher education in England, decided unanimously to call for a more sweeping boycott. The decision calls on all the British institutions of higher education to weigh - with the goal of severing - any future academic connection with Israel. It insists that such relations should be resumed only after a full withdrawal of all the Israeli forces, the beginning of negotiations to implement UN resolutions, and the promise of full access for all Palestinians to institutions of higher learning.

Mathematician Prof. Emmanuel Farjoun, who signed the British manifesto as well as a similar French one, and a manifesto of HU professors supporting the soldiers who refuse to serve in the territories, agrees that the boycott is an extreme step. "Boycotts are the final step," he says, "when the situation is already very severe, like in South Africa, and here the situation is completely analogous, and moreover, here the Palestinians are not even citizens, and have been living for 35 years without basic rights."

Prof. Hagit Messer-Yaron, chief scientist at the Ministry of Science, Culture and Sport, and Carmel Vernia, outgoing chief scientist at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, believe that at this point, diplomatic-formal agreements with the European community to which Israeli is a signatory, are not in immediate danger. "In the field of R&D, Israel is in a strong position," says Vernia. "Nevertheless, my feeling is that our position has been eroded. My fear is that in the final analysis, that will have an effect on the formal plane as well."

The Sixth Plan

Israel has signed a huge program for cooperation with the European Union, called the Fifth Plan. In the context of this plan, the EU participates in the funding of research with practical applications. The countries who are members of the plan invest a sum of money that gives the scientists a right to participate in a kind of tender for research proposals. Israel has invested almost 155 million euros in the plan, and in return received a similar sum as a research grant for Israeli scientists. The advantage of the program, therefore, is not financial, but rather scientific cooperation, diplomatic recognition, and integration into the European market.

The Fifth Plan ends this year, and now the Sixth Plan is being formulated; several Israeli groups who are involved in the program said that signals sent by the Europeans testify to the fact that this time Israel will have a hard time joining it. Nevertheless, the assessment is that at the end, Israel will be allowed to join.

The most obvious expression of the isolation of the Israeli scientific community is the refusal of researchers to come here, for reasons of personal security. Whereas in the past Israel held many international congresses, says Gideon Rivlin, the chair of Kenes International, the principal organizer of such congresses, today there are no longer any international congresses in Israel." He says that occasionally one can find a few scientists who are willing to risk their lives and come to Israel, but that can't be called an international congress. "Until 2004," adds Rivlin, "all the congresses in Israel have been canceled."

"Many of them avoid saying that that's the reason, but in personal conversations it turns out that this is the case," says Prof. Hermona Soreq, a molecular biologist from HU, who is involved in organizing many conferences. Brain researcher Prof. Idan Segev, also from HU, says that scientists tend to refuse to come not only to scientific congresses, but also for joint research projects as well.

"At a conference abroad a short time ago, I met a friend with whom I've been working for many years; every year he comes to Israel for a few weeks to work with me," says Segev. "This year he told me openly, `I can't come, the moment I arrive, I am taking a political step.' For them it's like going to South Africa."

A committee appointed by the Israel National Academy, which includes academy president Prof. Jacob Ziv, his deputy, and the director of the international department of the academy, are alarmed by what they define as mixing politics and science, and are worried about the possible damage to academic freedom. Ziv sees a threat to the academic freedom of the Israeli scientific community, and a violation of "the principle that one doesn't mix science and politics ...Why punish Israeli science, the researcher who works in the lab, for what is being done in the territories?" he asks.


Home Print Edition News
News in Brief
Apr. 28, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Free legal service for lower middle-class

The Israel Bar Association has set up a free legal service for lower-middle-income families who are not poor enough to be entitled to government legal aid, but who do not earn enough to be able to afford the services of a private lawyer. A family of three with a joint income of NIS 4,700 to NIS 6,000 are eligible for the new service, as is a family of four with an income of NIS 5,600 to NIS 6,900, with no more than one home and one car. The service was established despite the objections of some members of the Bar Association's central committee who argued that the move would disadvantage lawyers working in small private practices. (Ruth Sinai)

Lebanese held for nine years released

Israel on Friday released Lebanese citizen Mahmoud Hamed Hamoud, 39, after nine years in jail and allowed him to return to his village of Ya'irin in south Lebanon. He was arrested in 1993 on charges of passing on information to Hezbollah. In a separate development at the weekend, Lebanon announced that it had arrested Josef Kamel Ti'ar, a Lebanese who also has French citizenship, for allegedly spying for Israel. He was arrested two weeks ago on arrival in Beirut from Canada via Amsterdam. Lebanon said it also wanted to arrest his brother, Tony, on similar charges. (Daniel Sobelman)

Tunisia sacks minister after suicide attack

Tunisia's president, Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali, sacked his interior minister yesterday following a suicide truck attack this month on a synagogue. The death toll from the blast in the south of the country climbed to 18 yesterday. Diplomats said the sacking of Abdallah Kaabi, whom was replaced by former social affairs minister Hedi M'Henni, had been a bid to restore his country's image as a secure haven for tourists. Chedli Nefati, a former interior minister, had taken took over from M'Henni as social affairs minister, a government statement said. The government had initially said the attack on El Ghriba synagogue on the island of Djerba had been an accident, but acknowledged last week it had been a suicide assault. (Reuters)

Pakistan's high court approves referendum

Pakistan's Supreme Court yesterday rejected an opposition plea to halt an April 30 referendum on extending military President Pervez Musharraf's rule for another five years. The verdict, plus low turnouts at two opposition rallies, strengthened Musharraf's hand ahead of the poll on Tuesday, even though the result was never in doubt, analysts said. The nine-judge Supreme Court bench rejected three petitions from opposition parties and a lawyers' association, which had argued the referendum was unconstitutional. "It is a unanimous decision," Chief Justice Sheikh Riaz Ahmed told the court after the judges had spent more than three hours locked away for their final deliberations. (Reuters)

4 reported dead in shooting at Nevada casino

Four people were reported killed as fighting erupted between motorcycle gangs at a casino in Laughlin, Nevada, early yesterday. Police would not immediately confirm the deaths, but hospital authorities said at least nine people had been shot or stabbed in the incident. The shooting had occurred on the first floor of Harrah's during the 20th annual River Run, a large gathering of motorcycle clubs that had brought up to 80,000 people into the gambling resort this weekend, said Larry Tunforss, a spokesman for the Bullhead City, Arizona, Fire Department. Tunforss said that about 100 people inside the casino had been detained by police after the shooting. (AP)

Fate of Chechen warlord still sparking debate

The fate of one of Chechnya's most powerful warlords, Khattab, continued to spark debate yesterday, a day after Russian state television showed footage that it said proved beyond a doubt that the warlord is dead. "I will believe in the death of that person only after seeing the body myself," said Akhmad Kadyrov, the head of the Moscow-backed administration in Chechnya, according to the Interfax news agency. Kadyrov said the body had not been formally identified, and warned that a number of Chechen warlords, including Khattab, had been known to fake their deaths to escape the attention of Russian security services. (AP)

17 Maoist rebels killed as Nepal strike fizzles

Nepal said yesterday soldiers killed 17 Maoist rebels who launched a string of violent attacks across the Himalayan kingdom on Friday, the fifth day of their fizzling five-day strike. As shops in the capital Kathmandu opened their shutters and buses and cars returned to the streets, a Defence Ministry spokesman said three rebels died in a gunbattle on the outskirts of the city, where the guerrillas attacked a security patrol. Five rebels were killed in the western Dang area and six died in clashes in Palpa and Bardiya, also in the west. The rest were killed elsewhere in Nepal. (Reuters)

Turkish leader vetoes amnesty to pope shooter

Turkish president Ahmet Necdet Sezer yesterday vetoed an amnesty bill that could have freed the Turkish gunman who shot Pope John Paul II from a Turkish prison 10 years early. The gunman, Mehmet Ali Agca, spent nearly 20 years in an Italian prison after shooting the pope in 1981. He is now serving 17 years for the 1979 murder of Turkish newspaper editor Abdi Ipekci and the robbery of an Istanbul factory that year. The bill passed with a majority, but not with 60 percent of parliament, which, Sezer argued, was constitutionally necessary for a special amnesty. (AP)

S. Africa's safety and security minister dies

Steve Tshwete, 64, South Africa's safety and security minister and a leading figure in the fight against apartheid, had died, the African National Congress announced yesterday. Tshwete, who was hospitalized April 9 for severe back pain, had contracted pneumonia and had died late Friday night from kidney failure, said a spokesman for the ANC. President Thabo Mbeki ordered yesterday that the country's flags be flown at half mast until Tshwete's funeral. "This untimely death had robbed our country of an outstanding freedom fighter, an ANC leader, a cabinet minister and a committed leader in the reconstruction and development of our country," Mbeki said in a statement. (AP)

Whooping cough makes global comeback

Whooping cough, largely regarded as an infant disease, is making a global comeback in all age groups, experts in Milan said yesterday. Scientists don't know why but suspect that protection from immunization wears off after a few years and that the bug has outsmarted vaccines used to control it for decades. Growing numbers of teens, adults and the elderly people carry the disease unknowingly and spread it to babies who have not yet been vaccinated, said the infectious disease experts. (AP)

`Saddam play' opens in Iraq, new novel coming

An epic play based on one of two novels apparently written by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and casting the United States on the side of evil premiered in Baghdad Friday night to an elite audience. "Zabibah and the King" tells of a woman who is raped on the day U.S.-led forces launched the Gulf War. Members of the audience said the drama had captured the high level of anti-U.S. feeling in the country. "It reflects the difficult circumstances we've been living in since 1990 and the next U.S. aggression," said Baqir al-Baqir, a Baghdad merchant, after seeing the epic. Meanwhile, Iraq's press announced yesterday that a third novel, said by Iraqi writers to be by Saddam, would be published shortly. (Reuters)


Home News
Archbishop Tutu hits out at 'Apartheid in the Holy Land'
By Haaretz Service	and Agencies	| Apr. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM

South Africa's Archbishop Desmond Tutu accused the Israelis of treating Palestinians in the same way the apartheid South African government treated blacks, in a commentary published Monday in the British daily, The Guardian.

"I've been deeply distressed in my visit to the Holy Land; it reminded me so much of what happened to us black people in South Africa," Tutu said during a conference this month in Boston, Massachusetts.

Extracts from the conference were published as a commentary under the headline "Apartheid in the Holy Land."

"I have seen the humiliation of the Palestinians at checkpoints and roadblocks, suffering like us when young white police officers prevented us from moving about," said the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize winner.

"I say why are our memories so short? Have our Jewish sisters and brothers forgotten their humiliation? Have they forgotten the collective punishment, the home demolitions, in their own history so soon?

"If peace could come to South Africa, surely it can come to the Holy Land?"

The archbishop went on: "You know as well as I do that, somehow, the Israeli government is placed on a pedestal [in the U.S.] and to criticize it is to be immediately dubbed anti-Semitic, as if Palestinians were not Semitic.

"People are scared in this country [the U.S.], to say wrong is wrong because the Jewish lobby is powerful - very powerful. Well, so what?

"The apartheid government was very powerful, but today it no longer exists. Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, Pinochet, Milosevic, and Idi Amin were all powerful, but in the end they bit the dust.

"Injustice and oppression will never prevail," Tutu declared.

"In our struggle against apartheid, the great supporters were Jewish people. They almost instinctively had to be on the side of the disenfranchised, of the voiceless ones, fighting injustice, oppression and evil," he said.


Home Print Edition Opinion
An anti-Semitic Europe? No, but...
The extreme decisions by the Council of European Nations illustrate an anti-Israeli hysteria that is now washing over Western Europe. Israel is now in the same league as South Africa during the apartheid era.
By Amnon Rubinstein	Apr. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The extreme decisions by the Council of European Nations illustrate an anti-Israeli hysteria that is now washing over Western Europe. Israel is now in the same league as South Africa during the apartheid era. European Union ambassadors boycotted the annual embassy reception for Israeli Independence Day in London - rude behavior, considering that Independence Day is not the celebration of a particular government, but of the Jewish state that was established in the wake of the destruction of European Jewry.

Not all criticism of Israel is wrong, and not every anti-Israeli decision is tainted with anti-Semitism. A visit to Gaza can turn any friend into someone who is hostile toward Israel. The prime minister's declarations about the settlements are outrageous; establishing settlements in Samaria appears - rightfully so - to be intolerable provocation; and the siege on Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat looks like deliberate humiliation of an elected leader, though the European council should be reminded that Slobodan Milosevic was an elected leader when Europe, through NATO, decided to brutally attack Serbia, demanding his extradition.

Above all, there's a fundamental misunderstanding at large. Europe regards the intifada as a local conflict - powerful Israelis attacking weak Palestinians under military occupation. Most Israelis, on the other hand, regard themselves as being under siege in a sea of hostile Arab Muslims, with the Palestinians the tip of the spear aimed against them. This is an important difference that explains the hostility toward Israel more than any argument about anti-Semitism.

Nonetheless, how does one explain the hatred voiced against the Jewish state even in moderate newspapers? And how can one explain the huge difference between support for Israel in the United States and the European support for the Palestinians?

Three British weeklies dealt with precisely this issue last week. The conservative Spectator published an article by Melanie Philips in which she asks and answers "Why the Jews are always to blame," and in which she vigorously defends Israel. The Economist fairly explained the disparity between the United States and Europe as being linked to their different attitudes toward terror attacks against civilians. In contrast, the leftist New Statesman continued is attacks on the Jewish lobby in the United States, stating that it is responsible for Washington's support for Israel.

The New Statesman article strengthens the argument Philips made about latent anti-Semitism because the piece in the leftist weekly attributes everything to Jewish money - "60 percent of the contributions to the Democrats come from the Jews" - and does not consider the possibility that there is some justification for supporting a democratic state that is under attack from murderous, suicidal attackers.

Hostility toward Israel cannot be explained on a backdrop of anti-Semitism. The fact is that not too long ago, in the days of Oslo, Israel was the love of Europe, and former prime minister Yitzhak Rabin was its hero. But when Israel is under attack, the 2,000 year-old monster also rears its head.

When should a wave of anti-Semitism be feared? Not only when Jews are attacked, but when there is a special need to come to their defense. The London-based Sun recently ran an article headlined "The Jewish faith is not an evil religion." Evil? Following the attacks on Jews and the burning of synagogues? Why the sudden need for defense of this kind?

The Council of European Nations and European states are not anti-Semitic, but the hysteria against Israel and Jew-hatred are both obsessive. Readers of important European newspapers would not know there was violence in the world outside of the "Jenin massacre." Mark Stein, writing in the Daily Telegraph, says that of 30 conflicts underway around the world right now, 28 involve Muslims.

For hundreds of years, many Christians believed the blood libels. There are no more blood libels anymore, but Israel is not presented as a normal state, rather as something monstrous. Europe is not anti-Semitic, but a deeply-rooted tradition over generations has stamped itself on attitudes toward the Jewish state.

In the days of the French revolution, the Count of Clermont-Tonnerre said, "The Jews should be denied everything as a nation, but granted everything as individuals." That saying is not dead either, and is translated nowadays as: For the Jews as individuals, everything; for the Jewish as a minority community, almost everything; for the Jewish state, almost nothing.



Home Print Edition Features
A campaign of hatred
The anti-Semitic incidents in Europe since the outbreak of the intifada have given birth to the term `the new anti-Semitism.'
By Yair Sheleg	| May 5, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Four months ago, when Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Melchior established the International Commission to Combat Anti-Semitism, the dedication ceremony included a conference on the meaning of the phenomenon of the "new anti-Semitism." The speakers mostly dealt with what differentiates the new anti-Semitism from "classic" anti-Semitism. Melchior distinguished between "a series of anti-Semitic incidents" and the new anti-Semitism, which is characterized by a "campaign of hatred," emanating from Arab satellite TV stations that spread hatred, "from Bangladesh to Marrakech."

Perhaps because of the complexity of the subject and the need for simple sound-bytes in the media, most of those dealing with the issue choose to use easy-to-remember aphorisms that stick in the memory. Per Ahlmark, the Swedish author and former deputy prime minister of his country, who volunteered to be one of the two co-chairmen of the commission, characterized the new anti-Semitism by its targets: while classic anti-Semitism aimed at the individual Jew, the new anti-Semitism is aimed at the Jewish collective, embodied by the Jewish state.

Ahlmark came up with his own aphorism: "The old anti-Semitism wanted to make the world Jude rein, the new anti-Semitism wants to make the world Jude-state-rein."

The other chairman of the commission is Irwin Cotler, the Canadian Jewish attorney known as one of the world's leading civil rights lawyers. Among his clients was Nelson Mandela. Cotler, a McGill University professor elected to the Canadian parliament, continued in the same vein as Ahlmark. "The new anti-Semitism sought to prevent the Jews from living as equal partners in

the world, while the new anti-Semitism wants to deny the Jewish state the right to be an equal partner in the community of nations."

The need for a new term to define the anti-Semitic incidents in the last 18 months derives from the nature of the incidents themselves. While the anti-Jewish attacks are similar to those known from the past - synagogue arson, swastika graffiti, cemetery vandalism, cursing and physical abuse - the context appears different. It isn't hatred of the Jew as a foreign

minority, since the attacks are done by Muslims, themselves a minority in Europe, and a minority that suffers hostility from the majority. And the violence coincided with the violence in the Middle East - in other words, there's a clear political connection, requiring a new definition of anti-Semitism.

Another motive for a new definition is that there's a feeling among Israelis and Israel-supporters that the wave of political hostility against Israel has crossed the boundaries of legitimate criticism and moved into anti-Semitic territory. That approach says that the new anti-Semitism includes two different characteristics: the anti-Jewish one, expressed in actions conducted almost exclusively by Muslims, and the political, anti-Israel element, in which Muslims and Westerners are both involved.

`Auschwitz did not begin at Auschwitz'

So, what makes the events of the past year anti-Semitic, and what is so different about this new anti-Semitism from the old?

Melchior has adopted the direction Ahlmark and Cotler took, emphasizing the new anti-Semitism's

focus on the Jewish state and not on the individual Jew - "delegitimization of the national existence of the Jews, in other words, Zionism and the State of Israel." In that context, he used another aphorism: "Auschwitz did not begin at Auschwitz. Not that we are in the same situation now, but Auschwitz also began with delegitimizing Jews, moved to

dehumanizing them, and finally demonizing them."

But he also finds parallels between the new and the old. For example, "the stigmatization of Israel as absolute evil, which has no merit. That is reminiscent of traditional Christian anti-Semitism, which referred to the Jews as anti-Christ, enemies of the messiah."

Professor Dina Porat, who heads Tel Aviv University's Stephen Roth Institute for the Study of Contemporary Anti-Semitism and Racism, says the new anti-Semitism is not only derived from the Israel-Palestinian conflict, but also from the socioeconomic conflict around the globalization issue. "One of the most striking aspects of the new anti-Semitism is its connection to the

anti-globalization movement. Jews are prominent in the top tiers of world economic activity and since Jews have always been identified with financial control and cosmopolitan ideology, the enemies of globalization and the critics of privatization and unemployment created by globalization makes it easy to focus the blame on the Jews. " Porat points to the strange link between radical leftists, particularly in Europe, with representatives of Islamic fundamentalism, who found a common enemy that threatens to destroy their very different worlds: global capitalism invented by Jews. "In the Middle East, globalization is perceived as a curse brought by Israel to the region. For the Arabs, the New Middle East meant a a Western attempt to take over their world."

Melchior also talks about the strange coalitions of the new anti-Semitism, though he characterizes them as mostly political. "In the U.S., for example, there is striking cooperation, especially through anti-Semitic Web sites, between neo-Nazis and Islamic fundamentalists. After 9/11, both groups claimed Jews were behind the attacks. That's not a new phenomenon. A few years ago, it was discovered that the Iraqi embassy in Sweden had financed neo-Nazi activities, even though neo-Nazis hate the Muslims."

Melchior sharpened some of the distinctions that make the new anti-Semitism. "As opposed to the claim heard in Europe that there is a general wave of violence by frustrated immigrants, the question must be asked: why do those immigrants strike at synagogues and not, for example, Hindu temples." He notes that Islamic fundamentalism is even more extreme than the Muslim tradition that deigned to let Jews to live as a minority (the dhimmi), subject to a Muslim government, and now demands the destruction of the Jews because they dared to claim land in the area defined by Islam as part of the Muslim trust.

While Israelis and Jews try to define the hostility toward Israel as anti-Semitism, the issue of what exactly is anti-Semitism becomes even more important. At what stage does political and moral criticism of Israel, even vehement criticism, become anti-Semitic? Nearly all those involved in the issue, including rightists like Jerusalem mayor Ehud Olmert, emphasize that

not all criticism of Israel is anti-Semitic. But Olmert and Melchior agree that anti-Semitism can be hidden behind yet another aphorism: "criticizing Israel is not anti-Semitic."

Crucifying Arafat

So where's the boundary? Says Ahlmark: "Political criticism, even bitter criticism of Israel, is certainly not anti-Semitic. I have been opposed to the settlements in the West Bank from the start, and I certainly don't see that criticism as anti-Semitic. And the complaint that Israel uses excessive force in its war on terror is not anti-Semitic, nor is the demand for a withdrawal to the June 4, 1967 borders. The line is crossed when people begin to use anti-Semitic terminology to describe Israel's actions.

For example, when a Swedish newspaper writes that Yasser Arafat was "crucified." Comparisons between Israel's actions and those of the Nazis is doubly sinful: It is both anti-Semitic, because the hidden message is the delegitimization of Israel, the way the Nazi regime was illegitimate, and it also minimizes the dimensions of the Nazi atrocities. So, at the UN, when people say Israel is conducting "ethnic cleansing" against the Palestinians, that is an expression that I object to, but do not define as anti-Semitism. But when they say Israel is conducting a `Final Solution' or `destroying the Palestinians,' that has an anti-Semitic context."

Like a lexicographer working on a new dictionary, Ahlmark goes on: "A bias against Israel is not necessarily anti-Semitic, as long as it doesn't use anti-Semitic expressions,. But when there is incessant criticism of Israel that does not include criticism of other regimes in the region and human rights abuses in those countries, the question must be asked if Israel is

not being judged separately, with different criteria than any other state in the world. And that [is] already close to the anti-Semitic red line."

And any physical attack on Jews, even in the context of the politics of the Middle East, is anti-Semitism. "Those Jews have no political conflict with Muslims. They did not occupy any city in the territories. They are attacked only because they are Jews, and that means all Jews become targets."

Melchior defines the boundaries according to the content, not the images and style. "The red line runs between attacks, even unfair attacks, on Israel, to delegitimizing and demonizing the Jewish state. In that context, note that there has not been any substantive difference between left-wing and right-wing governments when the UN Commission on Human Rights criticizes

Israel. I looked at decisions from two years ago, during the Barak government, when Israel was represented by then justice minister Yossi Beilin. He was applauded for his speech, but the decisions were precisely the same as they were this year, because the argument there is not about returning territories but about blackening Israel's name. The Arab purpose in those conferences is to turn us into `an apartheid state,' and thus isolate Israel."

But is demonizing Israel and even denying its right to exist, necessarily anti-Semitic? Melchior replies with an emphatic yes. "The minute you deny central elements in the identity of a nation, it's as if you deny their

existence. Otherwise, the argument that Judaism is a racist religion can become legitimate."

Both Ahlmark and Melchior say that the new anti-Semitism did not begin now. Ahlmark: Already in the Lebanon war, there was a Juden-state rein attitude. I spoke then with Eli Wiesel and in 1983 we organized the first international conference since the Nuremberg trials to deal with the campaign against anti-Semitism. That conference took place in Oslo. Melchior also says that signs of the new anti-Semitism were first seen in the Lebanon war, "when the Palestinians in Beirut were compared to the Warsaw ghetto."

Ahlmark says that there are several reasons for the upsurge now. "First, the grand expectations from the Oslo agreements, and as great as the expectations, so are the disappointments. Secondly, the long time that has passed since the Holocaust enables sharper European criticism of Israel without as much of the guilt that burdened Europeans in the past decades. The TV coverage has a dramatic impact. The old coverage, in the written

press, enabled a rational, more balanced debate. The TV images affect people emotionally, even those with rational approaches." He doesn't rule out the possibility that there may be significance to the feeling that after the Camp David summit broke down, there is a feeling that perhaps the problem is insoluble, which raises the question about Israel's very existence n the region.

Melchior says that the intensity of the coverage definitely intensifies the hatred. "When people are fed a diet of images of Israeli tanks and planes over Palestinian cities, and the scenes of destruction in Jenin, it has a profound influence on their position. In addition, there is a feeling that this conflict, more than others around the world, threatens world peace. And the fact that the Jewish people, thank God, is no longer helpless, the way it was in the past, and that the state of Israel knows how to use force, contributes to the hostility."

For her part, Porat takes note of the demographic changes in Europe, where Muslims have become a large minority, sharpening the debate in Europe about racism. Anti-racist movements in Europe find themselves confronting Israel, which the Arabs have defined as a racist country. Plus the economic issues: Globalization, and the campaign for reparations for Jews from the Holocaust, which has helped Europeans shake off some of their guilt feelings, so they can criticize Israel. "From the start of the reparations campaign, I warned that it could create anti-Semitic trends. That doesn't mean it's not a worthy effort, but it carries a price."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Surely, the Jews remember Since the end of the war in 1945, the terrible events of the Nazi destruction of European Jewry have cast a pall over our time. Six million Jews were murdered within a short period; the few survivors have had to carry in their memories whatever remains of the knowledge of Jewish life in more than a dozen countries, in several hundred towns, in hundreds of villages and in innumerable families.
May 6, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Surely, the Jews remember

Since the end of the war in 1945, the terrible events of the Nazi destruction of European Jewry have cast a pall over our time. Six million Jews were murdered within a short period; the few survivors have had to carry in their memories whatever remains of the knowledge of Jewish life in more than a dozen countries, in several hundred towns, in hundreds of villages and in innumerable families.

The precious gift of recollection has been the sole memorial for millions of people whose lives were brutally cut off. Desmond Tutu, the Nobel Prize laureate and former archbishop of Capetown asked, in his beautifully worded article published in the current edition of Church Times: Why are our memories so short? Have our Jewish sisters and brothers forgotten their humiliation? Have they forgotten the concentration camps, the gas chambers, the collective punishment, the home demolitions in their own history so soon? Have they forgotten that God cares deeply about the downtrodden?

Tutu couldn't be more correct in saying that Israel will never gain true security and safety through oppressing another people. The most intriguing idea I've come across in his article is: The apartheid government was very powerful, but today it no longer exists.

Dr. Munjed Farid Al Qutob

University of Newcastle Upon Tyne

United Kingdom

Islamic challenge

The present crisis situation has been looming for quite some time, and the Arabs are striking because they perceive the weaknesses of the Israeli position and of the "West" in general.

The first of these weaknesses is that since much of the American and "Western" support for Israel was as a Cold War ally, now that the Cold War is over, this support would logically diminish, and it has. A related weakness is that with the end of the Cold War, the U.S. has itself become less united. The U.S.'s failure to prosecute the war adequately against Iraq in 1991 was a sign of this internal weakness. Its irresoluteness in its current war against terrorism is another sign - note, for example, U.S. reluctance to confront Saudi Arabia for its sponsorship of terrorism. Thus, some elements within the U.S. are far more willing to accommodate Muslim demands globally than tobuild up efforts against the Muslim challenge to American and Western power. This accommodation includes, of course, making concessions to Palestinian nationalism at Israel's expense.

These weaknesses are even more evident in the attitude and behavior of European societies. Muslim power and influence appear to have so impressed European opinion that Europeans appear to be even more accommodating than the U.S. to the interests of the Islamic world, and, of course, are willing to find Israel at fault as being intransigent. Traditional European anti-Semitism is evoked to further justify this European "surrenderism." Furthermore, it may be that Europeans are so skeptical of their own religious doctrines that they underestimate the political power that Islam can generate within the Muslim world.

The Muslim leadership has correctly gauged this weakness of European society and is actively exploiting it, just as happened when the Ottoman Empire penetrated Europe in the 16th century. By the time the Europeans figure out the disadvantages of yielding to Islamic demands, it may be too late.

Judah Anschauer

New York, New York


Home Print Edition Opinion
`Islamic fundamentalism wants world hegemony'
A report prepared at the request of the American Jewish Committee by Hebrew University History Professor Robert Wistrich is an anthology of anti-Semitic and anti-Western quotations from Arab and Muslim culture. Wistrich, who is presenting his report this week in Washington, claims, "To make a significant change, the Muslim world will have to go through a Renaissance, a Reformation and an Enlightenment - all in one generation. But it's possible."
By Yair Sheleg	| May 7, 2002 | 12:00 AM

A report prepared at the request of the American Jewish Committee by Hebrew University History Professor Robert Wistrich is an anthology of anti-Semitic and anti-Western quotations from Arab and Muslim culture. Wistrich, who is presenting his report this week in Washington, claims, "To make a significant change, the Muslim world will have to go through a Renaissance, a Reformation and an Enlightenment - all in one generation. But it's possible."

Wistrich's report on Islamic fundamentalism and its dangers to Israel, Jews and the West in general, opens with a quote from the memoirs of Albert Speer, Hitler's close friend and architect. "I remember how he [Hitler] showed films in the chancellor's office of London burning, the sea of fire around Warsaw, the bombed-out convoys, and the great happiness that overcame him every time. But I never saw him so happy as the time when he described his vision of New York sinking into flames. He described how the skyline would turn into a burning torch, how the buildings would collapse in chaos, how the blasted city would be reflected in the black skies."

Hitler's fantasy, as is well known now, was actualized, at least to a certain degree, by Qaida. Wistrich seeks to make tangible his claim about the fascistic, neo-Nazi nature of Islamic fundamentalism. The report is mostly devoted to a collection of vicious anti-Semitic and anti-Western quotes, and their contexts, in Arab and Muslim culture during recent decades. Some of the quotes are already known to the Israeli reader - like the Saudi newspaper that claimed only a couple of months ago that Jews bake matzot and hamantaschen with the blood of Christian and Muslim boys - but the aggregation of so many quotations is particularly depressing, in no small part because a large proportion of the quotes come from top tier, secular institutions, that in the West are considered signs of modernity in the Arab world. Thus, Wistrich notes that Al-Ahram, the leading daily newspaper in Egypt, ran a series of detailed articles on how Jews use non-Jewish blood to make matzot. Or the quote from Egyptian intellectual Dr. Mahmoud al-Said al-Kurdi, who a year ago wrote in Al-Ahbar, "The Talmud says the matzot of Yom Kippur [sic] must be kneaded with Gentile blood, with a preference for youths after they have been raped."

Wistrich prepared the report at the request of the American Jewish Committee, one of the leading American Jewish organizations, and he is in the United States this week to present it. He's holding a press conference today at the National Press Club in Washington and tomorrow will testify to a Congressional committee. On Thursday he will give a lecture on his findings to the annual convention of the committee.

But he emphasizes that he actually began his research on the new anti-Semitism before the AJC request. As a professor of general and Jewish history, specializing in contemporary central Europe, two of his specialities are nationalism and modern anti-Semitism, going back as far as the Dreyfus Affair. A little more than a year and a half ago, just before the outbreak of the intifada, he began working on a large study on the new anti-Semitism - "in all its aspects, in Europe, the Middle East, Third World, on the right and on the left." The Shalem Center, a conservative right-wing think tank based in Jerusalem and funded by Ronald Lauder, is financing the study, but Wistrich emphasizes that he writes "with the utmost objectivity, though I do not avoid explaining Israel's position."

Great Satan, Little Satan

From Wistrich's perspective, Islamic fundamentalism presents a clear and present danger to world peace. "Like the Nazis, and to a certain extent Soviet Communism, Islamic fundamentalism wants world hegemony, to take over the world. Its thinkers believe Islam has all the answers to the ailments of the world being spread by the West - materialism, cultural decadence, sexual permissiveness, and the like. It's no accident that Israel is described by them as `Little Satan,' just a puppet of `Great Satan,' which is of course the U.S. But what particularly outrages the Islamic fundamentalists is that Israel, right in the heart of the Islamic world, prevents, by virtue of its existence, the resurrection of the great Muslim empire. In any case, the campaign against Israel, on their part, is only a prologue - and a necessary condition - to the Islamic world's takeover of the world."

Therefore, he says, "It is a mistake to make a distinction - politically correct since September 11 - between Islam and Islamic terrorism. Islam in its origins does not present a problem, but its present form does indeed serve as a hothouse for fascist ideas that nurture terrorism. And it's not me saying that, but Fouad Ajami," the Arab-Muslim intellectual residing in the U.S.

Wistrich's report explains that the Islamic fundamentalism was the result of the Arabs' bitter defeat at the hands of Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War. He describes how, shortly after the war, leading Muslim theologians gathered in Cairo to define the Jews in general - and not just Israelis - as "God's enemies" and "enemies of humanity." On the other hand, in a conversation with him, he emphasizes what appear to be Arab-Muslim achievements consolidating the Muslim world's confidence that it is on the way to conquering the world. "The most important accomplishment, from the fundamentalist point of view, is the Iranian revolution of the 1970s. I have no doubt that in retrospect, this will be considered one of the pivotal events of the 20th century, no less important than the Bolshevik revolution at the start of the century. The Iranian success at imposing a fundamentalist ideology on a secular nation state is a paradigm all over the Muslim world, even though it took place in a Shi'ite state and most of the Muslim states are Sunni.

"Furthermore, Arab use of the oil weapon in the 1970s also plays into the hands of the fundamentalists, as does the great victory over the USSR in Afghanistan, which they perceive as the beginning of the collapse of the Soviet empire. That's why they assume that if they could defeat the tough Soviet Union, they will overcome corrupt West, which because of its profound fear of sacrifice won't be able to deal with Muslim determination. That may be the reason why they made the mistake of allowing themselves to attack the U.S. before they were ready. They were definitely surprised to encounter American determination after September 11, even though the attacks of that day are still considered a great Muslim accomplishment, `worthy revenge' for what they perceive as Western humiliation of Islam."

The danger of the TV channels

One of the major components of Islamic fundamentalism, Wistrich says, is Holocaust-denial, whether total denial, or minimizing the numbers. "Islamic fundamentalism also needs `moral' justification to destroy an entire culture and it finds it, among other things, in the claim that the Jews are so satanic that they were able to invite for their own needs something as horrible as the Holocaust, so therefore, paradoxically, they deserve a `real Holocaust.'"

How important and central to their thinking is that perception? Do the Muslim masses really believe that or is it only the radical fringes?

"That's a difficult question," says Wistrich, "since there aren't many public opinion polls in the Muslim world, at least not in the Western sense. Nonetheless, a leading Orientalist like Daniel Pipes says that various indicators show that more than 50 percent of the Muslims in the world support Osama bin Laden's concepts.

"Amplifying that ideology is the intense incitement that is magnified through the use of the new powerful communications media, like Al Jazeera. In effect, it is a common mistake to regard Al Jazeera as a positive sign of privately owned media critical of the corrupt regimes. Al Jazeera is now more of a problem than an achievement since in the past the authorities could at least restrain that kind of incitement.

"That, in my mind, is one of the big mistakes made during the Oslo process. There was not enough emphasis on actualizing the promise to prevent incitement. To my regret, even today, Americans understand this issue better than Israeli politicians. There are serious discussions in the American Congress about making aid to pro-Western countries like Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, conditional on an end to the anti-Semitic incitement. Therefore, if and when the political process resumes, ending the incitment has to be a central issue."

In that context, Wistrich identifies the main problem in Yasser Arafat's leadership as him being "someone who understands that the Palestinian crisis is the most effective glue for the Arab and Muslim world, and who knows how to use the satellite channels as a means to incite the street in all the Arab states, endangering secular regimes close to the West, and thereby putting pressure on the international community to accept his positions."

So, doesn't that justify taking the most dovish actions, reaching an agreement as quickly as possible with the Palestinians, perhaps at any price?

I think the nature of the proposals offered by the Israeli left, like Yossi Beilin, on the issue of the refugees is very dangerous. But the most important thing they did was to stop ignoring the refugee issue. Without a solution to the refugee issue, there really cannot be an agreement. That may be the most positive central issue in the Saudi peace proposal, which emphasizes a solution to the refugee problem. It is now clear that there cannot be a stable arrangement without a solution to the issue, but the means should be through the Israeli demand from the international community, without help, to enlist the resources and pressure the Palestinians to solve the problem."

As a historian specializing in Europe, how do you explain the European criticism of Israel, and of America, which has declared war on Islamic terrorism?

"I have no doubt that the European security services are very aware of the dangers embedded in Islamic fundamentalism. But European politics does not have the American tradition, certainly not the Texan tradition, of speaking bluntly and openly about the issues on the agenda, not to speak of Muslim electoral power in Europe, which has limited the maneuverability of European politicians on the issues.

"As for Israel, it must be remembered that since World War II, most European countries, except for Britain and to a certain extent France, have not experienced war or the need to exert force, not even for justified causes. So it is easy for them to take the moral high ground, that enables them to show how they have shaken off their colonialist past. There is also their understanding of the lessons of the Holocaust, in which they have developed a political culture dominated by anti-racism - alongside the blooming of racist groups - and a politics so liberal that it is restrained in the face of wild incitement, so they can attack Israel on the grounds that they identify it as `an apartheid state.'"

Wistrich believes Islamic fundamentalism can be challenged only through a world-wide effort run by the U.S. "American lifestyle has managed to conquer most of the world through its advantages - consumerism, freedom, advanced technology. Only the Muslim world hasn't been won over.

The real change, for the long term, in the Muslim world can only come from within. That is the dramatic change. The Islamic world will have to go through a Renaissance, a Religious Reformation, and an Enlightenment - all in one generation. It took the West hundreds of years to do it. But it is possible.

"But for it to happen there has to be a change in the Muslim middle class, which also exists in these countries, and has the key to the future of Muslim society. And the middle classes will only change if they understand that the current stagnation will end up as them the losers, becoming the poorest in the world. But to enable the rise of the moderate and modern forces - which also exist but are afraid to speak out - first of all the extremists have to be stopped. That's why it is so crucial that there be a military victory over the terrorism. Otherwise, the Muslim masses will yet be convinced that fundamentalism works."


Home Print Edition Opinion
The Likud should remember Begin
Begin was an impassioned believer in the idea of Greater Israel; but he was also a disciple of the liberal-humanist outlook espoused by Ze'ev Jabotinsky. It is impossible to know how Begin would deal with contemporary developments.
By Uzi Benziman	| May 12, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Dan Meridor recalled this week remarks made by Menachem Begin in the Knesset on December 28, 1977. Presenting his autonomy plan for Arabs in Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Strip, Begin declared: "No matter what their present citizenship status, residents of Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Strip will have the option of receiving Israeli or Jordanian citizenship. A resident of Judea, Samaria and Gaza who asks for Israeli citizenship will obtain it in compliance with the citizenship law of the State of Israel. Residents of Judea, Samaria and Gaza who freely choose Israeli citizenship will be eligible to vote, and be elected to, the Knesset, in accord with Israel's election law. Residents of Judea, Samaria and Gaza who are citizens of Jordan, or who freely choose to be Jordanian citizens, will be eligible to vote, and be elected to, the Hashemite Kingdom's parliament in accord with Jordan's election law." Begin added: "We propose full, equal rights."

This plan encapsulated Begin's stance on the future of the territories, and the status of its citizens. He formulated his autonomy plan out of a belief that it would suffice to solve the Palestinian problem. He believed that Jews would beat Arabs in the demographic race, and that an irreversible Jewish majority would emerge in the Land of Israel. Promoting this proposal, Begin upheld the Revisionist movement's aspiration for a Jewish majority in Eretz Israel, on the assumption that all residents of the state, including Arabs, would enjoy equal rights. Due to his demographic assumptions, and also his devotion to liberal-democratic principles, Begin did not hesitate to offer Israeli citizenship to Arabs in the territories. He never imagined that they would be left without any status, under an apartheid-like regime.

Reality undermined Begin's vision. Jordan revoked its official connection with the West Bank. Palestinian nationalist aspirations crystalized as an uncompromising demand for independence; and this demand won international support. In the demographic race for majority control in Eretz Israel, the Palestinians have an apparent advantage. On the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Palestinians outnumber Jews by a ratio of 17 to 1; and demographic forecasts for years to come warn that should Israel not detach itself from the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Jews will lose a majority on both sides of the Green Line.

Begin was an impassioned believer in the idea of Greater Israel; but he was also a disciple of the liberal-humanist outlook espoused by Ze'ev Jabotinsky. It is impossible to know how Begin would deal with contemporary developments. Would he revoke his autonomy plan? Or, would he insist that the only two options available to Palestinians are Israeli citizenship, or Jordanian citizenship? At any event, it is clear that he would not have countenanced a situation in which Palestinians do not have an Israeli citizenship option, and in which they completely lack the state citizenship option. He presented his stance categorically in his statement to the 15th Knesset.

As members of Likud's Central Committee meet tonight to discuss a proposal to reject the establishment of a Palestinian state in principle, they would be wise to recall Menachem Begin's views, and come to terms with the meaning of the position he submitted to the Knesset in December 1977. Anyone who opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state, in accord with the spirit of Begin's position, must draw the necessary conclusion, and support the conferral of Israeli citizenship to Palestinians who want it. During a period of conquest, a situation in which rights of a national minority are denied can be condoned for a limited time; but this situation cannot continue indefinitely.

The resolution which is being put on the Likud's discussion table tonight would bind the hands of the party's leaders for generations to come. Whoever adopts this position proposes just two solutions to the Palestinian problem: transfer, or apartheid. Begin, the record shows, upheld neither of these policies.


Home Article Print Page
United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379
May 13, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination

THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY,

RECALLING its resolution 1904 (XVIII) of 20 November 1963, proclaiming the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and in particular its affirmation that "any doctrine of racial differentiation or superiority is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous" and its expression of alarm at "the manifestations of racial discrimination still in evidence in some areas in the world, some of which are imposed by certain Governments by means of legislative, administrative or other measures",

RECALLING ALSO that, in its resolution 3151 G (XXVIII) of 14 December 1953, the General Assembly condemned, inter alia, the unholy alliance between South African racism and Zionism,

TAKING NOTE of the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and Their Contribution to Development and Peace 1975, proclaimed by the World Conference of the Intenrational Women's Year, held at Mexico City from 19 June to 2 July 1975, which promulgated the principle that "international co-operation and peace require the achievement of national liberation and independence, the elimination of colonialism and neo-colonialism, foreign occupation, Zionism, apartheid and racial discrimination in all its forms, as well as the recognition of the dignity of peoples and their right to self-determination",

TAKING NOTE ALSO of resolution 77 (XII) adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its twelfth ordinary session, held at Kampala from 28 July to 1 August 1975, which considered "that the racist regime in occupied Palestine and the racist regime in Zimbabwe and South Africa have a comon imperialist origin, forming a whole and having the same racist structure and being organically linked in their policy aimed at repression of the dignity and integrity of the human being",

TAKING NOTE ALSO of the Political Declaration and Strategy to Strengthen International Peace and Security and to Intensify Solidarity and Mutual Assistance among Non-Aligned Countries, adopted at the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries held at Lima from 25 to 30 August 1975, which most severely condemned Zionism as a threat to world peace and security and called upon all countries to oppose this racist and imperalist ideology,

DETERMINES that Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination.

2400th plenary meeting 10 November 1975


Home Life Arts & Leisure
Media / Apartheid in the press
What is the most important thing that happened during the days of the Shavuot holiday? In the judgment of the editors of the daily newspapers Yedioth Ahronoth and Ma'ariv it was the capture of Ofer Maximov.
By Aviv Lavie	May 20, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
What is the most important thing that happened during the days of the Shavuot holiday? In the judgment of the editors of the daily newspapers Yedioth Ahronoth and Ma'ariv it was the capture of Ofer Maximov. The vanished brother from the Trade Bank affair is the headline, with a capital H, from the weekend. On the front page of yesterday's editions there is a large photo of Maximov being led to his interrogation by police of the Romanian intelligence service, under the headline in huge letters: "Captured." Yedioth devoted all of the five first pages of news to Maximov's capture.

On the front page attention was also drawn to a report about the 9-year-old girl who was attacked in Tel Aviv. Three pages were devoted to this story. Ma'ariv devoted its first six pages to the Maximov story, and two to the story of the sexual attack. But something else also happened over the weekend, a hint of which appeared in a corner of the front page of Ma'ariv, under a small headline: "The IDF apologizes: Soldiers at roadblocks mistakenly killed two Israeli Arabs." To read the report itself it was necessary to go on to page 13. Yedioth did not bother to mention the two killings on the front page. A report about it appears on page 6, at the end of the Maximov saga, under the heading: "Suspicions in the IDF: Soldiers are trigger-happy." Only the modest lead above the heading reveals the source of the suspicion: "The IDF mistakenly killed two Israeli Arabs and a Palestinian boy of 7."

It is not hard to guess what place reports of the killing by IDF fire of two Israeli citizens would have been given had they been Jews from Tel Aviv and Givatayim, for example, or had the soldiers shot and killed a Jewish doctor from the respiratory care unit at Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem, where Mahmoud Musa Z'khaika worked until the day he died. Portrait photographs of the victims would have been on the front pages of the newspapers and heartbreaking reports about the bereaved families would have stretched across entire pages and entered every home and heart in Israel.

Yedioth and Ma'ariv have pretensions of addressing all levels of the population. Their advertising slogans speak for themselves: Yedioth is "the newspaper of the state" and Ma'ariv is "everyone's newspaper." Commercially speaking, especially in the case of Yedioth, there is cover for these pretensions: Yedioth is the newspaper with the largest circulation among Arab Israeli citizens, more than the Arabic-language newspapers.

But the dosage, and also the lexicon that was chosen to report the two tragedies that took place this weekend, are almost an official declaration of apartheid in the Israeli press. There is blood and there is blood, and that of the Arab citizens is cheaper, even if it is one step above that of the Palestinians in the territories. Ma'ariv, for example, saw fit to devote about 200 words to the deaths of Z'khaika and Samya Zaidan, and the death of 7-year-old Amid Abu Seir from the Askar refugee camp, who was also shot and killed by IDF soldiers on Friday, was not reported at all in the paper.

Incidentally, on the eve of the holiday in the Ma'ariv weekend supplement, there was a sensitive report on the deep discrimination from which young Arabs suffer on an everyday basis. And here, the very same phenomena are expressed on the pages of the very same newspaper two days later.

The Saturday evening news on Channel One and Channel two did open with a report on the two killings, but there too the spirit of the Israel Defense Forces spokesman hovered over the terminology used by the various reporters used. Once again there was talk of "suspicious behavior" and "instructions for opening fire" and about how "the soldiers acted according to regulations."

Haim Rivlin, who is usually a very food researcher at Channel Two news, defined the shooting of Samia Zeidan as "another case that is indicative of the great tension being felt by the soldiers." Indeed, the soldiers are under a lot of tension. But could it be that the accumulation of these "cases" - six people killed by mistake in one week and several more wounded - also show something about the cheapness of Arab lives in the eyes of the Israeli soldier?

The Channel Two news program ended with what the newscaster called a "positive" report, about a reservist who volunteered to help the IDF in its struggle against training accidents. The report, indeed was full of flattering expressions, and from time to time there is also room for such reports. But the timing was miserable: The decision to broadcast a report that stresses the great attention that is given in the IDF to the prevention of cases of unnecessary death on this weekend of all times was, at best, afflicted with a shocking lack of sensitivity.

Struggling for subtitles

On Friday, the staff of the Yoman weekly news roundup on Channel One made a nice human gesture: Apart from airing a report on the ignored struggle of the deaf community, which entered its third week yesterday, Gilad Adin declared at the beginning of the program that the entire broadcast would be accompanied this time by subtitles for the benefit of the thousands of hearing-impaired people in Israel. A bit after Adin's announcement the subtitles suddenly vanished (they didn't manage to prepare subtitles for the news broadcast), but they came back when the weekly roundup stories were broadcast.

The paradox is that while the weekly roundup people were showing goodwill, the Broadcast Authority had its knuckles rapped in the State Comptroller's Report that was published not long ago for its attitude toward the hearing-impaired. The journalists have shown that the administrative level and the professional level are not cast in a single mold. Ahiya Kamara, managing director of Bakol, an organization of hearing-impaired people who are going deaf, appreciates the goodwill of the Yoman staff, but hopes that someday soon the deaf will no longer be in need of gestures, and subtitling of programs will be required by law. Kamara and his partners to the initiative mean all programs, even those that are broadcast live.

Not long ago the State Comptroller returned from England and the Untied States, where, by pressing a button it is possible to get a written translation of nearly every program, even news flashes or live broadcasts from the Winter Olympics. Skilled keyboard operators, he says, do the work, and contrary to expectations the number of errors is trivial. Clearly such a project needs significant financial investment, but as everyone knows, the budget reflects priorities. And hundreds of thousands of people who find it hard or impossible to hear what is said on television, say representatives of the deaf community, certainly need to be higher on the list of priorities.

Gradually, the representatives of the deaf community are succeeding in putting together a lobby of Knesset members who support their demand. A few weeks ago MK Ophir Pines-Paz (Labor) sent a letter to the people in charge of the Channel Two news and the Broadcasting Authority, in which he demanded that the news be accompanied by a simultaneous translation into sign language so that the deaf can follow the news, especially during such a tense period. Kamara says that translation into sign language will not solve the problem, as many of the hearing-impaired do not understand it. Written subtitles, however, can be read by every speaker of Hebrew.

The law in the works right now - providing that a large portion of the programs will be subtitled - was proposed by MK Mordechai Mishani of Gesher. All the broadcast bodies sent a battery of top lawyers to the discussion in the meeting of the Knesset Labor Committee that was convened after the proposal was submitted. "If they were to invest in subtitling what they are investing in legal counsel," says Kamara, "all the problems could have been solved by now."

The lawyers for the channels offered all kinds of arguments, especially about the heavy economic burden subtitling would entail, and at present the bill is being reworked in the hope of finding a formula acceptable to all sides. Meanwhile, every few days, the Channel One nightly news show "Mabat" has been reporting on the strike by the deaf community. These reports - as opposed to other parts of the program - are always subtitled so that the deaf can watch them. The intention is good, but among the hearing-impaired there are those who are embittered about it: "The message this sends out," said one of them, "is that we are invited to follow the report about our strike, but the rest of the news is none of our business. And it is exactly against this perception that we are struggling."


Home Print Edition News
Israeli family sues EU for Palestinian terror attack
By The Associated Press	| May 21, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
An Israeli family filed a NIS 100 million ($20.7 million) lawsuit against the European Union yesterday, alleging that EU grants to the Palestinian Authority had indirectly benefited gunmen who had carried out a deadly shooting attack on the Blumberg family in August.

The family's lawyer, Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, charged that the European Union was reckless in providing financial aid to the PA. She alleged that some of the EU money was being redirected by the Palestinian Authority to Palestinian militant groups - such as the one that had carried out the attack on the British-born Blumberg family - and that the EU was aware of the practice.

A European Commission official said the EU was investigating claims by Israel that the Palestinian Authority had used member states' money to carry out attacks against Israelis.

"We have yet to receive any evidence that the Palestinian Authority has misused our funds to finance terrorist activities. The commission did say that they were treating these allegations made by the Israeli government very seriously and that it awaits any evidence to show that those funds have been misused," said David Kriss, a spokesman for the European Commission in Israel.

Techiya Blumberg, 35, had been five months pregnant when she had been killed in a Palestinian drive-by shooting in the West Bank on August 5. Her husband, Steven Blumberg, and 14-year-old daughter had also been injured in the attack and remained paralyzed, Darshan-Leitner said in a statement.

Steven Blumberg and his five children are suing the EU over his wife's death. He and his injured daughter are also suing over their wounds.

Israeli security forces arrested two members of the Palestinian security forces last year and accused them of having participated in the attack on the Blumbergs.

"Without the EU's reckless provision of financing to the Palestinians, hundreds of Israeli terror victims would still be alive and thousands of others would never have had to suffer their tragic injuries," Darshan-Leitner said.

Meanwhile, diplomats representing Europe, the United States and Arab countries in the Palestinian Authority met yesterday with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat. Some 30 diplomats were called at short notice to Arafat's office for a meeting that dealt primarily with new Israeli closure rules that have effectively cantonized the West Bank, making travel between the areas impossible for Palestinians without authorizations.

Several of the diplomats at the meeting agreed with the PA's assessment of the new policy as being a "negative development." Several referred to the new rules as "the bantustanization" of the territory, a reference to the apartheid policies of South Africa before the 1990s.

They said the new rules on the eight districts contradicted EU policies as well as that of the U.S., the leadership of which had emphasized the need for lifting the closures and respecting Palestinian dignity as an element of ending the current crisis.


Home Opinion
Anti-Semitic leaflet surfaces in Alabama House race
By The Associated Press	| Jun. 1, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
BIRMINGHAM, Alabama - Jewish and Arab campaign donors have lined up on opposite sides in an Alabama congressional race and an anti-Semitic leaflet has turned up, injecting Mideast politics into a district of catfish farms and timber cutting.

The two main candidates for the Democratic nomination in Alabama's 7th District - situated in a region known as the Black Belt because of its dark soil - are five-term Rep. Earl Hilliard and Harvard-educated lawyer Artur Davis.

Davis has received thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from Jewish donors, and Hilliard has received money from Arab-American causes. Recently Davis was targeted in a flier headlined "Davis and the Jews, no good for the Black Belt."

The four-paragraph leaflet full of misspellings and grammatical errors surfaced in April. It accuses Davis - who attends a Baptist church - of being too close to "the Jews." "Mr. Davis must simply understand that Jews the world over have never come to the aid of black or dark skin people because it was the right thing to do," the flier says. Both candidates are black.

The leaflet says: "If the current invasions, murder and abuse within the Palestinian territory sound familiar, its only because in the not to distant past we seen the apartheid do exactly the same in the black villages of South Africa with Israel's support."

The sheet was signed: "By friends to re-elect Earl Hillard for Congress in the seven congressional district," misspelling the incumbent's name.

No one claimed responsibility for the flier. The Davis and Hilliard campaigns accused each other of producing it. Hilliard suggested Davis wrote it himself to generate more donations from offended Jewish supporters.

While the flier was crude, such tactics are not unusual in the southern state.

Hilliard trounced Davis by 24 percentage points in the primary two years ago despite an ethics probe and fallout from Hilliard's 1997 trip to Libya, which was criticized by colleagues.

Alabama's Jewish population is estimated at 10,000, and only a few hundred live in the district, which is 62 percent black. The primary vote is Tuesday.


Home Print Edition Opinion
The ambivalence of Israel's Arab citizens
What is really behind the vehement opposition to the annexation of Umm al-Fahm to Palestine? How is one to understand this unnatural phenomenon? On the one hand, Israel is denounced as a fascist, apartheid state; on the other, there is a great longing to remain in it.
By Amnon Rubinstein	Jun. 4, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Let us imagine that one fine day the government of India decides that for the sake of peace with Pakistan it is willing to concede any claims to the Kashmir region, and agrees to its annexation by Pakistan. An implausible assumption, since India is not prepared to agree to the principle that religious (in this case, Islamic) affiliation could be grounds for undermining its sovereignty and unity. An even less plausible assumption would suppose that if such a proposal were ever raised, the Muslim residents of Kashmir would oppose it. On the contrary, without a doubt they would accept such a resolution quite happily.

Conversely, a similar idea of exchange of territory between Israel and the future Palestinian state, which would include the annexation of Umm al-Fahm to Palestine, has sparked a wave of fury among the Arabs of Israel, and their leaders. The idea of an exchange of territory was raised by Minister Ephraim Sneh. He did not offer any specifics as to which particular territories might be included in such an exchange - but the mere idea was enough to bring Arab public opinion in Israel to a boil.

The proposal has been described as transfer, and Professor Ilan Pappe of Haifa University published a venomous article against the idea in the Egyptian daily Al-Ahram. Interestingly, no similar outcry was raised when an Arab Member of Knesset signed a telegram with the address: Nazareth, Palestine.

How are we to explain these objections? Many Arabs in Israel, and nearly all of their leaders, describe themselves as "Palestinian citizens of Israel." Why, then, do they object to being joined together with their national homeland? They answer that they cannot be shifted around like chattels without being consulted, and that if they do move, then all the land that once belonged to them should also be added. This would include not only the land that was expropriated through (the truly wicked) laws of the 1950s, but also the land they owned before the arrival of the Zionists. MK Hashem Mahameed explained not long ago that these lands stretched from the Jezreel Valley to the Mediterranean Sea.

The first argument is reasonable: Citizenship may not be stripped from an Israeli by simply transferring him against his will, without asking him what he thinks. The second argument is immaterial: The property rights of Arabs in Israel will not be harmed as a result of exchange of territory. They would be resolved as part of an overall peace agreement that would also take into account assets confiscated from Israelis in Arab countries.

Law and justice demand that any transfer of population be prefaced by a referendum held among that population - the results of which, in this instance, are a foregone conclusion - or, alternatively, that an option of Israeli citizenship and residency be given to those who so desire. This is what Britain is now doing in the matter of the residents of Gibraltar in its contacts with the Spanish government. According to the British proposal - which has been rejected by the Gibraltarians - they will be given an opportunity to choose between British and Spanish citizenship at such a time as Spain receives partial sovereignty over the Rock.

So what is really behind the vehement opposition to the annexation of Umm al-Fahm to Palestine? How is one to understand this unnatural phenomenon? On the one hand, Israel is denounced as a fascist, apartheid state; on the other, there is a great longing to remain in it, and family reunification has always involved migration to Israel, not from it.

It is doubtful if economics is the sole explanation. No economic dam, no National Insurance payments, could hold back the flow of nationhood, most certainly not in our region. Two more profound explanations present themselves. One is that deep down, the Arabs in Israel want to be a majority someday - not two states for two peoples, but two states for a single (Palestinian) people. This suspicion - which lies deep in the heart of the country's Jews - makes coexistence between the two peoples even harder.

But the other reason takes the opposite tack. It may not be easy being a minority, especially an Arab minority in a Jewish state. But it is still possible that Israel - despite all its liabilities - has proven to the Arabs who live here that is preferable to be a minority in a democracy - even an imperfect one - than to be a majority in a dictatorship.

It just may be - and this could be the most accurate description of the situation - that both explanations are correct: not only that the Israeli Arabs themselves do not share a uniform attitude toward Israel, but that the individual is himself swinging between two disparate sets of emotions. One day - when Yitzhak Rabin is assassinated - he is a full partner to the Jews' grief, while another day - when his neighbors and relatives are killed by Israeli police - he dreams of revenge.

Things aren't simple, and the question of which of these two sentiments will triumph depends on Jewish Israelis, as well. For example, to choose a current issue, we can prevent an unequal allocation of the children's allowances.


Home Print Edition Opinion
The fence may blend in with the olive trees
Everyone relates to the Green Line according to his political orientation, but it seems that everyone is obeying the basic need to see it as a psychological boundary line, with "home" lying on one side, and chaos and barbarity on the other.
By Meron Benvenisti	| Jun. 6, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Yesterday, on the 35th anniversary of the outbreak of the Six-Day War, the Green Line - the virtual line of which there is no sign on the ground, and which has even been erased from the official maps - was visited by several groups of Israelis: the Peace Coalition held an olive-tree planting ceremony "to mark the Green Line" as a border of peace between Israel and Palestine; and supporters of "unilateral separation" organized another tour, whose purpose was to emphasize that the time has come to impose a hermetically sealed border "that will prevent murderous attacks."

At the same time, there was a visit by representatives of a new generation of contractors, who are continuing the glorious tradition of contractors of "lines" - from the Bar Lev Line [a set of Israeli fortifications on the east bank of the Suez Canal, destroyed by Egypt in the Yom Kippur War] to the border separating Israel from Lebanon - and divided among themselves the profits from building "the security separation fence, which has no political significance."

The surprising consent of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to the separating fence was taken as a hesitant sign "of flexibility" - since "separation" is seen as the position of the "peace camp" - and the drawing of a line near the "Green Line" may possibly blend in with the olive trees of the left.

There is no doubt that the "Green Line" is the natural place for commemorating the 35th anniversary of the 1967 war, since it is this line that defines the area of the "State of Israel" and separates it from the "West Bank"; of course, on condition that nobody dares to call it a border, since after all, nobody recognizes the 1949 armistice lines, and everyone knows that in any future settlement, the contours of the "permanent border" will differ from those of the "Green Line."

Everyone relates to the Green Line according to his political orientation, but it seems that everyone is obeying the basic need to see it as a psychological boundary line, with "home" lying on one side, and chaos and barbarity on the other. That is also the source of the need to make a careful distinction between "the West Bank and the settlers" and "Israel and its inhabitants."

Although 35 years have passed - almost twice the number of years of the existence of "small" Israel [from 1948-1967] - the occupied territories are still regarded in a static manner, as though time had stood still. At most, people mention demographic statistics on the number of settlers, which totals almost a quarter of a million or - on the other hand - on the growth of the Palestinian population. The revolutionary changes that have taken place in Israel/Palestine over the course of two generations have not brought similar changes in political outlooks, and the debate continues to rage, as though the dilemmas remain as they were, and all options are still open.

The Green Line has been shattered to bits, and the attempt to restore it by planting two or three olive trees at a random junction is pathetic. No less laughable is the attempt to build a separating wall at a distance of several dozen meters from the Trans-Israel Highway, the traffic artery that was planned in order to turn the "Green Line" into a joke.

The fragments of the Green Line have scattered all over the West Bank, and they define the eight Palestinian cantons, each of which has turned into a kind of border, including a regime of entry and exit permits, and the transfer of supplies from "back to back." The physical space of the West Bank has been turned into a Jewish space, where movement is denied to the Palestinians.

Nobody is interested in formal annexation, since only under "military rule" can one conduct an apartheid regime and impose a regime of oppression, masked as a "fight against terror." People play around with "peace plans" and with the debate on the chances of the political process, but everyone really knows that this is a futile debate, because there is no political power in Israel that is capable of offering conditions that can serve even as opening terms for negotiations with a chance of succeeding. Everyone is waiting for the deus ex machina in the guise of an American president, or a modern Saladin, but neither will come down from the sky and end the tragedy.

Thirty-five years have passed, and the distinction between the West Bank and Israel has completely dissolved. Perhaps for that reason, this date passed almost without mention, whereas the 1982 Lebanon War, whose influence on history was immeasurably smaller, has received greater attention. Or, apparently, everyone is disgusted with the whole issue, because what more is there to say about it?


Home Print Edition Features
With Arafat, but without him
Sunday morning, at breakfast, EU foreign policy coordinator Javier Solana asked Foreign Minister Shimon Peres if the Israeli government really did want a peace conference. Inside his ministry, Peres makes a face whenever he hears the conference idea praised.
By Akiva Eldar	| Jun. 6, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Sunday morning, at breakfast, EU foreign policy coordinator Javier Solana asked Foreign Minister Shimon Peres if the Israeli government really did want a peace conference. Inside his ministry, Peres makes a face whenever he hears the conference idea praised. He thinks such talk is a distraction from the main effort, which is his agreement with Abu Ala. But the foreign minister can't speak against the prime minister, so he said that everyone here, of course, is in favor of the conference. The European envoy said that if that's the case, Israel will have to drop the idea of kicking Yasser Arafat out, or upstairs.

Solana is not among Arafat's devotees. Like CIA DIrector George Tenet and U.S. envoy William Burns, the European statesman isn't trying to persuade the Israelis that Arafat's a great find. Even the Egyptians aren't making any efforts to hide their opinion of the Palestinian leader. The Egyptian envoys who have been here over the past week or two - security services chief Oma Suleiman, and President Mubarak's adviser Osama al-Baz - studied the intelligence briefs that show just how great is the gap between the pace at which Arafat issues condemnations of terror attacks, and the pace at which the Palestinian Authority actually tries to foil terror attacks. They didn't dispute the distinction, which shows that the man is most problematic - and that's an understatement.

But the distance from that to agreement - even silent agreement - to getting rid of Arafat is about the same as the distance between Ariel Sharon and his agreement to remove one of the settlements in the territories. The Americans keep asking him if he'd prefer Marwan Barghouti or perhaps Ahmed Yassin. The Europeans wonder if Israel is ready to take over responsibility for day-to-day life in the territories, or to watch from the sidelines as anarchy takes over. The Egyptians are making it clear that they won't risk domestic shocks to their regime as a result of cooperating with the Jews, or even a hint that they have, to dump Arafat.

Peres recently said in a private conversation that he asked Sharon if it wouldn't be a shame to lose the best public relations asset Israel has - Arafat. Aside from that, if Arafat disappears from the scene, how will Sharon find an excuse to delay renewal of negotiations on a permanent settlement? Instead, Solana, Burns, and Al-Baz proposed that Sharon go with Arafat, but feel like he isn't there - like the old advertisement for brassieres. The Americans will take responsibility for renovating the Palestinian security apparatus, the Europeans will handle the civil administration reforms, and Egypt, together with the Saudi Arabians and the Jordanians, will "help" Arafat understand and internalize the new rules.

When the rais refused at the last minute to write his signature next to Yitzhak Rabin's on the Oslo 2 maps, Mubarak whispered in his ear, "Sign, you dog." And Arafat signed. But based on what they say in the Prime Minister's Office, Sharon won't be satisfied with turning Arafat from a bulldog into a poodle.

Nuclear terror

The Palestinian fantasies about their "war on terror," like the Israeli lie about a "settlement freeze," did not escape American eyes. But the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and the conventional threats about stability in the region, have been shoved off Washington's agenda by the Islamic-American conflict and the threat of non-conventional terror against the peace in America.

It's not a car bomb nor a plane bomb that's worrying Washington. The latest nightmare is an innocent-looking freight container with an Iraqi nuclear device inside, unloaded at the port of New York. The attacks on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon showed that the modern terrorist does not necessarily need long-range ballistic missiles and sophisticated technology.

"The U.S. has adopted the doctrine of the Iraqi reactor bombing of 1981," a senior official in Jerusalem said this week. "Bush has been persuaded that the U.S. cannot allow every half-crazed leader, like Gadhafi, to threaten the U.S. with non-conventional weapons." In Jerusalem they're calling the latest declaration of war by Bush against all terror states as a "step up" from another round against Iraq to a broad front against all Saddam Husseins.

In an article recently published in The New York Review of Books, two Clinton administration officials said that the U.S. has ground samples containing the lethal gas VX, from the Sudanese factory it bombed in the mid-1990s. The sample proved the factory was used for manufacturing nerve gas, and not just pharmaceuticals, as the Sudanese claimed. But for fear of revealing important intelligence sources, the Americans decided to keep the secret and absorb the criticism.

Public criticism about the administration's apparently lax approach before September 11 is supposed to help Bush lash back at America's enemies. Begin bombed the Iraqi reactor when he was behind in the polls in the midst of a Knesset election campaign. Most American commentators agree that Bush won't take his chances in any adventure that could hurt the Republican Party in its race for the two houses of Congress this November.

The last thing the American president needs is a Democratic Congress dogging him all the way to the election campaign of 2004, with revelations like those that came out in the Enron scandal and the failures to "connect the dots" before September 11. Election days are not a good time for Middle East initiatives that could upset the Jewish voters - 45 percent of whom say they back Bush. Conclusion: The chance that Bush will impose a Palestinian state on Sharon during the administration's first term are about the same as Senegal beating France in the World Cup opener.

Two groups, one `holy war'

The images of the bombing at the Megiddo Junction that showed up on American TV screens yesterday are just a promo for the joint press conference Bush and Sharon will have after their meeting next Monday at the White House. Who cares if Arafat is about as responsible for the Islamic Jihad as Sharon is responsible for the plot to blow up the girls school in Abu Dis?

Religious fundamentalists are behind both. Both groups have declared a "holy war" on secular regimes. The difference is that Arafat isn't ready or isn't interested in paying the political price for aggressively restraining the religious zealots, without getting any political payoff in return. Sharon, meanwhile, is only ready to offer him a declaration that - with or without an end to terror - he'll never consider removing the extremists among the settlers. The incentive for the Palestinians to punish their extremists is more land expropriations from Palestinian farmers and shepherds by the settlers of Bat Ayin, under the watchful eyes of the IDF.

A petition by merchants from the Hebron market, represented by attorney Shlomo Lacker, to the High Court of Justice this week shows in detail how Israeli police are ignoring the Jewish zealots of Hebron in their systematic invasion of the Palestinian-owned shops in the wholesale market there. The market was closed more than eight years ago in response to Baruch Goldstein's murder of 30 Muslims at prayer in the Tomb of the Patriarchs. Some of the merchants therefore not only lost their loved ones, but their livelihood.

It's interesting to ponder exactly who Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer was referring to when he wrote to Meretz MK Ran Cohen about the matter: "It's important to note that the various political agreements state that the market will be reopened by the Israeli authorities (after it was closed by them following the massacre in the Tomb of the Patriarchs). Who exactly are those "Israeli authorities" who are supposed to reopen the market?

An agreement that survived a massacre

After they went to South Africa a few months ago to hear from black leaders and white veterans of the apartheid system how it is possible to put an end to a lengthy and bloody conflict, key figures in the Israeli peace camp traveled last week with Palestinian ministers Yasser Abed Rabbo and Nabil Kasis to Britain, to learn something about the peace process in Northern Ireland.

Yossi Beilin, who was there with Avrum Burg and Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, was reminded at the meeting about an argument that broke out among the Protestants after a horrifying terror attack in Armagh shortly after the signing of the Good Friday Agreement in April 1998. The extremist "Real IRA," which opposed the agreement signed by the IRA, took responsibility for the attack, in which 28 passersby, Catholic and Protestant, were killed. After a lengthy argument, the Protestant leaders agreed to stick to the peace process. "That was the real test of the agreement," said Beilin.

Jonathan Freedland of the Guardian, which organized the event, later quoted in his newspaper what the Belfast representatives told the guests from Israel and the Palestinian Authority about how the impossible became possible:

"At the very same moment, they said, all the stars came into alignment," Freedland wrote. "The leaders of the assorted paramilitary groups came to believe their war could not be won by force and led their movements toward a cease-fire; the British government declared it had "no selfish interest" in the province and worked closely with the Republic of Ireland for a resolution; an American president made the province a foreign policy priority and transformed Washington into an honest broker, trusted by all sides. There was personal chemistry there - between Bill Clinton, Bertie Ahern and Tony Blair - and courageous leadership among the Belfast parties, each of them ready to face down their extremists and to do their best to boost, or empower, each other."

Freedland watched the faces of the Israelis and Palestinians. "Listening to that, the Israelis and Palestinians grew glum. They realized they do not enjoy that same set of circumstances; on the contrary, their stars are all out of whack. Hamas and Islamic Jihad show no war weariness and are both far from considering a cease-fire; Ariel Sharon and Yasser Arafat are not David Trimble and Gerry Adams; and, above all, the U.S. is not engaged, with President Bush refusing to do for the Middle East what his predecessor did for Northern Ireland, playing the role of even-handed referee."


Home Article Print Page
Angola offers oil-for-Israeli-goods trade
Proceeds from sale of 10,000 barrels of oil a day would insure payment of exports
By Haaretz Staff	| Jun. 6, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
The government of Angola has said that that it agrees in principle to the Angolan fuel company, Sonangol, exporting 10,000 barrels of oil a day to Israel. The quantity represents about 4 percent of Israel's daily oil consumption.

Proceeds from this oil deal will be used to insure Israeli non-military exports (mostly agricultural) to Angola. Funds from the oil sale will be transferred to a Bank of Israel account managed by the Israel Foreign Trade Risk Insurance Company (IFTRIC).

The arrangement, which is awaiting final approval from the Angolan government, is aimed at promoting Israel-Angola trade. The trade between the two states has been hampered by the African country's low credit rating.

Israel consumes about 250,000 barrels of oil a day, worth some $6.25 million. The Angolan component of this total would work out to about $250,000 a day. Angola is a mid-sized oil producer, with operations in the country being conducted by American, French, Italian, Dutch and British oil companies.

Haifa-based Oil Refineries (the state-owned importer of fuel and fuel products) purchases crude oil for Israel. A small portion of this oil is purchased through long-term contracts that usually entail higher prices, which the state is prepared to pay for political, economic or security reasons. (For example, Israel has purchased oil from Egypt in this manner, as required in the Egypt-Israel peace accord.) Israel may also be prepared to pay a higher price for Angolan oil for these same types of considerations.

The deal, which has been in the works for the last year-and-a-half, promises to substantially increase Israeli exports to Angola. Until now, IFTRIC has refused to insure exports to Angola because of its record of defaulting on payments. The IFTRIC rates the credit of trade partners on a scale of seven, and Angola does not even make it to the bottom level on this scale. The small amount of exports from Israel now reach Angola via third countries such as Spain and Portugal.

Angola is rich in diamonds and oil, but most of its oil reserves are being held against the huge debt the country carries. This raised the question of whether Angola would be able to guarantee the flow of oil to Israel from these reserves. Once this problem was solved, the Angolan government informed the Israeli ambassador that the deal could move forward, pending final government approval.

Israel regards Angola as a strategically important country in southern Africa, especially after Israel's special ties with South Africa ended with the end of the apartheid regime.


Home News
Erekat says PA asks UN to discuss West Bank security fence
By Amos Harel,	Nadav Shragai	and Jalal Bana, Ha' Agencies	| Jun. 16, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Palestinian Cabinet Minister Saeb Erekat said Sunday that the Palestinian Authority has appealed to the United Nations to hold an urgent discussion on the security fence being built along the border in the West Bank, which Israel said was intended to prevent terror attacks.

Erekat accused Israel of erecting the fence in order to divide Palestinian territories into small cantons and "start a new apartheid system which is worse than what happened in South Africa."

Erekat stated that the building of the fence was, "a violation of all the agreements signed with Israel, including the Olso Accords," and said that some 30,000 Palestinians would be stranded in a buffer zone isolated both from the West Bank and Israel after the fence was completed.

Ben-Eliezer rejects right-wing charges security fence is 'political' Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer dismissed charges Sunday that the security fence being built along the border in the West Bank was being constructed for any other reason except to prevent terror attacks.

"It is a security fence. It is not diplomatic. It is not political," he said. "And this fence has one single goal - to defend the lives of Israeli citizens."

"Every day that passes without the fence being rected as quickly as possible is likely to cost us more lives," the defense minister added.

Ben-Eliezer made the comments after touring the site where construction got underway Sunday.

Cabinet to discuss security fence on Wednesday At Sunday's cabinet meeting in Jerusalem, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon announced that the security cabinet would meet Wednesday to discuss the construction of the security fence.

The electronically monitored fence is to initially measure 130 kilometers, and the cost of each kilometer is estimated at $1 million. Bulldozers were already in place at the Salem checkpoint north of Jenin where construction commenced Sunday after injunctions appropriating land in the area were issued last Thursday.

At the cabinet meeting, there was a sharp exchange of words between Industry and Trade Minister Dalia Itzik, one of the main proponents of the security fence, and National Religious Party chairman Effi Eitam.

"You are being arrogant," Eitam told Itzik, "because this fence of yours is being built by your contractor - the defense minister. The meaning of the fence is a return to the 1967 borders, and the establishment of a national boundary."

Itzik replied that, "you entered politics like some sort of Messiah, but we still have not heard any suggestion from you about how to stop terrorists entering Israel. The choice is a simple one: either we build a fence, or we continue to endanger the lives of Israelis."

Fence to run from Kfar Kassem to Salem The fence will run from the Salem checkpoint in the north to Kfar Kassem in the south. Another stretch of fence is planned for the Jerusalem area. The project will be coordinated by Colonel Netzach Meshiach under the supervision of Defense Ministry Director-General Amos Yaron.

"[The fence] will provide a defensive answer to the...infiltration of terrorists from Judea and Samaria into communities in Israel," Yaron told Israel Radio on Sunday morning.

Defense sources welcomed the begining of work on the project. Several sources said, however, that the fence would already have been close to completion had Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer shown more interest in the project at an earlier stage.

Eitam says that the cabinet has not held a serious discussion on the matter, and that the defense establishment has hidden the planned route of the fence from the ministers and the public.

Right-wing Moledet faction chairman Binyamin Elon, in an interview Sunday to Army Radio, accused Sharon of deceiving the government and the Israeli people by building a fence. "He (Sharon) has joined the defeatists of the left and put an end to the possibility of our party returning to the government."

"The building of the fence is a fraud and a lie. [Prime Minister Ariel] Sharon has repeatedly said that there won't be a fence," Elon told Army Radio Sunday.

"The unity government should be dismantled if it deceives the nation by building the security fence," Elon added.

Elon compared the planned fence with the security fence built in Lebanon two years ago. "The entire northern border is a border not with a state, but with a terror organization."

Elon objected to the construction of the fence as a security measure. "You want a fence? Fence Jenin in, fence Nablus in. You want to prevent entrance of terrorists? Attack the enemy. Don't build a fence which cuts Israel in two."

Cabinet minister Yitzhak Levy of the National Religious Party on Sunday called the barrier "a political fence" that could set a de facto border.

Sharon's government said continuing Palestinian attacks against Israelis made the fence necessary, but the Palestinian Authority has criticized its construction, saying parts of it will lie on Palestinian-controlled land and it will further restrict the Palestinians' already limited freedom of movement.

The construction is to begin the day after a firefight near the Jewish settlement of Dugit in the northern Gaza Strip, which killed two Israeli soldiers and at least one Palestinian.

Opposition also appears to be mounting among Israeli Arabs to building the separation fence between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Arabs who live close to the Green Line between Israel and the territories voice the strongest opposition to the fence.

After meeting Saturday in Umm al-Fahm, the Supreme Monitoring Committee for Arab Affairs in Israel announced its official opposition to the separation fence. The committee's statement said the fence would be mainly to "fortify Israel's conquest and sovereignty in the occupied territories."

The committee also said that under the current plan the fence would run through Arab towns and villages in regions like the Triangle and Wadi Ara. Also, the committee objects to possible expropriation of hundreds of dunams of land from Arab owners.

The committee said the fence "is an attempt to impose a reality of conquest on the Palestinian people." It has decided to establish a special public panel to monitor matters connected to the building of the fence in various regions where it is to be erected.

Egyptian FM: Only peace can guarantee Israel's security Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher reacted coolly Saturday to Israel's plans to erect a barrier along parts of its border with the West Bank, saying only peace can guarantee Israel's security.

"Building peace would realize Israeli security more than building this wall does," Maher told reporters. He also cautioned Israel against sending any signal with the fence that it was appropriating land Palestinians claim.

"If Israel were building a fence along the 1967 borders, then this would be an acknowledgment that the borders of Israel and the borders of a Palestinian state are known. But if the aim was to expand [Israel's territory], then this is rejected," Maher said.

According to the report, residents of the Gilboa area, north of the West Bank, were upset that the fence as originally planned would not reach them, but Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer's office said Saturday that the fence would be extended the necessary 25 kilometers to do so.


Home News
Palestinian minister, security chief in Egypt talks
By Reuters	| Jun. 17, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
CAIRO - New Palestinian Interior Minister Abdel-Razzaq al-Yahya and West Bank security chief Jibril Rajoub were in Cairo on Monday for talks on Palestinian security issues with Egyptian officials, a Palestinian official in Cairo said.

The Palestinians were expected to discuss security cooperation with Egypt's Interior Minister Habib el-Adli, intelligence chief Omar Suleiman and other security officials. Suleiman discussed Palestinian security reform with Palestinian officials in Ramallah earlier this month.

It was not clear how many days the two would stay in Cairo. Yahya was appointed by Palestinian President Yasser Arafat this month in cabinet changes designed to answer U.S.-led calls for security reforms in the Palestinian Authority.

"They will discuss security cooperation between the two countries and how to benefit from Egypt's experience in combating crime, theft, drugs and terrorism," the Palestinian official in Cairo said.

The Palestinians also want to discuss "how to challenge Israel in its division of Palestinian territories into small isolated pockets as a prelude to a racist divide," he said.

Palestinian cabinet minister Saeb Erekat accused Israel of trying to start "a new apartheid system" with the security fence it began erecting this week.

Israelis leaders argue that the barrier is meant to make it more difficult for suicide bombers to penetrate Israeli cities.


Home News
Laura Bush concerned about signal sent by W. Bank fence
By Haaretz Service	and The Associated Press	| Jun. 17, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
WASHINGTON - U.S. first lady Laura Bush expressed concern Monday that an electronic fence under construction by Israel is not a positive sign for ending violence in the Middle East.

"I don't think that a fence will be some long-lasting sign of peace," Mrs. Bush told American Urban Radio Networks in an interview.

"I hope that they will do whatever they can to try to come together," she said. "Right now there's a huge barrier of hate and distrust between all the parties in the Middle East. I hope they can start to at least tear that barrier down."

The first lady's comments went a bit further than those of White House spokesman Scott McClellan, who was asked repeatedly on Monday about the president's view of the new fence. Planning is to begin this month to extend the fence the length of the West Bank.

"Israel makes those decisions about what security steps they need to take," McClellan told reporters.

He reiterated a "need to continue working together toward two states living side by side in peace," but declined to say whether the fence was a step in that direction or away from it.

Arafat slams security fence as 'fascist' Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat on Monday condemned Israel's construction of the security fence which will approximately run along the 1967 Green Line border with the West Bank, vowing to maintain opposition to the fence designed to keep out Palestinian terrorists.

"This is a fascist, apartheid measure being done, and we do not accept it," Arafat said. "We will continue rejecting it by all means." (Click here for map showing proposed route of fence.)

Palestinians offer softer proposal In an outline for a final peace deal presented to the United States, the Palestinians softened positions on refugees and offered Israel sovereignty over the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem's Old City and parts of the Western Wall, according to a document obtained Monday by the Associated Press.

The proposal was delivered to U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell in Washington last week by visiting top Palestinian Cabinet Minister Nabil Sha'ath.

In showing flexibility, the Palestinians apparently hoped to generate good will in the increasingly critical administration of U.S. President George W. Bush. The outline adheres to long-standing Palestinian positions, such as seeking traditionally Arab east Jerusalem as capital of a Palestinian state, but softens some positions in writing.

Israeli government spokesman Dore Gold said he wasn't aware of the proposal or whether the Americans had passed it on to Israel. However, he said discussing ideas for peace talks is premature. "Right now, the only realistic way we'll be able to proceed is once violence is vanquished," Gold said.

The Palestinian proposal calls for "a fair and agreed upon solution" to the problem of Palestinian refugees, adopting the vague wording on the issue used in an Arab peace plan adopted earlier this year at an Arab League Summit in Beirut.

In contrast to previous Palestinian negotiating documents, the plan does not specifically mention the "right of return" of some four million Palestinian war refugees and their descendants to former homes in what is now Israel. There is only an indirect reference - to a U.N. resolution that says Palestinian refugees wishing to return to their former homes should be able to do so.

Borders between states of Palestine and Israel would be the lines of June 4, 1967, before Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem, the proposal says, but adds that "sides can agree on minor modifications."

The Palestinians officially long have insisted on the June 4 lines, though the idea of small land swaps isn't new. Former Prime Minister Ehud Barak had offered Israeli land near Gaza in exchange for some West Bank land in 2000. More recently, Transport Minister Ephraim Sneh suggested exchanging Israeli Arab villages near the West Bank for Jewish settlements.

The proposal also addressed the divisive issue of Jerusalem, long one of the biggest obstacles to peace. It sought "an open city for all the people," but offered Israel sovereignty over part of the Old City. Two years ago, Barak and Arafat began discussing how to handle the holy sites of the Old City, but talks in the Egyptian resort of Taba broke off in January 2001 without agreement.

Under the proposal Sha'ath gave Powell, "the Palestinian side will transfer sovereignty over the Jewish Quarter and the Wailing Wall ... to Israel, while Palestinians will maintain sovereignty over the rest of the Old City."

The Wailing Wall is the exposed part of the Western Wall, which is a remnant of the biblical Second Jewish Temple destroyed in 70 A.D. and is the holiest site in Judaism. The area also is the third-holiest site of Islam and known to Muslims as Haram as-Sharif, or the Noble Sanctuary, the site from where Islamic tradition says the Prophet Muhammad ascended to heaven.

The proposal also said:

-A Palestinian state would agree to limit its possession of weapons.

-The states of Palestine and Israel would agree not to participate in any military alliance against each other or allow their lands to be used as bases for attacks against each other.

-A permanent connection will be made between the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

Peres says U.S. plan must include PA reform Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said during a visit to Bulgaria on Monday that he expected any U.S. peace proposal for the Middle East to include establishment of a Palestinian state and reform of the Palestinian Authority.

"We don't expect that it should be a very detailed declaration but it will clearly include a vision that was already announced - namely two states for the two people - the Palestinian state and the Israeli state," Peres said.

"I think the ideas that are being spread in Washington, Saudi Arabia and Egypt are based very much on this idea," Peres said. "We call it a provisional state but provisional are the borders, not the state."

Peres said any peace plan should also envisage an "uncompromising fight against corruption, against terror and against chaotic situations," and urged the Palestinians, "to reform their government and work very hard to achieve a ceasefire."

Peres also voiced hope that the Middle East peace process can be restarted at an international conference sponsored by the United States, Russia, the European Union and the United Nations that he said should start no later than July.

"In the meantime all of us... are expecting to see the Palestinian Authority reform itself so it can be in charge of their arms, of their money, of their justice and build the modern framework to govern themselves and become a partner for peace," Peres said.

Peres said earlier Monday that efforts for a political agreement with the Palestinians must continue even amid construction of the fence.

"I don't believe it's an absolute solution," Peres said referring to the fence. "I believe in modern times it's not fences, trenches... [and] weapons... that bring security.

Ben-Eliezer: the sooner a Palestinian state is created, the better Responding to reports that U.S. President George W. Bush intends to voice support this week for interim Palestinian statehood, Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer said Monday that the sooner a Palestinian state is created, the better for Israel's security.

"Whoever thinks that the problem can be solved with military means - it can't be solved that way," Ben-Eliezer said, after rightists decried reported U.S. support for a "temporary" Palestinian state to precede a final peace accord. He said neither a security fence nor increased military operations would permanently solve the terror threat.

"Whoever ignores the need for the existence of a Palestinian state, or for the existence of two entities, simply doesn't know what he's talking about. That's the [Israeli rightist] dream, which is coming crashing down.

"There's no way around it, two nations are going to have to live side by side. It would be well if they would do it very quickly, to find the basis for co-existence."


Home News
Background / The fence: stakes in heart of settlers' dream?
Eyeing future run at premiership, Defense Minister Ben-Eliezer aims his West Bank security fence squarely at the Israeli consensus, rattling rightists, who fear stakes in the heart of their vision of an expanded Jewish state.
By Bradley Burston	and Ha'aretz Correspondent	| Jun. 17, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Eyeing a future run for the post of prime minister, Defense Ministecr Benjamin Ben-Eliezer is aiming the construction of a West Bank security fence squarely at the Israeli consensus, rattling rightists who fear the fence posts could become stakes in the heart of their vision of an expanded Jewish state.

Israeli hawks - led by Ariel Sharon, before his election as prime minister - have long fought tooth and nail any physical signs of separation between Israel and the West Bank.

Rightists fret that the fence aimed at barring the entry of suicide bombers into Israel could, in time, form the basis of the border of a future Palestinian state, leaving tens of thousands of settlers in the lurch.

They view the fence as driving a literal wedge between them and the 96 percent of Israelis who live in Israel proper, rendering settlers as instant second-class citizens, vulnerable both to attack and eviction.

Their anxieties have been bolstered in recent weeks by polls showing wide popular support not only for a security fence, but for uprooting of isolated settlements under an eventual peace accord.

Ground was broken Sunday on an initial 115-kilometer section of fencing, walls, trenches and other obstructions along areas viewed as especially vulnerable to the entry of suicide bombers. Punctuating the construction work early Monday was the interception of a suicide bomber near the planned route of the fence. The Palestinian killed himself when he detonated a large bomb next to an approaching Border Police jeep. The armored jeep was badly damaged, but the men inside were unhurt.

Ben-Eliezer, lobbying hard for the fence, told a nationwide radio audience minutes later that he believed the bomber was one of five that were "en route," actively preparing for suicide attacks on Israel. "There is not a shadow of doubt" that the fence could have blocked his entry from the West Bank, the defense minister said.

As if to lend a backhanded push to the fence project, Yasser Arafat, now almost universally discredited among Israelis, roundly condemned the security measure as "a fascist, apartheid measure, and we do not accept it." The Palestinian Authority chairman said: "We will continue rejecting it by all means."

Ben-Eliezer, identified by both hawks and doves as the current prime mover of the fence concept, hopes to parlay success in instituting the project into deflecting Labor Party rival Haim Ramon's bid to unseat him as party chairman.

But Ben-Eliezer's vision goes far beyond retaining the party leadership. Once widely dismissed within Labor as a small-time hack, Ben-Eliezer believes he can mount a credible challenge for election as prime minister in elections slated for no later than November next year.

The national consensus was much on his mind Monday, as he spoke of the fence as an expression of the mood of Israelis as a whole, drawing a sharp distinction to the views of hard-liners on the left and right. After scores of Palestinian suicide bombings, "an entire people is expecting to be given answers," Ben-Eliezer said, eyeing the centrist swing voters who have traditionally decided Israeli elections. Therefore, he said, it was his "obligation to come forward and see to this."

Deflecting criticism over not having built the fence a year ago, he said: "Today there is a consensus, if not among everyone, or most of us, at least among the two major parties, regarding the need to put something in place, and immediately. That's the difference."

Ben-Eliezer also took pains Monday to underscore his differences in tone with Prime Minister Sharon, who has gone on record against evacuating settlements and who told the cabinet Sunday that "the conditions are not ripe for the establishment of any kind of Palestinian state."

The defense minister, maintaining that he and Sharon saw eye to eye on the fence route, went on the attack against rightists who have renewed efforts recently to quash statehood efforts and proposals for removing settlements.

"Whoever thinks that the problem can be solved with military means - it can't be," he told Army Radio. "Whoever ignores the need for the existence of a Palestinian state, or for the existence of two entities, simply doesn't know what he's talking about. That's the [right-wing] dream, that is coming crashing down.

"There's no way around it: Two nations are going to have to live side by side. It would be well if they would do it very quickly, to find the basis for coexistence."

Going further, Ben-Eliezer, who has endorsed a future peace embodying far-reaching compromises along the lines once proposed by former president Bill Clinton, said that under future Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, "either they'll move the fence or they'll move other things." Asked if that meant settlements, he said: "Certainly, if there's a need, they'll move them."

"The fence, wherever it will go, does not only divide the country; it divides right and left and camps inside both the right and the left. Paradoxically, both the radical right, the settlement movement leaders of Gush Emunim, and the radical left, headed by Gush Shalom, share an opposition to the fence, but for very different reasons, of course," says Ha'aretz commentator Lily Galili.

Ben-Eliezer said Monday he "calmed down" when he noted that saw that even dovish Meretz leader Yossi Sarid opposed the security project. Sarid called it nothing more than "the defense minister's fence against Haim Ramon." But Ben-Eliezer saw it as a further proof of his holding the middle ground against hard-liners. "This is altogether good. The right is screaming, the left is screaming - this is very good," Ben-Eliezer cracked.

"Peace Now, meanwhile, hasn't formalized a position on the fence," Galili says, referring to the formally non-partisan movement. "Some see the fence along the Green Line as enhancing security, others regard unilateral separation as a way of avoiding dialogue with the Palestinian partner and its needs. Nonetheless, most in the peace camp agree that the fence now going up, even if it only runs more or less along the Green Line, is going to enter the public's consciousness as precisely what the right wing doesn't want it to be - a political line, along the pre-Six Day War's borders."

Alluding to Ben-Eliezer's repeated protestations that the fence would "under absolutely no circumstances" demarcate a future border, left-leaning radio commentator Avri Gilead said the defense minister doth protest much too much: "According to the laws of the universe, if you hear something more than 10 times from the same person in the space of 24 hours, the statement is by definition untrue," Gilead said. "There's no way that this is true."


Home Print Edition News
Construction of security fence begins
Construction of a barrier along sections of the seam zone dividing Israel and the West Bank was officially launched yesterday, immediately raising a storm at yesterday's cabinet meeting.
By Gideon Alon	and Amos Harel	| Jun. 17, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Construction of a barrier along sections of the seam zone dividing Israel and the West Bank was officially launched yesterday, immediately raising a storm at yesterday's cabinet meeting.

The fence is to run from the Salem checkpoint in the north to Kafr Qasem in the south, while another stretch of fence is planned for the Jerusalem area. The planned length of the entire fence is around 115 kilometers, and it will cost around $1 million per kilometer. The project will be coordinated by Colonel Netzach Meshiach under the supervision of Defense Ministry Director-General Amos Yaron.

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer told the cabinet at yesterday's meeting that the fence was for security purposes and in no way marked a political border.

"It is a security fence," Ben-Eliezer said. "It is not diplomatic. It is not political. This fence has one single goal - to defend the lives of Israeli citizens.

"Every day that passes without the fence being erected as quickly as possible is likely to cost us more lives," he added.

However, right-wing ministers vehemently opposed commencement of work on the fence. National Religious Party Chairman Effi Eitam said the fence was not a security fence but a draft of the Israeli withdrawal and the Palestinian terror state that would arise east of the fence.

A sharp exchange of words erupted between Eitam and Trade and Industry Minister Dalia Itzik, one of the main proponents of the fence.

"You are being arrogant, because this fence of yours is being built by your contractor - the defense minister," said Eitam. "The meaning of the fence is a return to the 1967 borders, and the establishment of a national boundary."

Itzik replied that, "you entered politics like some sort of Messiah, but we still have not heard any suggestion from you about how to stop terrorists entering Israel. The choice is a simple one: either we build a fence, or we continue to endanger the lives of Israelis."

On the Palestinian side, cabinet minister Saeb Erekat accused Israel of erecting the fence to divide Palestinian territories into small cantons and "start a new apartheid system which is worse than what happened in South Africa."

At yesterday's ceremonial launch at the Salem checkpoint, nobody cut any ribbons and nobody planted any trees - on the contrary, bulldozers stood ready to uproot several olive trees along the route of the fence, but waited tactfully for the media to leave. But there was a podium, complete with speeches, aerial photographs and maps of the seam zone, together with television crews and lookout posts with Israeli flags flying overhead.

A strange thing happened to Ben-Eliezer at yesterday's ceremony. The more the minister tried to explain that the fence was apolitical, the more the event appeared political. IDF officers, dragged against their will to act as a backdrop for Ben-Eliezer's press conference, listened with embarrassment as the defense minister took advantage of the opportunity to snipe at political opponents such as Public Security Minister Uzi Landau and Labor MK Haim Ramon, whose figure hovered over yesterday's event.

When Ramon, who plans to compete against Ben-Eliezer for the Labor Party leadership in November, began about six months ago to market his idea of unilateral separation from the Palestinians, the defense minister dismissed the idea out of hand. However, about two months ago, following public opinion polls showing wide support for a security fence, and a "campaign" by Shin Bet security services chief Avi Dichter to promote the idea within the security community, Ben-Eliezer decided to mount the bandwagon.

The defense minister tried to distinguish himself from Ramon by pointing out that his fence was a "pure security fence," not part of a political plan to solve the conflict with the Palestinians.

However, the question remains: why did the defense minister only recently decide to support the idea and begin construction? And if nothing was so urgent until now, why did he commence the project without tenders and a detailed cabinet discussion?

Ben-Eliezer explained, in not particularly convincing fashion, that today's security reality is completely different (in fact, suicide bombings in Israel began in November 2000, and the pace of attacks started to rise last May). But he also admitted that the political reality has changed, and a consensus now exists in support of a fence.

One thing was clear at yesterday's ceremony: it was no coincidence that Eitam chose to campaign with such conviction against the construction of the fence. He understands that despite their protestations, both Ben-Eliezer and Sharon (who Ben-Eliezer claims "authorized every inch of the fence") understand that the bulldozers are not only beginning work on the fence; they are marking out the future border between Israel and the Palestinian state.


Home Print Edition Features
American-born haters of U.S. and Israel spring up on campus
Two months ago, there was a pro-Palestinian march - one among many - at San Francisco State University, a state-supported institution of higher learning.
By Yair Sheleg	| Jun. 18, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Two months ago, there was a pro-Palestinian march - one among many - at San Francisco State University, a state-supported institution of higher learning. Marchers distributed leaflets on campus that depicted a can bearing a photograph of a mutilated baby, with the legend: "Palestinian Children Meat - Slaughtered According to Jewish Rites Under American License."

It may have been one of the most serious anti-Semitic incidents on an American college campus in recent months, but hardly the only one. And certainly not on the San Francisco State campus, which along with neighboring Berkeley, boasts the dubious honor of being considered the most anti-Semitic campus in America.

On May 7, Jewish students at San Francisco State organized a first rally in support of Israel after a prolonged period of inactivity. The rally was countered by verbally abusive slogans chanted by Palestinian sympathizers on campus. Dikla Tuchman, an expatriot Israeli who is now a leader of pro-Israeli activity on the SFSU campus, recounts the episode. "We were assaulted with heckling, with slogans being shouted such as like "F-- the Jews," "Jews, go back to Russia," and even "Too bad Hitler didn't finish the job."

Similar insults were shouted at pro-Palestinian demonstrations - or at demonstrations against supporters of Israel - at other campus around the United States. At the University of Colorado in Boulder, there was a wave of highly abusive graffiti daubed around the campus two months ago, bearing the same message: "Zionazis." And the list of examples goes on.

Tuchman is part of a group of about 30 Jewish-American students who have spent the past few weeks in Israel, attending a special seminar organized by Hillel, the organization that fosters Jewish identity on college campuses around the world. The aim of the seminar is to train students to serve as campus spokespersons on behalf of Israel, in an effort to counter the intense pro-Palestinian information effort being mounted on American campuses.

Most of the seminar consisted of lectures given by faculty members at the Strategic Studies Institute and the Dayan Center at Tel Aviv University, on various aspects of the Israeli-Arab conflict. The students also took part in workshops with experts in hasbara, an Israeli term that means `explanation'; essentially, hasbara is equal parts information and propaganda.

Several members of the group speak of their own personal brushes with anti-Semitism. Tuchman not only reports on the verbal anti-Semitic abuse, but also of direct threats issued against Jewish activists: "The Hillel office on our campus receives telephone death threats. One girl who was handing out our flyers was spat at and cursed. There haven't yet been any incidences of physical violence against us, but it isn't far off."

Matt Joffe of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh reports on a swastika that was painted on the Hillel center on campus, and the hostile reactions against Jews who wear skullcaps. He himself wears a skullcap. Aviva Braun of the University of Massachusetts speaks of "graffiti, along the lines of `Israel=swastika' and `Sharon is a war criminal.'"

Most of the anti-Israeli activity - and the anti-Semitic activity - is perpetrated by Muslim students, but all of the American students agree that the most fanatic strongholds of anti-Semitism can be found on the West Coast, especially at San Francisco State and at Berkeley, where the phenomenon is not restricted to Muslims.

In attempting to explain why, Tuchman paints a picture of the new-old revolutionary avant-garde on these campuses. "The campuses in San Francisco and Berkeley have since the `60s been considered to be at the forefront of the revolt against the establishment. Which means that we aren't talking about activities by Muslim students; it is mostly activities by American-born students who are first and foremost America-haters; their hatred for Israel is a consequence of their hatred for America. They sport a new revolutionary style: define yourself as a socialist or a communist, specifically as an act of defiance against the derisive view of these ideologies in recent years. In their view, these ideologies include hatred of Jews."

Unaware of the thin line

The Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith, which has been active for decades in the war against anti-Semitism, has issued a special report on anti-Semitic incidents in America during the first five months of 2002. During this period, the organization received reports of 626 anti-Semitic incidents. Ten percent (63) of the incidents took place on campuses - four times as many as in the same period in 2001. Conversely, a recent ADL public-opinion poll indicates that the level of ant-Semitic opinions on college campuses is actually the lowest of all population sectors in the United States. According to the poll, "only" 3 percent of American college students and 15 percent of faculty members expressed strong anti-Semitic positions, as opposed to an average of 17 percent in the general U.S. population, and an enormous rate of 35 percent among the black and Hispanic minorities in the United States. (Among Hispanics not born in the United States, the rate of those holding anti-Semitic views is as high as 44 percent).

Abraham Foxman, the national director of the ADL, offers this explanation of the gap between the low level of anti-Semitic opinions on campus and the dramatic takeoff in the level of anti-Semitic incidents. "True, the absolute majority of students and faculty members do not harbor anti-Semitic opinions. But they frequently find themselves dragged into situations in which anti-Israeli demonstrations - which they do support - turn into incidents bearing an anti-Semitic character. They are not sufficiently aware of the thin line between being anti-Israeli and being anti-Semitic, and they frequently cross it. Even when they are conscious of the boundary between the two, they don't always take the care not to cross it."

Peleg Reshef, chairman of WUJS, the World Union of Jewish Students, reports that the situation is bad on campuses in other countries, as well. With the opening of the World Zionist Congress in Jerusalem this week, Reshef convened a press conference with several colleagues from abroad, with the aim of elucidating the spread of anti-Semitism on campuses around the world. Reshef told Ha'aretz that these phenomena were especially prominent in places with high concentrations of Muslim students. In Canada, for example, Muslim students took over the general students' union last year, and began exploiting it to spread intensely anti-Israeli propaganda, with anti-Semitic undertones. It took some time before the Jewish students woke up and initiated counter-activity, which has proved effective. In France, firebombs have been thrown at the offices of the Jewish student organization.

In Britain, as well, Reshef, says, there have been attempts by Muslim students to abuse their Jewish colleagues. Most conspicuous was a campaign led by Muslim students a few months ago at the University of Manchester, "to have the State of Israel defined as an apartheid state and a racist state. The aim was that as soon as such a decision would be adopted, they would demand that all activities of Zionist organizations on campus be forbidden, as they would be identified with a racist state. In response, the Jewish students organized the arrival of a huge delegation of Jewish students from outside of Manchester, who exerted heavy counter-pressure. Although the Muslims won the vote by 30 votes, it was less than the two-thirds majority that was required to have the resolution accepted, and the proposition was dropped. It was a particularly important struggle, as we were afraid that if such a decision were passed, it would affect all of the university campuses in Europe."

Reshef cites a few of the unique attributes of modern campus anti-Semitism. "The fact that these are young people who have a modern, anti-establishment leaning, means that the activity is a great deal less inhibited than among the rest of the population. The verbal abuse and the graffiti on campus are much more blatant than the average." In his opinion, the Palestinian propaganda efforts on campus are much greater than among the rest of the population. "Yet we are not offering a suitable answer to it - not in terms of resources invested in campuses, not in terms of the level of our propaganda emissaries," says Reshef.

Conversely, Foxman doesn't see a big difference between anti-Semitism on and off campus. "There is no significant difference in the character of anti-Semitic incidents found on campuses and in society at large. Incidentally, it seems that the campuses are more tolerant and less anti-Semitic. But academic tolerance makes the authorities on campuses act less resolutely when it comes to the measures they adopt against rioters."

However, there has been a shift of late in this realm. In the wake of the escalation of anti-Semitic activity and the ensuing pressure by the Jewish establishment, several heads of universities have begun to take a more aggressive stance on anti-Semitic outbursts. In San Francisco, for instance, Tuchman relates that a civil suit was brought against a female student who was grabbing flags at a demonstration. The university president recently initiated criminal charges against several of the Palestinian supporters who rioted at the pro-Israel demonstration.

A no-less significant awakening may be discerned among the Jewish students. After an extended period of passive vulnerability, they recently began to take the offensive against Palestinian dominance. Hillel has been a major collaborator in this effort. The organization's broad deployment on important campuses (not only in the U.S., but all over the world, including Israel) and the fact that its board of governors includes some of the wealthiest Jews in the world, including Edgar Bronfman, Ron Lauder, and Lynn Schusterman, has helped it become a focus of pro-Israeli hasbara activity. Nevertheless, Daniel Ayres, of George Washington University in D.C., who came to the hasbara seminar in Israel through Hillel, feels that the original organization came from the field, from Jewish students who were not willing to be silent.

Many observers are wondering why the Jewish awakening on campus was so late in coming. Criticism was voiced a few months ago at a joint meeting of Israeli foreign ministry and Jewish Agency officials. But Foxman rebuffs the criticism: "If the awakening was slow in coming, it is partly because the message sent from Israel in recent years was `stop the struggle against anti-Semitism. There is no longer any such thing.' I remember Yitzhak Rabin saying so in one of his last visits to the U.S. In the past few years, American Jewry has concentrated on the war against assimilation, and justly so, because assimilated students aren't about to fight for Israel. So Israel should help us in this campaign."

Michael Jankelowitz, who was dispatched by the Jewish Agency last year to Hillel in the U.S., as the director of Campus Israel Affairs, admits that the awakening may have started off late. Still, he rejects the possibility that it criticism from Israel played a factor. "It took people time to realize that this was a genuine phenomenon. First they thought it was anti-Israeli incidents that would soon pass. Then came September 11, which they thought would silence the phenomenon. Only recently have people realized that this is an enduring phenomenon that has to be dealt with seriously."

As for the students themselves, they say that although there is a certain wakening among their friends, most of them remain apathetic or silent. "On my campus," says Ayres, "out of 8000 students, there are about 3000 Jews. If only all of them were active on behalf of Israel, no one could do a thing against us."

"Most Jewish students are afraid to wear a skullcap, wear a Jewish star, come to Hillel, or identify as Jews," says Tuchman. "I know that if I would say to many of them that I am a Jew, at most they would say that they are, too, and the conversation would be over." If this is how it is among the Jewish students, it is clear that the apathy among the non-Jewish majority on campus is even greater.


Home News
Wiesenthal Center slams Desmond Tutu over divestment call
By Reuters	| Jun. 21, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
LOS ANGELES - Los Angeles-based Simon Wiesenthal Center sharply criticized South Africa's Archbishop Desmond Tutu on Thursday over an opinion piece in which the Nobel peace laureate called for divestment from Israel to protest Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

The Center said Tutu, who championed a divestment campaign against South Africa's former white-led government in the 1980s, was mistaken to draw parallels between apartheid and Israel's policies in the territories.

"Rather than cry out on behalf of the innocent victims of terror, Tutu aligns himself with those who have refused to stop it," the center's founder, Rabbi Marvin Hier, said in a statement.

"Rather than urge American universities to divest from the Middle East's only democracy, Tutu should be urging Muslim religious and political leaders to unequivocally condemn the terrorist organizations whose only aim is the total destruction of the State of Israel," Hier said.

Tutu, in a June 14 opinion piece published in the International Herald Tribune, said Israeli settlements in Palestinian territories were re-creating many of the conditions seen in apartheid-era South Africa.

"Yesterday's township dwellers can tell you about today's life in the occupied territories," Tutu wrote. "The indignities, dependence and anger are all too familiar."

Tutu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984 for his work against apartheid, noted that the similarities between the two countries were not exact, and that Israel "is certainly more democratic than most of its neighbors."

But he said that Israel's settlement policies were creating both insecurity and injustice that should be opposed, and that the small but growing movement advocating divestment from Israel was "the first, though certainly not the only, necessary move in that direction."

The Wiesenthal Center said Tutu's comparison of Israel with white-ruled South Africa was "both disingenuous and a distortion of the truth."

"If there is no peace in the territories it is because (Palestinian President Yasser) Arafat rejected former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak's offer of a Palestinian state and deployed terror as a deliberate means to bring Israel to her knees," the center's Hier said.


Home Article Print Page
Anti-apartheid activist Rusty Bernstein dies
By The Associated Press	| Jun. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
Lionel "Rusty" Bernstein, the white anti-apartheid activist who stood trial for sabotage along with former South African president, Nelson Mandela, died on Sunday inJohannesburg at the age of 82. Bernstein, an architect and writer, was a former leader of the South African Communist Party, and with his wife Hilda, was among a number of Jewish intellectuals who campaigned against the apartheid regime. Charged with Mandela and 16 other activists in 1963 with sabotage and the attempted overthrow of the South African government, Bernstein was later acquitted after spending the year of the trial in prison. "He made a deliberate and considered choice to forgo what could have been a life of comfort and ease to join forces with his fellow South Africans in the fight for democracy and freedom," Nelson Mandela said.



Home Print Edition Features
The tactic is to tie every topic to Israel
A look at the background to an upcoming UN conference in Johannesburg.
By Yair Sheleg	| Jul. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The World Summit on Sustainable Development will open in Johannesburg, South Africa at the end of August. "Sustainable development" is an international code name for the various critical issues relating to resources such as water, earth and agriculture that are at the forefront of interest to the developing nations and environmental bodies. Normally this would not be a subject that would cause Israeli officials sleepless nights; but coming hard on the heels of last year's United Nation's Durban conference on racism, the combination again of a UN gathering and the location has Foreign Ministry officials in Jerusalem and international Jewish organizations on the look-out.

The original scenarios spoke of "a second Durban," perhaps even worse than the first if only because of its gigantic size: Whereas Durban drew 10,000 participants from all over the world, Johannesburg is expecting 65,000.

First reports spoke of intentions on the part of the Arab-Muslim bloc to bring to Johannesburg, as they had to Durban, a series of virulently anti-Israeli resolutions (such as charges of harming the water resources of the Palestinian population).

Meanwhile, the alert has been somewhat relaxed. Dr. Avi Becker, director-general of the World Jewish Congress in Israel, says that "contrary to the situation in Durban, at the regional preparatory committees for the Johannesburg summit, there has so far not been an emphasis on anti-Israeli resolutions, even at the Asiatic preparatory committee that was held last month in Bali. Both the UN and the South African government have also sent clear messages that they will not allow the Arabs to `hijack' the conference this time."

But the Jewish organizations are not taking chances in the wake of Durban.

Becker last week called a meeting of representatives of Jewish organizations and Foreign Ministry officials, as well as South African Jewish leaders, to prepare for Johannesburg. Whereas an important part of the Jewish world boycotted the Durban conference, in order to set an example for the U.S., Israel and the rest of the Western world - Israel and the U.S. lowered the level of their representation and only walked out completely at the height of the conference - this time there will be no boycott. The intention is to provide as strong an Israeli and Jewish representation as possible.

As part of the lesson learned from Durban - where the street and the battle for the media and public opinion vied with the diplomats - a strong student delegation will be sent to Johannesburg in the knowledge that they will be the real "soldiers in the field," as they were last year.

The Durban conference was the apex of a process that has become evident: today's international conferences have become one of the central anti-Israeli arenas in the world. With the exception of the first few years when the influence of the Holocaust was still felt, and before the Cold War, the UN has never been a favorable arena for Israel. One example was the 1975 UN General Assembly resolution equating Zionism with racism. After the failure of the Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations and the current hostilities, this has become even more blatant.

The Palestinians and their supporters in the Arab and Muslim countries have realized the importance of international forums, particularly those that are large and receive wide media coverage, for putting across the Palestinian point of view and attacking Israel. They realize that, at the end of every conference, it is the number of votes that counts (there are 56 countries in the Muslim bloc) and not the strength of the nations participating. That is why Becker believes that even if there are not particularly malicious anti-Israeli resolutions at the official gathering in Johannesburg, the Palestinians will try to get the attention of the street and the media.

The anti-Israeli campaign is waged not only at the mega-conferences but also at smaller international gatherings, both those directly connected with the UN and those of professional organizations such as health, labor and welfare. Yaakov Levy, Israel's ambassador to the UN organizations in Geneva, where many of these groups meet, relates that "the past two years have been particularly difficult. The Arabs try to utilize every opportunity, no matter what the topic, to focus the debate on Israel's `crimes.'"

The tactic is to tie every topic to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Thus when the World Health Organization meets, Israel is charged with preventing free movement of sick and wounded Palestinians; at a geriatric conference, the fate of Palestinian elderly under occupation comes up for discussion; and at an environmental meet, the Palestinians' problems with water are discussed.

Becker stresses that the condemnations of Israel have a clear political aim. "The objective is to turn Israel in the international arena into a second [former] South Africa, a country of pariahs that has to be shunned and disgraced, against whom sanctions must be brought that will interfere with its ability to defend itself. That is why there are repeated attempts to define Israel as an `apartheid state' so that the message will be unequivocal."

Boomerang in Durban

If Durban was the epitome of expressions of hatred against Israel, however, it was also the place where they failed. It was the very extraordinary virulence of the anti-Israel proposals (that spoke, for example, of Israel carrying out "ethnic cleansing" in the territories) that acted as a boomerang. Not only did the U.S. walk out of the conference but the European Union led the process of strong opposition to the proposed resolutions. Since the hosts - the UN and the South African government - feared that the entire gathering would fall apart, counter-pressure was brought to bear and all the anti-Israeli paragraphs were deleted, with the exception of a mild condemnation of Israel's policy in the territories.

Durban thus turned into a watershed; there was a change of thinking and, to a certain extent, a change of direction. Levy also links this to the events of September 11, which came only four days later and which focused world attention in a completely different direction. "At least for a few months, the Muslims became the center of the attacks at international conferences," he notes. "At the Davos [economic] conference held in December 2001 in New York [out of solidarity with the city that was attacked] the Muslims were forced to defend themselves against accusations that they were `enemies of humanity,'" he says.

But they soon made a comeback and resumed their anti-Israeli attacks at international gatherings, Levy notes. Nevertheless, the Durban process appears to be repeating itself. "The more the Arab representatives exaggerate their anti-Israeli expressions," he says, "the more support they lose." This happens particularly when political representatives take part as they have their eyes on their constituents back home, Levy explains. At a recent WHO meeting, attended by Arab health ministers who tried to have Israel condemned, "the Arab resolutions won only 48 votes, fewer than the number of Muslim countries in the world. Countries such as Turkey and Gabon refused to support them."

The Durban conference brought to the fore another arena that was until then less familiar to Israel - that of the non-governmental organizations. The UN gives formal recognition to several thousand NGOs and this enables them to participate in its international conferences (albeit in a separate framework). As the globalization process gains strength, so the nation-states lose status in face of international economic, humanitarian and environmental bodies. Indeed it was expressly because of the avid anti-Israel incitement at the meeting of the NGOs that the Durban conference became such a symbol. It was these NGOs that charged Israel with "war crimes" and "ethnic cleansing" and called for sanctions and an international court to try those responsible.

At Durban another new process started - the decision on the part of Israel and the Jewish world to mount a counter-offensive, both against the UN and against the NGOs. The first target chosen by the Foreign Ministry and the WJC was the United Nations Works and Relief Agency. While the other refugees of the world fall under the UN Commissioner for Refugees, the Palestinians have UNRWA all to themselves. In an article published last month in Ha'aretz, Becker says that the UN tries to find "permanent solutions" for the other refugees in the world but UNRWA's mandate is for humanitarian aid until the problem is solved - that is, in fact, a perpetuation of the problem.

He also mentions a second problem, one raised pointedly in recent weeks by Israeli representatives in the UN and the U.S. - the way in which UNRWA representatives ignore the fact that the refugee camps for which they are responsible have turned into bases for terror and incitement against Israel. [See Letters, page 11.] According to Becker, the joint aim of Israel and the Jewish organizations is to persuade Congress to make American aid to UNRWA (some $90 million per annum) conditional on increased supervision by UNRWA representatives to ensure that the refugee camps are not exploited for devious purposes.

The deputy high commissioner for UNRWA, Corinne Abu-Zayyad, (an American married to a Sudanese), says that "UNRWA was founded about half a year before the general commission for refugees and therefore its mandate is different. It was not possible to integrate it later into the general commission since the problem of the Palestinian refugees is different from that of the others. Most of the refugees in the world are happy to be rehabilitated somewhere else. The Palestinian refugees refuse to, and cannot be forced to do so." Turning to UNRWA's silence in the face of terrorist activities emanating from the camps, Abu-Zayyad says: "We are responsible only for supplying aid in the fields of education, health and welfare. Obviously terrorist activity, by its very nature, is clandestine and therefore we are not aware of it until after it has taken place."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Back to the future
An attitude of despair and longing for the past in Israel appears to derive from the confusion and humiliation felt by many on the left - those who pinned all their hopes on the Oslo process - in the wake of the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, the failure of Ehud Barak and the surge of deadly terrorism.
By Avirama Golan	| Jul. 7, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Various left-wing circles were upset by the government's decision not to ratify the signing of the Rome Treaty, which created the operation of the International Criminal Court at The Hague beginning July 1. They apparently believe not only that Israel's behavior in the territories is immoral, they are also of the opinion that Israeli democracy has been enfeebled and that it can no longer be trusted to judge and convict those in its midst who have perpetrated war crimes.

Since October, the left has strengthened its conviction that the press is being fed too much by the military spokesmen, that the judicial system is overly dependent on the political establishment and that the large number of terrorist attacks and the military reactions to them have dulled the conscience of the public and made it insensitive to moral dilemmas.

That criticism deserves to be heard. Moreover, the 1998 Rome Treaty is indeed a welcome step on the part of the enlightened world, which seeks to make it possible for communities to exact justice from those who have done them injustice. At the same time, it is impossible to ignore the fact that the aspiration for the globalization of justice is also the result of political spin on the part of a few countries, which are self-righteously and hypocritically eager to make use of the international institutions of justice in a manner that is liable to void the concept of justice of content and make a mockery of the sincere intentions of moralists.

However, even if the law brings redemption to the world, and even if its advocates are correct in arguing that as soon as Israeli decision makers are subject to threatening international judicial review they will have no choice but to consider well their actions in the territories, it is difficult not to notice the heavy smell of despair that is rising here in Israel, of all places, at the appeal to Big Brother, to the external supreme judge. It's like the mood evoked by the writer Etgar Keret in his story "Nostalgia for Kissinger," or the longing of others, expressed in the phrase, "If only we could have the Mandate period again."

This is the nostalgia and despair of people who no longer believe Israel will be able to, or will want to, initiate peace talks and who have thrown up their hands in the face of the impotence of the Palestinian Authority. It is the despair that induced figures on the left to call on the United States, in August 2001, to send observers to the territories immediately, and that prompted Yossi Beilin and Yossi Sarid to plump for internationalization last April. It is the same nostalgia and despair that led academics such as Tanya Reinhart and Zvi Raz, from Tel Aviv University, and Ilan Pappe, from the University of Haifa, to urge their colleagues overseas to boycott research institutions in Israel - a call of folly that brought about the dismissal of two Israelis, important researchers and moralists - Gideon Toury, a professor in Tel Aviv University's school of cultural studies, and Miriam Schlesinger, a senior lecturer in translation studies at Bar-Ilan University - from two British translation journals.

This attitude of despair and longing for the past appears to derive from the confusion and humiliation felt by many on the left - those who pinned all their hopes on the Oslo process - in the wake of the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, the failure of Ehud Barak and the surge of deadly terrorism. Yet it is here that the left's Achilles' heel is to be found: Instead of looking inward, at the society, its fears and distresses, the left always prefers to deal with diplomacy and policy, focusing its gaze coarsely outward - toward international judges, toward academe abroad to tell us what's right and what's wrong, to the Americans to punish us for the sins of the occupation.

This is the same left that ignored the weak population groups, turned its back on the principles of solidarity and the welfare state and allowed itself to be hypnotized by the sweeping might of globalization. Globalization is not a dirty word. On the contrary, it has tremendous advantages. But the citizens of Israel, and especially those in the socially disadvantaged groups, are not enjoying its fruits, but suffering from its shortcomings. The majority of the advocates of internationalization and boycott, who purport to speak in the name of moralism and who are now bedazzled by their initiative to establish a new "social democratic" party, belong to that small coterie of people who hover between sabbaticals, lectures and investments abroad. Even if they continue to live here, they can amuse themselves with their mobility and their ability to detach themselves. Nothing could contrast more with the low-income groups, who are stuck here in tenements, apartments, classrooms and jobs that are increasingly difficult to cope with.

One could perhaps argue that those whose gaze is directed back or outward are acting courageously, like their colleagues in South Africa in the period of apartheid. But the turn to the outside world brings with it a danger - it weakens politics at home. Instead of making an effort to integrate itself into political action and to strengthen the opposition to the occupation and the settlements, the left prefers to issue calls to the Europeans. And in the meantime, in the domestic political arena, the right is preparing for the next elections. And when the right defeats the left and the sane center and brings about its further disintegration, who will be left here to appeal to the good uncles at The Hague?


Home News
Syria slams controversial 'Jews-only' bill
By Aluf Benn	and Ha' Ha'aretz Service, agencies	| Jul. 10, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A state-run Syrian journal Wednesday criticized a proposal approved by Israel's government at the start of the week that would effectively provide for "Jews-only" communities.

The bill, proposed by MK Haim Druckman (National Religious Party), would amend the Israel Lands Law such that state land could be allocated to Jewish-only settlements, allowing them to bar non-Jews from buying land or living there.

An editorial in the government journal Tishrin called the plan "a new racist measure" that would inflict gross humanitarian damages and enforce "apartheid in the whole of Palestine."

The newspaper criticized the United States for remaining silent about the move, saying Washington's credibility and reputation were at stake.

The government newspaper Al-Thawra said the Israeli proposal posed "a dangerous challenge that threatens the Palestinian people" and urged Arab foreign ministers to discuss it at their meeting in Cairo next Friday.

Government to re-discuss proposal Amid a furor over the cabinet's endorsement of the bill, Cabinet Secretary Gideon Sa'ar said Wednesday that the cabinet would hold a re-discussion of the controversial measure.

Following an appeal Tuesday by Labor Party Chairman and Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, who has indicated that Labor would oppose the law in its current form, Sa'ar said that the cabinet had "appointed me to weigh the changes needed in the law, so that the cabinet can support it."

Most Labor ministers were absent from the Sunday debate over the bill, as was Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. Ben-Eliezer later denounced the vote as a dishonest "grab". Stongly outnumbered by rightists in the cabinet, ministers Dan Meridor of the Center Party and Ephraim Sneh of Labor voted against.

President Moshe Katsav said Tuesday that the bill contains elements of discrimination, but was not racist. (Click here for Tuesday's Ha'aretz editorial on the bill.)

"I don't see (in the bill) an expression of racism or apartheid," Katsav said in an interview on Israel Radio. "It does contain discrimination, which runs completely counter to our norms and should be prevented. Therefore I believe changes need to be made to the bill."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Unnecessary law, deliberate provocation
Last Sunday's cabinet decision to support a suggestion made by Haim Druckman MK (National Religious Party) to amend the Israel Lands Law, marked a black day in the history of Israel. Druckman's amendment would allow land allocations to be earmarked for the Jewish Agency that would be used to set up exclusively Jewish settlements.
By Danny Rabinowitz	Jul. 10, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Last Sunday's cabinet decision to support a suggestion made by Haim Druckman MK (National Religious Party) to amend the Israel Lands Law, marked a black day in the history of Israel. Druckman's amendment would allow land allocations to be earmarked for the Jewish Agency that would be used to set up exclusively Jewish settlements. If accepted by the Knesset, this law will bring Israel closer than it has ever been to an apartheid state.

It would turn Israel into a state in which elected representatives openly promulgate laws that reflect a racist ideology and are designed to repress and discriminate against one-sixth of the population. Ze'ev Jabotinsky, a paragon of classical liberalism, and Menachem Begin, a true defender of democracy, are spinning in their graves.

Dan Meridor, their ideological heir who fought like a lion to convince Ariel Sharon's government to oppose the move, was defeated. And the Labor Party, as usual of late, ducked for cover, hoping this wave will pass over it and allow its leaders to remain in their comfortable chairs at the cabinet table.

In March 2000, the High Court of Justice issued a verdict defending the right in principle of the Ka'adan family from Baqa el Gharbiyyah to buy a plot of land and build a house in Katzir, a new settlement in the north of the country. Handed down after five years of hesitation and soul-searching by five judges, with Justice Aharon Barak presiding, the ruling, while in favor of the petitioners, was not definitive.

Rather than issuing the respondents with explicit orders, the court made recommendations. The Katzir cooperative association, the Israel Lands Administration and the Jewish Agency, were merely requested to be open-minded and "re-consider" the Ka'adan's request to settle in Katzir. The court was self-consciously reserved, stating that it was "looking to the future", rather than seeking its verdict to become a precedent that could start a retrospective re-evaluation of past decisions taken by the settlement authorities.

The judges were also careful to define their verdict as a defense of specific individuals against discrimination, not as a ruling on national scale. They even allowed Israel's land allocation authorities future escape hatches, mentioning security considerations as admissible pretexts for preferential and discriminatory land distribution.

But two aspects in the verdict stand out as beacons of hope and justice. One is its adamant rejection of the administrative trickery, the Isra-bluffs, which for so many years were using the Jewish Agency, the Israel Land Administration and cooperative associations as camouflage for discrimination. The other was its crystal clear defense of the principle of equality.

"Equality," the justices ruled in their verdict, "a fundamental value of the State of Israel, obliges every single one of its authorities and their actions." Even the Israel Land Authority, the verdict says, which "operates as the trustee of the state in allocating land to the public, is obliged by this principle. Whether grounded in religious or national differences, discriminatory policies in housing or in other areas are forbidden by the principle of equality."

Barak and his colleagues identify a two tiered set of meaning to equality. One is the moral value, which is self-evident. The second is the importance of equality for social stability. "The need to maintain equality," says the verdict, "is vital for a society and the consensus on which it is built ... there is nothing more destructive to a society than the feeling of its sons and daughters that they are being treated with discrimination ... Discrimination leads to a sense of repression and frustration, which leads directly to jealousy, and with jealousy reason is lost."

One possibility is that Ariel Sharon's government, blindly following the foolish advice of Druckman and his accomplice, Education Minister Limor Livnat, was indeed infected by a zealotry that made it lose its reason. It may indeed be the case that the decision to push a law that tackles access to land - the most sensitive issue for the Arab population in Israel - at this juncture, merely reflects the callous indifference of an irresponsible government.

But there is another possibility that is even more worrisome. It could be - that like the prosecution of MK Azmi Bishara for the contents of his speeches, and like the attempt to disqualify certain Arab political parties from contesting the next elections, this amendment is cynically designed to increase the level of resentment among Arab citizens, to throw them into ever deeper distrust of the state, and thus remove them from the theater of legitimate politics. The coming election, after all, will be a paradise for right wing parties if the Arab citizens approach it in an atmosphere of despair, particularly if many of them eventually decide to shun the ballot boxes and instead take to the streets.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Fascist friends Just as in the good old pre-Oslo days, when one of Israel's most eager allies was the apartheid regime in South Africa, today some of us have to look among the outcasts within the European political spectrum to find ideological counterparts.
Jul. 11, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Fascist friends

Just as in the good old pre-Oslo days, when one of Israel's most eager allies was the apartheid regime in South Africa, today some of us have to look among the outcasts within the European political spectrum to find ideological counterparts.

Avigdor Lieberman and his political buddies within National Union-Yisrael Beiteinu should realize that the only reason why the post-, pseudo-, neo- or whatever kind of fascists pretend to be pro-Israel is the fact that they happen to hate (and fear) Muslims just a little more than Jews. For them, the most active enemy of their most acute enemy is their temporary friend.

Yonathan Dror Bar-On

Nesher

Political perspective

The quote of an Israeli security official - "The world is closing itself off from us" - reminds me of the famous United Kingdom newspaper headline: "Fog in channel - continent isolated."

George Davenport-Jones

London

Child soldiers and baby bombers

If the Israel Defense Forces were to raid the Jewish elementary school where I teach they would find a disturbing photograph of a second grade boy with a real Israeli assault rifle draped over his shoulders. Similarly, were they to photograph Israeli school children on the festive Jewish holiday of Purim they would have found Israeli children dressed as soldiers, suicide bombers and victims of terror.

This is not an Israeli phenomenon of the last two years alone. We live in a culture that depends on the militarization of our children. Because our schools serve as feeders for the military, we condition our children to respond favorably to the military and to look forward to going into the army. That is, our education system, for the most part, educates for war.

Maps in Israeli schools do not indicate that in the (occupied) West Bank and Gaza Strip, there is an entire national group seeking independence. As long as Israeli society strives to continue the occupation it will search for means of justification amongst the other.

Hence the picture of the "baby bomber" was distributed throughout the world. That we do not see pictures of our child soldiers only proves that Israel has succeeded in manipulating the press for its propaganda purposes. As an Israeli Jew who rejects the occupation and its negative effects on our society, I am most concerned.

Louis Frankenthaler

Jerusalem

Who are they trying to fool?

Don't the members of Shas (and all other MKs) realize that irrespective of whether clocks in Israel are set to summer time or winter time (or GMT, as they are in the control tower at Ben-Gurion Airport) - the number of hours between sunset on Yom Kippur Eve and sunset on Yom Kippur itself will be exactly the same? Therefore, the length of the fast will be identical - whether the clocks are changed or not.

Who are they trying to fool?

Anyway, since when is the Yom Kippur fast supposed to be easy?

Al Segall

Zichron Yaakov

Summer time mathematics

Regarding `Shas bill cuts three weeks off summer time,' Ha'aretz, July 8

The idea that changing the clock to winter time will make the Yom Kippur fast easier is an illusion. The length of the fast does not depend on whether it falls in summer time or winter time, and the same applies to the number of daylight hours. If summer time is kept, the fast will start an hour later by the clock, and by the same token, prayers can start an hour later on the morning of Yom Kippur.

Exactly the same number of hours of darkness can be spent sleeping. What is needed at most is to allow people to start work or school a little later on the following day. I urge the Knesset to throw out this foolish and harmful proposal.

Anita Mittwoch

Jerusalem

Making it religious

I have added your picture, "An IDF soldier praying by his tank in Bethlehem on Sunday," to my small collection of Israeli military/religious images. The jewel in the collection comes from 1996 and is entitled "Israeli soldiers take a break from shelling southern Lebanon to remember Holocaust Day".

Israel has little to gain from justifying its existence on superior military power. Some day there will be an enemy which has greater military firepower than you do. This is the way of history. You need to build up political capital to be able to survive in that sort of atmosphere.

Trampling all over the rights of your Palestinian neighbors may be immensely gratifying in the short term but it does nothing to ensure the long-term security of Israel. There is no difference between a Hamas fighter who invokes the Koran and your soldier who sits behind his tank with his Torah. The intifada is not about religion - by publishing these pictures you imply that it is. This is immensely dangerous to Israel - it's just another excuse for jihad.

Kim Song Ji

South Korea


Home Print Edition Features
Holding a cruel mirror up to Israel
The man who caused the government this week to decide that Zionism requires apartheid once voted for Benjamin Netanyahu, thinking that every child would get a computer.
By Tom Segev	| Jul. 12, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
At the exit to Baka al-Garbiyeh there's a sign in Hebrew and Arabic directing drivers toward Tel Aviv. Someone has splashed white paint over the Arabic letters, erasing them. The message: Arabs - stay in Baka, don't go to Tel Aviv.

Baka al-Garbiyeh has some handsome, three- or four-story houses, with ornate balconies, strong, proud pillars and striking red-tile rooftops. A'adal and Iman Ka'adan live in a pleasant, spacious seven-level house; but the couple says that it is an optical illusion. The houses may look pretty, but they are opulent prisons: There's no way out of them. Baka al-Garbiyeh indeed has a run-down appearance, like a third world market town.

Following the government's decision this week to allow the establishment of Jewish-only communities, where Arabs are not allowed to live, the world media has streamed to the Ka'adan's home. A'adal, a congenial-looking, softly-spoken, 48-year-old, meticulously arranged interview slots for each journalist. The phone didn't stop ringing.

Thirty years ago, in a similar fashion, public attention was riveted on a Carmelite monk from Haifa, called Daniel, who forced Israel to define "Who is a Jew?" This time, it's Ka'adan who has forced Israel to look in the mirror, and what it is seeing is not so pretty: The reflection is the ideological image of MK Limor Livnat.

Ka'adan does not suffer from the world media blitz, however, he is not built to carry this major historical reckoning on his shoulders, and fight about principles which the Katzir case has precipitated. When he decided that he wanted to purchase a home on the communal settlement, Katzir, which was established on the outskirts of his town, he wanted the quality of life that his Jewish neighbors enjoy, with green lawns and high educational standards. It wasn't a pursuit of national justice which propelled him toward the registration office at Katzir; what he wanted was a chance for a better life.

Ka'adan works at Hillel Yaffeh Medical Center in Hadera, as a head staff nurse in its surgery department. The whole affair began when he met a patient in the ward whose wife works on the selection committee for new candidates who apply to live at Katzir. Ka'adan spoke with the woman: She was very forthcoming, and grateful for the care which her husband had received. However, she told him at the start of their conversation that it was not worth his while to submit his candidacy for Katzir. The community did not accept Arabs.

Ka'adan assumed that the woman meant well; her intention was only to spare him a lot of bureaucratic effort which would inevitably end in disappointment. He was shocked; a friend referred him to the Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI), which petitioned the High Court in his name.

In one of the most important decisions of principle in Israel's history, the court ruled that Katzir's policy must be reconsidered. Since then, more than two years have gone by and nothing has happened, despite repeated appeals to the court.

The government's decision this week is aimed at overturning the High Court's ruling. The initiative by MK Limor Livnat (Likud) apparently encouraged MK Uzi Landau (Likud) to shut down the offices of Dr. Sari Nusseibeh, the president of Al-Quds University and the Palestinian Authority's Minister for Jerusalem. It appears that government ministers are competing with one another in sponsoring such initiatives.

The Sharon/Ben-Eliezer government is the most fanatic one ever to serve in Israel. In contrast to the ultra-nationalist zealotry pulsating in the veins of Livnat and Landau, ministers from Joerg Haider's far-right party in Austria look like soft, furry bear cubs.

Livnat justified the proposed law enabling the establishment of communities for Jews only in an Israel Radio discussion with broadcaster Anat Davidov. The words she used could be used in the future to warrant the expulsion of Arabs, since the "demographic problem," according to her doctrine, is a matter of national security.

"I'm talking about national security, and I'm saying that it doesn't sanctify everything," Livnat said. "But it is the basis of Zionism. If somebody wants to deviate from the truth which we have upheld all these years, if somebody thinks that the need for demographic balance or a demographic majority of Jews compared to Arabs in the state of the Jews is racism - in my opinion, he is misinterpreting, and deviating sharply from the basis of Zionism, and from the principles of a Jewish, democratic state."

Livnat continued: "We are involved here in a struggle, in a struggle for the existence of the State of Israel as the state of the Jews, as opposed to the post-Zionists and the New Historians, those who want to force us to be a state of all its citizens. We are not just another state, like all the other states. We are not just a state of all its citizens. We are a state which has democracy and equal rights for all its citizens, but which is a Jewish state which is based on Jewish values ...

"There are special purposes. The special purpose is our character as a Jewish state, our desire to preserve a Jewish community and Jewish majority here, and to make sure that there are Jewish communities in all parts of the country, that there is Jewish settlement, and that there is a Jewish majority so that we can protect this character of the State of Israel, so that it does not become a state of all its citizens ... We all know exactly what is happening here, and we must be very careful, lest we find ourselves in another few years without a Jewish majority, with part of the Galilee and the border zones and Wadi Ara no longer under our control, and filled with Arab communities."

This effort to associate Zionism itself with this apartheid initiative besmirches all Israelis, even fair-minded ones. We all now await fates like those of citizens of South Africa, even those who opposed apartheid - as the world saw it, all were complicit in the moral outrage.

Livnat says she has nothing against A'adal Ka'anan. "He is a loyal citizen who can live anywhere in the country," she states. Excluding, of course, places which the law will set aside for Jews only.

Ka'adan wasn't impressed by Livnat's attestation regarding democracy. He brought up the possibility that when she was still in school, Israel's education might have missed the lesson devoted to Ze'ev Jabotinsky. He proposes that Livnat study Jabotinsky's writings anew. Jabotinsky, a liberal democrat, designated the country for the "children of Arabia and Nazareth, and my people."

In contrast, Ka'adan was not surprised when former MK Dr. Ze'ev Binyamin (Benny) Begin came out in opposition to the government, in a rare interview on Moshe Negbi's radio program. Before that, MK Dan Meridor (Center Party) also came out against the government's decision. The late prime minister Menachem Begin learned a measure of humanitarian decency from Jabotinsky, says Ka'adan, who knows something about Begin. He's read some of Begin's writings, and has a copy of "White Nights" in his home. During the years he waged his legal struggle, Ka'adan has learned a lot about the Jewish Agency and the Jewish National Fund and the Israel Lands Administration and the Supreme Court. He's thinking about studying law.

The significance of the Supreme Court's ruling, which ordered the state to reconsider its refusal to allow Ka'adan to live at Katzir, while incorporating the principle of equality, is hard to exaggerate. Supreme Court President Aharon Barak stated that he had never faced a more trying decision. The very decision to bring the question to a court for a legal verdict was itself an innovation, since hundreds of communities slated for Jews only, the kibbutzim and moshavim, were established during a century of Zionist activity.

Officials of ACRI have tread gently, not wanting the court to have to choose between Zionism and democracy. But the Katzir verdict indeed brought the post-Zionist wave that immersed the country in the late days of the Oslo process to its pinnacle; this surge receded almost entirely when the intifada resumed.

What happened with the Katzir ruling demonstrates how the legal takeover which Justice Aharon Barak leads is liable to damage the Supreme Court: In this case, the state simply defied the court.

Zionism cannot realize its goals without harming the Palestinians' national rights. The challenge it faces is to chart a course between harming the Palestinians and preservation of fundamental democratic values. This is a multicultural challenge, the likes of which face many states today.

Ka'adan prefers Israel to be a "state of all its citizens," but he doesn't use this phrase to refer to its demographic or symbolic content. He has no problem with the Jewish majority, nor does he have a problem with the nation's anthem or flag, he says. In his eyes, a state of all its citizens is one which protects equal rights, particularly with respect to equality of opportunity. Due to this belief in the importance of opportunity, he once voted for Benjamin Netanyahu. Before then he had always cast his ballot for the Labor Party, but when Netanyahu promised a computer for every child, Ka'adan believed him.

Ka'adan has four daughters. Aya, 12, plays the piano. Bian, 10, is learning how to play the violin - she studied with a Jewish music teacher, a new immigrant from Russia. This teacher knew nothing about Arab music, so Ka'adan replaced him with an Arab musician, who earns his living mostly by composing melodies for Jewish listeners; the new instructor is twice as demanding as the Russian, but he knows classical as well as Eastern music.

Ka'adan himself dreamed of playing the violin when he was a boy, but his parents lacked the money to pay for a teacher. He is the oldest son in a family that had 10 children: His father was a "gardener" - he insisted on using the English word. Some of his Jewish clients were Holocaust survivors who taught him Yiddish. As the years went by, Ka'adan explains, his father absorbed a measure of the mentality which is associated with Holocaust survivors, including the tendency to be thrifty and save, not knowing what tomorrow might bring.

Ka'adan believes that he inherited from his father the Diaspora Jewish belief that nothing is more important than education, particularly with respect to children. Education promotes economic independence, which in turn brings about free, independent thought.

His daughters study in a school building that is covered partially by asbestos, which everyone knows is a carcinogenic material. There are 40 pupils to a class in this school; at Katzir, there are 16. When Ka'adan thinks about Education Minister Livnat, these figures anger him even more that her prejudiced ideology. He tried to transfer his girls to a school run by the kibbutz movement; but the institution wouldn't accept them, because they are Arab. He tried to enroll them in a school in Nazareth, only to find that he apparently lacks the right connections.

At one stage, a number of middlemen approached Ka'adan, and urged him to withdraw his request to live at Katzir, even offering him financial assistance. He looked into the possibility of moving to Hadera, but discovered that Arab children who live inside the town limits are bussed to Arab schools in the vicinity, including ones in Baka al-Garbiyeh.

Israel Channel One television described Ka'adan as being "unusual" because he wants to live with Jews. In fact, a majority of Arabs in Israel want, like Ka'adan, to live without discrimination. In this respect, their consuming dream isn't different from that of most Jews.

Ka'adan grew up under Israeli military government rule, and remembers how he was frightened by each police car that entered his village. That feeling changed, he says, partly because of the impact of the first intifada in the territories. In the final analysis, he says, he is not a political person. There have been occasions when, after terror attacks, as Ka'adan heads for the hospital, his car has sometimes been stopped by policemen who look at him suspiciously, as though he were the terrorist. He feels the pain of injured terror victims, and mourns with the relatives of slain Israelis. He also feels the pain suffered by the Palestinians. A few days ago, a girl who had been injured in a terror attack and recuperated at the hospital was sent home. Ka'adan was thrilled.

He is a relaxed person who is not preoccupied by a race against the clock which, Ka'adan says, fills the lives of Jews in Israel. When he goes up in an elevator, he notices that people stare at the numbers, as though urging it to move faster.

He views himself as a Palestinian Israeli, and dreams of attaining a status similar to Jews in the U.S., who are loyal to their country, which is loyal to them and loyal to their people. Ka'adan himself is secular but says that the primitive way the government treats Arabs encourages the younger generation to flock toward religion. Islamic fundamentalism damages the society, and contributes nothing to it, he says. MK Yosef Lapid (Shinui) makes a similar point about Haredim, and Ka'adan agrees with him. Those who do not escape from reality via religion end up using drugs.

Baka al-Garbiyeh needs two Ron Huldais, says Ka'adan, referring to Tel Aviv's mayor. One is needed as the principal of the local school, the other should be the mayor. He would be pleased if Jews would come to live in his town. They would not be able to bear its backwardness for long; soon after their arrival, the town's situation would improve. That's exactly what the founding fathers of the Zionist movement said when they came to settle in Eretz Israel; in this respect, Ka'adan couldn't say anything more Zionist.


Home Print Edition News
Battles rage on U.S. campuses for and against investments in Israel
An editorial in the Daily Bruin, the University of California-L.A. campus, last week called for the university to get rid of all its investments in Israeli companies and American companies that invest in Israel.
By Oded Hermoni	Jul. 17, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
An editorial in the Daily Bruin, the University of California-Los Angeles campus, last week called for the university to get rid of all its investments in Israeli companies and American companies that invest in Israel.

"The UC's investment portfolio is not independent of its social responsibilities," said the editorial. "In 1984, the UC divested from South Africa because it, too, was clearly violating human rights during apartheid."

The editorial is the latest item in a battle underway at some of the most prestigious universities in the United States. Petitions on the same theme as the UCLA student newspaper has been circulating at universities like Harvard, MIT, Cornell, Princeton, and University of California campuses. Counter-petitions have followed. Hundreds of faculty members have signed the pro-divesting petition and so have 6,000 students.

A number of Israelis, who belong to faculties in America well as in Israel, have added their signatures, including Prof. Immanuel Farjun from Hebrew University and MIT Prof. Yosef Grodzinski, of Tel Aviv University, and Ben-Gurion University Prof. Naomi Shir.

Jewish and Israeli faculty members at American campuses this week said it is still too early to judge the influence of the petitions on their institutions' long-term investment policies. They note that while campaigns against South African investment in the mid-1980s drew little opposition, the anti-Israel petitions are spawning counter-petitions that may out-number the originals.

Harvard University President Lawrence Summers, for example, has issued a statement saying the university does not intend to withdraw its investments in companies connected to Israel. Princeton University's board raised the issue for a preliminary debate, ruled that the petitioner's claims were not sufficient, and dropped the issue from its agenda.

A university spokeswoman said at this stage there's no point even examining the issue. "There has to be a consensus on the campus to make such a decision. There was a short discussion, and we've decided not to continue it," she said.

Even if universities were to undertake a serious examination of the issue, it could take as long as two years before any decision would be made. "Nonetheless, and although the chances are slim, the petitions could lead to a situation in which the universities decide to relate to the matter and conduct a comprehensive examination of their investments in Israel, which would require the university administrations to explain their position," said one American university source.

The petition against investment in Israel began at Berkeley in May, after Operation Defensive Shield. A group of students and faculty members demanded that the university divest $6.4 billion it had invested in giant companies doing business with Israel, like Cisco and Hewlett Packard. Later, 165 faculty members from MIT and Harvard joined, as did 42 faculty members at Princeton. In the last month, more signatures have been added to the petition, including 125 teachers from the University of California system.

In response, pro-Israel faculty and students at several universities have come up with their own petitions against divestiture. So far 5,000 signatures have been collected at Harvard and MIT, says the Hillel House at MIT, and at UCLA, some 2,000 signatures have been added.

A leading campaigner for the anti-divestiture petition is Steven Spiegel, a former aide to President Clinton on Middle East affairs. He told Ha'aretz the petitions against the investment are more anti-Israel than they are pro-Palestinian. "This petition is making academics from the entire political spectrum unite against it. I expect that the University of California system will indeed discuss the petition and then reject it. Our goal is to collect 10-30 signatures against divestiture for every pro-divestiture signature."


Home News Israel
A family argument
The outrage over the Druckman Law was attributed to its being the first time that the country's lawbooks would explicitly refer to different laws for Jews and non-Jews, other than the Law of Return.
By Meron Benvenisti	| Jul. 18, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The government decisions on the matter of the "Druckman Law" that would have allowed the establishment of communities for Jews only, and the public debate that erupted in the wake of the decision, can be looked at in two contradictory ways - as a profound debate about values or as a ridiculous farce. Seemingly, it was a struggle over principles, between those who fight for "the principles of a Jewish, Zionist, democratic state" - requiring land allocation for Jews only - and those who regard that as foul "racism." The struggle has (meanwhile) ended with the victory of the sons of light, who saved democracy in Israel, by "burying" the initiative.

It is also possible to regard the entire matter as a tempest in a teacup that was blown up into a major storm; an MK drafts a sloppy law, which gets adopted by a government described by credible witnesses as being divided between those who knew the law was "stupid" and others who believed supporting it would win them popularity. After it was explained to them that such a law is unnecessary and more elegant ways are available to achieve the same goals, they backed down and a sigh of relief swept the country: democracy was saved "by the skin of its teeth."

Everyone knows that the individual case of the Ka'adan family and its desire to fulfill their bourgeois dream in, of all places, the settlement of Katzir, cannot anchor the entire unbearably heavy burden of Zionism, democracy, racism and apartheid. The High Court of Justice which appeared to deal, "for the first time," with the conflict between the principle of equality and the principle of "redeeming the land for the Jewish nation," was very careful about applying the principle of equality and rejecting discrimination on nationalist grounds, as universal principles. The court limited its verdict to the unique, individual Ka'adan case brought to it. Nonetheless, everyone was interested in using the Ka'adan case as an opportunity to express brave principles, and suspicion creeps in that the overblown episode enabled a vehement argument inside the family framework of common Zionist ideology, where the disagreements are only at the fringes.

The sigh of relief heaved by the anti-racism fighters created a false sense of victory that repressed and ignored an entire system of official discrimination, and ethnic privileges and national supremacy that for some reason are not considered blows to noble democratic principles. In that sense, perhaps it would have been better if the Druckman Law had passed the Knesset: At least the veil of hypocrisy would have been torn away from the language and system of virtual "color blindness," that presumably does not specifically mention national identity and ethnic origin, but uses stealthy definitions to impose racist norms.

The outrage over the Druckman Law was attributed to its being the first time that the country's lawbooks would explicitly refer to different laws for Jews and non-Jews, other than the Law of Return. But in the 54 years of the state's existence, an entire lexicon of laundered euphemisms have obviated the need to bluntly define ethno-national discrimination - ranging from "the absentees," to "army veterans" and "those eligible for citizenship according to the Law of Return." Most of the national-ethnic discrimination is carried out by the Zionist institutions - the Jewish National Fund and the Jewish Agency - and they were deliberately established so the state would not be accused of deviation from universal norms.

It requires a large measure of naivete or hypocrisy to take pride in the torpedoing of the Druckman Law. Its intention was only to tell the entire world that it isn't ashamed of its racism, since the leaders of the national institutions say openly they have no need for the law because there is nothing preventing them from executing a discriminatory policy, dubbed Zionism. So what? After the law was "buried," it's perfectly all right to continue playing with "Zionist" positions, that blindly accept the premise that personal and collective rights for those who belong to the Jewish group take precedence over the civil rights considered common in liberal democracies.

It's not the Druckman Law and Adel Ka'adan's house that are the test of racism of Israel, but the collective discrimination against sectors that do not belong to the Jewish group - the Bedouin, the internal refugees, "unrecognized villages," cities and towns suffocating because of lack of room to expand, economic discrimination and racial prejudice camouflaged as "concern for security." Those who breathed a sigh of relief at the burial of the Druckman Law are making life easy for themselves.


Home Print Edition Opinion
The numbers speak for themselves
The Central Bureau of Statistics' annual report shows there has been progress among the weakest sectors of Israel: Arabs and immigrants from the Commonwealth of Independent States.
By Amnon Rubinstein	Jul. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Israel's achievements can be seen in the numbers as well as the rhetoric. The Central Bureau of Statistics' annual report is always interesting and encourages dozens of research projects and articles about Israeli society. The two latest updates show there has been progress among the weakest sectors of Israel.

The CBS has just issued a document entitled "The Arab Population in Israel," with some interesting statistics. There's no need to state once again that there is an enormous gap between Israeli Jews and Arabs (though not between Jews and Arab Christians). But the gap is narrowing in everything concerning the standard of living.

The car-ownership figures show a dramatic rise. In 1986-87, only some 9 percent of Arab families owned a car. In 2000, this figure had increased to 46 percent of the families - only 10 percent less than the Jewish sector. The number of telephone lines reaching Arab households has gone from 33 percent to 85 percent - again about 10 percent less than among Jews. Even computer ownership, where there is still a large gap, has shrunk, with PC penetration in Arab homes going from 2 percent to 21 percent, compared to about 50 percent in Jewish households. There are similar figures on vacuum cleaners and stereos and videos.

Obviously, these are not the only criteria for measuring the gaps between the two societies, but they do indicate a dramatic improvement in the standard of living of Israeli Arabs, and a significant narrowing of the gap between Jews and Arabs.

No less interesting are the figures for 1999 provided last week to the Israel Electric Corporation's board of directors by the company's statistics department. They show a dramatic rise in the standard of living for another weak sector of the economy - the immigrants from the Commonwealth of Independent States. There has been a genuine economic and social miracle. Many arrived penniless and, in less than a decade, have moved up the economic ladder.

According to Jacob Razon, CEO of the company, 56 percent of the immigrants of 1993-1999 own their own apartments, compared to 81 percent of those who immigrated during the period 1989-1992 - itself a higher proportion than the 80 percent among veteran Israelis (excluding kibbutz residents). And as the length of time they have been here increases, so does the size of their apartments, from 84 to 92 square meters, compared to 104 square meters among veteran Israelis. The apartments grow from 3.1 to 3.4 rooms.

Electric appliance ownership rates have also risen and are nearly identical to the rate among veteran Israelis. Washing machines are in the homes of 97.8 percent of the 1989-1992 immigrants, and 94.6 percent of the 1993-1999 immigrants, compared to 97.7 percent of veteran Israelis. Some 85 percent of the veteran immigrants have ovens, compared to 69 percent of more recent immigrants and 89 percent of veteran Israelis. In addition, 56 percent of the veteran immigrants have air-conditioners, compared to 26.4 percent of the new immigrants and 61 percent of the veteran Israelis. New immigrants tend to own more home heating equipment than veteran Israelis. When it comes to clothing driers, dishwashers and freezers, the gaps remain wide between the veteran Israelis and new immigrants.

But the most interesting and significant statistic is on the average use of electricity, which is an acceptable general standard for comparing economic standing. Household electricity consumption among immigrants, who used to use only 58 percent of the national consumption average, has risen to 83 percent. This is an amazing accomplishment for Israeli society. It is difficult to find anything comparable in any other immigrant society.

True, the figures do not cover the period of recession now impacting on Israeli society, and in particular on the poor. Nonetheless, the trend is clear and shows a narrowing of gaps in the standard of living. The rise in standard of living took place at a time of accelerating economic growth, made possible by the Oslo accords, and it undermines the argument that growth widens the economic gaps.

Now go figure out how these figures fit with claims made in certain university circles depicting Zionism and Israeli society as "apartheid."


Home Print Edition Features
Backlash of a boycott
For more than a month, universities, lecturers and students worldwide have been enjoying their summer break, but the dismissals of Prof. Gideon Toury and Dr. Miriam Shlesinger from the editorial staffs of the journals The Translator and Translation Studies Abstracts, respectively, continue to send waves throughout the European and American academic world.
By Joseph Algazy	Jul. 30, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
For more than a month, universities, lecturers and students worldwide have been enjoying their summer break, but the dismissals of Prof. Gideon Toury and Dr. Miriam Shlesinger from the editorial staffs of the journals The Translator and Translation Studies Abstracts, respectively, continue to send waves throughout the European and American academic world.

The two were fired by the publisher of the two journals, Mona Baker, as part of her personal contribution to the academic boycott previously declared by European and American members of academe following recent IDF operations in Palestinian Authority areas. The boycott, and particularly the dismissals of the two Israeli researchers in the field of the science of translation, has kicked up a storm that shows no signs of abating.

Toury is a lecturer at Tel Aviv University's Unit for Culture Research and vice president of the European Society for Translation Studies. His research - including "In Search of a Theory of Translation" (1980) and "Descriptive Translation Studies and Beyond" (1995) - has made him one of the leading scholars in his field.

Shlesinger is also a lecturer at Tel Aviv University's Unit for Culture Research and is active in peace and human rights organizations in Israel. In 1993-1994, she chaired Amnesty International's Israel branch, and then, from 1994 to 1997, she headed the Institut Adam pour la Paix et la Democratie and participated in numerous protest actions against Israel's occupation of the Palestinian territories.

Baker was aware of the activities of Shlesinger and Toury, and was proud that both played roles in the two journals that she publishes. So what led to her change in attitude?

In early April 2002, The Guardian of London and Liberation of Paris published a petition calling for an academic boycott against Israel. The petition was defined as a "restricted call for a moratorium on European research and academic collaboration with Israeli institutions until the Israeli government opened serious peace negotiations," in the words of its two initiators, Prof. Steven Rose of The Open University and his wife Prof. Hillary Rose of City University. The petition was signed by a few hundred lecturers and researchers worldwide, including about 10 Israelis.

The various publications emphasized the fact that Steven Rose is "a Jew who lost relatives in the Holocaust."

Rose was quoted as writing: "I can no longer... cooperate with official Israeli institutions, including universities. I will attend no scientific conferences in Israel, and I will not participate as referee in hiring or promotion decisions by Israeli universities, or in the decisions of Israeli funding agencies. I will continue to collaborate with, and host, Israeli scientific colleagues on an individual basis."

Despite his undertaking to continue to cooperate with Israeli academics on a personal basis, Rose did not express reservations about the dismissals of Toury and Shlesinger.

On April 8, Baker sent an e-mail to Shlesinger, asking her to sign the petition and pass it on to as many academics as she knew. In response, she rejected Baker's request, noting that the petition "gives yet more ammunition to the tremendously strong powers here in Israel who repeat: `The world is all against us. We have to look after our own. You left-wing, dovish, pro-Palestinian academics (and others) are weakening us and should be denounced.' I do not claim that all Israeli academics and scientists think as I do, but I believe that the critical mass does. All in all, Israeli academics and the universities are a stronghold of ideological opposition."

On May 23, Baker wrote a letter to Shlesinger in which she again mentioned the academic boycott, which, she said, enjoyed "the support of many Jews and not an insignificant number of Israeli academics and non-academics for a total international boycott of Israel."

Baker continued: "However much I respect you and Gideon Toury personally, and regard you, especially, as a personal friend, I can no longer live off cooperating with Israelis as such, unless it is explicitly in the context of campaigning for human rights in Palestine. I am, therefore, hoping that you will not misunderstand my request for you to resign from the editorial board of The Translator (and I will also be asking Gideon to resign from the advisory board of Translation Studies Abstracts)."

Baker repeated her advice to Shlesinger: "I hope that you will eventually come to the conclusion that you too ought to be considering signing the academic boycott against Israel."

In response, Shlesinger informed Baker that she had no intention of resigning for two reasons: "(1) I see no reason whatsoever to do so, since I do not think that I have done anything that would warrant such a move; (2) I consider this mixture of politics and academia morally insupportable in every way."

On June 8, Baker asked Toury to resign, noting that she would be forced to dismiss him if he chose not to. In response, Toury told her that he saw no reason for him to resign, adding that if she intended to fire him, then "I would appreciate it if you will make it in an as public a way as possible; e.g., by announcing in the next issue of the Abstracts that you have decided to show me the door. I would appreciate it even more if the announcement made it clear that `he,' that is, I was appointed as a scholar and unappointed as an Israeli."

The declaration of the academic boycott against Israel was greeted with much opposition in Israel, although it created a far greater wave of protest abroad.

Only a handful of Israeli academics supported the boycott. One of them, Dr. Ilan Pappe of Haifa University, said that the academic boycott would not affect him as he was "not a Zionist," while Prof. Tanya Reinhart of Tel Aviv University published an article on the Internet in which she adopted the reasoning of the boycott's managers.

Prof. Baruch Kimmerling from the Department of Sociology at Hebrew University, Jerusalem, a fierce opponent of the Israeli government's occupation policy, expressed vehement opposition to the boycott, which, in his opinion, contradicts the idea of the freedom of science, the fundamental principles of scientific ethics and the open spirit of cooperation between scientists.

He rejected the argument that justified the academic boycott on Israel with the claim that a similar boycott on South Africa helped overthrow the apartheid regime there.

"The most crucial difference is that the South African academic institutions actively supported the apartheid regime and persecuted their dissident faculty members - a phenomenon unexisting in the Israeli academic institutions."

Academics in Israel, many of whom are known for their opposition to the government's policy on the Palestinian issue, determined that the boycott was too sweeping, since it was not directed at research programs that serve government policy and would primarily affect the weaker elements in the academic establishment, such as doctoral students who need references and opinions from abroad, or students requiring scholarships and grants.

Reports on the dismissals of Toury and Shlesinger prompted a wave of public letters of protest from numerous researchers in the translation field. Some members of The Translator's editorial staff, including Franz Pochhacker, assistant professor, Department of Translation and Interpreting, University of Vienna, Prof. Candace Seguinot of the University of Toronto, Prof. Doug Robinson of the University of Mississippi, Judy Wakabayashi of the University of Queensland, Australia, and Anthony Pym from Universitat Rovira I Virgili of Tarragona, Spain, even resigned from their positions at the journal.

Prominent among the many initial protests against the dismissals was that of Yves Gambier, president of the European Society for Translation Studies: "We cannot remain indifferent to the treatment of two of our own members, both of whom are responsible and important representatives of the international community of translation studies... Gideon Toury and Miriam Shlesinger in no way represent the government of Israel; in their intellectual work, they are not representatives of their country, but individuals who are known for their research, their desire to develop translation studies and to promote translation as an intercultural dialogue. It would be profoundly unjust and contrary to our ethics to cut off individuals who have chosen to work precisely to overcome attitudes of parochialism, self-isolation, chauvinism."

Another scholar, Prof. Robin Setton, from Geneva University, wrote: "There are many other examples of violent oppression with racial and cultural contempt. If we were consistent, we would spend all our time boycotting colleagues from many different countries: North and South Americans, Australians and others for their continuing treatment of the original inhabitants of those countries, Gulf nations and other Arab societies for domestic slavery, Russians for the Chechens, Indonesians for Timor, Eastern Europe for the gypsies, Turkey, Iran and Iraq for the Kurds, Britain for Ireland, and so on."

An article that appeared in both the Hebrew and English editions of Ha'aretz on June 16 and dealt with the dismissals of Toury and Shlesinger, the resignations of a number of their colleagues on the editorial boards of the two journals, and the protests of other renowned scientists prompted a new wave of expression against the dismissals and the boycott.

Few people defended the dismissals and the boycott, and space constraints did not allow us to bring the numerous reactions that continue to arrive. We will present a few examples, some of which have been printed in leading European and American newspapers.

The president of FIT, Federation Internationale des Traducteurs, Adolfo Gentile, wrote the following to Toury: "I am ashamed of being a member of an academic fraternity which has chosen this route."

Prof. Daniel Gile from the University of Lyon, France, initiated a petition that included the following statements: "Consider that taking such discriminatory measures based on nationality is a dangerous precedent, which might become a precursor to further discriminatory measures against individuals on the basis of their ethnic, religious or political identity, on the sole grounds that leaders of their ethnic group, religious group or political party have engaged in dishonorable conduct."

Following an article published in The Chronicle of Higher Education on the subject of the dismissals of the two Israeli scholars, four leading figures from the University of Toronto sent a harsh letter of protest to Baker. The four, Michael R. Marrus, Janice Stein, Bernard Katz and Ronald J. Daniels, wrote: "This brutal act of exclusion is utterly contemptible... It will have a destructive effect not only on your journals, which have now lost all credibility for objectivity, but also on the field in which your periodicals had standing, and on scholarly activity with which your are associated. And finally, in disseminating prejudice and division, you shame the scholarly enterprise."

The director of Postgraduate Studies, School of Languages, University of Salford, England, Dr. Myriam Salama-Carr, who came to Baker's defense, wrote in one of her letters that the boycott was directed against Israeli academic institutions and their representatives, but not against Israelis per se, and that an Israeli scholar who was linked to a non-Israeli academic institution would not be affected. She added, however, that a non-Israeli scholar who represented an Israeli academic institution would be affected.

During the course of this exchange of views, primarily via e-mail correspondence, most opponents of the academic boycott against Israel and the dismissals of Toury and Shlesinger rejected suggestions to declare a counter-boycott - in other words, to cancel their subscriptions to the journals published by Baker. Most of the publisher's critics are also opposed to her being dismissed from her position as professor of translation sciences at the University of Manchester's Institute of Sciences and Technology (UMIST), as some have demanded.

UMIST's management has appointed an internal committee to probe the dismissals. After the panel submits its findings, management will decide on Baker's future.


Home Print Edition Sports
International sporting sanctions are not an impossibility
By Ori Lewis	Jul. 30, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The delay of Maccabi Haifa at their local city airport yesterday, while Cypriot authorities said they would refuse to allow Shin Bet agents to accompany the team with weapons to the island should surprise nobody.

An agreement was reached eventually, the team arrived safely and there is no reason to assume that it will not return safely from Cyprus after tomorrow night's match.

But Sports Minister Matan Vilnai's comments yesterday that somebody is trying their best to get Israel thrown out of the international sporting arena should also be no great revelation to any of us here.

What is very worrying, however, is that before long, such efforts will succeed, and Israel again will become an ostracized sporting nation. It's not fantasy; it could happen for no more than the simple fact that hosting an Israeli sporting delegation would become too difficult, too expensive and perhaps, even too risky - if it isn't already.

It may be a nightmare scenario, but it could happen and we must not discount the possibility.

Looking back at Israeli sporting history, it is difficult to remember when an international controversy involving our teams or athletes did not have a political tag attached to it.

It is a sad reality, but the war on terror being waged in our backyard is already taking on an international sporting face abroad. We are not yet in the sporting wilderness, but if things don't change soon, we could very well be outcasts once again.

The damage-control exercises that are constantly reported (yesterday's was simply another frantic exchange of telephone conversations between high-ranking officials) could one day fail to yield the expected results if something is not done to change the situation on the ground here.

A boycott this time will be far more painful than before. And the consequences will be much more devastating when we come to demand success from our athletes, and the opportunity for our sports teams to reap the financial and prestige benefits of playing on the world's major sporting stages presents itself.

Once Israel was only a small-time player in most sports. Once we were part of Oceania, or even Asia, where Israeli teams and athletes performed well, but it was a far cry from the European and American scene - the ones that really count.

The importance of Israeli sports has grown so much in the past 15 years, and the money involved has become such a significant factor, that a boycott could deal a blow which would take generations to repair once the political situation stabilizes.

So often it has been said that sports and politics should not be allowed to mix. However, while Israel's athletes refuse to be drawn into politics, preferring to concentrate on what they do and what they understand best, the truth is that sports and politics cannot be separated when the entire world - or at least the part that counts - decides that in some cases, the two are like Siamese twins.

Our collective memories are still fresh enough that we do not need to go to the history books to recall the sporting embargo on South Africa during the 1970s and 1980s. Just how much that embargo contributed to the ending of the apartheid regime is a matter of debate, but clearly the country suffered, and it took two decades until the new South Africa was welcomed back into the international arena.

Countries which refused to cut their links with South Africa during the apartheid years also suffered.

In one instance in the late 1980s, one of Sweden's top tennis players was barred by his own nation after playing against a South African opponent in an ATP event. He argued that it was simply the luck of the draw, and that as a professional he was only trying to make a living, but that was of no interest to the vehemently anti-apartheid stance of the Swedish government.

The privileged few South African players who held foreign passports transferred their allegiance to countries like Britain and Australia, but most had to bide their time and wait for history to take its course.

Over the years the Middle East conflict and the struggle with the Palestinians have proved to be one of the most intractable problems in world politics. It is complicated, there is no doubt about that. Arguments of who is right and who is wrong cannot be drawn in black and white, as we all know.

Many of the world's nations often have taken a stance regarding who they think is right and wrong based on their own best interests or to whom they see as deserving the most sympathy.

Regardless of the personal beliefs of the people who run world sports, credit should be given to international bodies who have tried to keep a neutral stance when viewing the problems of the region and have tried to keep sport and politics separate.

Nobody should be surprised, however, if this steadfastness begins to crack at some point. Although they may not say it out loud, nations may think to themselves that it is simply too complicated and too expensive to host Israelis, and they cannot devote so many resources to the matter.

Despite their warm hospitality to date, all the Israeli clubs should note that Cyprus may feel that it does not need the hassle of devoting so many policemen to help resolve a problem with which it has little connection (not to forget that the island also has a longtime conflict of its own).

The situation is probably far more serious than people are prepared to admit. It all started when FIFA boss Sepp Blatter single-handedly postponed Israel's home World Cup qualifying match with Austria in October, following the shooting down of the Russian airliner over the Black Sea which he had assumed, at the time, was a terrorist attack.

Israel was powerless to alter that decision, and it is now unable to change UEFA's decision to force Israeli clubs to host their soccer matches in "safer" countries.

The TV pictures tell a compelling story. We should not forget that most often when Israel is mentioned in the media abroad, it is not because of our athletes' successes but rather due to the gruesome events on the ground.

It is a sad reality, but an embargo could happen here. It would only take one major sporting body, and then others would follow suit quite readily. It would be far easier for teams to avoid playing against Israel, and thereby save money and not be preoccupied with security, and then defend their actions about doing something "unpopular."

You can draw comparisons with South Africa, or for a much briefer period with Yugoslavia, but Israel has never been a nation that places sports high on its national agenda. Still, when there are successes, everybody wants to be a part of it. When there are failures, most people take it badly. But when Israel is discriminated against, then it's a case of "all the world's against us."

Previous sporting boycotts were only a very small part, if at all, of the catalyst that brought an end to the conflicts in both South Africa and Yugoslavia. So what about here?

Let's not forget that a sporting boycott would hurt only Israel. It could not possibly harm the Palestinians, since they don't have a wide-ranging sporting infrastructure, and in any case, have far more pressing concerns.



Home Life Books
Will the circle be unbroken?
"Where Am I in this Story?" by Daphna Golan-Agnon, Keter, 232 pages, NIS 74.
By Yitzhak Laor	| Aug. 2, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Where Am I in this Story?" by Daphna Golan-Agnon, Keter, 232 pages, NIS 74.

In one of his rabbinic rulings, first Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi of Israel Rabbi Avraham Yitzhak Hacohen Kook wrote about the matter of "the corpses needed for surgery for the study of medicine. In my opinion, as the disfiguring of the dead is one of the prohibitions specific to Judaism, as the Holy One blessed be He has commanded us regarding the sanctity of the body, just as we are warned against forbidden foods not from the natural aspect of the body, but from the aspect of the sanctity unique to Israel, which the Lord, Blessed be He, has called a holy people, and the gentiles, just as they are not strict about foods but follow nature, they have no reason to be so strict about the body not being disfigured, for some natural purpose like medicine, and therefore we must purchase dead bodies at full cost from the nations of the world, for the scientific purpose.

"And this must not be felt as hatred of the gentiles, for the honest among them will understand that ultimately this nation, which was chosen to bring the holy light of the knowledge of the true Lord to the world, and therefore suffers unimaginably numerous troubles, is also worthy of some privilege of sanctity, and the corrupt among them will not cease to make false charges even if we take the dead of Israel for surgery."

There is not a single secular Israeli who has a problem with the complete erasure of the ethos from which Rabbi Kook's opinion derives. The Israeli collective, even though it is a "tribal" collective - i.e., the connection among its members is not defined in a rational way - has no major difficulty with the eradication of large parts of "the heritage of its past." What Rabbi Kook wrote here in Israel in the 1930s no longer belongs to the Zionist ethos. Apart from the settler public in the territories, it is doubtful that even 1 percent of Israelis believe that Israel "was chosen to bring the holy light of the knowledge of the true Lord to the world" and therefore has a "privilege of sanctity." Nevertheless, when we come to discuss the inability of this collective, in the midst of which we live, to eradicate parts of "the Zionist ethos," we discover something truly awful about the part of rationality in the formulation of the truths about life. The role of rationality is tiny.

The answer to the question of why it is impossible to erase parts of "the secular Zionist ethos" as easily as parts of the religious ethos were erased can be found in the way the imagined commonality is reproduced again and again. Of course, this reproduction is carried out mainly by the education system, and mostly not in the area of "contents studied" but rather in a whole series of "ceremonies," beginning with the entrance to school and ending with going to the army as a great ceremony of generational and gender initiation. But the educational system defines from the outset not only the students, but also the teachers. It could be that teachers are greater victims of a nationalist education system. They are compelled to believe in what they teach, as opposed to the students who can spend those 12 years in what might be called "the freedom of gawking."

However, it is in encounters with teachers that one is convinced that they, at least some of them, conduct these ceremonies - that is, they prepare the children for "national life" - because "they have to." But the most important thing that can be said about education is that the national "curriculum" turns both the teachers and the taught into participants in a long series of ceremonies, a praxis from which we "understand for ourselves" the truths about our lives: Sukkot and the Exodus from Egypt, Hanukkah and the danger of annihilation and enslavement, and the Festival of the First Fruits, or the Giving of the Torah, let us act and listen. It is doubtful that in the secular world outside our country there is a teacher who spends so many days during the school year teaching practices that are religious, or tribal, practices that are endowed with a quasi-legal status relative to all that happens around us.

Giving the floor to others

All of this comes to explain why the book by Daphna Golan-Agnon (yes, the wife of S.Y. Agnon's grandson), even though it is not a theoretical work and even though it does not suggest a connection between her areas of interest - education and human rights - is an excellent example of the ability to break the circle, by praxis.

Daphna Golan-Agnon was one of the founders of B'Tselem during the time of the first intifada, and ever since then, has been active in a number of women's groups and human rights organizations that have taken upon themselves the defense of the rights of Palestinian subjects in East Jerusalem and in the other occupied territories. At the beginning of the 1990s, she, together with Prof. Stanley Cohen, wrote the famous report on torture - a report that brought to the attention of the public, and particularly to the legal system, the widespread system of torture the Shin Bet security service applied to the inhabitants of the territories.

In the parts of the book where she wonders aloud how she can get her friends involved in what is so obvious to her, one recalls that what, at the time of writing the book, was perceived as something that "is impossible that we could be capable of," is being published at a time when two million people are under a prolonged curfew, in order to thwart terror attacks; a long and continuing collective punishment, that has no end and has no purpose, which is aided by a society that is gutless to such an extent that by now it is hard to write against it.

Golan wrote her book chapter by chapter. In each of them, she made connections between her bourgeois life in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Beit Hakerem, raising her children, educating them and her activities with women on the other side of the Green Line (pre-June 1967 border). In the book she gives the floor to her partners, including extensive quotations from a correspondence with her friend, Dr. Sumaiya Farhat Nasser, about "the opposition to normalization," that is, the refusal of Palestinian intellectuals to go beyond their joint political activity with Israelis, their refusal to sit down and "have some hummus" together. Today this issue is completely off the agenda, as they are now locked up, but in the Jerusalem arena, where activists from both peoples have tried to go beyond the nearly South African-style Bantustanization (Golan-Agnon provides a great deal of data about the situation of apartheid in East Jerusalem and the occupied territories), the "normalization" is evident with all its problems.

The Palestinian women politely rejected the proposal "to be good friends in public" and preferred to pursue joint political activity with the Israelis and no more than that. Only in private did they agree to be good friends. It took Golan-Agnon too much time to realize that the desire to be good friends in public is an ideological act, which has no meaning from the Palestinian point of view. But she reports the pains of learning this honestly and frankly. And with this frankness she describes the construction of a house that was demolished by the Jerusalem municipality in the sweltering heat (up until the beginning of the recent intifada, Israel had demolished 6,000 houses in the occupied territories, in utter violation of the Geneva Convention).

Only two possibilities

History is written by the victors. What Walter Benjamin sadly noted in his theses on history is understood by everyone today. When the history of the current stage in the conflict is written, if it culminates in an Israeli victory, that is - the Palestinian dream for independence turns to dust - then the stubborn struggle by Golan-Agnon and her friends, women and men, Jews and Arabs, will be perceived as a thoroughly minor episode. However, if Israel fails in this mission - that is, if the Palestinians win a real independent state - then this book will be considered an important document, the turning over of a new leaf. There is no third possibility. But as history is open to what cannot be expected, always, and nothing is ever determined in advance, this book is not only the report of a struggle but also a part of that struggle that does not give up.

Therefore, Golan-Agnon did well to report on conversations she had on the matter of the right of return. It is hard to miss the fact that Golan-Agnon is not alarmed by this right. She "imposes" the bulk of the work on Dr. Salim Tamari from the Jerusalem Studies Institute in East Jerusalem - after all, everyone realizes that there is no solution to the conflict without taking the right of return into account. Everyone who deals with the matter from a position of familiarity with the Palestinian situation, understands that at least a return to the West Bank and an Israeli acknowledgment of the ethnic cleansing of 1948 are a condition for reconciliation.

Here I return to the question I posed at the beginning of this article as to what in the national ethos can be relinquished and how this relinquishing takes place. Changing the ethos occurs only through the practice itself. There is no activist in a Jewish-Arab organization and there is no organization with joint Jewish-Arab political activities in which the participants, with time, are not impelled to relinquish some parts of their ethos, as the ethos is not prior to the collective, but rather grows out of it and our national ethos excludes the Arabs from it. A joint life means relinquishing parts of the national ethos.

The personal story of Daphna Golan-Agnon, who grew up in Jerusalem with a father from the right-wing Lehi (pre-state underground militia), exemplifies the process very well: Only praxis changes old opinions.

Golan-Agnon does not write about the theoretical aspects of her activity, even though the book includes a long and respectable list of research footnotes and a very up-to-date list of all the human rights organizations in Israel and the territories, including phone numbers and e-mail addresses. She reports on meetings, on concrete activities, on discussions at the Education Ministry, on luncheons at the university, on "the good years of Ramallah." Her writing sweeps up the reader, her language is very personal.

In contrast to some of the activists in the organizations about which she writes, which were connected to Meretz, at least at the outset, she writes openly about "sensitive issues" like military service, or the apartheid in the Israeli education system, the systematic discrimination against the Arab citizens of Israel. She writes openly about the problematics of the "coexistence organizations": "Who runs the group in all the Jewish-Arab coexistence organizations? Why is it that the Arab women speak Hebrew, a second language that is foreign to them, the language of the rulers, and the Jewish women do not speak Arabic?" (She quotes Samia, an Israeli Palestinian.)

She has no answer to these questions, though the answer could be simple. For example, "We have started to learn Arabic," or "That's the nature of a colonial regime," or "We have made a covenant of English-speakers with the Ramallah intelligentsia."

Golan-Agnon belongs to an impressive community of activists, mainly women, who went through the Oslo years along with the hell. Upon reading the book the question arises: Why did you keep silent about the agreement, not with respect in particular to the administrative detentions, the separation roads, the tortures, the shortage of water - but about the whole, as all these details ultimately constituted the Oslo agreement in a way we did not see from afar, from the coastal plain, from the newspaper headlines, from the meetings in Europe of teachers, writers, students. Could it be that this silence was part of the need to continue to be active in these organizations, the funding for which often came as part of the Oslo agreement, that as a whole has allowed our reality to be what it is today?

Alas, praxis does not give a fitting answer to all the questions that have to do with consciousness. Nevertheless, it is heartening to know that there are people here who not only speak about peace, but do all they can to advance it.


Home Life Books
Will the circle be unbroken?
"Where Am I in this Story?" by Daphna Golan-Agnon, Keter, 232 pages, NIS 74.
By Yitzhak Laor	| Aug. 2, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Where Am I in this Story?" by Daphna Golan-Agnon, Keter, 232 pages, NIS 74.

In one of his rabbinic rulings, first Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi of Israel Rabbi Avraham Yitzhak Hacohen Kook wrote about the matter of "the corpses needed for surgery for the study of medicine. In my opinion, as the disfiguring of the dead is one of the prohibitions specific to Judaism, as the Holy One blessed be He has commanded us regarding the sanctity of the body, just as we are warned against forbidden foods not from the natural aspect of the body, but from the aspect of the sanctity unique to Israel, which the Lord, Blessed be He, has called a holy people, and the gentiles, just as they are not strict about foods but follow nature, they have no reason to be so strict about the body not being disfigured, for some natural purpose like medicine, and therefore we must purchase dead bodies at full cost from the nations of the world, for the scientific purpose.

"And this must not be felt as hatred of the gentiles, for the honest among them will understand that ultimately this nation, which was chosen to bring the holy light of the knowledge of the true Lord to the world, and therefore suffers unimaginably numerous troubles, is also worthy of some privilege of sanctity, and the corrupt among them will not cease to make false charges even if we take the dead of Israel for surgery."

There is not a single secular Israeli who has a problem with the complete erasure of the ethos from which Rabbi Kook's opinion derives. The Israeli collective, even though it is a "tribal" collective - i.e., the connection among its members is not defined in a rational way - has no major difficulty with the eradication of large parts of "the heritage of its past." What Rabbi Kook wrote here in Israel in the 1930s no longer belongs to the Zionist ethos. Apart from the settler public in the territories, it is doubtful that even 1 percent of Israelis believe that Israel "was chosen to bring the holy light of the knowledge of the true Lord to the world" and therefore has a "privilege of sanctity." Nevertheless, when we come to discuss the inability of this collective, in the midst of which we live, to eradicate parts of "the Zionist ethos," we discover something truly awful about the part of rationality in the formulation of the truths about life. The role of rationality is tiny.

The answer to the question of why it is impossible to erase parts of "the secular Zionist ethos" as easily as parts of the religious ethos were erased can be found in the way the imagined commonality is reproduced again and again. Of course, this reproduction is carried out mainly by the education system, and mostly not in the area of "contents studied" but rather in a whole series of "ceremonies," beginning with the entrance to school and ending with going to the army as a great ceremony of generational and gender initiation. But the educational system defines from the outset not only the students, but also the teachers. It could be that teachers are greater victims of a nationalist education system. They are compelled to believe in what they teach, as opposed to the students who can spend those 12 years in what might be called "the freedom of gawking."

However, it is in encounters with teachers that one is convinced that they, at least some of them, conduct these ceremonies - that is, they prepare the children for "national life" - because "they have to." But the most important thing that can be said about education is that the national "curriculum" turns both the teachers and the taught into participants in a long series of ceremonies, a praxis from which we "understand for ourselves" the truths about our lives: Sukkot and the Exodus from Egypt, Hanukkah and the danger of annihilation and enslavement, and the Festival of the First Fruits, or the Giving of the Torah, let us act and listen. It is doubtful that in the secular world outside our country there is a teacher who spends so many days during the school year teaching practices that are religious, or tribal, practices that are endowed with a quasi-legal status relative to all that happens around us.

Giving the floor to others

All of this comes to explain why the book by Daphna Golan-Agnon (yes, the wife of S.Y. Agnon's grandson), even though it is not a theoretical work and even though it does not suggest a connection between her areas of interest - education and human rights - is an excellent example of the ability to break the circle, by praxis.

Daphna Golan-Agnon was one of the founders of B'Tselem during the time of the first intifada, and ever since then, has been active in a number of women's groups and human rights organizations that have taken upon themselves the defense of the rights of Palestinian subjects in East Jerusalem and in the other occupied territories. At the beginning of the 1990s, she, together with Prof. Stanley Cohen, wrote the famous report on torture - a report that brought to the attention of the public, and particularly to the legal system, the widespread system of torture the Shin Bet security service applied to the inhabitants of the territories.

In the parts of the book where she wonders aloud how she can get her friends involved in what is so obvious to her, one recalls that what, at the time of writing the book, was perceived as something that "is impossible that we could be capable of," is being published at a time when two million people are under a prolonged curfew, in order to thwart terror attacks; a long and continuing collective punishment, that has no end and has no purpose, which is aided by a society that is gutless to such an extent that by now it is hard to write against it.

Golan wrote her book chapter by chapter. In each of them, she made connections between her bourgeois life in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Beit Hakerem, raising her children, educating them and her activities with women on the other side of the Green Line (pre-June 1967 border). In the book she gives the floor to her partners, including extensive quotations from a correspondence with her friend, Dr. Sumaiya Farhat Nasser, about "the opposition to normalization," that is, the refusal of Palestinian intellectuals to go beyond their joint political activity with Israelis, their refusal to sit down and "have some hummus" together. Today this issue is completely off the agenda, as they are now locked up, but in the Jerusalem arena, where activists from both peoples have tried to go beyond the nearly South African-style Bantustanization (Golan-Agnon provides a great deal of data about the situation of apartheid in East Jerusalem and the occupied territories), the "normalization" is evident with all its problems.

The Palestinian women politely rejected the proposal "to be good friends in public" and preferred to pursue joint political activity with the Israelis and no more than that. Only in private did they agree to be good friends. It took Golan-Agnon too much time to realize that the desire to be good friends in public is an ideological act, which has no meaning from the Palestinian point of view. But she reports the pains of learning this honestly and frankly. And with this frankness she describes the construction of a house that was demolished by the Jerusalem municipality in the sweltering heat (up until the beginning of the recent intifada, Israel had demolished 6,000 houses in the occupied territories, in utter violation of the Geneva Convention).

Only two possibilities

History is written by the victors. What Walter Benjamin sadly noted in his theses on history is understood by everyone today. When the history of the current stage in the conflict is written, if it culminates in an Israeli victory, that is - the Palestinian dream for independence turns to dust - then the stubborn struggle by Golan-Agnon and her friends, women and men, Jews and Arabs, will be perceived as a thoroughly minor episode. However, if Israel fails in this mission - that is, if the Palestinians win a real independent state - then this book will be considered an important document, the turning over of a new leaf. There is no third possibility. But as history is open to what cannot be expected, always, and nothing is ever determined in advance, this book is not only the report of a struggle but also a part of that struggle that does not give up.

Therefore, Golan-Agnon did well to report on conversations she had on the matter of the right of return. It is hard to miss the fact that Golan-Agnon is not alarmed by this right. She "imposes" the bulk of the work on Dr. Salim Tamari from the Jerusalem Studies Institute in East Jerusalem - after all, everyone realizes that there is no solution to the conflict without taking the right of return into account. Everyone who deals with the matter from a position of familiarity with the Palestinian situation, understands that at least a return to the West Bank and an Israeli acknowledgment of the ethnic cleansing of 1948 are a condition for reconciliation.

Here I return to the question I posed at the beginning of this article as to what in the national ethos can be relinquished and how this relinquishing takes place. Changing the ethos occurs only through the practice itself. There is no activist in a Jewish-Arab organization and there is no organization with joint Jewish-Arab political activities in which the participants, with time, are not impelled to relinquish some parts of their ethos, as the ethos is not prior to the collective, but rather grows out of it and our national ethos excludes the Arabs from it. A joint life means relinquishing parts of the national ethos.

The personal story of Daphna Golan-Agnon, who grew up in Jerusalem with a father from the right-wing Lehi (pre-state underground militia), exemplifies the process very well: Only praxis changes old opinions.

Golan-Agnon does not write about the theoretical aspects of her activity, even though the book includes a long and respectable list of research footnotes and a very up-to-date list of all the human rights organizations in Israel and the territories, including phone numbers and e-mail addresses. She reports on meetings, on concrete activities, on discussions at the Education Ministry, on luncheons at the university, on "the good years of Ramallah." Her writing sweeps up the reader, her language is very personal.

In contrast to some of the activists in the organizations about which she writes, which were connected to Meretz, at least at the outset, she writes openly about "sensitive issues" like military service, or the apartheid in the Israeli education system, the systematic discrimination against the Arab citizens of Israel. She writes openly about the problematics of the "coexistence organizations": "Who runs the group in all the Jewish-Arab coexistence organizations? Why is it that the Arab women speak Hebrew, a second language that is foreign to them, the language of the rulers, and the Jewish women do not speak Arabic?" (She quotes Samia, an Israeli Palestinian.)

She has no answer to these questions, though the answer could be simple. For example, "We have started to learn Arabic," or "That's the nature of a colonial regime," or "We have made a covenant of English-speakers with the Ramallah intelligentsia."

Golan-Agnon belongs to an impressive community of activists, mainly women, who went through the Oslo years along with the hell. Upon reading the book the question arises: Why did you keep silent about the agreement, not with respect in particular to the administrative detentions, the separation roads, the tortures, the shortage of water - but about the whole, as all these details ultimately constituted the Oslo agreement in a way we did not see from afar, from the coastal plain, from the newspaper headlines, from the meetings in Europe of teachers, writers, students. Could it be that this silence was part of the need to continue to be active in these organizations, the funding for which often came as part of the Oslo agreement, that as a whole has allowed our reality to be what it is today?

Alas, praxis does not give a fitting answer to all the questions that have to do with consciousness. Nevertheless, it is heartening to know that there are people here who not only speak about peace, but do all they can to advance it.


Home Print Edition News
Hadassah is boycotting all boycotts, saying the strategy `only results in harm'
By Nacha Cattan	Aug. 8, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Hadassah is calling for an end to all boycotts, including Jewish-led boycotts against Israel's critics.

Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, passed a resolution at its national convention in Buena Vista, Florida, last week saying it "strongly condemns all forms of organized boycott."

The resolution follows months during which Jewish groups have led boycotts against, among others, American newspapers and broadcasters for perceived anti-Israel bias and France for its perceived tolerance of anti-Semitism. But boycott calls against Israel and its institutions are also mushrooming.

"It is exactly because Israel has been the target of boycotts, that Hadassah opposes boycotts - even by well-intended parties - as a strategy that only results in harm," said Hadassah's national president, Bonnie Lipton, in a press release.

Asked by the Forward if she thought that Jewish-led boycotts could backfire by lending legitimacy or encouragement to anti-Israel boycotts, Lipton said that was one reason Hadassah opposed boycotts. "It will haunt us," she said. "It also doesn't work. It's not democratic and there are other ways of expressing one's position."

But Jack Rosen, president of the American Jewish Congress, which has suspended its travel program to France, criticized Hadassah's resolution. "We shouldn't be sending out blanket statements that under no condition are boycotts justified," Rosen said. "We shouldn't be fearful to call for actions such as boycotts if in fact they are justified. I'd be surprised if Hadassah didn't support boycotts against South Africa opposing apartheid or Nazi Germany."

Hadassah officials declined to comment on the merits of past boycotts.

Complicating the debate over whether or not to boycott is the apparent reluctance of Jewish American groups to acknowledge they are engaged in boycotts. For example, although AJCongress' Los Angeles regional office runs the Web site Boycott-France.com, Rosen denies that the national group supports a boycott. The suspension of trips to France is not a boycott, Rosen argues, because it only affects AJCongress members.

Likewise, Fred Ehrman, the sponsor of a recent campaign to suspend subscriptions to The New York Times, called his campaign a "protest," not a boycott, because it doesn't target an entire country, but only a "faulty product."

A senior vice president of the Orthodox Union who sponsored the ads as a private citizen, Ehrman said he is against boycotts - as he defines them - which would include Jewish-led embargoes on German products after World War II.

To complicate the matter even further, community leaders who refuse to call their own economic protests "boycotts" have been quick to apply the word to similar actions taken by other Jewish groups. They are also quick to criticize those efforts.

About the call to suspend Times subscriptions, Rosen said: "If you call on people to not purchase goods and services, I think that would be a boycott. In many of these media outlets, although there is a bias, there is still fair reporting. I don't think a boycott would necessarily serve our purpose in that case."

Rosen is also willing to apply the term to an effort by the Committee on Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America, or Camera, to convince corporate underwriters to withdraw support for WBUR, a Boston National Public Radio affiliate.

Camera officials are much less willing to do so. "We're informing people that [NPR] programming is anti-Israel," said Alex Safian, associate director of Camera. "It's not a boycott. We can't force anyone to do anything."

Safian, however, called the Times protest a boycott and said the AJCongress' travel suspension "is in a sense a boycott."

Ironically, both Safian and Rosen questioned Jewish groups' reluctance to apply the B-word to their efforts.

"I don't know why suddenly Jewish leaders are so afraid of the use of the word `boycott,'" Rosen said. "We're all concerned because we fought the Arab boycott for years, but we shouldn't be squeamish. We've come an awfully long way from some dark moments in our history that we can stand up and make our position clear."

Safian called Hadassah's resolution against boycotts "a strange, illogical position."

"The idea that boycotts have been used against Israel and therefore people who are pro-Israel should not use boycotts, that's like saying weapons are being used against Israel, so Israel should disarm," Safian continued.

But the national director of the Anti-Defamation League, Abraham Foxman, praised Hadassah's resolution and said his organization is opposed to boycotts as well. Foxman said that Camera, AJCongress and Ehrman are all engaging in boycotts that "will not serve the Jewish community."


Home Print Edition News
The last recourse
Some of the actions undertaken by Israel in the past few months as part of its war on terrorism need to be subjected to a moral and judicial test; but there is no chance of that being done here.
By Gideon Levy	| Aug. 11, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
To what was Prime Minister Ariel Sharon referring when he stated at last week's cabinet meeting, "It is inconceivable for such phenomena to occur here in Israel"?

Was it the situation in which, according to the U.S. Agency for International Development, 13.2 percent of Palestinian children are suffering from prolonged malnutrition and 9.3 percent from temporary malnutrition? The dropping of a one-ton bomb on a residential neighborhood, killing 15 people? The withholding of medical aid? The daily liquidations of "wanted" Palestinians? The jailing of hundreds of thousands of people for two years within the framework of collective punishment? The deportation and demolition of the homes of the families of terrorists? The culture of racist manifestations with regard to the Arabs who are Israeli citizens?

We haven't heard an expression of shock from Sharon or his cabinet ministers about any of these phenomena. But the prime minister, and, in his wake, a uniform chorus of spokespersons - from Reuven Rivlin to Yossi Beilin - were shocked by the initiative of the Gush Shalom peace activists who wrote letters to 15 Israel Defense Forces officers, warning them that material evidence was being collected against them relating to their activity in the territories, with the intention of submitting it to the International Criminal Court in The Hague on suspicion that the officers are guilty of war crimes. "That is worse than a refusal [to serve in the territories]," the prime minister asserted.

Indeed, for a political movement to collect incriminating material about army personnel, with the goal of submitting the material to international courts, is problematic: Are there not enough authorities in Israel that have the task of collecting material if the suspicion of war crimes arises, and then placing those responsible on trial? Why the need for actions of a kind usually attributed to informers?

But before we rush to attack Gush Shalom, we would do well to consider a few questions. First: Are the soldiers and officers of the IDF in fact carrying out operations that could be suspected of constituting war crimes? If so, they should be stopped, even if doing so entails controversial means. The very fact of the outcry raised by the IDF and the government is cause for suspecting that we do have something to hide. Lately the IDF Spokesman's apparatus has made several moves that are intended to persuade the media and the officer corps from making public the names and photographs of soldiers and commanding officers who are serving in the territories, for fear of the court at The Hague. The need to conceal the faces of the soldiers, as though they were criminals hiding their faces from the cameras in a court of law, raises the question of whether the IDF is convinced that it is acting with what was once known as "purity of arms."

Beyond this, some of the actions undertaken by Israel in the past few months as part of its war on terrorism need to be subjected to a moral and judicial test; but there is no chance of that being done here. These actions include depriving hundreds of thousands of people of normal supplies and of the possibility of making a living, to the point where malnutrition has been caused; dozens of liquidations of people and not only of "ticking bombs;" the demolition of the homes of people who have done no wrong; blocking medical treatment; and deportation. Is there no suspicion here of war crimes for which someone should perhaps be accountable?

But who is going to place anyone on trial? Unfortunately, in the past two years it has become clear, even more so than in the past, that there is no one to turn to in Israel in connection with these subjects. The IDF has almost completely ceased to investigate instances of killing in the territories, in contrast to its policy in the first intifada. If someone suspects that IDF soldiers killed someone with no justification and in violation of the law, what recourse does he have? Who will investigate the death of newborn infants and sick people caused by the refusal of soldiers to allow ambulances or people in distress to pass by checkpoints, if the IDF does not do so seriously? Can we entrust this task to the High Court of Justice? After all, its voice, too, has become almost mute in connection with security issues. The High Court justices have declared in the past that it is not within their purview to apply the rules of war to the liquidation policy; and last week, they ruled that the IDF no longer had the duty to warn Palestinians that their homes were going to be demolished. So another vital force for restraint in Israeli society has been eroded.

If people believe that the liquidations are causing Israeli serious damage and are contrary to international law, to whom will they appeal? If the IDF were to order proper investigations of suspected violations of human rights and were to place proven violators on trial, and if the High Court were ready to fulfill its duty and intervene in cases of the infraction of the law in the territories, no Israeli organization would consider turning to international bodies. In the present situation, though, there are political movements, human rights groups and individuals for whom Israel's moral image is precious enough that they are willing to take exceptional steps to preserve it. They are no less patriotic than anyone else.

Nor should we condemn those who think that sanctions should be imposed on Israel. The apartheid regime in South Africa came to an end, in part, because of the sanctions that were imposed on the country. Unlike South Africa, Israel does not have to replace its regime, only to put an end to the occupation - and for that, it needs the world's help. The caution that soldiers must now employ could turn out to be beneficial: Perhaps the IDF will henceforth consider matters a little more deeply before dropping another mega-bomb in the heart of a residential neighborhood.

In a situation in which the legislative branch, the Supreme Court, the attorney general, parts of the media and the majority of the public are being derelict in their duty, turning away from what is going on and refusing to see what we are perpetrating on others and on ourselves, too, the appeal to the world is the last recourse. Those who are making use of it want only the good of an Israel that has right on its side.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Aug. 13, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Part of official policy

Regarding the editorial "The blindness of political purity" of August 6:

The editorial of August 6 was devoted to an attack upon Gush Shalom. It joined the campaign launched against our movement by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.

It is rather disappointing that the editorial uses factually untrue argument. It takes the position that "collecting seemingly incriminating material against officers in an army that operates under the law in a sovereign state, according to the instructions of an elected government, can also be considered worthy civic action, on one condition - that the gathered information is published or presented to the law enforcement agencies in the country."

Each of the letters sent to various military officers was simultaneously sent to all the newspapers, including Ha'aretz, and as a matter of fact we made considerable efforts at the time to get your reporters interested - to no avail.

Also, in respect to each of these letters, copies were sent to the military prosecution, to the chief-of-staff and to the minister of defense, so that the competent authorities had a full chance to take judicial action. We were not surprised that they didn't, since the actions about which we wrote to various officers mostly constituted part of the official policies of the State of Israel and its armed forces. Such acts as the demolition of houses, collective punishments and the arrests of family members of suspected terrorists for the sole reason of their being family members are common and approved official policy: Nevertheless, they constitute serious violations of international law and specifically of the Fourth Geneva Convention. We had no difficulty in finding evidence connecting a particular officer to such acts. In most cases, the evidence was provided in press interviews in which the officers admitted to - often boasted of -the particular act. In such cases, we felt duty bound to write such an officer and warn him that his acts, or those which he had ordered his subordinates to do, constitute violations of international law. It is difficult for us to believe that the existing Israeli judicial system, military or civilian, could deal with offenses of this kind though we will be extremely happy to be proved wrong. Possibly, there will be created in Israel a body similar to the "Truth Commission" of post-Apartheid South Africa, which could take up this burden. Otherwise, the issue is likely to arrive, sooner or later, at an international judicial forum of one kind or another.

It is surprising that Ha'aretz did not see fit to refer to the article of August 5 by its correspondent Amir Oren, in which he refers to plans being prepared at the Israel Defense Forces' General Staff for "a new operation, harsher than Defensive Shield and Determined Path', whose implementation may result in "the death of thousands of Palestinians."

This horrifying news item arouses a suspicion of mass war crimes being prepared. If these crimes ever come to be perpetrated, the International Court in The Hague is likely to initiate action on its own, without waiting for Gush Shalom.

Adam Keller

Spokesperson, Gush Shalom

Tel Aviv

The courts have failed

I was somewhat startled to read your condemnation of Gush Shalom for taking up the question of war crimes and crimes against humanity being committed by Israel Defense Forces. You have long been regarded as a beacon of truth in a very dark and distorted world.

It is ludicrous to suggest that anyone could place any reliance on courts in Israel to resist even glaring abuses of international law. The courts have had many opportunities to do so and have almost universally failed.

There was a time when the boast of "purity of arms" meant something. There are now reams of well-documented evidence that it no longer does so. I think the occupation, and the repressive policies of successive Israeli governments have brutalized the armed forces. Gush Shalom is to be praised for having the courage to point this out.

Don't let the best of the media be corrupted.

Christopher Leadbeater

Hailey, Oxfordshire


Home Print Edition Features
Dialogue needed, before we turn into a leper state
Apart from a few visits to a limited number of capitals and preciously few calls to brief continental leaders, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has not paid much attention to Europe. Nor do ministers in his government walk the extra mile to get close to Israel's largest trade partner.
By Sharon Sadeh	Aug. 21, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
BRUSSELS - Apart from a few visits to a limited number of capitals and preciously few calls to brief continental leaders, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has not paid much attention to Europe. Nor do ministers in his government walk the extra mile to get close to Israel's largest trade partner. "Such neglect will cost us dearly in the future," warns Harry Kney-Tal, Israel's ambassador to the European Community.

Kney-Tal, 58, who held senior diplomatic posts in the U.S. and elsewhere as an Israeli diplomat, completes his term in Brussels in a few weeks. Preparing to return home, he's worried and frustrated. The political and intellectual gap between Israel and Europe is widening he says. Without corrective steps, Israel is liable to end up boycotted as a pariah state, like South Africa in the days of apartheid. As he sees it, Israel has done little, if anything, to forestall this eventuality.

European Union states, and Belgium in particular, have in recent years turned into trouble spots for Israeli diplomats. Anti-Semitic attacks against Jewish targets, coupled with vocal, strident support for the Palestinian Authority and vehement criticism of Israel's military activity - such trends, and others, appear to reflect a one-sided, hostile viewpoint. Tendentious, negative treatment of Israel in the media reinforces this impression. Commentators, particularly on Israel's right, often argued that Europeans criticize Israel in the name of lofty moral principles which veil what is little more than resurgent anti-Semitism. This view is backed by some U.S. officials.

A few months ago, U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell was quoted saying that anti-Semitic phenomena in Europe are "manifestations of repressed emotions, ones which were always present in Europe, but which were concealed in the aftermath of World War II." Such views are superficial and one-sided, Kney-Tal believes. They lead to a faulty understanding of European Union dynamics and goals.

Kney-Tal adds that relations between Europe and Israel have also worsened because the EU leadership "recoils from information which contradicts its value systems and perceptions, some of which are based on stereotypes" regarding Israel, the dispute and the Middle East.

Perceptual gap

A clear illustration of the perceptual gap between Israel and the EU involves the connection between Palestinian incitement and suicide attacks. "Both Israel and the Europeans denounce incitement," Kney-Tal explains. "But when it comes to the meaning of the phenomenon, the sides express differing interpretations. In Israel, a close link is made between the school texts, media reports, official statements, mosque sermons - and suicide attacks. In Europe, this interpretation is totally rejected. We recognize that there is terror, the Europeans tell us, but their reference is to terror attacks like those of the Catholic underground in Northern Ireland, or the Basque underground in Spain: these were aimed mostly at political figures or symbols of government, and were not designed to kill indiscriminately, as happens in our case." Often terrorists in Western Europe give advance warning about where explosives have been put, in order to limit casualties.

"Up to September 11," Kney-Tal says, "the Europeans would use the term `cycle of violence' in the Israeli-Palestinian context. In their view, it wasn't clear which side initiated violence; nor was this issue of who started it very important. There is an attack and then a response, which inevitably leads to another attack and so on. They didn't attribute special import to suicide attacks; they viewed them as a local Israeli problem.

"We, of course, saw things differently: there is a process of incitement, which causes terror attacks and, then, escalation of violence. There were also differences of opinion regarding incitement in Palestinian schoolbooks. We warned about the phenomenon; they promised to look into it. Their findings differed from ours. They wanted to show that incitement in Palestinian school texts was disappearing. We said: take a closer look, that's not the case. But they're not conscious of nuances which are very sensitive issues for us. That's not because they are anti-Israel; it's because they relate to the issue on an emotional plane which differs entirely from our own."

The Europeans, says Kney-Tal, after having reached a rational decision in favor of reconciliation, and having lived for six decades under peace and economic prosperity, have a problem in grasping Israel's difficult plight. "After the Second World War, Europe decided to abandon the use of force as a means to resolve disputes, and to set up the European Union, which operates on the basis of shared interests.... What drives them [the Europeans] crazy is states in the world like the U.S. and Israel, which don't recognize purely rational-legal rules of the game, and which believe that there are situations which require them to exercise their right of self-defense by resorting to the use of massive military force. The Europeans don't believe in a zero-sum game; instead, they try to cultivate interests shared by all the sides, while trying to create the widest possible common denominator."

After two devastating world wars, Kney-Tal says, Europe doesn't want to believe that there are situations in which arrangements can't be forged by negotiations. It has succumbed to cognitive dissonance: were the Europeans to indicate agreement with the claim that the Palestinian Authority uses incitement, and that such incitement leads to irrational actions such as suicide attacks, such agreement would contradict the manner in which the situation has been analyzed up to now, and the way they have wanted to view matters.

"They simply cannot accept this turn of logic - incitement leads to suicide attacks. Such acceptance would entail rejection of the creature they've created, the Palestinian Authority, an entity established largely through European assistance and funding," Kney-Tal says.

The European Union is proud that it enabled the Palestinian Authority to survive in recent years, in a period when Israel enforced severe economic sanctions against it.

"Their claim is that they haven't done so because they are especially altruistic, but instead because they've understood - unlike Israel, and now unlike the U.S - that the legal Palestinian framework needs to be preserved in the long term, and that this system is headed by a leader, Arafat, who was elected legitimately, in order to guarantee negotiations, and progress in the diplomatic process," Kney-Tal says. "In other words, the Europeans are basically telling us we know better than you, because we're not so involved emotionally in this story, and we can look at the situation in a sober, detached, neutral way, relating to the two sides equally. Thus, they are extremely critical of the American position, which is so supportive of Sharon and Israel's government."

"The dispute with Europe," explains Kney-Tal, "worsened in tandem with the degenerating crisis with the Palestinians... For us, it became clear that the rational negotiation framework, which was constructed in the Oslo process and which featured gradual progress for both sides toward the establishment of two states for two peoples, went awry, and collapsed. The Europeans have a different view."

The EU has refused, and continues to refuse, to play any part in a process that might lead to a collapse of the Palestinian side. Such a process, the EU believes, would paralyze the diplomatic process, and create a situation of absolute terror and anarchy.

"Such a state of chaos is the exact opposite of what Europe wants right now," says Kney-Tal. "Europe assumes that if the Palestinians will, in the end, have a state, then they would be involved in building their nation; and that is why the PA has to be preserved at all costs, if the Palestinians are to have such a role. For years, they [the Europeans] were apathetic both to our appeals calling for reforms in the PA, and to our claims that incitement leads to attacks and that EU assistance allows Arafat to divert money to terror. The challenge, as they see it, is to prove that these claims are unfounded, and that we are basically exploiting such charges manipulatively in order to force them to sever their assistance, and turn their backs on the PA."

For the Europeans, "the rational negotiating process comes before everything else. It has to continue, come what may, because once we make it to the end of the process, and a solution is forged, then a new era of healing will arise, and the time will be ripe for really dealing with incitement. In other words, [Europe's view] is that fundamental, root problems must be dealt with first, and then their symptoms can be addressed. And, as they see it, the root cause of the dispute is the occupation. Take care of the occupation, they say, finish it, and then one of two things will happen: either there will be quiet, or we will understand that there's no quiet because the Palestinians have wider goals. We say the opposite: We can't deal with the root problems without first taking care of their symptoms. In this respect, the difference [in interpretations] is vast."

Europe remained adamant, Kney-Tal explains, even when the Camp David and Taba talks broke down. "This was a rational process; the sides sat around a negotiating table. But then it became clear that this [the talks] doesn't work; but they refused to accept this could be so. In a way, they were in a state of denial. At first, they had to be satisfied with versions offered by Ehud Barak and Shlomo Ben-Ami. A year later, a counter version propounded by former Clinton adviser Robert Malley came out, refuting Israel's claims. The French loved it. His articles were translated instantly and circulated in the media. They accorded with the world view which held that there are two sides, and responsibility for the failure rests equally with both. Once again, this European view reflected a rationalist approach to conflict resolution."

As Kney-Tal sees it, those in Israel who present themselves as belonging to the peace camp have helped the Europeans abide by their refusal to draw a logical connection between incitement, funding and suicide terror attacks. These Israelis say claims about incitement leading to terror belong to the right-wing, which wants to topple the PA. The European Union relates to the peace camp as a potential partner for the continuation of dialogue with the Palestinians, Kney-Tal says.

Attitude change

During the last year, after the September 11 attacks in the U.S. and the steep rise in the number of suicide attacks in Israel, the European Union's tone and approach have changed. "There has been some progress in the EU's position," Kney-Tal says. "They are talking now explicitly about taking action against Palestinian terror...They are more balanced, and even express solidarity with Israel. The list of terror organizations deemed illegal by the EU has grown, and now includes Hamas' military wing, and Islamic Jihad. Recently, they added eight Palestinian and Arab organizations, including the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade. Of course, in order to maintain balance, they added the [Jewish] Kahane Hai and Kach groups. They also toughened up terms for the conferral of money to the Palestinians, and tightened supervision of this funding."

Kney-Tal is worried about a new generation of Western European leaders who grew up on on the Palestinian-Arab narrative. "That narrative, which is reinforced by Israeli or former Israeli researchers, has nearly totally taken over the academic, polticial and media discussion of the issues," he says. "It is appropriate to the popular world view in Europe nowadays, which is pacifist and post-modernist, full of guilt toward the former colonies and full of sympathy for oppressed nations demanding self-determnation. It also serves electoral interests as well as the traditional interests of realpolitik, which takes up a large part of EU policy.

At the same time, he fears, there is a an accelerating process of delegitimization of Israel, which is gradually being perceived - though at this stage only in intellectual circles, but the trend will grow - as a crude, brutal, and racist country that tramples on civil rights.

"I'm worried about the fact that Israel and Europe have not been able to build a framework which enables and facilitates Jewish-Christian dialogue," says Kney-Tal. "The Europeans are building frameworks for deep and profound discussion only with those Israelis whose viewpoints are close to their own, with Israelis who justify the EU line and thereby provide moral validity to the European position. They [Europeans] understand neither Israel's reality, nor Israel's rich cultural diversity.

"The second problem is the absence of an intellectual dialogue. Academics in Israel are keeping mum, and I'm worried that the intellectual elite [in Israel] still hasn't grasped that its in the same boat: should Israel be engulfed by the waves, it, too, will go down. I remain flabbergasted that some academics from Israel signed a European petition calling for the severance of scientific and cultural connections with Israel."

As Kney-Tal sees it, Israel has no choice but to "draw Europe into a serious, genuine dialogue, one which will deal not only with ongoing events, but also with deeper levels. That's what is really lacking. Our relations with Europe are asymmetrical, due to our small size and their large one. This asymmetry has to be converted into a different sort of cooperation, one unlike what we have had up to now. We must initiate this; we need to sharpen the messages, and reach understandings based on shared interests in security and democracy."


Home News
Israelis, Palestinians face off at Johannesburg Earth Summit
By Reuters	| Aug. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
JOHANNESBURG - South African police at the Earth Summit in Johannesburg stepped in Monday to keep small groups of jeering Palestinian and Israeli activists apart.

About a dozen youthful protesters from both sides taunted each other from afar in a 20-minute shouting match, but when the groups moved closer together, heavily armed police quickly moved in and made them disperse before they could come to blows.

The face-off took place at the Global Forum, a gathering of activists and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in an industrial zone of Johannesburg, away from the summit proper, which is being attended mainly by government delegations.

The Palestinian protesters accused Israel of stalling the Middle East peace process, while the Israelis accused the Palestinians of hijacking the global forum on sustainable development to champion their own cause.

Earlier Monday, a small group of Palestinians carrying placards lambasting Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip was ordered to disperse by police after a small group of Israelis protested against the placards.

The young Israelis sported T-shirts with the slogan "Stop hijacking the summit," while the placards said: "End the new apartheid in Gaza" and "Free Palestinians".

The line taken by Palestinian environmental activists at the summit has been that conflict with Israeli armed forces has prevented them taking the time to think about how to save the planet. There are more than a dozen Palestinian NGOs accredited.

Jamal Juma, coordinator of the Palestinian Environmental NGOs Network, said Palestinian non-governmental organizations would join a big march planned by South African activists on August 31 to press world leaders to heed their calls for help.


Home Print Edition News
Mideast conflict hits Earth Summit
By Reuters	| Aug. 27, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
JOHANNESBURG - South African police at the Earth Summit in Johannesburg stepped in yesterday to keep small groups of jeering Palestinian and Israeli activists apart. About a dozen youthful protesters from both sides taunted each other from afar in a 20-minute shouting match, but when the groups moved closer together, heavily armed police quickly moved in and made them disperse.

The face-off took place at the Global Forum, a gathering of activists and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in an industrial zone of Johannesburg, away from the summit proper.

The Palestinian protesters accused Israel of stalling the Middle East peace process, while the Israelis accused the Palestinians of hijacking the global forum on sustainable development to champion their own cause.

A small group of Palestinians carrying placards lambasting Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip was ordered to disperse by police after a small group of Israelis protested against the placards. The Israelis sported T-shirts with the slogan "Stop hijacking the summit," while the Palestinian placards said: "End the new apartheid in Gaza" and "Free Palestinians". Palestinian environmental activists at the summit say the conflict with Israeli armed forces has prevented them taking the time to think about how to save the planet. Jamal Juma, coordinator of the Palestinian Environmental NGOs Network, said Palestinian non-governmental organizations would join a big march planned by South African activists on August 31 to press world leaders to heed their calls for help.


Home Print Edition Opinion
There is Haredi public opinion
The truth is that the sociological importance of the Haredi press is much greater than the phenomenon of internal criticism, no matter how important that might be.
By Shahar Ilan	| Aug. 28, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The start of the school year is when dozens of Haredi boys and girls, mostly Sephardi, stay home because of acceptance quotas at Haredi schools. In the past, this apartheid practice was never mentioned in the Haredi press. But in recent years, independent Haredi newspapers unaffiliated with specific Haredi parties or groups, have been following the story of the children without schools. The publisher of Hakehila (The Community), Dudi Zilberschlag, attacks the problem repeatedly and vehemently, and apparently the pressure each year helps such children find a school to take them in.

Haredi newspapers are generally considered of very low quality when it comes to journalism and professional ethics. As a result, there's a tendency to believe that the overall importance of the Haredi press is as limited as the esoteric element of many of its components. That is a big mistake. The Haredi press is a sum whose importance is much greater than its parts.

It is true that all the Haredi newspapers take great care to maintain a high level of self-censorship, which turns all the private and independent newspapers into a type of willing institutional organ. But each newspaper has two or three painful subjects about which they are ready to write bluntly and with visible freedom. Together they provide an impressive range of information in which very few secrets can be kept. And all this is taking place in a society that only 20 years ago did not allow any internal criticism and conducted self-examination through anonymous wall posters and libelous leaflets distributed on the streets.

Hakehila, for example, deals with the racist quotas against Sephardi pupils in Ashkenazi schools. Yom Hashishi (Friday), writes about corruption in state grants to yeshivas. Mishpacha (Family) deals over and over with the shabab, the Haredi street kids, and once even dared to write about violence within the Haredi family.

But the truth is that the sociological importance of the Haredi press is much greater than the phenomenon of internal criticism, no matter how important that might be. Over the years, we've been told by Haredi politicians to think they don't have public opinion, only "Torah opinion," meaning the opinion of the main Haredi rabbis known as the Torah Greats. As long as there was only one Haredi newspaper, Hamodia (The Informer), there was nothing to contradict that. But the independent Haredi press has for the first time created public opinion - or perhaps merely exposed a long-existent public opinion, to view.

The independent Haredi press, like any commercial press, tries to flatter its readers. The Haredi politicians spent years trying to make us believe that their public, led by the Torah Greats, is moderate on political issues. The editors of the independent Haredi press live among the people and know otherwise. They know their public is the most right wing in the country. So do the privately-owned Haredi papers. Presumably, the Torah Greats don't really think the Deri affair should take up much of the Haredi agenda. After all, he was just a politician, not an important rabbi. But the Haredi newspaper editors know who their readers really love and like, so Deri gets positive press - and a lot of it.

The Haredi journalists, including the editors, are not Torah Greats, just ordinary people who work for their living, and yet have become public opinion makers. That means that as the Haredi press grows in strength, the influence of the Torah Greats will decline. Is that axiomatic? Of course not. First, the private Haredi press obeys rabbinical prohibitions and is used by them to enlist the masses, for example, in protesting against the Internet, the Jerusalem central bus station and the cellular phone companies.

Second, there are a lot of other factors responsible for the decline in the Torah Greats' influence, including factional fighting within the community. When all the Torah Greats think alike, the lowly yeshiva bocher (student) must obey. But when each great rabbi has his own view, then the bocher can choose which one to follow - or even come up with his own halakhic ruling.

The private Haredi press may be careful about not showing any disrespect to the sages, but it avidly covers the factional political fighting among the Haredi parties. In that sense, it repeatedly makes clear that the politicians actually don't simply obey the rabbis. The endless coverage of the fighting between the Yishai and Deri camps in Shas makes clear to any reader that the question of what Rabbi Ovadia Yosef wants is very incidental as far as the combatants are concerned.

When Yom Shishi covers the quarrels between Shas and Degel Hatorah about the immigration of the Falash Mura, it is really writing about the clash between the rabbis of the two parties. Even if there's not a single word of criticism about their holinesses, when the parties scuffle, casting aspersions and plotting against each other, the Torah Greats look very small.


Home Print Edition Features
Using the tools democracy makes available
Adalah, a group protecting Israeli Arab's rights, is gathering international support, but trying to play fair
By Yair Ettinger	| Aug. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A large poster with the portrait of Malcolm X, hanging on the wall behind the desk of one of the attorneys, Marwan Dalal, immediately catches one's eye. "It's not our hero, only Marwan's," laughs director Hassan Jabareen. Dalal explains that he "appreciates mainly the internal honesty, the dedication and the frankness of Malcolm X," as though to emphasize that the radical leader - the Muslim isolationist who disdained integration and called on the blacks in the United States to confront the whites proudly - is not the ideological model of the Adalah ["Justice" in Arabic] organization.

This caution stems from the fact that in Adalah - the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel - they are now convinced that the organization is about to undergo what Jabareen calls "a campaign of persecution on an ideological basis, which is designed to keep mouths shut," in other words, their mouths. This fear, which was first based on leaks to the press from the Interior Ministry, increased when a letter from the registrar of non-profit organizations, attorney Amiram Bogat, landed in the offices of the center in Shfaram last Thursday, informing them of the appointment of an inspector for the organization. The inspector is supposed to examine a series of suspicions, including financial irregularities, deviation from the goals of the organization, and even the takeover of the organization by politicians.

Whatever the reasons for the investigation, and whatever its results, the news of its launching has already started a wall-to-wall campaign of support for the organization, in Israel and abroad, which testifies to the important position it has established for itself in the seven years of its existence. At the end of the week, 63 Israeli organizations from various spheres published an ad in the press decrying the opening of the investigation and hinting that Bogat was not acting in good faith.

A few days earlier, nine international organizations sent a letter to Attorney General Elyakim Rubinstein, to Interior Minister Eli Yishai, and to registrar Bogat, expressing concern about the investigation. Another letter was sent by the U.S. organization "Lawyers Committee for Human Rights." The nine organizations write that "the decision to open an investigation against Adalah comes at a time when the organization is involved in several important cases that affect members of the Arab minority community," and thus they hint at the possibility that the investigation is a kind of reaction to the successes of the organization in its confrontation with the Or Commission [which is investigating the events of October 2000, at the start of the intifada, when 13 Israeli Arabs were allegedly killed by policemen].

The organization is still working out of the same building at the entrance to Shfaram where it was established in November 1996 by Jabareen and his wife, attorney Rina Rosenberg, who today serves as the director of project development in the organization. During the first months, Adalah operated under the aegis of the Galilee Association, an Arab voluntary organization which deals primarily with providing health services for those in need. Today 17 men and women work for Adalah, including Jews, and they deal not only with legal matters, but also are involved in research and international contacts. The goals of the organization include "achieving equality and protection of the collective rights of the Arab minority in Israel, through proceedings before the various judicial instances," as stated in their publications.

Like dozens of civic organizations that have sprung up in the Arab sector in recent years, Adalah was established because of the continuing crisis of confidence of the Arab public in Israel vis-a-vis government institutions and the political process. Their disappointment at their meager achievements in the Knesset and the government ministries was translated into direct, professional and voluntary civil action, in which young educated people have assumed a prominent role. The outstanding role of Adalah in the legal field attracted a long series of private and public bodies to the organization, including the Ford Foundation, the New Israel Fund, the European Commission and the Swiss government, which support it consistently.

Adalah was founded on the basis of the ideology of "a state of all its citizens," and has become the most outstanding agent for implementation of this idea, which usually serves as a subject of academic and media debates. "There's no such thing as a legal battle in the field of human rights that takes place in a vacuum," says Jabareen. "It's not in a vacuum, it's in a political space. The point is that this is not a party struggle, the tools are not political."

They enlisted 200 attorneys

Adalah operates with legal tools, and this method has chalked up a long series of achievements. The many appeals submitted to the High Court of Justice and appeals to the attorney general have netted, among other things, equal criteria for allocating budgets for burials of Jews, Muslims and Christians; well-baby clinics in the unrecognized [Bedouin] villages in the Negev; government announcements and tenders that are published in the Arab media as well as in Hebrew. And that's a partial list.

Their latest achievement was the precedent-setting ruling of the High Court passed last month, which required cities of mixed population to post street signs in Arabic and in Hebrew. In this ruling the High Court institutionalized, for the first time, the recognition of Arab as the second official language in Israel. That means that almost any collective right can be considered an individual right.

"We have defined the collective rights of the Arabs: civic equality, which means primarily allocating budgets to Arab communities; collective equality, which includes, for example, cultural rights - language and education; and equal rights to the land - prevention of land expropriation and the destruction of buildings. We don't invent rights, we rely on international conventions and learn from the experience of other minorities."

Jabareen believes that Adalah's struggle has an added value: "Thanks to our appeals, there is a legitimate and non-belligerent discourse in the courts between us and Jewish lawyers and judges. In today's political atmosphere, this is of importance for mediation and rapprochement." Like the 38-year-old Jabareen, the other six attorneys who are his partners in Adalah are enthusiastic and fluent. Most are young people in their twenties and thirties, some studied law abroad or in international human rights organizations. Presumably, this has contributed to their elitist image, which has angered Arab spokesmen from the Islamic and nationalist streams, who criticize their willingness to operate from within the Israeli framework.

The elitist image of Adalah was cracked with the outbreak of the violent events of October 2000 in the Arab sector. Then they committed themselves to representing, in courtrooms all over the country, the hundreds of young people who were arrested in the course of these incidents, and even enlisted about 200 volunteer lawyers for the purpose. Later the organization coordinated the activities surrounding the investigation of the events; it collected hundreds of pieces of evidence, represented the families of the 13 who were killed when the government commission of inquiry started its work, and later also represented the three Arab leaders who were issued warnings.

During the last stage of eyewitness reports in the commission, the attorneys constantly used their right to conduct cross-examinations, during which they dealt extensively with issues concerning the relations between the state and its Arab citizens. Adalah's clients include people from the entire Arab political gamut: members of the two divisions of the Islamic Movement - MK Abdulmalik Dehamshe and Sheikh Raad Salah; MK Azmi Bishara, the head of the secular-nationalist Balad party; the director-general of the nationalist Sons of the Village movement, Mohammed Kanaana. Most of the Arab MKs were represented by the organization in matters connected to their parliamentary work. "We represent anyone who is under the umbrella of the Supreme Monitoring Committee, i.e., another who operates in the consensus in terms of the Arabs," says Jabareen. He claims that until now there has been no case when the organization refused to represent someone.

An Arab lecturer in history and communications in the Open University explains that it is not the elitist image of Adalah that has changed, "but the awareness of legal issues in the Arab public has increased." Through the elitist image, the organization is seen by many young people as a symbol of the struggle of Israeli Arabs to promote their rights. Jabareen says that every week he receives dozens of requests from attorneys who are looking for work. Some remain to work as volunteers.

One of the female attorneys speaks about the place where she has been working for almost two years in terms of "admiration," which she says developed while she was studying at Haifa University. A few years ago she was fascinated by a lecture given there for the Arab students by attorney Jamil Dakwar, and by an article written by attorney Dalal, both of Adalah. The attorney, a 24-year-old native of Acre, sees herself as "a daughter of the proud generation" of Arabs in Israel. "If I tell my mother, who used to work in the education system, about things we are doing in Adalah, she immediately says, `you'll find yourself in detention some day.' That's the submissive generation, they can't free themselves of it."

Since October 2000, the members of Adalah have also strengthened their connections with international human rights organizations and with many legal groups all over the world. The October events led to the meeting with Mary Robinson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and to cooperation with Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch in preparing reports about the situation of the Arabs in Israel.

Before the start of proceedings in the Or Commission, Adalah began to publish, together with a similar legal organization from Northern Ireland, the Committee on the Administration of Justice [CAJ] , which represents the families of civilians who were killed in 1972 in the city of Londonderry, by the fire of British security forces. Although 30 years have passed since that incident, which is known as Bloody Sunday, only a few years ago did England establish a government commission of inquiry to investigate them. At the beginning of 2001, members of Adalah traveled to meet with their colleagues from CAJ and observed the discussions in Northern Ireland and in London. This past July, two of the Irish attorneys came for a visit to Israel, to observe the proceedings of the Or Commission. Rina Rosenberg says that"it was important for us to understand what topics could come up to a commission of inquiry whose aim, like that of the Or Commission, is to investigate the truth."

`Perhaps we made a mistake'

Abroad, members of Adalah make harsher statements than they would dare in Israel. "Why did the United States decide that Hezbollah is a terrorist organization?" wondered Jabareen at a press conference convened in Washington by the Arab-American Anti-Discrimination Committee in January. "And what's the evidence to show that Hezbollah attacks American targets?" Jabareen said that he had understood from an Israeli newspaper that the position of the government in the United States was determined by the Zionist lobby, which convinced the U.S. government to declare Hezbollah a terrorist organization.

Attorney Jabareen and attorney Riad Anis, also of Adalah, appeared at the event as the attorneys of MK Bishara, on the eve of the start of his trial in Israel for praising the armed struggle of Hezbollah against Israel.

At the World Conference on Racism held in Durban, South Africa, two years ago, Jabareen headed the forum of non-governmental organizations [NGOs] which dealt with minority issues. When it turned out that the conference was about to fall apart - in the shadow of the proposals of the Palestinian organizations to state in the summary declaration that Israel was not only a "racist apartheid state," but was also guilty of "genocide" and "ethnic cleansing" because of its actions in the territories and in Lebanon - Jabareen and his colleague Jamil Dakwar tried to soften the wording. "According to international law," Dakwar explained at the time to journalists, "it is not correct to use the term "genocide" in relation to the situation in the Israeli-Arab conflict."

Jabareen says today that he is proud of his organization's participation in the conference, and is angered by accusations of anti-Semitism: "It's easy to incite against us on the issue of Durban. They didn't pay attention to the article I published after the conference in Al Hayyat, the most important Arab newspaper, in which I wrote to the Arabs, not to the Jews: `Perhaps we were mistaken, perhaps we got carried away.' I criticized the marginal groups that were there." He says the things he said in Washington are "criticism that is acceptable to liberal circles in Israel."

Ehud Barak said last week at the Or Commission that "extremist elements" in the Arab public "accept the democratic rules, and try to exploit them to undermine the State of Israel from its foundations and from within." What is your opinion of that?

"We are allowed to exploit what the state gives. If we don't use it, what should we use? Arabs who go into illegitimate channels are told `you have a legitimate channel, why didn't you take advantage of it?' And if they do take advantage of it, then they are told `just a moment, what, are you exploiting it?' Are Arabs forbidden to change the rules of the game with legitimate tools? My answer is that as long as it's done with legitimate tools, it should be welcomed. The fact that you are asking the minority to accept the rules of the game and to be quiet, is almost like asking it to agree to the system of oppression against it."


Home News
Demonstrators denounce poverty at Earth Summit
By Reuters	| Aug. 31, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
JOHANNESBURG - Thousands of protesters denounced everything from AIDS to poverty and pollution at the Earth Summit on Saturday as South Africa deployed police in force to protect delegates.

About 3,000 demonstrators, many dancing and singing, gathered in the Alexandra slum to march to the marble-lined convention centre where delegates at the August 26-September 4 summit are seeking ways to safeguard the planet and cut poverty.

They carried banners and wore T-shirts emblazoned with a rainbow of messages including "factory gases and waste are killing", "hands off Iraq", "globalise the Intifada" or "stop (South African President) Thabo Mbeki's AIDS genocide".

Police, fearing a repeat of the mayhem that marred summits in Seattle and Genoa, were arrayed along the streets. Some were in armored vehicles around the summit venue in the plush, mostly white, Johannesburg suburb of Sandton and in the black shanty township of Alexandra.

Pro-government marches were to be held in parallel.

Fencing close to the summit venue was reinforced with rolls of barbed wire for the biggest marches of the 10-day summit, the biggest international gathering in Africa. Saturday's marches are likely to be the biggest test of policing.

"This summit is being hijacked by trade and the corporate agenda," said Michael Brune of the California-based Rainforest Action Network, who said he was teaming up with local anti-globalisation groups to join one of the marches.

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, who has attracted international ire for his hardline policy of seizing land from white farmers, was among the first to arrive, landing on Saturday morning.

Mbeki, who launched the UN gathering earlier this week with a call to end "global apartheid", was due to address some of the marchers.

South Africa's police are shaking off the reputation for brutality they gained during the apartheid years but have so far clamped down hard on minor, unauthorized protests, firing three stun grenades to break up a small march last Saturday.

As the city braced for the biggest protest of the 10-day UN event, exhausted summit negotiators argued through the night over a plan to enrich poor nations while protecting the planet.

The bulk of the UN text has been agreed but delegates said 14 key issues remained unresolved.

"There's a sort of tug-of-war going on," Norwegian Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson told Reuters late on Friday. By Saturday morning, several delegates said it was not clear whether much progress had been made overnight.

Delegates are trying to reconcile U.S. and European Union demands for aid to be tied more clearly to improving human rights and democracy, and insistence by developing nations that the rich states do more to cut subsidies to their own farmers that help keep Third World imports out of their markets.



Slum protesters march on Earth Summit
By Reuters	| Sep. 1, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
  
JOHANNESBURG - Thousands of slum-dwellers marched on the Earth Summit yesterday, protesting about issues from AIDS to globalization and marshaled by heavily armed police who feared violence might upstage the UN meeting.

Singing apartheid-era songs, a rainbow coalition of at least 10,000 anti-government leftists marched to Johannesburg's plush Sandton convention center from the shanty township of Alexandra - an eight-kilometer walk that South African President Thabo Mbeki said symbolized a "global apartheid" between rich and poor.

There was no was sign of trouble by the time the rally began to break up following speeches outside the summit center. Police revised down estimates of numbers but the turnout was less than some expected. But it was still one of the biggest protests since the end of white minority rule in 1994.

Guarded by police, armored vehicles, helicopters, razor wire and concrete barriers, delegates from almost 200 countries kept up talks inside the building, trying to break a deadlock on an ambitious plan to halve poverty and protect the environment.

Director of Police Services Henriette Bester told Reuters there were no arrests or confrontations. She said one marcher was taken to hospital after suffering a heart attack.

At a separate pro-government rally that drew just 3,000 people, Mbeki renewed calls for the World Summit on Sustainable Development to end the "global apartheid" dividing a few rich from the legions of the world's poor.

Government supporters also later set off for Sandton from Alexandra, a teeming township of 350,000 people, where more than one adult in two has no job.

Among the first foreign leaders to arrive in Johannesburg was Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, in defiant mood about his policy of seizing land from white farmers and redistributing it to landless blacks.

Mbeki does not want Harare's crisis to upstage the summit. Mbeki's government is no great fan of Mugabe but rejects the Western view that he has only held on to power by force.

Many of the protesters in both rallies were pro-Palestinian and the head of the Palestinian delegation to the summit, Farouk Kaddoumi, attacked Israel in a speech at Mbeki's rally.

During the protests, summit negotiators argued over a plan to enrich poor nations while protecting the planet. The bulk of the UN text has been agreed but key issues remain unresolved. German Environment Minister Juergen Trittin said yesterday that there was still no agreement on vital issues, including EU demands for firm targets for increasing the amount of power generated from renewable sources like the wind and sun.

Ministers are under pressure to clinch a deal before world leaders turn up in force tomorrow.

Delegates are also trying to reconcile U.S. and European Union demands for aid to be tied more clearly to improving human rights and democracy and insistence by developing nations that the rich states do more to cut subsidies to their own farmers that help keep Third World imports out of their markets.

Home Print Edition Opinion
Portrait of a state sliding toward racism
The Arab Israeli leadership must adopt an alternative language and different course of action so as to put the brakes on the dangerous slide toward violent subversion that is spreading ever wider through the Arab street.
By Uzi Benziman	| Sep. 1, 2002 | 12:00 AM

At the end of last week Balad - the National Democratic Alliance - published a statement, which had MK Azmi Bishara's fingerprints all over it, warning Israel of a regression toward an apartheid regime. The proclamation came in response to recent government decisions - such as the intention of Interior Minister Eli Yishai to strip Israeli Arabs found guilty of terror activities of their citizenship, or a series of legislative initiatives in the Knesset designed to restrict the freedom of expression or field of action of Arab lawmakers - so as to argue that Israeli society is slipping into a racial hysteria, the victims of which are the Arab citizens of Israel.

Bishara's observations and especially the evidence he provides, pack a significantly persuasive punch. He shows that the public discourse, the tone of which is dictated by the government, discusses the Israeli Arabs in general and derogatory terms. He points to a series of government decisions and laws intended to discriminate against the Arab community. He mentions statements by ministers that pejoratively unite the Arab populations, and he points out the humiliation of Israeli Arabs in their dealings with state institutions and government companies - El Al, for just one example.

Balad's declaration also comes out against the attitude of the Hebrew media toward the Arab minority, accusing them of being dragged into the standpoints voiced by the government and spreading the blackening label.

Azmi Bishara is no fool. He is addressing the Jewish public, particularly the left that is edging rightward, and is seeking its support. Therefore, he does not suffice with mere accusations. He outlines his version of the circumstances in which the racist trend he observes has developed, so as to anchor it in the reality of the past two years and to offer explanations for it in accordance with his view of what should be the desired image of the state.

To convince the reader, Bishara adopts a language that is entirely politically correct. He makes use of arguments taken from the world of democratic and liberal values to which Israel purports to belong. Basing himself on this yardstick, he judges the attitude of the Jewish majority toward the Arab minority, and proves the measure he uses. Israel, as reflected in the mirror held up by Bishara, is a state that sweeps its Arab citizens into its back yard and is currently caught up in a racial hysteria that is leading it to commit serious actions against them.

The element missing from Balad's crying voice is a mention of the goings-on that are dragging Israeli society toward anti-Arab racism. He does not ignore the involvement of Arab Israelis in acts of terror, but he discusses such in sterile terms drawn from the Arabic lexicon for political correctitude.

In such a manner, for example, while analyzing the catch in which the Arab population finds itself - a conflict between its identification with its people and its obligations toward the state - he says that under the current circumstances, the Arab community cannot be blamed "for adopting patterns of behavior defined as extreme and ultra-militant."

Referring to the terror activities of Israeli Arabs, he says: "A small number of them have crossed red lines from the point of view of the rule of law." He doesn't forget to denounce such a phenomenon, but hurries to add: "Despite the fact that it is marginal and should be opposed, it is only encouraged by the campaign of incitement and anti-Arab policy of the government."

Bishara is an authentic voice of the Arab public, certainly of its younger generation, and his choice of words in expressing his standpoint is a fine representation of the attitude of the entire political leadership of the Arab community. The Arab lawmakers do not shy away from their accepted language of political correctitude so as to raise heaven and earth, and to shake to its very foundations the entire Arab public, warning it of the danger in consistently slipping back into acts of terror.

The Jewish majority has indeed been guilty for many years of supporting discriminatory policies against the Arab community, and of backing the government's rantings against it for the past two years. But the Jewish majority cannot disregard the dangerous slide toward violent subversion that is spreading ever wider through the Arab street. The Israeli Arab leadership must adopt an alternative language and different course of action so as to put the brakes on such a development.

Home News
Peres speech cancelled as police break up anti-Israel protest
By The Associated Press	| Sep. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
  
JOHANNESBURG - A planned address by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres was cancelled Tuesday, amid criticism of police action to quash protests sparked by his visit.

A spokeswoman for the South African Institute of International Affairs said the step was "for the best" and declined to link it to demonstrations by Palestinian supporters on Monday that were broken up by riot police in the worst violence seen during the Earth Summit in Johannesburg.

Peres later confirmed the cancellation, saying at a press conference at the Earth Summit in Johannesburg that "South African security forces told us that there was violence and even blood. We don't want to see anyone hurt or any violence. We took their advice and responded."

Earlier in the day, following a meeting with former South African president Nelson Mandela, Peres indicated that Israel was ready to pay any price for peace, including the return of land to Palestinians.

Speaking at a meeting with Nelson Mandela in Johannesburg, he said Israel would go as far as returning occupied territory to the Palestinians in a quest for peace.

Mandela said Arab states must recognise the Jewish state. The United Nations, together with a neutral commission trusted by both sides would supervise existing peace declarations, he said.

Earlier Peres told Reuters he saw no reason why his visit to the country should spark controversy and he hoped to persuade people who took that view to change their minds. He had been due to speak on Israeli foreign policy.

Police arrested 17 people in two separate protests on Monday, after breaking up the demonstrations with water cannon, rubber bullets and stun grenades. One policeman was taken to hospital after being knifed in the leg.

In a toughly-worded statement on Tuesday, the Palestine Solidarity Committee (PSC) said one of the demonstrators would probably lose a finger after being shot in the hand by police.

Four other of the arrested protestors were severely injured, including a woman, it said.

"For those of us that lived through the 1980's, this was a throwback to the days of apartheid when police ruled our streets," the statement said.

The PSC said it also found it strange that police should deny South Africans the right to demonstrate for Palestinian rights when President Thabo Mbeki publicly supported that stand, most recently at the summit last Saturday.

Witnesses said riot police had outnumbered the 100-odd demonstrators at the first protest at a college in the heart of the city, where Peres addressed the South African Zionist Federation and the South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD(.

The Palestinian statement complained that police had literally "thrown out" supporters in the auditorium where Peres was due to speak, carrying one woman out by her arms and legs.

In a separate statement, the SAJBD said it regretted the violence at the protests but thought that the South African police had acted in a "professional" manner.

"The SAJBD regrets the fact that certain pro-Palestinian supporters chose to exercise their right to demonstrate through acts of violence and intimidation," the statement said.

Peres welcomes EU planPeres welcomed a European Union peace plan that aims to put the Middle East peace talks back on track and create a Palestinian state by 2005.

"I think it can help. Basically we are interested in a harmonization of the European position and the American position," Peres said. "But the real problem as I see it is not another peace plan, but a partner for peace."

Peres also defended Israel's much-criticized policy of targeted killings of Palestinian terror suspects, saying Israel was defending itself when it attacked those who he said were on their way to carrying out bombings inside Israel.

"We are extremely careful, but unfortunately there are some mistakes which I regret very much," he said. Over the past week, several civilians, including children, have been killed in IDF raids.

Peres, who served as prime minister twice, said his days at the helm were over.

"I'm not fighting for a post but struggling for a cause," said Peres. "Being at the helm is a complicated problem because then you have to deal with a thousand problems, 900 of them have nothing to do with peace."

Home Print Edition News
Protests disrupt Peres visit to South Africa
A South African think tank canceled a planned address by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres yesterday amid criticism of police action to quash protests sparked by his visit, but declined to link it to demonstrations by Palestinian supporters.
By Reuters	| Sep. 4, 2002 | 12:00 AM

JOHANNESBURG - A South African think tank canceled a planned address by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres yesterday amid criticism of police action to quash protests sparked by his visit.

A spokesman for the South African Institute of International Affairs said the step was "for the best" and declined to link it to demonstrations by Palestinian supporters on Monday that were broken up by riot police in the worst violence seen during the Earth Summit in Johannesburg.

Earlier Peres told Reuters he saw no reason why his visit to the country should spark controversy and he hoped to persuade people who took that view to change their minds. He had been due to speak on Israeli foreign policy.

Police arrested 17 people in two separate protests on Monday, after breaking up the demonstrations with water cannon, rubber bullets and stun grenades. One policeman was taken to hospital after being stabbed in the leg.

In a toughly-worded statement yesterday, the Palestine Solidarity Committee (PSC) said one of the demonstrators would probably lose a finger after being shot in the hand by police.

Four other of the arrested protesters were severely injured, including a woman, it said. "For those of us that lived through the 1980s, this was a throwback to the days of apartheid when police ruled our streets," the statement said.

The PSC said it also found it strange that police should deny South Africans the right to demonstrate for Palestinian rights when President Thabo Mbeki publicly supported that stand, most recently at the summit last Saturday.

Witnesses said riot police had outnumbered the 100-odd demonstrators at the first protest at a college in the heart of the city, where Peres addressed the South African Zionist Federation and the South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD).

The Palestinian statement complained that police had literally "thrown out" supporters in the auditorium where Peres was due to speak, carrying one woman out by her arms and legs.

In a separate statement, the SAJBD said it regretted the violence at the protests but thought the South African police had acted in a "professional" manner.

"The SAJBD regrets the fact that certain pro-Palestinian supporters chose to exercise their right to demonstrate through acts of violence and intimidation," the statement said.

Meanwhile, Egypt joined Saudi Arabia yesterday in welcoming a new European Union "roadmap" for Middle East peace, foreseeing a Palestinian state in three years' time, that is being taken around the region by EU president Denmark.

"It is a very positive element," Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher said after talks with Danish Foreign Minister Per Stig Moeller.

"Now that we have a roadmap, we can concretely work for a solution which is based on two states living side-by-side, both of them enjoying security," Maher said.

The 15 EU ministers backed a three-stage plan drawn up by Denmark envisaging creation of an independent Palestinian state in June 2005, with the full consent of Israel and moderate Arab states.

Moeller presented the plan to Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah on Monday at the start of a tour of Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Israel, and the Palestinian territories. He later quoted Abdullah as saying the plan was a "step in the right direction".

Moeller is to present his plan to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Tel Aviv and Palestinian Chairman Yasser Arafat today.

Home Print Edition Opinion
Sharon's South African strategy
Sharon's declarations about readiness for a Palestinian state and "painful concessions" are not hollow. They are not meant only to calm the worried and the critical. An examination of what is taking place on the ground shows implementation of ideas that were not born yesterday.
By Avi Primor	Sep. 18, 2002 | 12:00 AM

The prime minister's few opponents claim he has no strategy. That is a grave charge. In response, Ariel Sharon displays equanimity, and from his perspective, he's right. On the one hand, he enjoys broad support from the public, which is mostly unworried by a lack of strategy, believing the time for visions is somewhere in the future and that meanwhile there is a consensus on how to fight terrorism. On the other hand, it's convenient for the prime minister and the ruling security echelons, that they are believed to have only tactics and to be politically short-sighted. That way they can implement their strategy without arousing too much attention and criticism.

The prime minister's declarations about readiness for a Palestinian state and "painful concessions" are not hollow words. They are not meant only to calm the worried and the critical. An examination of what is taking place on the ground exposes the consistent implementation of ideas that were not born yesterday.

Many in the top echelons of the security establishment in the 1970s and 1980s had a warm spot in their hearts for the white apartheid regime in South Africa that was derived not only from utilitarian interests, but also from sympathy for the white minority rulers in that country. One of the elements of the old South African regime that stirred much interest in Israel remains current to this day: To seemingly solve the demographic problem that troubled the white South Africans (that is, to hang on to all of South Africa without granting equal rights, civil rights and the vote to blacks), the South African regime created a fiction known by the name Bantustans, later changed to Homelands.

The South African government established small enclaves throughout the country and called them "independent states." These helpless, unsustainable enclaves were surrounded by South African territory and run by collaborators totally subservient to the authority of the larger "neighbor," South Africa. All the blacks outside these fictitious "states" were arbitrarily assigned citizenship in those states. In other words, they became foreign residents in their own land.

For those who desire to keep the West Bank and Gaza, to expand the settlements without annexing the Palestinian population, and who understand that transfer is impractical, the original South African model is particularly tempting. It would be a mistake to use the term "canton" in this case, since cantons are autonomous areas of a state and its citizens. Here, the idea is to turn those Palestinians living in areas that would be annexed to Israel, into foreign citizens.

There are two elements that characterize Sharon's policies toward the Palestinians: the siege of the Palestinian cities and the subversion of the central Palestinian authority - with or without Arafat. Clearly, such a situation requires local authorities in the besieged towns if only to provide elementary services to the population. Those local authorities cannot be subordinate to the gradually disappearing Palestinian Authority, nor can they operate without being subordinate to the Israeli authorities.

Why hasn't this plan reached full fruition yet? It's possible that if not for American pressure, the PA would be only an historical memory by now. But even so, when U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld refers to the "so-called" occupied territories, it's clear the U.S. is only slowing down, not stopping the Sharon strategy.

Without anyone taking notice, a process is underway establishing a "Palestinian state" limited to the Palestinian cities, a "state" comprised of a number of separate, sovereign-less enclaves, with no resources for self-sustenance. The territories of the West Bank and Gaza remain in Israeli hands, and its Palestinian residents are being turned into "citizens" of that "foreign country."

In light of the Israeli government's actions in the territories, it is very difficult to describe the future Palestinian state in any other way, or for that matter, the "painful concessions" promised by the prime minister. Another question is whether such a solution can last very long in the 21st century, and in the heart of the Middle East. And even more difficult is the thought of what will happen when the solution collapses.

The writer is vice president of Tel Aviv University and a former Foreign Ministry deputy director general for Africa, Asia and Oceania.

Home Print Edition News
Arab world demonstrates to mark two years
By Daniel Sobelman, Jalal Bana	Sep. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM

Demonstrations marking the two-year anniversary of the Al-Aqsa Intifada were held in many parts of the Arab world on Friday, with the biggest rallies being organized by the Hezbollah in Lebanon.

Hezbollah Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah, addressing a crowd of tens of thousands of supporters in Beirut that included members of Palestinian opposition groups, lauded the intifada and suicide bombers.

Regarding the dispute with Israel over the waters of the Wazzani River in southern Lebanon, Nasrallah said that "every drop of Lebanese water will be protected with every drop of the blood from the veins of our jihad."

In recent days the government of Lebanon announced that it intended to inaugurate its water pumping station on the Wazzani on October 15, in the presence of Lebanese President Emile Lahoud and other dignitaries.

Lebanon's foreign minister, Mahmoud Hamoud, said that his country intends to pump water from the Wazzani, despite Israel's protests, and the director of the Project for the Development of Southern Lebanon, Kiblan Kiblan, added that the goal is to draw 10,000 cubic meters of water per day.

Hezbollah is believed to be actively behind the Wazzani project and is linking it directly to its struggle against Israel.

"Sharon can do whatever he wants and he can threaten all he wants," Nasrallah said, commenting on Israel's warnings on altering the water status quo in southern Lebanon. "We are determined to continue our assistance to the intifada," he added.

In the Syrian capital Damascus, more than 500 peoples marched silently through the city on Friday to mark the intifada anniversary. The Committee for the Support of the Palestinian Uprising, the march's organizing group, sold shirts to raise funds for the families of Palestinian victims of the violence. The participants, who also included protesters from Germany and the United Kingdom, carried placards, banners and flags of Syria, Palestine and Islamic militant groups Hamas and Hezbollah.

In Cairo, a protest took place at Al-Azhar mosque following Friday prayers. Also in Bahrain's capital, Manama, about 1,000 protesters declared their support for the Palestinians in the territories.

Several thousand people demonstrated in Marseilles yesterday afternoon in support of the Palestinians. They marched in through the French port city carrying posters reading "Boycott Israeli products" and "Oppose colonialism and apartheid."

Home Print Edition News
UK Jews up in arms over media's Israel coverage
Relations between British Jews and the British media have fallen to a new low in recent weeks after three anti-Israeli documentaries were broadcast on the three leading television channels, Channel 4, the BBC and ITV. The BBC treatment of Jewish MP Kaufman's trip to Israel caused immense bitterness.
By Sharon Sadeh	Sep. 30, 2002 | 12:00 AM
	
  
Relations between British Jews and the British media have fallen to a new low in recent weeks after three anti-Israeli documentaries were broadcast on the three leading television channels.

Six weeks ago, Channel 4 ran "Dangerous Liaison," about U.S.-Israeli relations, edited by Jacqueline Rose, one of the signatories to a petition calling on European universities to cut off scientific and cultural relations with Israel.

The BBC ran "End of an Affair" on the eve of the Jewish New Year, documenting Jewish MP Gerald Kaufman's reservations about Israel and its government policies, after he declared he would never set foot in Israel again.

And ITV ran "Palestine is Still the Issue," a film by John Pilger, one of the leading leftist writers in Britain. Israel was described as a violent apartheid state that had taken over Palestinian lands and that sadistically tortures Palestinians.

Rose's documentary did not stir much interest - her anti-American posturing is well known - but the BBC treatment of Kaufman's trip to Israel and Pilger's documentary caused immense bitterness.

Kaufman, a Jewish Labor MP and one of the best rhetoricians in parliament, was asked six months ago by the BBC to visit Israel to find out if his position had changed since he announced he would never set foot in the country again. He toured major cities and met Israelis and Palestinians, including senior officials. But he does not hide his negative feelings and opinions about the country.

"Not only has Jerusalem's unique skyline been raped," he says while touring the city. "But vast areas of the city have been taken over, infested by intolerant, ultra-orthodox ... self appointed guardians of the Jewish faith, [who] refuse to serve in the army that defends them. The Western Wall, a popular place for Bar Mitzvahs ... for me, my Bar Mitzvah was an initiation into manhood ... here they are holding their Bar Mitzvahs. They are not initiations into manhood, they are initiations into fundamentalism."

Pilger's film was commissioned a year ago by the head of the news department at ITV, Steve Anderson. Pilger was asked to prepare a documentary on the same subject that Pilger documented on film 25 years earlier. Pilger hired Ilan Peppe, an Israeli "new historian" as a consultant and the film opens with the following statement: "Twenty five years ago I made a film called `Palestine is still the issue'. It was about a nation of people, the Palestinians, forced off their land and later subjected to a military occupation by Israel - an occupation condemned by the UN and almost every country in the world, including Britain.

"But Israel is backed by a very powerful friend, the U.S. Nothing has changed in 25 years, if we are to speak of the great injustice here. What has changed is that the Palestinians have fought back. Stateless and humiliated for so long, they have risen up against Israel's huge military machine, although they themselves have no army, no tanks, no American planes, no gunships or missiles. Some have committed desperate acts of terror, like suicide bombing - but for Palestinians, the overriding routine terror, day after day, has been the ruthless control of every aspect of their lives, as if they live in an open prison."

He describes Operation Defensive Shield by saying that "Last April, troops and tanks of the Israeli army attacked Ramallah and other towns in occupied Palestine. This was reported as an 'incursion to stop terrorism.' In fact, it was also an attack on civilian life - on schools, offices, clinics, theaters, radio stations. This systematic vandalism is typical of one of the longest military occupation in modern times."

Pilger depicts Israel as capricious and sadistic. He described the course of events leading to the current conflict with the Palestinians without any mention of the Camp David and Taba conferences, or that before the current conflict, tens of thousands of Palestinians worked inside Israel. And he accuses the Jewish people of a conspiracy to manipulate non-Jews, to make gentiles believe that any criticism of Israel is a form of anti-Semitism.

Hundreds of angry telephone calls to ITV, led Michael Green, chairman of ITV's owner, Carlton Communications PLC, to tell the Jewish Chronicle that the documentary was "one-sided, it was totally unrealistic, but it was John Pilger ... it was factually incorrect, historically incorrect.... There's no doubt in my mind that this program is a tragedy for Israel so far as accuracy is concerned."

Jewish community leaders are in a quandary about how to respond. At first, Jewish community leaders considered pressing to get the shows dropped from the broadcasting schedule, but that was scotched for fear the pro-Israel lobby would be depicted as trying to gag criticism and censor what it didn't want heard.

Jo Wagerman, president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, wrote to the BBC about "The End of an Affair," complaining that Kaufman not only condemned the policies of the government of Israel, but also made many offensive comments about Jews and the Jewish religion. Wagerman told the BBC that such remarks were contrary to the BBC's own Producers Guidelines.

The Board also complained to Carlton about "Palestine is still the Issue," saying Pilger made no secret of his support and sympathy for the Palestinian cause. In his complaint to the Independent Television Commission, Board of Deputies Director General Neville Nagler said the program portrayed "a one-sided view of the current conflict, focusing on Israel's alleged aggression and the plight of the Palestinian people. No effort was made to provide context or any kind of perspective from the standpoint of Israel."

"Pilger misrepresents Israels wars in 1948 and 1967 as though they were initiated by Israel. He effectively accuses Jewish people of conspiring to manipulate the non-Jewish world into believing that any criticism of Israel is anti-Semitism. In view of the totally one-sided character of this program, we expect that, in the interests of balance and fairness, Carlton TV should apologize and present a film of corresponding length which portrays the recent history of Israel in an objective and fair-minded manner."

Kaufman, who was ostracized at his synagogue on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur, told Ha'aretz he had received hundreds of letters of support since the documentary was broadcast. The BBC said: "We listen to complaints very carefully but we are satisfied about the impartiality of our coverage which we view regularly. Kaufman was chosen because he is a Jew who also made a public vow never to return to Israel. So we though to see whether he would be willing to go back once more, to explore why he feels so critically about the country and whether he still holds his views


Home Print Edition Opinion
A minority within a minority
Following the War of Independence, which involving land confiscation and deportation, the number of Christians in the country fell sharply. But since around 1960, the population steadily increased, reaching 111,000 by 2000.
By Amnon Rubinstein	Oct. 7, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Two interesting facts about the Christian-Arab minority in Israel are not widely known. One, among all of the countries of the Middle East excepting Lebanon, Israel has the largest Christian minority of all. Two, this group has notched the most impressive achievements in the realms of education and health. Dr. Alex Lowenthal, chief of the Health Ministry's Public Health Service, puts it this way: "The Christian Arabs have the finest health indicators in Israel. Better than the Jews."

Following the War of Independence, which was particularly cruel for the Christian villages of the Galilee, involving land confiscation and deportation, the number of Christians in the country fell sharply, only managing to reach 34,000 in 1960. But since that time, the population has steadily increased, reaching 111,000 by 2000. It is the only Christian population in the Middle East to have increased. Of course, the proportion of Christians to Muslims and to Jews in Israel has not kept pace, since the Christians have a lower natural growth rate. Between 1967 and 2001, the Christian population increased by 1.8 percent per annum, as opposed to 4.4 percent among Muslims.

Conversely, the very same factor - small families - that reduced their proportion of the general population is partly responsible for the extraordinary accomplishments of this minority: the infant mortality rate among Christian Arabs in the 1996-1999 period was 4.9 per thousand births (among Muslims it was 9.5, among Jews 4.8). Over the years, infant mortality within this community has continued to decline. By 2001, it recorded one of the lowest rates in the world: 2.6 per thousand - the same as in Scandinavia and Japan.

In the realm of education, the Christians go straight to the head of the class. They attend university at the rate of 323 per thousand (for those born in the 1965-1969 period), as compared to 108 Muslim and Druze per thousand and to the national average, which is 131.

Although the percentage of Christian Arabs among all Arabs in Israel is only 10 percent, they represent more than one-quarter of the Arab labor force, due to the higher rate of working women. There is no data on their economic status, but as opposed to other rural Arab settlements, the economic ranking of their villages is good. For example, Jish and Mi'ilya are in sixth place out of ten - like Arad - and Fasouta is in fourth place, like Safed.

These data are of interest, for two reasons: one, they refute the argument that Israel is racist in the way it treats its Arab citizens, that it is essentially an apartheid state. The data do not refute allegations of deprivation or discrimination in the budgetary allocations to local authorities, or the representation of Arabs in commercial, public and governmental bodies. Nevertheless, they do prove that not only the government but also the community, family and local authority bear responsibility for the wide gaps between Jews and Muslims.

How can one explain the differences between Muslim Arabs and Christian Arabs? There is no difference in the government's treatment of or allocation of resources to the two populations; nor is there any difference between the two in terms of their fervor for Palestinian nationalism.

The discrepancy in infant mortality, for instance, is attributed by the Health Ministry to the fact that Christians do not marry within the same family, despite their small numbers, due to religious and cultural prohibitions. Cultural differences are also responsible for the different size of the families, and the participation of women in the work force.

So long as there exists a national conflict between us and the entire Arab population - including all of its constituent elements - we will not be able to realize the full equality that we must attain. In the meantime, however, it would be absurd if we did not make it possible for every person in Israel to maximize his or her own potential, and the potential of the Christians - dwindling in every other country of the Middle East except Israel - is extremely high.

There is one more conclusion to be reached: the immense difference between progressive Israel and the Arab world, which suffers from backwardness and repression, is unexpectedly reflected in this aspect, as well - that of a Christian minority trying and succeeding to preserve its tradition in a land that is both the cradle of its religion and a Jewish state. This, despite having to contend with the difficult circumstance of being a minority within a minority, living in a state that is itself a minority that lives within a hostile majority.


Home Print Edition Features
Settlement tightens the noose on Jerusalem
As opposed to the conventional wisdom in Israel, namely that the leaderships of the PLO, Fatah and the Palestinian Authority are exclusively engaged in internal squabbling, in recent days they have in fact been considering the issue of whether the two-state solution could even be implemented at this time.
By Amira Hass	| Oct. 9, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
As opposed to the conventional wisdom in Israel, namely that the leaderships of the Palestine Liberation Organization, Fatah and the Palestinian Authority are exclusively engaged in internal squabbling, in recent days they have in fact been considering the issue of whether the two-state solution - the establishment of an independent and viable Palestinian state alongside the State of Israel - could even be implemented at this time.

The PLO's Negotiations Affairs Department, which is headed by Abu Mazen (Mahmoud Abbas), has raised the question of whether Israel's construction policies in the settlements in general and in Jerusalem in particular have not in effect shattered the previous framework for peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, obliging the sides to replace it with a more suitable framework.

Abu Mazen's department is now putting the finishing touches on a document that summarizes Israeli's construction activities, especially in the West Bank territories around Jerusalem, and in the eastern part of the city. The document also considers the implications of the new separation fence that is now going up. For its data, the framers of the document relied on readily available information that has appeared in the Israel press, or has been supplied by the Peace Now movement and the B'Tselem organization. The document is entitled "Israel's Pre-emption of a Viable Two State Solution." Appended to it is a separate chapter that considers the economic, social and political implications of Israeli construction policies in East Jerusalem.

In this spirit, Palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayyad, who is currently in Washington, cautioned his American counterparts that Israeli settlement policies are liable to frustrate the implementation of a solution based on establishment of a Palestinian state alongside Israel. This was reported yesterday by sources in the PLO negotiations department. Fayyad left Sunday for conversations with senior U.S. figures on diplomatic and financial matters. He took with him a series of maps, as well as the document whose main points are described below.

Fayyad is considered an "American appointment" to the new Palestinian cabinet that was named in early June under international pressure to carry out reforms in the Palestinian government. Fayyad, a Tul Karm-born economist, served for years as a senior International Monetary Fund official. He has been the IMF's representative in the Palestinian Authority ever since the PA's establishment. In the few months since his appointment to the cabinet, Authority sources say that Fayyad has succeeded in making sure that Palestinian Authority's scant revenues are deposited in a single bank account (instead of several different accounts); has put an end to the never-ending deviations from the budget that were the result of the checks that Yasser Arafat would hand out to anyone who asked; has initiated the process of breaking up the PA's commercial monopolies; has established standards for transparency in the budget and in the ministries of the Authority; and has caused Israeli finance minister Silvan Shalom to transfer some of the tax revenues that Israel has owed the Palestinian Authority for two years.

Even when the Palestinian Legislative Council caused the new cabinet to resign, saying the cabinet had not complied with the requirements of the reform, its members underscored their great appreciation for Fayyad's professionalism. Three weeks ago, he also had an opportunity to show his patriotic backbone. Fayyad was attending a routine meeting with Yasser Arafat when IDF tanks laid siege to the Muqata and began destroying the compound. He could have left, in coordination with the Israeli authorities, but opted to remain with Arafat and the others, and from the besieged office continued to conduct conference calls on financial matters with representatives of the contributor countries that are partners in the reform program.

De-facto apartheid

The document that Abu Mazen's department has been drafting for the past month calls the settlements "colonies" and warns, "If the international community continues to remain unwilling to reign in Israeli colony construction and expansion, irreversible `facts on the ground' and the de facto apartheid system, such facts create will force Palestinian policy makers to re-evaluate the plausibility of a two-state solution."

According to the document, Israeli construction in the West Bank in general and in the area of Jerusalem in particular would leave the Palestinians with chances for a "state" in name only, that would more closely resemble an Indian reservation in the United States, with limited access to water and land. This is the opinion of the document's authors - a team of legal scholars, academics and geographers who have been working in the framework of what is called the "Jerusalem task force" for the past two years.

Israel has exploited the opportunity afforded by the conflict to expand in three directions, through its construction and settlement policies in Jerusalem. These trends originated long before the outbreak of the intifada: closing off East Jerusalem from the rest of the West Bank; for all intents and purposes cutting off the northern West Bank from the southern West Bank; and the prevention of any opportunity for Palestinian urban development, partly by means of expanding construction in the settlements of the West Bank in general, and in Jerusalem in particular.

According to the document, the Jerusalem metropolitan area that is now coming into being - through a network of outer and inner roads, outer and inner separation fences, the route of the light railway system and an accelerated wave of construction that is linking together Israeli settlements - will extend over an area of 440 square kilometers, of which only 25 percent lie in West Jerusalem, with the remainder in territory occupied in 1967.

This construction, which links Israeli settlements to Jerusalem, blocks the development options of the future capital of the promised Palestinian state, cuts off Palestinian settlements from one another and from East Jerusalem, and ensures continued Israeli control in widespread areas of the West Bank, through Israel's control of the roads.

Construction in southwest Jerusalem, which is closing in on Bethlehem and its sister cities of Beit Sahour and Beit Jala and the villages in the area, will deny them the opportunity of natural growth, and cut them off from both Jerusalem and the southern West Bank.

The document states that this is being perpetrated by means of the expansion of Gush Etzion (including the ultra-Orthodox settlement of Beitar Illit), which can expand up to two-and-a-half times its current size, through construction at Har Homa and the settlements along its flanks - Givat Hamatos and Givat Ha'arbaa, which is planned for the area south of Har Homa, and by means of paving the Zaatra-Beit Sahour road that would directly link eastern Gush Etzion (the settlement of Tekoa) with Har Homa.

In East Jerusalem, the document's authors cite the E-1 plan that would expand the Adumim settlement bloc, creating a contiguous territorial belt of settlement between Maale Adumim, Pisgat Ze'ev and French Hill. This would "consolidate Israeli control over key transportation junctions for all the roads connecting the northern West Bank to the south including the vital eastern ring road..." The same would happen with the east-west roads that link the Jordan rift in the east to western Israel. This E-1 expansion plan, which has already led to some expropriation of lands of surrounding Palestinian villages, "will also foreclose any possibility of Palestinian economic and urban development in the largest area of non-developed land near Occupied East Jerusalem, effectively destroying any prospects of meaningful Palestinian presence in Greater Jerusalem."

As opposed to the southern and eastern gates of the capital, in which - according to the document - all it will take is a single bloc of settlements to functionally partition the eastern part of the city from its surroundings, the continuum of Palestinian construction, albeit thin, between Shuafat and Ramallah compelled Israel to build two settlement blocs along the outer rim of the city's northern gate. They are the Givon bloc that lies northwest of Givat Ze'ev, and includes Givon, Givon Hahadasha, Givat Shmuel and Har Adar; and the Binyamin bloc, which comprises Adam, the Sha'ar Binyamin industrial zone, Psagot, Tel Zion and Kochav Yaakov in the northeast.

There are three highways running east-west and north-south that are now being completed and expanded, which link these two Israeli settlement blocs to one another, to other settlement blocs in the West Bank, to western Jerusalem, and to Tel Aviv. These roads also happen to break up the continuum of Palestinian communities in the region, separating them from one another, disconnecting them from Ramallah and Jerusalem, and preventing their development. Examples include Jaba and Hizma in the east, and Sheikh Jarrah, Beit Hanina, Shuafat, A-Ram and Bir Naballah in the west, as well as the western villages of Bidu, Katana and Beit Iqsa.

The document states that as opposed to ring roads in other cities of the world, which are intended to ease traffic around densely populated areas, the ring road in Jerusalem is "intended to tighten Israeli control over Jerusalem." The ring road is designed to link "the southern colonies" - Tekoa and Har Homa - with "the northern colonies" and simultaneously divert Palestinian traffic far from the city center.

"The `security' wall," reports the document, "will be three times as long as the Berlin Wall, and at points, twice as high," and will in its initial stage lead to the de-facto annexation of 3-5 percent of West Bank territory to Israel. With its erection in East Jerusalem, an additional 3 percent of West Bank territory will be annexed to Israel, with a total of 90,000 Palestinians who are not residents of Israel finding themselves living between the fence and the Green Line.

The longstanding Israeli policy of discrimination on the allocation of budgets and land reserves is turning the Palestinian territory in Jerusalem proper into slums that are isolated from one another, states the chapter about the implications of Israeli construction in East Jerusalem for the Palestinian population. These slums are denied open land tracts for future population growth and economic and commercial growth.

The document predicts an exacerbation of population density in these slums, which will be fertile ground for poverty and disease. The Israeli construction policies in Jerusalem and in the northern and southern West Bank, spoils any possibility of leaving Jerusalem as an open city shared by two peoples and two states. The document concludes by cautioning that unless Israel leaves territorial continuity in the Palestinians' hands, "the only remaining option is for the Palestinians to accept a one-state, two nations solution." However, this will not be accepted by Israel because of Palestinian demographic superiority that threatens the Jewish state, say the authors of the document.

They conclude with the hope that Israeli fears about Palestinian demographic growth "might `push' the Israelis to reconsider their settlement policies and perhaps accept division of the city," and at the last moment come to their senses and accept the two-state solution.


Home News
Students seek to halt pro-Palestinian conference
By The Associated Press	| Oct. 10, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Saying a conference at the University of Michigan promoting divestment in Israel is a danger to students' safety, a lawyer was expected to seek a restraining order to halt the event.

Deborah Schlussel represents two students who sued the university over the conference earlier this week.

She was expected to ask Washtenaw Circuit Judge Melinda Morris to hold a hearing tomorrow to halt the conference.

People scheduled to speak this weekend at the Second National Student Conference on the Palestinian Solidarity Movement advocate violence and are not protected by constitutional guarantees of free speech, Schlussel told the Detroit Free Press.

Schlussel filed a lawsuit - on behalf of the leaders of the Michigan Student Zionists - on Oct. 8 against the school's president and Board of Regents trying to halt the event.

Students Allied for Freedom and Equality is hosting the conference, which runs Oct. 12 through Oct. 14. The group is calling on universities nationwide to divest any interests they have with companies doing business with Israel, saying that Israel treats Arabs the same way apartheid South Africa treated blacks.

According to the suit, the speaker drawing the most concern is Sami Al-Arian, who is facing dismissal by the University of South Florida after appearing on Fox News Channel's "The O'Reilly Factor" shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. On the show, he was questioned about alleged links to terrorists and asked about a speech a decade ago in which he advocated "death to Israel."

USF has filed a lawsuit asking a Florida court to determine whether firing Al-Arian would violate his free-speech rights.

Meanwhile, Fadi Kiblawi, co-founder of SAFE and a Michigan senior from St. Louis, said the Michigan lawsuit is a "laughable attempt to stifle debate, which strikes at the core of American values and First Amendment rights."

Marvin Krislov, the university's general counsel, said yesterday there was no legal basis for the lawsuit.

"An attempt to impose a gag order violates the most fundamental precepts of the First Amendment," he said. "The University of Michigan has carefully and thoughtfully considered the concerns expressed about this conference, and we have elected to stand by the principles of openness, tolerance and robust debate that are central to our educational mission."

SAFE spokesman Eric Reichenberger has said the group is not anti-Semitic and that it has some Jewish members.

Other speakers include Adam Shapiro, a New York City Jew who spent a night in Yasser Arafat's headquarters in April to support the Palestinian leader when the compound was under siege by Israeli forces.

Reichenberger said 250 people have registered for the conference, and SAFE expects more to attend.

Students in the university's pro-Israel groups plan rallies over the weekend to protest the conference.


Home Print Edition Features
Rubble-rousers
Yossi Sarid's visit to the Mitzpe Assaf settlement near Beit El may have been an act of mischief - or perhaps a public duty. The rumor of his arrival - with Meretz colleague MK Mussi Raz - spread like wildfire throughout the nearby settlements.
By Daniel Ben Simon	Oct. 25, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Yossi Sarid's visit to the Mitzpe Assaf settlement near Beit El may have been an act of mischief - or perhaps a public duty. The rumor of his arrival - with Meretz colleague MK Mussi Raz - spread like wildfire throughout the nearby settlements, while residents of the hilltop outposts could barely believe their eyes. For them, having Sarid in their midst was like allowing pigs into a house of worship.

Sarid enjoyed the attention of the media representatives who gathered around awaiting his pronouncements, while a throng of security guards surrounded him. He appeared content as he looked across at the dilapidated caravans that had been placed on the rocky ground and looked as though they were about to slide down the hillside at any moment.

Sarid was wearing a flak jacket, and for a moment one might have mistaken him for one of the security coordinators of a settlement in the area. The security guards kept a close watch for trouble. Was it the Palestinian villagers or the settlers they were more worried about?

Michael Blum of Beit El could not come to terms with Sarid's presence at the site and stared at him with hatred in his eyes. After a few moments he plucked up his courage and moved closer. "Why did you come here?" he demanded.

"To see what is going on here," Sarid retorted in a businesslike manner.

"Don't you think that you are creating a provocation?" Blum asked.

"Absolutely not," Sarid replied. "There is a meeting of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee with the defense minister this afternoon and I have come here to make sure that this outpost has been dismantled to the foundations," Sarid said.

The small number of settlers who came to the site continued to fix piercing, hate-filled stares at Sarid.

Yehoshua Mor-Yosef, the spokesman of the Yesha (Judea, Samaria and Gaza) Council of settlements, who lives in nearby Ofra, was called urgently to the scene. He and his council colleagues had earlier considered either trying to disrupt the visit or to ignore it. They chose the second option. "Are we short of problems, that we now need to get involved with Sarid as well?" he asked.

The events of the past few days have left a harsh impression on Mor-Yosef. First he found himself facing the hilltop youth and felt that his safety was threatened. That was after he had condemned their violent behavior during the evacuation of Havat Gilad.

Mor-Yosef preferred to describe them as young people lacking an ideological direction, who will stop at nothing to further their aims. He tried to work out a compromise between the army and the settlers. But one of the young settlers, brandishing a metal pipe, approached him, and with a look of murder in his eyes, asked, "Are you Yehoshua Mor-Yosef?" Then the settler shook him violently. Mor Yosef replied "No!" as his body shook in terror. The young thug let his prey go and turned away. Mor-Yosef was sure that his lie had saved his life.

"If I had admitted my identity, he would have split my head open with that pipe," Mor-Yosef said, finding it difficult to get over the shock of what had just happened.

After Sarid had left, Ahi Prizant got into his car for an urgent meeting at the Education Ministry in Jerusalem. Prizant is the head of the local education authority in Beit El, where over 3,000 pupils study. Many of the graduates of the Beit El education program are a dominant force in the hilltop youth, which has become the most dangerous and most extreme element in the territories.

Prizant knows them well and considers them as sons with a good soul who have strayed from the ways of their parents. That morning he had come to the hilltop in order to try to cool Sarid's fervent dislike of the settlers.

"These youngsters have undergone a very difficult two years and have stood up to the hardships admirably. They deserve a medal for their bravery, and special privileges. Let's do all we can together so that the terrible scenes of Havat Gilad are not repeated," Prizant said as he appealed to Sarid. The opposition leader looked on impassively.

Prizant then went on to his meeting at the Education Ministry, where the issue on the agenda was how to deal with the hilltop youth, and try explain their predicament and the dilemmas they are currently having to deal with.

Settlement officials have suddenly awakened to a nightmare. They have lived for a long time with the fear that their youngsters would one day erupt into uncontrolled action. But this panic is tempered by an admiration of the younger generation's daring attitude and their unbounded commitment to the cause. The older generation harks back to the days of messianic ecstasy, when they roamed the hilltops of Judea and Samaria led by eccentric dreamers like Moshe Levinger, Hanan Porath, Daniella Weiss and their colleagues who took West Bank land by force and established their new homes there.

The youngsters have tried to prove that they are at least as daring as their parents' generation, displaying blind faith, total hatred for the authorities and a complete disregard for the rule of law.

"Over the years we have managed to strengthen our youth as they continued to learn, but now the situation is complicated," Prizant said.

Out of control

After Mor-Yosef felt his life had been endangered, he abandoned his diplomatic language. He will not accept any excuses, and does not see the youngsters as having strayed momentarily from their path. Instead, he views them as a danger to the entire settlement program in the territories. "What are these hilltop youth?" he asked while driving to Migron, another hilltop outpost only recently established. "There is a criminal element among them and all kinds of educational mutations that have spread out of control.

"There are also youngsters who have dropped out of the established frameworks and have wandered from place to place until they became stuck on the fringe. They are a problem, and wherever there is a confrontation, they take over," Mor-Yosef explained.

Until two weeks ago, everything was fine. The settlers set up their outposts on the bare hilltops, the army knew about it and turned a blind eye. The representatives of Peace Now continued to provide data that showed the alarming increase in these outposts, representatives of the left caused an uproar and reserve soldiers were sent to guard the settlers, as usual. That was how 106 new outposts came into being in the past five years nder the encouragement of prime ministers Netanyahu, Barak and Sharon.

"The establishment of the outposts are a chess game between us and the Palestinians. They make a move and we counter it with ours. They build and we build in response. The one who builds the most will achieve victory in the battle for the Land of Israel," Mor-Yosef said. "In my experience there has not been a point on the map in Judea and Samaria which has not turned into a permanent settlement. There is no cause more just than to settle the free land," he continued.

There had been no lack of deliberation among the youth before they decided on the name Migron. They saw the similarity with the word migraine, and had wanted to name the spot after a murdered settler. The people who insisted on Migron believe that it is close to the biblical place of the same name that appears in the book of Samuel: "And Saul sits under the pomegranate which is in Migron," it says. In the end, the Bible won out.

The settlement was born in an unscrupulous way. Some three years ago, a group of settlers climbed the hilltop that looks toward Ofra and Beit El to the north and Jerusalem to the south. They established an archaeological dig and then settled there.

Itai Harel, the son of Yisrael Harel, one of the founders of Ofra, spent months on his own on top of the hill in an effort to establish facts on the ground. Six months ago the caravans arrived, a road was built and 30 families moved in. The place became a hit with the settlers because of the ideologically-minded youngsters and the special geographical position.

"There is no danger of such a settlement being evacuated," said Sharon Harel, one of the founders. On this day he stayed behind to guard while his friends were to study in Jerusalem. "If this place is evacuated, a world war will break out," he said.

Harel is in his twenties, single, and lives in a caravan on his own. "I am the next generation of people who will settle the Land of Israel. Everything in Judea and Samaria today was once an outpost. What we are doing here is setting the path of history, which is why I have no doubt that Migron will become a permanent settlement. Maybe the state will manage to evacuate one or two settlements, but historically we will win. Our actions will not be in vain; our aim is to settle the entire Land of Israel," he said.

Itai Harel finds the arguments over the legality of the outposts a joke. He says that in Israel, politics and the law have always been mixed together to form a whole. "Something that is illegal today will become legal tomorrow; it's all determined by the politicians," he said.

He watched the incidents at Havat Gilad closely. "It was very painful and personally shocking," he said, explaining that it is all part of a wider and more sinister conspiracy. "Those who want to dismantle outposts today will want to uproot settlements at a later date, but it won't happen. In five years' time Migron will become a permanent settlement on the same scale as Ofra. We have a long waiting list of people who want to come and live here," he said.

At the entrance to the outpost there is a wooden sign that reads "A community settlement that was established despite many difficulties with the belief in Israel's eternity. We are fueled by the knowledge that the unity of the nation, belief and the land will bring peace and redemption."

Balance of fear

The settler establishment is faced with a serious dilemma: How should they expedite the redemption of the people of Israel - through peaceful persuasion or violence?

The nihilists among the settlers believe that only if they display a violent and unpredictable stance will they be able to deter the government from evacuating settlements in the future. The more moderate element among them believes that only through appeals to public opinion will they be able to prevent such moves.

For years now, these two schools of thought have divided the settlers, with neither one able to prevail. Part of the problem has been that the settlers are not sure whom to target, the government or public opinion.

Some claimed that only through intensive pressure on the politicians would they be able to ensure their future, while others preferred to adopt a more sophisticated PR approach to convince the public that the settlements should be allowed to stay.

The events of Havat Gilad sent shock waves through the moderate settler community, but caused great satisfaction among the extremist elements.

They witnessed the determination of the youngsters compared to the hesitation of the soldiers and police, and realized that the balance of fear was working against the government. They said that if this is what youngsters can do on a hilltop, just imagine what an entire settlement could do. "For these people, it's a life-and-death struggle," one said. "You have to understand that a connection to the land does something to a person."

Love-hate relationship

Shaul Goldstein, the head of the Gush Etzion Regional Council, is considered one of the more moderate of the settler leaders. He secular until the age of 25. He then had a divine revelation that changed his life; he became a believer, donned a knitted skullcap and moved to Neve Daniel. The events at Havat Gilad shocked him and he demanded an urgent meeting of the Yesha Council. He had intended to propose that the council impose its authority on the rowdy youngsters before things got out of hand and before the settlers' image is tarnished beyond repair, endangering its future forever.

After the Sabbath, when he heard of the evacuation that was already under way, Goldstein drove to Havat Gilad in order to try to help calm things down. He says he was shocked at the scenes he saw. It was a war zone, with people fighting, shouting, threatening each other, pushing, shoving and weeping. The bulldozers were ready to move in.

One of the youngsters who recognized Goldstein, shouted at him: "You are criminals, you will pay for this." But more than to Goldstein, the words were directed at Ze'ev Hever, who was responsible for reaching agreement with Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer over the voluntary evacuation of the farm. The army's presence was seen in the eyes of the settlers as a provocation by Ben-Eliezer, and also intended for his own political gain within his party.

Goldstein foresaw the problems well beforehand, when several months ago he demanded that the Yesha Council discuss the matter of the hilltop youth and expressed fears of their violent behavior.

"The hilltop youth are people who have become detached from their educational framework and have gone off to do whatever they wish. Some of the youngsters are excellent people, strong, believing, and connected to their people. They will lead the next generation. But on the fringes, there are youngsters with a new agenda. They have a leadership that sees us as criminals, and I fear that this element, which numbers only a few hundred, could destroy the entire settlement program. Their actions harm our moral values," Goldstein said.

Goldstein is worried, and feels hurt that the youngsters are unable to see the values that he and those like him represent. Instead of thanking him for his hard work, they treat him like a traitor who is in collusion with the political establishment. If he could only explain the true situation to them, he feels that he would be able to persuade them that the pragmatic approach that he and others like him represent is the way to preserve the settlement program.

Goldstein would explain to them that preservation of the unity government is one of the settlements' biggest assets these days. He would tell them that the "covenant" between Ariel Sharon and Shimon Peres is the best guarantee for a secure future and continued building of the settlements. He would say that while Sharon fills the territories with outposts, Peres explains the situation to the world and softens the harsh image the activity engenders.

He would explain that were it not for the fact that Peres was foreign minister and Ben-Eliezer defense minister, there would have been a UN presence in the territories long ago.

He would also say that had not the Labor Party been a fig leaf for Sharon's actions, demonstrations by the left wing would long ago have brought about Sharon's demise.

"I would have said that without the unity government, we would have been in a catastrophic situation," Goldstein explained.

It is unlikely that these explanations would have satisfied the youth. Over the past few days the territories have been plastered with posters that clearly suggest mutiny. Many are pasted onto walls in the Gush Etzion settlements.

One calls on soldiers to refuse to obey orders, while another calls on soldiers to differentiate between good and bad, between friend and foe. "The army's job is to expel the enemy, not to expel friends," the poster says.

Goldstein could not avoid seeing the posters, and he was filled with shame.

Dangers of documentation

If there is one person who is not at all surprised or worried by the confrontation at Havat Gilad it is Dror Etkes, the Peace Now activist who constantly monitors the enlargement of settlements.

"This dismantling is just a big bluffing game. It's all a PR exercise by Ben-Eliezer for the Labor Party primaries," he says.

"For two years he has been receiving reports of the settlement activity and he did nothing. Time after time we supplied him with detailed documentation of new settlements, of containers, the number of settlers and time after time he chose to do nothing.

"To try and argue today that Havat Gilad is the center of the struggle is simply wrong. The entire activity of illegal actions in the territories is becoming the norm," Etkes says.

Two weeks ago Etkes flew over the territories for three hours to observe the expansion of the outposts. He detailed his findings. "There are 106 new outposts; only eight have been evacuated," he said angrily.

Trying to document the activity on the ground is dangerous. A few weeks ago Etkes arrived at the Yitzhar settlement and within minutes his path had been blocked. Etkes was asked to identify himself; he said he was a journalist. Tempers became heated and his car was surrounded; the youngsters began throwing rocks at it and then they beat him up.

Suddenly a man in a black mask appeared and came up to him. "I suddenly felt that my life was in danger, I had never seen anything like it," Etkes said. "It was a very unpleasant experience. I began to run away, but they chased me all the way out of the settlement," he recalled.

Etkes was raised in a religious home, but a few years ago he turned to secularism and began a fierce struggle against the settlements. He dreams that one day they will all be dismantled and that a Palestinian state will be established. "If it doesn't happen, we will become a mixture of Iran and the old South Africa, a country that combines bigoted religious laws and apartheid," he said.


Home Life Arts & Leisure
Building a case against Israel's political architecture
Architecture has become the latest academic battleground in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
By Simona Fuma Shapiro	Oct. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Architecture has become the latest academic battleground in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In recent months, the pages of architectural journals and newspapers in the United States, Israel and England have buzzed with debates about articles that have linked Israel's building practices with policies their authors variously describe as "medieval," "colonial" and "prompted by aggression and machismo."

A forthcoming book on the city of Jerusalem is bound to intensify the debate. "The Next Jerusalem: Sharing the Divided City" (Monacelli Press) is due to reach bookstores in December. Its author, New York architect and professor Michael Sorkin, set off a fire-storm in July with his article in the prestigious Architectural Record suggesting that Israel is pursuing "simultaneous policies of urban renewal and ghettoization" through "bureaucratic styles of apartheid and occupation."

Typical of the letters appearing in response to Sorkin's article was one by Richard Buday, president of an architectural design firm in Houston. "His replay of Fatah's and Hamas' moral equivalency argument rings as hollow on the pages of Architectural Record as it does broadcast on Al Jazeera," Buday wrote.

"I'm not arguing with his political views," Buday told the Forward. "He has a right to express those. But this was a political statement masquerading as an article on urban planning." The intersection between politics and planning - and whether the two can be separated - was at the center of a number of recent controversies in the field. In its May 2002 issue, the British journal Architectural Review published an article titled "View from Ramallah" in which a visiting British architect at Bir Zeit University, Tom Kay, wrote that Israel's "destruction" of Ramallah "does invite comparison" to the violence at Auschwitz. Again, the article touched off a heated debate on the journal's Web site.

Last July, the Israel Association of United Architects canceled Israel's entry at the World Congress of Architecture in Berlin. The association objected to the plans of the two Israeli architects, Eyal Weizman and Rafi Segal, who had won a competition to represent Israel at the congress.

Their catalog for the exhibition, titled "A Civilian Occupation: The Politics of Israeli Architecture," argued that architecture and planning in Israel have been "systematically instrumentalized as the executive arms of the Israeli state, erasing the old cartography and trying to create their own on top of it."

Not architecture

"The association thinks the ideas in the catalog are not architecture," said Uri Zerubavel, head of the Israeli architects association. "Heaven help us if this is what Israel has to show. I don't need to do the Palestinians' work for them." Weizman is a contributor to Sorkin's upcoming book.

Sorkin's article in particular has raised the question of the architect as political actor, perhaps because of his bona fides as the former architecture critic of the Village Voice and current director of the graduate urban design program at the City College of New York.

"Israeli policy to `Judaize' [Jerusalem] has resulted in the construction of a ring of settlements - housing close to 200,000 people - that a more growth-sensitive approach would never countenance," Sorkin writes in "Urbanism Is Politics: Lessons From a Place Where The Extremes Now Rule."

"Sitting in their arrogance on the tops of hills, the settlements represent an almost medieval style of planning, prompted by aggression and machismo." Shortly after publication, Architectural Record was pelted with letters and phone calls from readers.

"I was so struck by the total dishonesty of the critique," said Christopher Brooks, an acoustics consultant from Lancaster, Pa., who told the Forward he opened the magazine expecting to find pictures of innovative building designs, not anti-Israel polemics.

"He is criticizing Israel's urban planning but leaving out the terrorism. It would be like criticizing the fashion sense of the Tenth Mountain Division because they wear boots."

Sorkin himself is unrepentant over the tone and substance of his article. There is no question that architecture is a reflection of politics, he told the Forward. "Politics is about the distribution of resources, and architecture costs money." With regard to Jerusalem, he writes in the introduction to his book, "Because Jerusalem's political crisis finds its ultimate expression in the idea of territory, the practice of politics and the practice of urban planning here merge."

That merger, he wrote in July, is understood by Palestinian suicide bombers as well as Jerusalem's urban planners. "Both sides clearly understand the relationship of the patterns of the city and urban life to the politics of struggle for rights and privilege.

And both clearly understand how to make cities into places of fear."

Robert Ivy, editor of the Architectural Record, acknowledged that contributions to his magazine are rarely overtly political. "But we like to engender debate," he said.

Jerusalem reflections

Sorkin's forthcoming book is a compendium of scholars' reflections and suggestions for the future of Jerusalem. Rhomi Khosla, an Indian architect currently working with the Palestinian Authority, proposes uniting Israel and the territories into a multi-ethnic state called Canaan.

James Wines, head of the architecture department at Pennsylvania State University, suggests converting the Western Wall plaza into a "nonsectarian, nonpolitical place of public assembly." Other contributors include Moustafa Bayoumi, an associate professor of English at Brooklyn College and coeditor of the "Edward Said Reader," and Moshe Safdie, a well-known Israeli architect based in Boston.

Martin Kramer, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and author of "Ivory Towers on Sand: The Failure of Middle Eastern Studies in America," said that there is a tendency among academic critics of Israel to portray every aspect of Israeli society as colonial.

"This all started with Edward Said," he said, referring to the Columbia University literature professor and fierce critic of Israeli policies. Kramer's book traces the politicization of Middle East studies in the United States in part to Said's influential 1978 book "Orientalism," which Kramer said led to a "post-colonial" backlash and politicized much of Middle Eastern scholarship in the West.

"Said once paid a visit to Israel and noticed there were fences everywhere," Kramer said. "To him, this reflected the fortress-like character of the country - Israel's need to dominate." He said that Sorkin's article is in the same vein: a post-colonial interpretation applied to the Israeli landscape.

Avraham Wachman, professor emeritus and former dean of architecture at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, said those who see too close a link between architecture and politics are misguided. "Whether Israeli architects and planners design sprawl or architectural gems, it is irrelevant to the bitter geo-political dispute," he said.

Others disagreed. "In my experience architecture is very much a political art form," said Inga Saffron, architecture critic for the Philadelphia Inquirer. "When you see Hitler's Foreign Ministry in Berlin, you understand exactly what the Nazi fascists were all about - control and power. When you look at the urban renewal buildings of the 1960s and 1970s in America, you see architecture that was an attempt to marginalize, control or erase poor communities."

If architecture is politics, argued Douglas Kelbaugh, dean of the College of Architecture and Urban Planning at the University of Michigan, then it's natural for architects to be political actors.

Judgment jettisoned

"I remember as students in the 1960s we used to march against American architects designing buildings with segregated bathrooms in South Africa. It's a cycle and I think interest in politics [among architects and students] is making a comeback."

Louis Rocah, associate professor of architecture at the University of Illinois at Chicago, agreed that architects have a role to play in politics, but said Sorkin's article jettisoned architectural judgment for a one-sided political view.

"It was ideas about housing and urban planning that led the Roosevelt New Deal to provide much-needed housing for poor people in the city," he says. "But this article is not about architecture. It is about Sorkin's hatred of Israel. There is no criticism here. It does not belong in the Architectural Record."

By arrangement with the Forward


Home Print Edition Features
Falling apart
As in a Greek drama, the main protagonists of this week's political crisis remained behind the scenes: Benjamin Netanyahu refused to say a word; Amram Mitzna was mute; and Haim Ramon sat there silently at the Labor Party faction meeting.
By Uzi Benziman	| Nov. 1, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
1. Sharon

As in a Greek drama, the main protagonists of this week's political crisis remained behind the scenes: Benjamin Netanyahu refused to say a word; Amram Mitzna was mute; and Haim Ramon sat there silently at the Labor Party faction meeting two nights ago in the Knesset as the final decision on leaving the government was being made, unable to wipe a sly grin off his face as he watched others do his work for him.

The characters at center stage, Ariel Sharon and Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, pinned the explanation for their behavior, which led to the collapse of the government, on a dispute over one word, but the phoniness of this was blatantly apparent. The declared cause of the disagreement - the priorities in the state budget, or more accurately, the extent of government assistance for the settlements - was not sufficient to explain the breakdown of the negotiations. The real factors were the presence of Netanyahu breathing down Sharon's neck, and Mitzna and Ramon doing the same to Ben-Eliezer.

Everyone knew this, but they still went through the motions dictated by political tradition, which requires exhausting deliberations aimed at finding a way out of the impasse, though these discussions have to hinge on the putative source of the dispute without touching on the real reasons.

Yaakov Ne'eman and Ram Caspi, the eminent attorneys who were pressed into service, could not bridge the gaps because they could not touch on the areas where the roots of the crisis lay: They have no influence on the internal competition for the leadership of Likud and Labor.

Of course, this is the wisdom of hindsight. When the crisis was at its height, it did appear that a solution could be near. At the cabinet meeting two mornings ago, Ben-Eliezer looked pale and haggard. He and Sharon were both handed notes informing them about the progress of the negotiation efforts. The defense minister seemed to be the one who was ready to blink first; Sharon appeared more resolute. And so it continued throughout the day: Ben-Eliezer appeared to be showing a willingness to compromise; Sharon conveyed the impression that he was preparing to trumpet his success.

That evening, at 5:50 P.M. (Yaakov Ne'eman noted the exact time), Ben-Eliezer submitted his letter of resignation. He couldn't give in to Sharon's stubbornness. For his part, the prime minister could not accept Ben-Eliezer's demands, which would have entailed a lessening of the settlements' status. Officials from each side hurried to give the media their competing versions of the reasons for the crisis: Ben-Eliezer's irresponsibility given the state of the economy and the security situation (Sharon's version); the prime minister's indifference to the plight of the weaker sectors (Ben-Eliezer's version). The other line being touted in the media by the prime minister's camp was praise for Shimon Peres's efforts to bridge the differences between Sharon and Ben-Eliezer. The idea here was apparently "divide and rule."

In the end, both Sharon and Ben-Eliezer came off badly. The Labor Party chairman was unpersuasive in making his case, proceeded clumsily through the whole process and did not evince much capability for levelheaded leadership. His frequent zigzags exposed his insecurity and he clearly was not sophisticated enough to be able to hide his true motives behind a facade of having national interests at heart. He seemed desperate and looked ready to take his party down with him.

Sharon proved once again that he does not know how to be magnanimous in victory. Just as he couldn't refrain from hemming in Arafat in the Muqata, he did not hesitate to humiliate Ben-Eliezer as soon as he smelled his weakness. Though the prime minister tried hard to project a positive mood and to demonstrate how patient he could be, he found the pretense difficult to maintain: His fury erupted during his speech to the Knesset. Sharon's arrogance pushed Ben-Eliezer into a corner, and so, with his own hands, he hastened the end of his government.

2. Silvan Shalom

A week ago, when Finance Minister Silvan Shalom urged the British company Fitch not to lower Israel's credit rating, he was asked how far he would go in acceding to the demands of the Histadrut. That gives you an idea of how well versed they are abroad about the details of Israel's economic situation. The negotiations between Sharon and Ben-Eliezer revolved around the troubles in the economy and the potential for further deterioration.

The business people who spoke to both men emphasized to them that their every statement has an immediate impact on the stock market. The business leaders were arguing for the sake of the country's best interests, but some in the Labor Party made cynical comments about these financial titans getting involved in fateful political decisions and questioned the innocence of their motives. Citing international imperatives Sharon set himself the goal of getting the budget passed on the first reading this week. He wanted to convey the impression of having the situation under control. As it turned out, his adherence to this objective, noble as it may have been, had a boomerang effect: It led to a serious undermining of political stability and placed in doubt his ability to see the budget all the way through the legislation process.

Even though the debate over the budget was just an excuse for a dispute between Likud and Labor, the outcome it produced still has symbolic value: The status and future of the settlements is a worthy issue over which to topple a government and around which to sharpen the conceptual distinctions between right and left.

For the past year and a half, the difference in philosophy between the two parties was erased by the decision of the Labor Party leaders to join the Sharon government and by their readiness to acquiesce in the prime minister's approach to dealing with the Palestinians. Israel will not be able to evade the existential dangers caused by the occupation and the continuing conflict with the Palestinians without making a decision on the future of the settlements. Such a decision will naturally tear the nation apart, but discussion of this issue has to begin. The Labor Party's role is to stand at the head of the camp that detests the occupation and seeks to fulfill the Zionist vision within the Green Line, because the alternatives are apartheid, transfer or a loss of the state's Jewish identity. Hence, the debate over the budget for the settlements could open the way to a crucial process of clarification regarding their future.

3. Ben-Eliezer

Two days ago, when Labor's departure from the government appeared imminent, one senior official said he was disturbed by the thought that no ministers from this party would be sitting at the cabinet table should the government have to decide on a response to an Iraqi use of unconventional weapons against Israel. What he meant was, the Labor ministers served as a restraining force on Sharon and the more hotheaded right-wing ministers. But this analysis is somewhat imprecise: On more than one occasion, Ben-Eliezer was the one who needed restraining when he was so exasperated by terror attacks that he was ready to order the IDF to carry out extreme reprisal actions. Still, the path pursued by the Sharon government, and Labor's input in it, is worth examining.

In recent weeks, having just about resolved to lead Labor out of the coalition, Ben-Eliezer proudly gave his party credit for the construction of the separation fence and the dismantling of some illegal outposts. The latter accomplishment is rather pathetic: Labor did not prevent the expansion of the settlements and, for now, the removal of the outposts appears to be mostly a false illusion. The construction of the fence is indeed the result of pressure from Labor and the contention that the fence is essentially demarcating the permanent border between Israel and the future Palestinian state should not be made light of.

But Labor can hardly lay claim to any other accomplishments: It went along with Sharon's insistence on not launching any diplomatic process whatsoever with the Palestinians as long as terror continues. In doing so, Labor relegated the Palestinian issue solely to the prime minister, who focused on giving a forceful response to terror attacks without combining this with any diplomatic initiatives that could create an incentive to divert the conflict from its bloody course onto the path of dialogue.

At the same time, Labor (and Shimon Peres's international standing in particular) provided a layer of protection for the prime minister on his visits to world capitals.

When Yasser Arafat agreed to incarcerate Minister Rehavam Ze'evi's killers in a Jericho prison and to expel other suspects who were holed up in the Muqata and in the Church of the Nativity from the Palestinian Authority, someone proposed that Sharon allow the Palestinian leader to move freely about the West Bank and Gaza Strip and also allow him to go abroad (at the time, Arafat was eager to take part in the summit of Arab leaders in Beirut), provided that the first stop in his travels was Sharon's Sycamore Farm.

The person who came up with this proposal believed that an invitation from Sharon to have Arafat visit him at his home would be such a stunning gesture that it would open the door to a positive dialogue between the two leaders and possibly lead them to an agreement. The idea may have had its merits, or it may have relied too much on wishful thinking. Either way, the prime minister rejected it. He also wasn't swayed by the argument that he was already holding contacts with Arafat anyway via his son, Omri.

Sharon never saw Arafat as a partner for dialogue. Even when he declared a unilateral cease-fire (and got the terrible attack at the Dophinarium as an answer), Sharon couldn't suppress a sarcastic smile as he enumerated the conditions Arafat would have to meet if he wished to start a dialogue. Later, when the number of terror attacks multiplied and Sharon's assertion that Arafat was behind them grew stronger, he imposed a ban on him (which earned considerable international acclaim) and revealed an obsessive compulsion to persecute the PA leader. Arafat's ostracism from the ranks of legitimate leaders was Sharon's main diplomatic objective; he succeeded in this to a great degree, but did not marry this effort to any political plan that could encourage the development of an alternative Palestinian leadership.

The result was similar to the result that he achieved with his military policy against terror: It appears successful in the short run, but in actuality, it only intensifies the fundamental elements of the conflict and does not advance things toward a solution. Or, as Benjamin Ben-Eliezer put it: "As much as we do to prevent terror attacks, we keep creating new terrorists. I don't see the Palestinians surrendering or agreeing to a state on 42 percent of the territory. If we do not take a political initiative, the inertia will continue."

4. Arafat

The assessment delivered to the cabinet by army intelligence this week appears to justify Sharon's attitude toward Arafat; the report says that the Palestinian leader is interested in a continuation of the terror and, to the extent that he speaks out against it, only does so for reasons of image. The analysis is that Arafat has not backtracked at all from his three demands: an Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 lines, a declaration of East Jerusalem as the capital of the Palestinian state and implementation of the right of return.

The army intelligence report also contained another section concerning international developments in the relations between Islam and Western nations. The forecast was unpleasant, if familiar: an increasingly acute confrontation between Islam, and Christianity and Judaism, which may be characterized as a struggle between poorer societies and wealthier ones; the ability of small organizations to cause widespread havoc, including the use of unconventional weapons; a deliberate effort by terror organizations to keep striking at the home front as a way of neutralizing the conventional military strength of developed countries; the potential for the acquisition of nuclear weapons by nations that are part of the "axis of evil" (such as Iran and Libya).

The forecast also predicted rising hatred for the United States, and nations considered its friends, because of its spearheading of the war on world terror; and worrisome demographic trends in the Arab world that could intensify its struggle against the effects of globalization.

Sharon's conduct on the diplomatic front reflects a disregard for the import of these intelligence assessments. While the report did not depict Arafat as someone with whom an accord can be reached, it also underscores that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict cannot be left in its present state for much longer: The inherent volatility of the situation could bring even greater catastrophe upon Israel.

The Labor Party did not muster the guts to oppose Sharon's policies and offer an alternative. Even its resignation from the government this week seems to derive not from a principled challenge to Sharon but from the personal whims of Ben-Eliezer.


Home Print Edition Features
A land of roadblocks and barriers
With 300 West Bank roadblocks, Palestinians often find themselves breaking the law to get to work or to visit family.
By Danny Rubinstein	| Nov. 3, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A reserve soldier of about 65 sat last week in a small concrete structure at the Qalandiyah barrier near Atarot Airport, northeast of Jerusalem. His job, for which he volunteered, is to check the variety of documents and IDs - magnetic cards, orange and blue identity cards, permits issued by Israel, student cards, teacher cards, press cards and passports - of Palestinians leaving Jerusalem for Ramallah

The Qalandiyah barrier is a huge mass of barbed wire fences, concrete cubes and piles of garbage, with vehicles pressed against them. Only pedestrians may pass through the barrier, while minibuses and taxis await those coming from the other side to drive them to the next barrier.

Many of those passing the barrier smile at the reservist. Some even nod their head in a sort of homage. "You see, everything is going well here, and anyone whose papers are in order passes without a problem," he says. He is aware that every minimally-fit Palestinian can bypass the roadblock via the surrounding mountain paths, but is not bothered. Everyone knows the barriers have no real security value; no official spokesman has given a serious answer as to why they are needed.

The West Bank is a land of roadblocks. There more than 300 of them, some 120 manned. The roads are crowded with signposts to the settlements, and Palestinians are banned from most roads. "The directives of the military command is to freeze all traffic on West Bank roads, including taxis, buses, private vehicles and others according to security needs," wrote outgoing defense minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer on Oct. 3 in answer to a question by Meretz MK Zahava Gal-On. To prevent Palestinian traffic, most West Bank towns and villages have been surrounded by hundreds of roadblocks and are under permanent siege and closure.

Years ago, Kach activists conceived a plan to set up a Jewish state in the West Bank, "the state of Judea," in the event that the Israeli government decided to give up those territories. "The state of Judea" has not been established yet, but if you add the barrier policy to the illegal outposts and the settlers' persecution of Palestinian olive pickers, one may conclude with certainty that there is indeed a state in process in the territories. It is not, however, a Palestinian state.

Ali al-Halili, former head of the Palestinians Writers' Association, passed the Qalandiyah barrier on Wednesday. He had applied and managed to receive an entrance permit to Jerusalem for a limited time. Sometimes the soldiers at the barrier accept the permit and let him through, sometimes they do not. "Today I was lucky," he says.

A little east of Qalandiyah, schoolgirls climbed on the sand hill blocking the entrance to the village of Jeba. Their young teacher, Bilal Salah al-Din, lives in the nearby village of Hizma, which borders the northern Jerusalem neighborhood of Pisgat Zeev and is surrounded by barriers. Every day al-Din manages somehow to reach the school. A few days ago, his pregnant wife felt ill, and they wanted to go to Al-Muqassed Hospital on the Mount of Olives. But neither he nor his wife have a permit to enter Jerusalem. According to Israeli orders, they should have applied to the military authorities - a long, complicated procedure that has a good chance of being rejected.

Al-Din says many women in Hizma have become accustomed to giving birth at home, while others have traveled far distances through the mountains to the small hospital in Jericho. He and his wife preferred bypassing the barriers at Shuafat on foot to reach the Mount of Olives. As far as Israeli law is concerned, he is an illegal alien and can easily be arrested and sent to prison.

Movement restrictions in the West Bank and around Jerusalem are not only harsh decrees with which the population cannot live, but also automatically turn most of the Palestinian public into law breakers. Almost every Palestinian who leaves home for work, school, shopping, medical treatment or family visits must bypass a barrier and, as a result, violate Israeli security regulations.

Another barrier, at the edge of Jerusalem's Ras al-Amud quarter, consists of a long concrete wall along the access roads to Abu Dis and Azzariyeh. There is no official entrance, and the masses, crowding through the gaps formed in the wall by the yards of adjacent houses, are in fact breaking the law. The groups are easily observed from an IDF outpost looking down at the concrete barrier. But the soldiers looked on indifferently - at least last week. This is the essence of arbitrary rule: when it wills, it enforces the law; when it wills, it ignores it.

The Palestinians at the roadblock and at hundreds like it in the territories, never know when they will squeeze through the crack in the barrier and get away with the breaking the law, or when the soldiers will stop them and perhaps try to harm them.

The Abu Dis barrier walls pass through densely-built residential quarters in East Jerusalem. They are reminiscent of the walls that separated east from west Jerusalem before the 1967 Six Day War. Many remember how enthusiastically Israelis spoke after the war of removing the walls and barbed wire fences. Now everything is topsy turvy: Israel is building increasing numbers of fences and walls inside Jerusalem, not far from where the previous ones had stood.

Beyond the Abu Dis wall, in the West Bank, lies the central campus of Al-Quds University. A student with a West Bank identity card who passed through the gap at the end of the wall said that to enter Jerusalem properly, he would first have to go to the Israeli authorities and get a permit. Then go down toward Jericho, cross the Ma'ale Adumim road, and enter through the barrier there. This harrassment takes a long time, but is not what really bothers him. "I'm not prepared, in principle, to ask for a permit to get to a hospital, or to work, or to visit my sister," he says.

A government that demands permits from people to get to a hospital, in his opinion, is a racist apartheid rule, because only the Palestinians, not the settlers, require permits. He does not mind breaking Israeli law and even risking his safety, if only to maintain his dignity. He also preaches to his friends: "Never go to the Israeli authorities for a movement permit." If all Palestinians take his cue, he thinks it will be possible to break the road barrier policy.


Home Print Edition Opinion
The binational option
A growing number of articles and analyses by Palestinians and their supporters are warning that the "two states for two peoples" option is fading, and the goal of a Palestinian state should be exchanged for the establishment of a binational state.
By Meron Benvenisti	| Nov. 7, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A growing number of articles and analyses by Palestinians and their supporters are warning that the "two states for two peoples" option is fading, and the goal of a Palestinian state should be exchanged for the establishment of a binational state. At the same time, polls among Israeli Jews show there is a majority, albeit slim, in favor of a Palestinian state.

Palestinian Authority representatives recently presented a document suggesting the surge of settlement and infrastructure development in the West Bank has eliminated the possibility of establishing a viable state in the shrunken, diced-up territories, so they have to reconsider the two-states option. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon meanwhile declares he is sticking to President Bush's "vision of a Palestinian state" - obviously under conditions dictated by Israel. When a Palestinian representative thinks out loud about a change of policy - from a demand for national independence to a struggle for civil rights in a binational state - an Israeli diplomat responds furiously, "That's more proof of Palestinian unwillingness to reach peace, because a binational state obviously means the destruction of the state of Israel."

Ostensibly, there's not much new in a renewed discussion of the binational option, other than the fact that in the mainstream of the Palestinian national movement it was perceived in the past as "betrayal of the struggle for self-determination and replacing it with an internal Israeli issue concerning an ethnic minority that must struggle for its civil rights." Now, representatives of the PA - which has but one purpose, to prepare the groundwork for an independent state - are daring to discuss a plan that would mean full Israeli annexation of the occupied territories.

There's also nothing new in the outrage of Israelis about raising the idea of a "binational" state, since it has always been perceived as the eradication of the Jewish-Zionist state. The response to the de facto binational reality created after 1967, has been the definition of the Israeli occupation as temporary, which does not require "long-term conclusions" but rather "ideological" disputes between left and right: "two states versus autonomy." The Oslo framework, which ostensibly was aimed at creating the conditions for separation and establishment of a Palestinian state, was nothing more than a binational regime, in which there was defined division of authority and responsibility between the dominant Israeli element and the PA. The latter was controlled indirectly while Israel was allowed to continue its integration of the territories, turning the entire Mandatory Palestine into a indivisible geopolitical entity.

The collapse of the Oslo regime, destruction of the PA, the reoccupation of the West Bank, rapid pace of settlement expansion and road building, made clear to the Palestinians that their ambitions for national sovereignty in besieged cantons only played into the hands of the Israelis, making it preferable to bring up the idea of the binational alternative if only for the sake of the national struggle. After all, there is nothing that would embarrass the Israelis more than the demand to annex the territories and grant civil equality. Israel did not manage to deal with the "1948 Arabs," its citizens, so how will it deal with millions of "1967 Arabs?" It's possible that those who initiated the "searing of the consciousness," using brute force to make the Palestinians "surrender and uproot their national aspirations from their hearts" have succeeded beyond their wildest expectations and the Palestinians indeed are ready to "privatize" their demands for freedom and redefine them as demands for civil rights. Now the slogan "Palestinian state" will become Israeli, since the alternative is a political entity with a non-Jewish majority, meaning a loss of identity for the Jewish state and the perpetuation of an apartheid regime.

There are, of course, three ways to sidestep the dilemma - or to "solve" it - but all three are dangerous illusions. The first is transfer, which is impossible to implement; even debating it and its dangers is an escape from reality. The second, "the Lebanese solution," means not counting the Palestinians and disconnecting demography from democracy, meaning a democracy of a nation of masters, going the way of the whites in South Africa. The third is separation, that magical solution that has no chance of success as long as hundreds of thousands of settlers are living amidst the Palestinian population.

There is a fourth solution - withdrawal to the 1967 borders and evacuation of all the settlements. But that is perceived as a grave danger because the Palestinians insist on "the right of return." So what is done when the ruthless reality undermines the ideological positions, and the popular answers are impossible to implement? Starting to think about what appears to be heretical and fantastic, such as, perhaps a binational solution would create less friction than separation and partition? And perhaps an open debate about binational arrangements, even if it's only theoretical, will do more for reconciliation than sticking to ethno-nationalist separation.


Home News
South Africa's top cop fingers white group in bombings
By Reuters	| Nov. 13, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
CAPE TOWN - South Africa's top police officer blamed a shadowy group of right-wing extremists on Wednesday for the worst string of bombings to hit the country since the end of white rule.

It is the first time Police Commissioner Jackie Selebi has explicitly linked the blasts with white right-wingers.

He told parliament investigators were certain the October 30 blasts were the work of the "Boeremag", a group of whites opposed to the black-led government set up after the racist apartheid system was dismantled in 1994.

"We are certain of the people we are looking for and their numbers...It is just a matter of time before we find the people we are looking for," he told parliament's Safety and Security Committee.

He said police had thus far arrested 17 people and would apprehend between 20 and 30 before the case went to court for a trial that prosecutors say is set for May 19 next year.

Nine explosions hit Soweto, a sprawling black township complex near South Africa's commercial hub of Johannesburg, killing one woman. Another blast went off near a Hindu temple outside the capital Pretoria, injuring two people.

Selebi described the bombers as intelligent, highly educated and ruthless, and noted that some of the group's members were as young as 17 and still in high school.

The Boeremag has been widely if unofficially linked to the October bombings, and an e-mail letter to newspapers over the weekend purporting to come from the group claimed responsibility for the violence.

That letter, which police were taking seriously, also threatened a campaign of violence around Christmas unless dozens of detained whites -including Boeremag leader Tom Vorster, who was arrested last week in connection with a separate alleged plot against the government - are freed.

The Boeremag has been described as a small group of disaffected Afrikaners, descendants of Dutch and French settlers who arrived in South Africa three centuries ago and who dominated the country under apartheid.

White Afrikaners revere their rural pioneer roots and are often referred to as "Boers", or farmers.


Home Print Edition Opinion
In favor of the blank ballot
Let the genuine leftists make no mistake about Mitzna. "Unilateral separation" without evacuation of all the settlements is an illusion. Leaving "blocs of settlement" and our army in the occupied territories is not a solution, as the events in Hebron proved just recently.
By Hillel Schocken	| Nov. 19, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The experienced politician Benjamin Ben-Eliezer sat in the national unity government, which brought the country to a unprecedented political, economic and social nadir. Only the threat to his status as chair of the Labor Party and to his place in the cabinet and in the Defense Ministry made him quit the government that he shouldn't have joined in the first place.

When Prime Minister Ariel Sharon appointed Shaul Mofaz in his place, Ben-Eliezer objected to the appointment because Mofaz lacks political experience. He is using the very same reason to bring about the failure of Amram Mitzna's candidacy for prime minister. In his opinion, political "newcomers" should avoid becoming involved in politics. The continuation of that same argument will necessarily lead to the conclusion that many voters are in fact reaching: that since they are political newcomers, they don't understand a thing about politics, and therefore they have to leave the campaign to members of the closed club of experienced politicians.

As a political newcomer, and although I don't share Ben-Eliezer's opinions, I have decided this time to operate according to his logic. In the upcoming elections, I will cast an envelope containing a blank ballot into the ballot box. As a naive voter (a political newcomer, as I've mentioned), I think the blank ballot has a good chance of bringing about a significant change in our sad situation.

Casting a blank ballot is likely to bring about several desirable results. First of all, it will demonstrate my loyalty, as a man of the left, to the leadership of the leader of the left, who claims that since I lack political experience, I don't understand a thing about politics, and therefore my voting for the right or the left is a foolish act, based on lack of understanding.

Second, and now in all seriousness, blank ballots cast by masses of voters on the left, like me, will bring about the final destruction of the Labor Party, and its removal from the political map. Labor has long ceased being an ideological alternative to the right, since it has no ideology, as it proved when it sat in the national unity government. The only job it still has is to serve as a platform that will bring activists (with political experience, of course) into the government at every opportunity when the public decides to punish the leaders of the right for some failure or other.

Third, the blank ballot will finally give us a strong and stable right. Such a coalition will be able to carry out the ideology of the right, whose essence has long been embodied in that lovable and determined grandfather, Arik "king of Israel." The right will be able to fulfill the dream of the Palestinian state in Jordan, by voluntary transfer of Israeli Arabs there.

Implementation of the solution to the Palestinian problem will not be disturbed by the "bleeding hearts" from the left, such as MKs Peres, Beilin, Ben Eliezer, Sarid and Gal-On. The blank ballot, after all, will have left them seated in a shrunken opposition at the far end of the Knesset. I believe, to my regret, that some among those who count themselves among the left will close their eyes, cover their ears and their noses, and hope that the success of the right's policy will release them from the colonialism that disgusts them and from South African-style apartheid, God forbid. They will hope to open their eyes and say: Thank God they got the Arabs out of our faces, now we can quietly go on vacation in Tuscany.

The real leftists will know that in casting a blank ballot and in putting an end to the party that pretends to represent us, they will bring about two things: the failure of the right, within a short time, to solve the Palestinian problem, and the founding of a genuine leftist movement of "political newcomers," which will replace the "experienced" traditional left. A movement that will understand that it does not have the authority to solve the Palestinian problem, and that it must solve only the Israeli problem. A solution that means a decision about the character of the state of Israel. A decision that it is, first of all, democratic, liberal and humane. An unequivocal decision about the separation of religion from state, and about the Green Line as the border.

Let the genuine leftists make no mistake about Mitzna. "Unilateral separation" without evacuation of all the settlements is an illusion. Leaving "blocs of settlement" and our army in the occupied territories is not a solution, as the events in Hebron proved just recently. At best it is a solution that will save the Labor Party from destruction, will bring it back to the government at some time or other, will provide an opportunity for the backsides of more politicians to warm the seats of the Knesset and the government, and will hasten the destruction of the country.

Until we get a leader who is willing to risk not being elected immediately, and who will tell us the truth, a truth that will cause those who vote for the right to change their minds too, I will continue to cast a blank ballot.

The writer is an architect.


Home Print Edition Opinion
story
Nov. 25, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
In the Nazareth restaurant-gallery "the Palestinian House," dozens of Arab and Israeli youths met last week. The youths, activists in the "Village Youth" (Abna'a el-Balad) movement, discussed the group's preparations for upcoming 16th Knesset elections. The central point of discussion was the party's current campaign, calling upon the public to boycott the elections as a means of ideological resistance.

"The Arab public is disappointed in its current leadership and it has no belief in the Zionist parties," explains the group's leader, Mohammed Asa'ad Cana'ana, a former security prisoner. Other groups calling upon voters to abstain from voting include the Jewish anti-Zionist movements: the "Committee for a Secular and Democratic Country," the "Socialist Committee," and the "Committee Against Apartheid."

The Village Youth want to reach the entire Israeli public, but mainly will focus mainly the Arab sector. Their public relations campaign, which includes ads in newspapers and radio broadcasts, will include, among other things, the relation between Israeli establishments and the Arab public.

However, the majority of their complaints are turned towards the Arab parties and Arab members of Knesset who, "lack authority and influence." According to the party, the Arab leadership failed in bringing up the problems of the Arab sector, seeing as the Arab MK's don't really have the ability to influence actions regarding the future of the country and its citizens.

The MK's agree with the last part of the statement, but harshly criticize the Village Youth's current campaign. "The Village Youth's call will mainly serve the Israeli right, which supports the transfer of Arabs," says MK Mohammed Barakeh (Hadash). "Our role is to serve as opposition to the right-wing settlers and to prevent them from making dangerous racist decisions," he added.

Dr. Jamal Zahalkha, from the Balad movement said, "Most of the Arab public that will not vote will do so out of indifference and not for ideological reasons, and the people who will make the most benefit out of it are the Zionist parties."

The Village Youth movement was established at the end of the 60's. According to Israeli law, every group in Israel seeking to become political party must sign a statement saying that Israel is the state of the Jewish nation. The Village Youth refused to sign the statement, and therefore is not considered a political party. "The political party law in Israel is racist," Cana'ana states.

The members of the group include attorneys, doctors and student representatives from several universities. The group is the first among Arab groups in Israel calling for the boycott of elections in Israel since it was first established. Its platform is the supports the establishment of a secular democratic country on all of the land of Mandatory Palestine  meaning the annulling of all of the indexes portraying Israel as a Jewish country  and the return of all of the Palestinian refugees who left the country since 1948. The group's platform also calls for a popular uprising against Israel.


Home Print Edition News
Arab nationalists call for boycott of elections
By Jalal Bana	Nov. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
In the Nazareth restaurant-gallery The Palestinian House, dozens of Arab and Israeli youths met last week. The youths, activists in the Sons of the Village (Abna'a el-Balad) movement, discussed the group's preparations for upcoming 16th Knesset elections.

The central point of discussion was the party's current campaign, calling upon the public to boycott the elections as a means of ideological resistance.

"The Arab public is disappointed in its current leadership and it has no belief in the Zionist parties," explains the group's leader, Mohammed Asa'ad Cana'ana, a former security prisoner. Other groups calling upon voters to abstain from voting include the Jewish anti-Zionist movements, the Committee for a Secular and Democratic Country, the Socialist Committee, and the Committee Against Apartheid.

The Sons of the Village want to reach the entire Israeli public, but will mainly focus the Arab sector. Their public relations campaign, which includes ads in newspapers and radio broadcasts, will include, among other things, the relation between Israeli establishments and the Arab public.

However, the majority of their complaints are turned towards the Arab parties and Arab members of Knesset who "lack authority and influence."

According to the party, the Arab leadership failed to raise the problems of the Arab sector, since Arab MK's don't really have the ability to influence actions regarding the future of the country and its citizens.

The MK's agree with the last part of the statement, but harshly criticize the Sons of the Village's current campaign.

"The Sons of the Village's call will mainly serve the Israeli right, which supports the transfer of Arabs," says MK Mohammed Barakeh (Hadash). "Our role is to serve as opposition to the right-wing settlers and to prevent them from making dangerous racist decisions," he added.

Dr. Jamal Zahalkha, from the Balad movement said, "Most of the Arab public that will not vote will do so out of indifference and not for ideological reasons, and the people who will make the most benefit out of it are the Zionist parties."

The Sons of the Village movement was established at the end of the 1960s. According to Israeli law, every group in Israel seeking to become political party must sign a statement saying that Israel is the state of the Jewish nation.

The Sons of the Village refused to sign the statement, and therefore is not considered a political party. "The political party law in Israel is racist," Cana'ana states.

The members of the group include attorneys, doctors and student representatives from several universities. The group is the first among Arab groups in Israel calling for the boycott of elections in Israel since it was first established.

Its platform is the supports the establishment of a secular democratic country on all of the land of Mandatory Palestine - meaning the annulling of all of the indexes portraying Israel as a Jewish country - and the return of all of the Palestinian refugees who left the country since 1948.

The group's platform also calls for a popular uprising against Israel.


Home Print Edition News
The Arab vote
The upcoming Arab vote will be an indication of their attitude toward the State of Israel, and it will affect how Israel's Jewish citizens perceive their Arab neighbors.
By Moshe Arens	| Nov. 26, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
How are Israel's Arab citizens going to vote in the coming elections? This time, like Israel's Jewish citizens, they will cast their ballots for the party of their choice, rather than splitting their vote between their preferred candidate for prime minister and their party preference, as they did in the previous election to the Knesset.

Based on current polling data that predict a great victory for the Likud, to be accompanied by a slide for Labor, the Arab vote is not likely to significantly affect the final election results. But that does not mean that it does not matter how they are going to vote. The upcoming Arab vote will be an indication of their attitude toward the State of Israel, and it will affect how Israel's Jewish citizens perceive their Arab neighbors.

Tis perception is a key parameter impacting on the justified quest of Israel's Arab citizens for equality and advancement in Israeli society.

In recent elections, Israel's Arab citizens have increasingly voted for radical Arab candidates - Hadash, the ex-Communist party; the Islamic Movement; Azmi Bishara; and Ahmed Tibi, former advisor to Yasser Arafat. These MKs have engaged in vicious attacks against the State of Israel and have voiced support for groups that have engaged in acts of violence and terror against Israel. If their views reflect the opinions of their constituents, then they, too, sympathize with Israel's enemies and regard the country as a "racist undemocratic state, practicing a policy of apartheid toward its Arab citizens".

If it was the wish of Israel's Arab citizens to use their electoral franchise in order to attain economic advancement and greater equality in Israel's society, there is no doubt that the MKs elected by them have not advanced their cause. Quite the contrary: Their flood of vitriolic attacks against Israel and their constantly-voiced support for Israel's enemies have tended to discourage many of Israel's Jewish citizens from supporting the cause of Arab advancement and equality in Israel, viewing their Arab neighbors as essentially hostile to the State of Israel.

As long as this is the prevailing view, it is not very likely that future governments will pluck up the courage to take the measures necessary to advance the interests of Israel's Arab community.

There is serious doubt about whether the positions taken by most of the Arab MKs truly reflect the views of the majority of Israel's Arab citizens. If this is the case, these MKs have actually been misrepresenting many of their constituents, who may have voted for them by default, in the absence of Arab parties presenting more constructive positions toward Israel, while lacking confidence in the dedication of the non-Arab parties to the cause of Arab advancement and equality.

Is there an inkling of recognition among the Israeli Arab community that their representatives in the Knesset have actually failed them? The upcoming election may provide the answer to that question.

The voting of Israel's Druze community has differed sharply from that of the Arab electorate in recent years. Clearly demonstrating the Druze community's refusal to support the positions hostile to Israel advocated by most Arab MKs, members of the Druze community overwhelmingly voted for non-Arab parties - Labor, Likud and Meretz - with substantial growth in support for the Likud in recent years. No doubt that service in the Israel Defense Forces by their young men has led to a high degree of identification with the State of Israel and a feeling of substantial integration into Israeli society. Clearly, radical Arab MKs will do little to advance their welfare.

There are some indications of a similar tendency among the Bedouin population, although certainly not to the same extent as among the Druze. Israel's non-Arab parties have yet to prove to the Bedouin that they are serious about tackling the very difficult and distressing problems facing the Bedouin population.

As for the bulk of Israel's Arab voters, the upcoming elections will provide an opportunity to register their disappointment with the radical Arab parties, while the next government may have an opportunity to demonstrate its dedication to the advancement of Israel's Arab citizens.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Restoring basic values
Mitzna's supreme test will be in leadership that will rehabilitate the forces of reason and conscience in Israel. That task will be examined from the point of view of the three spheres in which the country's decline has been especially dramatic and dangerous: statecraft and policy.
By Nimrod Aloni	Dec. 1, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Professor Yeshayahu Leibowitz, that prescient diagnostician of Israel's decline, railed at Israel's governments that their policy was sometimes tainted by feeblemindedness, sometimes by malice, and usually by both of these ills at once. As a philosopher and a scientist, Leibowitz had a clear understanding of those traits that produce healthy sovereignty based on security and dignity, and those that condemn their peoples to physical ruin and moral opprobrium.

As an Israeli patriot, Leibowitz demanded that the country's leaders show public responsibility and adhere to the principles whose critical importance for society's health has been proven time and again: truth, justice and peace (in the terms of the Jewish heritage); or logic, decency and humanity (in the terms of classical culture). Since the Israeli leaderships in the past two decades overall, and in the past two years especially, have patently turned their back on these values, Israel's decline appears to be inevitable.

Yet contrary to traditions and expectations, something good has come from the north: Amram Mitzna, a new leader with a blatantly different personality, one whose presence does not broadcast "I am the one and only" and is not out to run roughshod over everything in his path; a personality that is not bursting with self-gratification, does not overheat the surroundings with a sentimental charisma; and is not overbearing with harsh intelligence. Mitzna's eyes do not seem to be about to pop out of their sockets with a lust for the "ratings." A humane leader, a person cut from a natural mold, exuding an aura of tranquillity, has appeared on the public stage.

Mitzna's mental makeup, which some might call emotional intelligence, is no guarantee of successful leadership, but should nevertheless be considered an essential foundation. If to this we add the good reputation he has acquired at critical intersections in his life as a judicious, fair and humane individual - among his subordinates in the army, as the mayor of Haifa and in his attitude toward Israel's Arab citizens - we can say with a certain degree of confidence that the norms of logic, decency and humanity are not alien to him.

Mitzna's supreme test will be in leadership that will rehabilitate the forces of reason and conscience in Israel. That task will be examined from the point of view of the three spheres in which the country's decline has been especially dramatic and dangerous: statecraft and policy, the socio-economic situation and the civil-cultural sphere.

In the realm of statecraft and policy, logic shows that five million Jews cannot rule militarily over three million Palestinians, and certainly not eradicate terrorism and their armed struggle for independence. Conscience speaks unequivocally here: "transfer," apartheid or any other version of depriving a people of its basic right to self-determination and sovereignty is a moral crime and crass racism.

In the socio-economic sphere, in addition to channeling investments away from the territories and into Israel, all that a logical leader needs to do is adopt the conclusions of the latest United Nations report on human development, which found that quality of life and human development are directly related to a high level of academic education, a democratic culture and social solidarity.

There are two main dangers in the civil-cultural realm. One is an escalation of the hostility and violence between Israel's Arab and Jewish citizens, with the terrible specter of a civil war looming on the horizon. The second is a joint multicultural slide into an isolationist posture that is insular and hostile toward other communities of culture. A responsible leadership will ensure that Israel develops as a liberal democracy characterized by solidarity and multiculturalism.

Leibowitz continually insisted that in the Jewish heritage there is no greater heroism than for a person to overcome his instincts and subdue his vices. There is no doubt that heroism of this kind is needed to rehabilitate logic, decency and humanity. Will we at long last have a leader whose supreme heroism is above all humane and civil?

The writer teaches philosophy of education at the Kibbutz Teachers College and is the academic chairman of the Authority for State-Humanistic Education.


Home Print Edition Features
A million immigrants? Where from exactly?
Roni Vinikov took up his post as a Jewish Agency emissary in New York three months ago. The Agency already has several emissaries in the Big Apple, but Vinikov will play a unique role.
By Yair Sheleg	| Dec. 10, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Roni Vinikov took up his post as a Jewish Agency emissary in New York three months ago. The Agency already has several emissaries in the Big Apple, but Vinikov will play a unique role: He is coordinating Agency activities among Jews from the former Soviet Union who settled in New York following the collapse of Communist rule.

About 300,000 people in that group opted for the American dream over its Israeli parallel, and a large percentage of them clustered in the New York area. Following a two-year series of discussions, the Agency decided to try to work among these Jews, in an effort to persuade as many as possible to give Israel a "second chance." Even before this, a-year-and-a-half ago, the Agency began a similar initiative in Germany, and soon plans one in Australia.

Vinikov says that his target audience is principally the relatively young, those who see "they will most probably not be able to realize in the United States the dreams they hoped to fulfill when they arrived there, and are, on the other hand, young enough to try a new place."

Several factors assist him in his task: First, the "Russian" community has not really struck roots in American society, nor in the local Jewish community. Although the latter has helped them a great deal, "the fact that Jewish life in the U.S. is mainly based on religious movements and synagogue membership is not well suited to the `Russians.'"

Second, the community maintains close links with Israel. "Eighty percent of them have primary relatives in Israel. Over 60 percent have visited Israel, while the average in the American-Jewish community is 7 or 8 percent. Moved by the situation in Israel, the "Russian" community in New York recently contributed about NIS 1 million to IDF soldiers.

In the past two years there has been a stronger move by immigration authorities to search for new "reservoirs" among the approximately 7.8 million Jews living outside Israel, in an effort to remain even somewhat close to the immigration levels to which Israel grew accustomed in the 1990s.

In 2000, 61,025 persons immigrated to Israel, but by last year that number had dropped to 44,247, and this year only about 35,000 are expected to immigrate - representing a 43 percent decline in two years.

Of course, these two years have been marked by a war of Palestinian terrorism and a serious economic downturn, and the results are obvious. Yet Jewish Agency chairman Sallai Meridor refuses to speak of a "crisis" in immigration: "What happened is that during the 1990s, we were spoiled by dramatic numbers of immigrants, and now it is hard for us to get used to a decline. I can still remember years in which only 10,000 -12,000 people immigrated to Israel, so the current number of 35,000 immigrants coming to Israel is an extraordinary accomplishment."

In any event, the numbers suggest the words of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon seem detached from reality. Ever since he assumed office two years ago, Sharon has never stopped trumpeting before the relevant bodies his goal of absorbing another million immigrants in the decade to come, which translates into 100,000 immigrants a year. Such an immigration rate was unheard of even in the Gay Nineties - except for the first two years, 1990 and 1991. Deputy Absorption Minister Yuli Edelstein, who answers to Sharon (Sharon holds the absorption portfolio), believes that Sharon's goal is realistic, "only if we take the right actions, in the right places." But even Meridor, who is directly responsible for bringing the immigrants and whose organization is largely judged on the basis of percentage points, offers a much more modest goal: half a million in the upcoming decade, or 50,000 a year.

This objective is realistic, says Meridor. "We have already had these sort of years in the past decade. I also believe that the security and economic situation will not continue throughout the decade."

Background factors

Analysis of the data reveals that most of the "blame" for the lower numbers may be placed on the shoulders of the immigration from the former Soviet Union, which brought to Israel about a million people over the past 12 years. The dramatic slowdown over the past two years directly affects the general data: about 51,000 persons immigrated to Israel from the countries of the former Soviet Union in 2000, close to 24,000 last year and about 18,000 are expected to immigrate this year - a dramatic decline of two-thirds in the past two years.

Edelstein cites three factors in the decline in immigration from the former Soviet Union: the security and economic situation here, improvement and stabilization of the economic situation in Russia (although not in other countries of the former Soviet Union), and also "the fact that even the reservoir there is not a bottomless pit. We simply have already exploited most of it."

Recent studies put the number of Jews remaining in countries of the former Soviet Union at 437,000. Aside from these Jews, there are another few hundred thousand people to whom the Law of Return applies, meaning that the children and grandchildren of Jews may be included.

Meridor always tries to see the half-full glass of water, and in his estimate a substantial share of those entitled to immigrate have not given up on the option, but are simply hedging their bets: "We have noticed that they are actually taking greater part in preparatory activities for immigration such as Hebrew and Judaism courses in their countries of origin, meaning that many of them are simply waiting for the situation to improve before they decide to immigrate.

Against the dramatic decline in immigration rates from the former Soviet Union, the general picture is slightly balanced out by the rapid growth in immigration from other population centers, mainly Argentina and France, two countries whose Jewish communities have been subjected to serious crisis in the past two years - Argentina, due to the general economic crisis, and France, due to the steep rise in anti-Semitic incidents, which are related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The number of immigrants from Argentina rose last year by nearly 500 percent: from 1,421 in 2001 to a projected almost-6,500 by the end of the current year. In France, the number doubled, from 1,144 last year to nearly 2,400 this year.

On the face of it, the Jews of these countries seem to be overlooking the terror and the economic situation in Israel, but in actuality, those who are immigrating have already reached the deepest levels of despair and frustration at the situation in their countries of origin.

It is assumed that had the situation in Israel been better, rates of immigration would have soared much higher. For example, Mario Wainstein, the editor of the Spanish-language Israeli weekly "Aurora" estimates that, "If the crisis in Argentina had broken out during better years in Israel, we would be seeing a rate of immigration of about 20,000 a year."

Meridor partly bases his 50,000-immigrants-a-year forecast on Wainstein's estimate. Meridor believes that the number of immigrants from the former Soviet Union will stabilize at around 25,000 a year once the situation in Israel stabilizes, although this forecast ignores the possibility that if the crisis in Israel can change, so too can the crisis situations in Argentina and France.

Two other targets of concerted immigration efforts are North America and South Africa. The Jewish Agency views North America as a primary immigration target, not because of any crisis or prediction of crisis that might push the Jews to leave, but due to its being the largest Jewish "reservoir" in the world (approximately 5.6 million Jews in the U.S. and Canada).

In fact, the past year has provided a positive blip in immigration from North America, from 1,653 immigrants in 2001 to nearly 2,000 this year. Although these numbers may be negligible, the increase works out to about 20 percent, which is especially important because it is reverses the downward trend in immigration from North America in previous years.

Nachliel Dison, the executive director of the Association of American and Canadians in Israel, attributes the turnaround to the crisis in Israel: "We are referring mainly to a modern Orthodox population, believers in religious Zionism, for whom immigration is a way of expressing their hope to strengthen Israel at this trying time, in addition to other traditional shows of support, such as contributions and visiting Israel." The slight "jump" may also be related to campaigns organized in the past year by Christian groups from the United States, which granted substantial financial support to immigrants to Israel, and intend to continue to do so.

Other alternatives

South Africa is a more complicated story. This was a large community that until three decades ago claimed over 130,000 Jews. The economic crisis that afflicted the country due to the boycott of the apartheid regime, which continued even after the collapse of apartheid in 1994, brought about the departure of about one-third of South African Jews (as well as many other whites).

But only a few thousand came to Israel. The main reasons: language difficulties and housing costs in Israel (the economic crisis in South Africa caused the price of a sumptuous villa in South Africa to drop to about $35,000, a sum that barely covers the purchase of a decent room in Israel).

South African Jews have a level of education that enabled them to be absorbed comfortably in developed English-speaking countries such as Australia, New Zealand and Canada.

In general, competing with other possible destinations is one of the biggest challenges faced by Israel. Even the system of benefits awarded to immigrants (initial absorption basket, mortgage benefits, employment assistance, etc.) is no longer exclusive. Germany, which seems bent on qualifying for the ultimate "moral rebate" after the Holocaust by renewing Jewish life in the country, used to offer refugee status to Jews from the former Soviet Union. This granted considerable lifelong benefits. (Israel vehemently opposed this, arguing that these Jews have a country that would be happy to absorb them). About 100,000 Jews hastened to take advantage of these benefits.

Argentine Jews also have alternatives, including Spain and Mexico, which speak the same language. In addition, some wealthy Jewish communities - most notably Winnipeg, Canada - that are suffering from demographic downsizing have been offering benefits to Argentine Jews, in the hope that they will reinforce their ranks.

Add to this scenario the array of benefits provided to immigrants by the State of Israel. The Sharon government has taken important strides in this area, in spite of the severe economic crisis. One, it decided that the "absorption basket" (financial support amounting to about NIS 30,000 for a couple, with another few thousand shekels for each child) that is granted to immigrants from "distressed countries" - the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia - would also be awarded to immigrants from Argentina, South Africa and France. Subsequently an additional benefit package was offered to Argentine immigrants: special mortgage benefits, and an additional basket of benefits that amounts to about $5,000 per person (to cover shipping of personal possessions, professional training, employer subsidies, etc.), that is underwritten by the United Jewish Appeal in the U.S. following a personal request from Sharon. The benefits were granted as "emergency aid" for 2002 (partly out of fear that immigrants from other countries might petition the High Court of Justice), and it is still unclear if they will be extended into 2003.

There is a rumor among immigrants and their organizations that the decision to extend the benefits has essentially been made, but that it has not yet been publicized, so that the potential immigrants will not delay their immigration. Indeed, in order not to lose the special benefits, an especially sizable wave of immigrants - 1,500 people - is expected to arrive from Argentina during December, which is more than the total of all Argentine immigrants in 2001.

Last month, the government decided to extend the basic absorption basket to all immigrants arriving in Israel. The Jewish Agency and Absorption Ministry are hoping that the decision will boost immigration rates among two sectors in particular: immigrants from the former Soviet Union who had opted for Germany and the U.S. in the past, and who, until this new decision was enacted, did not have rights to any absorption basket here since Germany and the U.S. are considered developed countries, from which immigrants do not need any assistance.

The second group is immigrants from North America. Dison says that the absorption basket is a strong factor for many potential immigrants from the U.S. and Canada.

"Unlike what people in Israel think, not all the Jews in these countries are wealthy. There are lots of young couples that may be thinking of starting their life together in Israel, for whom a few tens of thousands of shekels will allow them to make a very significant start. It is also an important symbolic message to the Jews of the West - Israel is telling them that it is interested in them and not only in those who bear the burden of misfortune."


Home Print Edition News
Britain's academic boycott of Israelis is gaining momentum
By Tamara Traubmann	Dec. 13, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The academic boycott that started a year ago in protest of Israel's policies in the territories appears to be gathering momentum, according to an article in yesterday's British daily, The Guardian.

Recently, a British science periodical rejected an article by Prof. Oren Yiftachel, who teaches political geography at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, because he was Israeli. The periodical finally agreed to publish his article after prolonged negotiations and numerous changes, including drawing a parallel between Israel and apartheid South Africa.

Prof. Yiftachel, who holds extreme leftist political views, said yesterday that six months ago, he sent an article to the respected periodical "Political Geography." The article was returned to him with a note explaining that it was rejected because the author was an Israeli and because the editor of the journal, Prof. David Slater, was among the original sponsors of the boycott of Israeli academics.

Yiftachel coauthored the piece with a Palestinian-Israeli colleague, Dr. As'ad Ghanem, a political scientist from Haifa University, and it deals with the attitude of Israeli authorities to the Palestinians in Israel and in the territories.

"I wrote the editor," said Yiftachel, "that rejecting a person because of his [national] origin, from an academic point of view, is very problematic. Also, from a political and practical point of view, the boycott actually weakens the sources of opposition to the [Israeli] occupation in universities."

Many Israeli academics report that an increasing number of colleagues from abroad refuse invitations to participate in conferences or to conduct research in Israel, on political grounds.

"Every year, we send most of our research papers abroad for judging," Prof. Paul Singer, the outgoing head of the Israel Science Foundation's academic board, told The Guardian. "We send out about 7,000 papers a year. This year, for the first time, we had people writing back - about 25 of them - saying: `We refuse to look at these.'"

However, the actions taken against Israeli academics also have some powerful opponents. Baroness Susan Greenfield, the head of the Royal Institution of Great Britain and a leading British scientist, said that the boycott must be condemned and that it "presents British academia in very negative light." She also stressed that "the vast majority of British academia opposes the boycott."

Greenfield will lead a joint scientific-commercial delegation to Israel in the near future.


Home Print Edition Opinion
A right-wing government without makeup
The Israeli voter has a rare opportunity to find out how the right-wing government looks to the world when the rouge provided by Shimon Peres and Benjamin Ben-Eliezer has been wiped off. Israel's image in December 2002 is beginning to be reminiscent of Michael Jackson's after he took off his mask.
By Akiva Eldar	| Dec. 23, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Why is this Christmas Eve different from all other Christmas Eves? Because on this Christmas Eve, the hundreds of millions of Christians who will see the Jewish soldiers besieging Jesus' birthplace will not hear a Nobel Peace Prize laureate explaining that it is all the fault of his fellow peace prize laureate, Yasser Arafat. This year, the world will get Ariel Sharon's policies, net, with Shaul Mofaz as the executor and Benjamin Netanyahu as the public relations man. This time, Israel has a foreign minister who is not welcome at the home of British Prime Minister Tony Blair, the international leader closest to President George Bush. Blair, who opened the doors of 10 Downing Street to Syrian President Bashar Assad and will also open them for Labor Party Chairman Amram Mitzna, explained that as prime minister, he does not receive foreign ministers.

The Israeli voter has a rare opportunity to find out how the right-wing government looks to the world when the rouge provided by Shimon Peres and Benjamin Ben-Eliezer has been wiped off. Israel's image in December 2002 is beginning to be reminiscent of Michael Jackson's after he took off his mask. With Netanyahu in the Foreign Ministry, the Israeli ambassador to the United Nations is not allowed to use the "two-state vision" powder in Sharon's bathroom. Now the rest of the world is seeing what we see at Likud Central Committee meetings, such as decisions to reject any talk of a Palestinian state.

Mitzna is convinced that if Labor had left the government a year ago, it would be the Likud trailing in the polls. Maybe. A year with Netanyahu and Mofaz instead of Peres and Ben-Eliezer would have taught the Israeli voter that it is impossible to reconquer all the territories and still ask the world to treat it as a peace-seeking nation. For example, there is now growing pressure in the World Trade Organization to reconsider its 1995 decision to admit Israel, which was a reward for the peace policies of the Rabin government. And there is talk inside the European Union about it being time to teach Israelis something about the relationship between settlement policy, convenient trade agreements and unemployment in Israel.

One more injured UN worker in the territories, accompanied by rude assaults by the foreign minister on the secretary-general's envoy, Terje Larsen, and Israel will be added to that dubious club of countries such as Somalia and Afghanistan from which the UN has withdrawn its personnel. UN agencies distribute some NIS 400 million a month to residents of the territories. The Israeli government, which is having trouble providing welfare services to its own children, will not be able to feed the children of Gaza who are already suffering malnutrition. Faced with photographs of hungry Palestinian children, it is doubtful that even Bush and his new Jewish neoconservative advisor, Elliot Abrams, would be able to stand up alongside the rightist government.

South Africa was also an American ally in the guerrilla war against the communists in Angola. But when the issue of human rights reached the crisis point, public opinion decided American policy and put an end to the apartheid regime. In closed door discussions with European and Middle Eastern statesmen, Bush associates are already promising that after the Iraqi affair, Bush will turn to the conflict in the territories. They expect that even Bush will get fed up with fighting the entire world so that Sharon can enjoy the best of all worlds: talking about a "Palestinian state" while dividing Gaza and the West Bank into cantons, South Africa-style.

That has not escaped Sharon's attention. No wonder he misses Peres and makes sure to keep in touch with Ben-Eliezer. He needs them the way he needs the Thai workers who clean the sheep pens at his Sycamore Ranch. With Sharon's luck, Israeli voters will hear the results of the elections while sitting in their sealed rooms and bomb shelters. Then they will no doubt hear the Labor Party's upper echelons singing a chorus of "We have no other land," and they will once again hear that Sharon gave permission to Peres to meet with Abu Ala. If it is up to them on January 29th, then at Christmas next year, it will be Ben-Eliezer imposing the curfew in Bethlehem and Peres explaining it to the world.


Home Opinion
Praying for a rainy election day
Though it's hard to begin a discussion about voting trends among the United Torah Judaism party without bringing up the issue of bogus votes, it can be assumed that with public awareness about polling fraud at a relatively high level, fake votes will be a marginal factor.
By Shahar Ilan	| Dec. 29, 2002 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
There's a tale about an ultra-Orthodox Jew on an election day, who was observing the shiva mourning period for his deceased father when his rabbi came to visit. "Rabbi," asked the bereaved son, "how can I go vote in the middle of the shiva period? The rabbi replied: "Your father will go vote, so surely you, too, will cast your ballot." This anecdote joins another, somewhat well-worn joke about voting fraud, which relates that the pious Haredim of Bnei Brak are not allowed to vote between 3 and 4 P.M., because that's the hour when the dead cast their ballots.

Though it's hard to begin a discussion about voting trends among the United Torah Judaism party without bringing up the issue of bogus votes, it can be assumed that with public awareness about polling fraud at a relatively high level, fake votes will be a marginal factor.

The UTJ rank and file are frustrated. The party's natural constituency is growing steadily, and yet UTJ has not been able to reap electoral dividends from this expansion; for years, the party has had just four or five Knesset members. They watched with stunned envy during the last Knesset elections in 1999, as Shas, a kind of stepsister party for Sephardi Jews that made its debut in 1984, captured 17 Knesset seats. And they peruse current polls in a similar state of resentment, since the forecasts project 15 Knesset seats for the Shinui party, thanks largely to UTJ's activity.

The Haredi population doubles every 16 years, according to research studies by Prof. Eli Berman. Agudath Yisrael, UTJ's forerunner, won 3.3 percent of the votes in the 1965 Knesset elections, which gave the party four Knesset seats. By 1999, the Haredi population was four times larger, owing to natural growth (and excluding formerly secular Jews who joined the ultra-Orthodox population by choice). Despite such significant population growth, UTJ won just 3.7 percent of the vote (126,000 total votes) in the 1999 elections, meaning that it received just five Knesset seats.

One of the reasons why Israel's ultra-Orthodox Ashkenazi party, in its various versions, has not increased its Knesset representation involves Shas' departure from the fold. Experts believe that three to four of Shas' 17 Knesset seats were won thanks to Haredi voters. In this respect, UTJ functionaries have only themselves to blame: discriminatory, apartheid-like policies enacted by Ashkenazi Haredim toward Sephardim brought about this loss of voters.

The other reason, of course, involves the Russian immigration. Before the wave of immigration from the former Soviet Union, a party needed 18,500 votes to win a Knesset seat, whereas about a decade later in 1999 this figure rose to 26,000. This translates to an increase of 40 percent in the total needed to snare a Knesset seat, and this rise offset the Haredi population's natural growth during the decade.

UTJ managed, at last, to win five Knesset seats during the last elections, but this increase came from two new categories of one-time-only voters: those who voted at the behest of pro-UTJ charm cards distributed by the Shuvu Banim Yeshiva, and settlers, moshav residents and Arabs who rely on the patronage of the housing and construction minister, and voted due to support they received during the period when Meir Porush served as deputy housing minister.

These two categories of voters will apparently drift toward other parties. Yet the slackened pace of immigration gives UTJ hope that it will secure a fifth Knesset seat this time around thanks to the Haredi sector's natural growth. Some 4,000 Haredi couples marry every year. Some 4,000 Haredi males dodge army service each year. These figures support a widely-held belief that 8,000 Haredim, male and female, join the voting pool each year. That means 24,000 Haredim have joined the pool during the past three years. Also, many Haredim, Sephardi and Askhenazi, cast ballots in 1999 for Shas to protest against Shas leader Aryeh Deri's conviction; these voters can be expected to return to the UTJ fold in the upcoming elections. These developments are likely to produce a fifth Knesset seat for the UTJ, meaning that Yosef Lapid's partner from the Popolitika current affairs television program, Rabbi Yisrael Eichler, will join the Knesset.

UTJ faces daunting challenges. Despite the slowdown in immigration, an annual average of 50,000 newcomers have arrived in Israel during the past three years. UTJ will need to snatch many votes from Shas, if it is to receive a sixth Knesset seat, nor will it be able to rely on charm cards, or an explicit campaign based on the slogan "disappointed Shas voters, come back to us." UTJ's big advantage is also a distinct disadvantage. It has a hard core of voters who never punish the party by casting ballots elsewhere; on the other hand, the party has not found it easy to break beyond this constituency's ghetto walls.

More than anything else, UTJ is hoping for rain on election day, or, God willing, a major storm. Voter turnout in the Haredi sector is 90 percent; in fact, once the infirm and those who live abroad are subtracted, it is 100 percent. The turnout rate in the general population is about 80 percent, which is very high compared to other countries. Haredi voters will go to voting booths in compliance with the rabbis' orders, no matter what the weather. UTJ operatives hope that voters from other parties will decide to stay warm and dry in the event of showers, thus allowing UTJ to scale to the unprecedented peak of seven or eight Knesset seats.

Thus many rainy day prayers will be recited in UTJ circles in weeks ahead - for political reasons, and not out of concern for the water level in Lake Kinneret.


