<article>
<title>Balad to hold vote on whether to accept Israel as a Jewish state</title>
<date>Mon Nov 19 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
The Israeli-Arab Balad party will hold an assembly this Saturday in Shfaram to vote on whether to accept Israel as a Jewish state. Separately, members will vote on whether to oppose the upcoming Middle East Peace Summit
According to a statement released by Balad on Monday, the party's objections to the summit are based on its failure to focus on  the "right of return" for Palestinian refugees, the evacuation of settlements in the West Bank and the founding of a sovereign Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital. 
The statement also said that the demand on the part of Israel for recognition as a Jewish state
The party maintains that the Annapolis summit will be used by the U.S., Israel and the Palestinian Authority to push aside legitimate Palestinian concerns in favor of superficial gestures. 
The statement closed with a call to the Palestinian Authority to resist U.S. and Israeli pressure to abandon fundamental Palestinian demands.
Related articlesWhat went wrong with Azmi Bishara?

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Growing trend to delegitimize Israel worries Jewish leaders </title>
<date>Tue Jul 10 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
The trend toward delegitimizing Israel's existence as a Jewish state is growing not only in Europe, but also in the United States, according to Jewish-American academics and community leaders.  
Anti-Israel attacks are even beginning to affect Jewish supporters of Israel, who have been accused of trying to silence public debate, they said.  
This trend toward delegitimization will be one of the topics discussed at a conference on the future of the Jewish people that opens in Jerusalem this morning. The conference, which will be attended by researchers, heads of Jewish organizations and senior Israeli politicians, was organized by the Jewish People Policy Planning Institute.  
Avinoam Bar-Yosef, JPPPI's director general, said that anti-Israel attacks in the U.S. constitute a "long-term threat" to Israel's standing, American Jewish organizations and the pro-Israel lobby.  
"Public attention is currently focused on Europe, due to initiatives like the British academic boycott," he said. "In the U.S., the problem is still under the radar. But as a planning institute, we believe that it is necessary to formulate policy on this issue now."  
Brandeis University President Jehuda Reinharz told Haaretz that American academics are at the forefront of those denying Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state. Veteran advocates of this position, such as Tony Judt and Noam Chomsky, were joined last year by Stephen Walt and John Mearsheimer, both from reputable academic institutions, who charged that the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) dictates American foreign policy. Their article, which generated shock waves, is being turned into a book, which is slated to be published in September. The fact that a respected publisher paid Walt and Mearsheimer an advance that is thought to have totaled hundreds of thousands of dollars attests to how hot the publisher thinks this issue is, Reinharz said.  
"My feeling - and that of many people - following Walt and Mearsheimer and other publications is that we are at the start of a new era with regard to attitudes toward Israel in the U.S.," he added.  
Abraham Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, believes that Jimmy Carter's book Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid, which was published last November, had a much greater impact than did other publications.  
"In the past, people who said that Jewish supporters of Israel control the media and politics belonged to the margins," he said. "But after former president Carter said it, it gained legitimacy in the mainstream. Today, the debate is already on questions such as to what extent the Jews dominate."  
Foxman said that Jews who challenge anti-Israel attacks find themselves accused of undermining freedom of expression.  
"I received letters from professors who claimed that when I accuse someone of anti-Semitism, I am trying to silence public debate," he said. "When the president of Harvard University said that the delegitimization of Israel helps anti-Semites, he was accused of silencing public debate. No one would have dared accuse him of this had he been talking about racism or xenophobia."  
Reinharz said that he is worried by the lack of effective response to anti-Israel publications.  
"I see no combined effort to fight this by the Jewish organizations, and in truth, I myself don't know how this could be done," he said.   

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jewish power </title>
<date>Mon Oct 01 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
If in the past anti-Semitism was mostly religious (Christian) and racist (Nazi), now it ranges from neo-Nazism through Iranian Khomeinism to the margins of political hostility toward Israel. Sometimes the boundaries are slim and fuzzy, advertently or inadvertently.  
It is common nowadays to defend anti-Semitic tones by claiming they are only sharp criticism of Israel. On the other hand, some hasten to condemn as anti-Semitic any criticism of the Israeli government's actions. Herein lies the importance of Abraham Foxman's new book: "The Deadliest Lies: The Israel Lobby and the Myth of Jewish Control," written by the head of the Anti-Defamation League and published last month, tries to define in clear language the fine line between hostility toward the state of Israel and outright hatred.  
However, perhaps Foxman's success in refuting the alleged takeover of Washington's foreign policy should not entirely negate international theories of Jewish influence. The considerable talk about "dual loyalties" has increased some Jews' hesitation to voice support for Israel openly. However, one must not forget that the legend of the Jews' power has afforded - and still is affording - a great deal of weight and respect for Israel in many developing countries. This has helped Israel in nurturing diplomatic and commercial ties, just as the Israel Defense Forces victories have helped the export of military products to Africa, Asia and Latin America.  
Nevertheless, it seems that in certain countries, like the United States and Britain, the legend has hurt more than helped. The issue became especially relevant in the wake of America's failure in the Iraq war and the increasing popularity of the claim that Israel's supporters pushed U.S. President George W. Bush into the hostilities.  
In his work, Foxman addresses the book about the pro-Israel lobby written by the political scientists John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt; an article by the Jewish journalist and historian Tony Judt, in favor of a binational state; and the book by former U.S. president Jimmy Carter, "Palestine: Peace not Apartheid."  
There is no doubt that the American Israel Public Affairs Committee is one of the largest and most successful lobbies in Washington. However, I remember that as far back as the early 1950s, when AIPAC consisted of its founder I.L. Kenan, one assistant and one secretary, it was considered the second most influential lobby in Washington. Foxman notes, and rightly so, that this was not due to "a sinister Jewish conspiracy" but rather the enthusiasm of most Americans for Israel. And indeed, in public opinion surveys last year, 48 percent of respondents said that they supported Israel, as opposed to 13 percent who expressed support for the Arabs.  
Hints of prejudice 
Nonetheless, Foxman notes that American public opinion hints at traces of prejudices toward Jews, and that these prejudices contribute to the fact that Jewish support for Israel arouses more suspicion than the affection other Americans feel for their families' countries of origin. He also contradicts the claim that Jewish ownership of important U.S. newspapers slants them in favor of Israel. Foxman notes that out of the 24,000 articles and commentaries that appeared on the front page of The New York Times during the six years of World War II, only 26 dealt with the Holocaust.  
In the second part of his book, Foxman denies the charges that Anti-Defamation League intervention led to the cancellation of a lecture Judt was scheduled to give in New York last year. In the lecture, he had planned to call for replacing Israel with a binational Arab-Jewish state.  
The third part of the book analyzes Carter's book, and here, too, Foxman is cautious about accusing the former president of anti-Semitism. Nonetheless, he explains why the title of Carter's book is not only unjust but also intentionally provocative.  
Foxman's book opens with warm remarks by former American secretary of state George Shultz. Shultz, too, stresses that criticism of Israel's deeds is legitimate, but that lies are something else. Lies are liable to be deadly, a basis for cruel and inhuman acts, and the Jewish people has suffered from lies more than any people, he writes.  
Shultz notes that the United States has hundreds of active lobbies representing many different interests. Jewish groups are indeed influential, but they do not all promote the same interests. Moreover, he adds, it is impossible to ignore the fact that Carter's opinions are on the anti-Israeli side. He concludes that the United States supports Israel because this is the correct thing to do politically and morally.  
In any case, it is worth putting the three books into the proper proportions. Despite the great amount of publicity and the debates surrounding them, the expectations or fears that they will dramatically change American public opinion are overblown. The Jewish establishment in the Diaspora as well as in the State of Israel must take care not to overexploit the goodwill and affection it maintains in many countries. There are already many signs that public opinion is changing in Europe and the United States. Only maintaining distance from extreme Israeli stances and showing a sincere desire for peace can prevent this. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jewish S. African minister slams critics of invitation to Hamas PM</title>
<date>Mon May 07 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
A South African cabinet minister, who is himself Jewish but also an outspoken critic of Israel, on Monday defended his invitation to Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh to make his first visit outside the Muslim world, saying it was "myopic" to reject opportunities for dialogue.
Intelligence Minister Ronnie Kasrils  provoked controversy last week when he extended the invitation during a visit to the Palestinian territories. He said South Africa's own experience showed the need to talk to all sides.
"Those who myopically object to such invitations merely show that they have learnt nothing from South Africa's transition," Kasrils said in a statement.
"Such logic as they espouse would not have allowed (apartheid era president) PW Botha to have met with the imprisoned (Nelson) Mandela nor his release by (former president) FW De Klerk as a partner in negotiations."
No date has been set for the trip, which Kasrils said had been endorsed by Palestinian Authority Chairman Mahmoud Abbas.
South Africa's Jewish Board of Deputies has criticised the invitation, saying the "racist ideology" of Haniyeh's Hamas organisation, which leads the Palestinian unity government, stood in contrast to South Africa's own post-apartheid ideals.
"As Jews and South African citizens, we cannot but view these developments with the deepest unhappiness," board chairman Michael Bagraim said in a statement.
Kasrils used his visit to "reiterate the commitment of the South African Government towards the achievement, through peaceful negotiations, of a two-state solution based on a viable Palestinian state on the 1967 borders," the minister's statement said.
Since becoming Palestinian prime minister in March 2006, Haniyeh has visited Arab states, some Gulf states and Iran, but he has not travelled beyond that.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Na'ima is threatening the Jewish majority </title>
<date>Wed Oct 03 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Although the school year began on September 2, Na'ima, 9, is still at home. Not one school in the city could find a place for her. Thousands of pupils in East Jerusalem are in the same situation. A city official in late August spelled it out in a letter to the Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI). Suheila Abu Ghosh, the assistant director of Manhi, the Jerusalem Education Administration, which belongs to the municipality and to the Education Ministry, wrote that "to our regret no places were found to absorb the 16 pupils who appear on the lists you enclosed with your letters, in grades two to eight." On official stationery of the municipality and the ministry, the person in charge of education admits there is no room in the schools for Jerusalem children who are legally entitled to compulsory education.  
In recent weeks, the Jerusalem Education Administration has been trying to find room for the 16 children for fear ACRI would turn to the High Court of Justice. As has happened every year in recent years, the threat to petition the High Court forces the Jerusalem Municipality to pressure school principals into crowding another Palestinian child into an already crowded classroom, to find a solution for the petitioners.  
At the start of school last year the education minister declared her intention of working to reduce the shortage of about 1,300 classrooms in East Jerusalem, but during the past year only 50 new classrooms were built there. Despite the commitment of the Education Ministry and the Jerusalem Municipality to the High Court, from 2001-2007, to build at least 645 classrooms in East Jerusalem (245 according to a 2001 High Court decision and 400 in the context of the promise given to the High Court this year), in fact, fewer than 100 new classrooms have been built since 2001.  
The petitions of parents whose children found no room in Jerusalem schools continue to be processed in the High Court, but the legal discussions, the focus on details, are concealing what any child can see: Jerusalem, which is celebrating the 40th anniversary of its reunification, is conducting a policy of separation.  
According to the report of the Coalition for the Advancement of Arab Education in East Jerusalem, only about half the Palestinian children in East Jerusalem, about 39,400 out of about 79,000, are at present studying in the city school system. Most of the others study in private schools, in United Nations schools or outside the city. About two-thirds of the public schools in East Jerusalem operate in rented apartments. And, still, hundreds of children remain without a place in Jerusalem's schools.  
During 40 years of occupation Israel built Jewish neighborhoods on Arab land in East Jerusalem, such as Gilo, French Hill, Neveh Yaakov et al, and - wonder of wonders - there are no children in these neighborhoods who have to turn to the courts in order to attend school. After all, it is unthinkable to have no room for Jewish children in the Jerusalem school system.  
Jerusalem, which is now joyously celebrating the 40th anniversary of its reunification, is a divided city. The discrimination in education is part of a consistent attempt to reduce the number of Palestinian residents in the city, so as to maintain a Jewish majority. These efforts are also reflected in the demolition of homes, the confiscation of land, the confiscation of ID cards from anyone who has gone to study elsewhere, for example, and in the crowded conditions in the schools. All these are the implementation of a policy that considers Palestinians second-class citizens.  
That's why there is no room for Na'ima in Jerusalem's schools. Na'ima, like thousands of other Palestinian children in Jerusalem, threatens the Jewish majority. The Israeli school system does not want Na'ima. It doesn't want Na'zz to remind it that maintaining the Jewish majority is an unethical goal. The educational policy in Jerusalem is a microcosm of the general situation in discriminatory Israel. A country that builds schools for children from one group and not from another is an apartheid state.  
The writer is a member of the Law Faculty at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>8 rights groups ask High Court to rescind West Bank driving ban</title>
<date>Mon Jan 08 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Eight human rights groups petitioned the High Court of Justice on Sunday against a military order prohibiting Israelis from driving Palestinians in private vehicles in the West Bank. 
Attorney Michael Sfard, who filed the motion for Yesh Din, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, Gisha, the Public Committee Against Torture in Israel and others, criticized GOC Central Command Yair Naveh's order, slated to take effect January 19.
Sfard said the order will "lead to a rift between Israelis and Palestinians who have legitimate social, political and commercial ties." 
The groups call the order reminiscent of apartheid, as it "implements an ideology of separation by creating criminal sanctions on different peoples." 
Separately, a human rights advocacy group has charged that Israel did not relinquish control of the Gaza Strip in the disengagement. 
According to a report by Gisha: Center for the Legal Protection of Freedom of Movement, although Israel removed certain components of control by ecacuating the Gaza Strip, it tightened its hold on others - namely the freedom of movement into and out of the Gaza Strip. The Gisha report is expected to be released to diplomats and European Union delegates in Israel later this week. 
"Imposing a strict curfew on the movement of people and goods in and out of the Gaza Strip and halting funding for public services have contributed to an economic and humanitarian crisis in the Strip of a severity unknown in the 38 years of occupation," the report states. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ahead of summit, N.Y. Congressman fears for Mideast stability</title>
<date>Sun Nov 11 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
WASHINGTON - There are people in Jerusalem who have not yet forgotten the criticism leveled at Prime Minister Ehud Olmert by Gary Ackerman, a United States congressman from New York and head of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. 
He "kissed President Bush's ass," said the representative, in language that was not quite diplomatic, commenting to The Forward about Olmert's criticism of the new Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, after her visit with Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus last April. 
Ackerman's slaps at Olmert might have led one to suspect that the 64-year-old, 12-term congressman misses Ariel Sharon, Olmert's predecessor. And perhaps he really does miss Sharon a little, but the criticism that he levels today against Sharon's most dramatic decision - the withdrawal from Gaza - is harsh. It was, he says, "a mistake." 
But you supported this move.
"True," admits Ackerman, but he reminds me that there he didn't have many alternatives. As an American legislator, nobody consulted with him. The decision was presented as a fait accompli, and it seemed better to support it and to hope that the move would succeed than to express meaningless and useless opposition. In general, though, Ackerman says he feels that unilateral moves are not wise. Israel left Gaza without having anyone to whom it could hand over the keys. 
So is that the problem, that they didn't give Gaza to Abu Mazen? Would that have worked?
No, he says, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, has to date not proven an ability to receive keys and to turn them in the lock as well. Therefore, this opposition was not available to Sharon. 
So if there is nobody to give it to, and unilateral withdrawal is a mistake, what should have been done?
"Under those circumstances," states the legislator, "it would have been preferable to continue the status quo." In other words, a continued Israeli presence in Gaza. And Ackerman hastens to explain that this is not "stating a position regarding the settlements." He does not think that Israel should have remained in Gaza forever, only for the time being, until there was someone to whom it could "transfer responsibility." 
Repeatedly, Ackerman refers to the need for a "dash of political realism," during a long conversation he had with Haaretz in his Capitol Hill office last week, shortly before he embarked on another lightning visit to the Middle East. 
Ackerman, who is Jewish, represents New York's Fifth Congressional District, which takes in parts of Long Island and Queens. He was a teacher in the New York City school system before entering politics (he served five years in the New York State Senate before being elected to the U.S. House for the first time, in 1983). And he is next in line to take over the chairmanship of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, when its current Democratic chair, Tom Lantos, retires. 
Ackerman's keyboard has worked overtime in recent weeks. His new pen pal: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. In an October 19 letter he sent her concerning the peace conference planned for Annapolis, Maryland, at the end of this month, Ackerman and a Republican colleague from Louisiana, Charles Boustany (who is of Lebanese heritage), declared, "We believe the meeting in November could mark an important turning point" - and also recommended forceful steps to strengthen the Palestinian Authority and its leader. 
The letter was welcomed by dovish Jewish organizations like Peace Now and the Israel Policy Forum. We can "all learn from the example" of these legislators, said Debra DeLee, president and CEO of Americans for Peace Now (APN). Afterward, the establishment AIPAC (the American Israel Public Affairs Committee) also joined the supporters of the letter. Ackerman, with his typical political savvy, had managed to appeal to the tastes of many groups. 
In reality, the U.S.-sponsored meeting in Annapolis, the one that "could mark an important turning point," is making Ackerman squirm in his seat. As in the case of the mistake of withdrawing from Gaza, here too he hastens to mention that "this was not my decision." The facts were determined by others. "The moment a meeting has been announced, I don't want it to fail." 
But was the decision to convene a conference the right decision? Ackerman doesn't say it wasn't, but neither does he say it was. But what he is clear about is his belief that "you have to do homework before the exam." He adds: "The idea was too amorphous, very problematic in my opinion." 
Ackerman fears for another failure. Like the failure of the withdrawal from Gaza, for which Israel is to blame; like the "tremendous failure" of the elections for the Palestinian parliament two years ago, for which he blames the United States. It was President Bush, he says, who "forced his supposed best friend" - namely, Ariel Sharon - "to agree to Hamas participation in the elections." The consequences are well-known. 
Ackerman walks a thin line when he talks about the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. On the one hand, Ackerman has an unreserved love for Israel and is wary of backing steps that could endanger its welfare; on the other, he has a political need to align himself with the party ethos that sees the attempt to achieve an agreement as a crucial need. 
Added to these are his reluctance as a Democrat to show support for a step, any step, taken by the Bush administration, along with the understanding that the administration is now trying to accomplish something positive. But it is clear to everyone that there is a side that he supports in this story, or as he put it, "I have a dog in this fight." 
In late October, Ackerman and several of his colleagues, also Jewish legislators, met with former president Jimmy Carter, who came to the Hill to try and find a common language with them, after the major uproar engendered by his book "Palestine: Peace, Not Apartheid." Ackerman says his presence at the meeting was intended not to reconcile with Carter, but to explain to him what he thinks of his book. Among other things, Carter was told during the discussion that he had "lost the ability to present himself as someone who cares about Israel." Participants describe the off-the-record dialogue as "tough" and "unpleasant." 
Fears for the region
"I now fear for the stability of the region more than ever in the past," says Ackerman. His conclusion: We have to exploit the opportunity that Rice is trying to create. "You can claim that we have to wait for a Palestinian messiah, and that this is not the ideal time - but time is not on our side because politics move fast. The longer we wait the worse the outlook." 
Therefore - we have to act, and now. "To close the best deal possible." That's the reason for urging Rice to support a program for the rehabilitation and building of the PA. "To [make the Palestinians] decide now between Fatah and Hamas." In other words - denying vital support to Fatah today will bring Hamas to the West Bank and perhaps even further tomorrow. 
But there is also another side to the coin. Ackerman looks at Mahmoud Abbas and does not see a genuine leader who is capable of bringing about change. He says that he doesn't want to give money to the PA "without a specific goal" and without close supervision to insure that the goal has been achieved. Rice, he says, has to "insist" that the PA demonstrate that it is doing something "real" with American taxpayers' money. "We'll give to you only if you provide the goods, sounds less supportive and more conditional." 
The letter he co-signed is in effect an expression of his two personae - the "good Ackerman" and the "bad Ackerman." Apparently those who supported him chose to read into it what suits them, no less than what the legislator intends to say. 
Ackerman's criticism is directed at the administration and at the PA, but most of all at the "Arab world," which he says caused Bill Clinton to fail when it did not give Yasser Arafat the necessary push at Camp David in 2000. That is what Rice says about the Arabs, and what Ackerman says as well. Therefore he doesn't understand how a conference that was intended to have Arab participation could have been announced without the host, the United States, knowing in advance what "the Arabs are willing to give." Recently he himself met with the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., and complained that the diplomat's country had stopped sending money to the PA since the collapse of the Mecca agreement of last February between Fatah and Hamas. 
Though Ackerman is trying to adhere to the line being promoted by his party - which calls for greater American involvement in the peace process - occasionally he presents a relatively hawkish stance. For example, in a second letter to the secretary of state, from October 24, he discussed the crisis in Lebanon and recommended upgrading the economic and political sanctions against Syria. The same Syria that led him to criticize Olmert, after Jerusalem criticized the visit there by Speaker Nancy Pelosi last spring. 
Ackerman looks at the ongoing unrest and instability in Lebanon, and finds no reasons for complacency. "I said to the administration, you think that losing Gaza is problematic? Try losing Lebanon!" Like most of his Democratic colleagues, he will call for "dialogue" with Syria, but when he says it, it sounds like a very tough dialogue indeed. 
Wherever Ackerman looks in the region he sees a problem, which he chooses to illustrate with the help of a horrifying example. We, he says, are like people on the top floors of the World Trade Center on 9/11. We have to decide quickly what to do: To stay? To try to go downstairs? To wait for the rescue forces? "Not deciding is also a decision," he reminds us. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Anti-Israel picket in South Africa: protesters for hire? </title>
<date>Fri Jun 08 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Z., a journalist from South Africa, was covering an anti-Israel demonstration Tuesday night outside the U.S. Consulate in Johannesburg. He says he was chased away after he discovered that some of the demonstrators were in fact homeless people from the surrounding townships serving as protesters for hire. The organizers categorically denied the allegations.  
Before the organizers could pick up on his presence, Z. managed to interview some of the participants in the candlelight vigil, which took place as a nationwide and government-sanctioned campaign called "End The Occupation."  
"There were several dozen protesters there, most of them Muslim. But there were also people who didn't seem to belong. They told me they were not pro-Palestinian activists, but homeless people bused in from the surrounding townships," he told Haaretz.  
"It was a particularly cold night and most of them refused to protest, opting to sit on the warm bus. The organizers refused to allow it. When I asked one black 'protester' if he was for Palestine, he replied: 'I am for nobody.' I had to laugh," Z. said.  
It was then that the organizers noticed Z. "One of the organizers, Salim Valli, accused me of being a Zionist agent. He told me this wasn't my country and I should get the hell out. The police accused me of provocation and asked me to leave. As I was doing so, one of the organizers took my picture. To be honest, I am concerned about my safety."  
Muhammed Desai of the Palestine Solidarity Committee of the University of the Witwatersrand, which organized the demonstration, rejected the allegations. "We categorically state that no protesters were hired and all those that gathered in protest against Apartheid Israel were present on their own accord," he said. "The allegations are a perfect example of Zionist propaganda to undermine South African solidarity with the Palestinian people."  
Earlier this week, South Africa's deputy foreign minister, Aziz Pahad, showed support for the campaign when he named Israel as "the only nation that has been able to defy the international community with impunity." At a reception for Arab ambassadors posted to Pretoria, Pahad said that "no other country has been allowed to get away with such blatant violations of international law."  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Antony Loewenstein - His Israel Question</title>
<date>Sun Apr 15 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
This week's guest is Antony Loewenstein. I speak with him about his book, "My Israel Question", the Arab-Israeli conflict and the relations between Jewish Diaspora and Israel. Readers can send questions.
Loewenstein is a Sydney based journalist and the author of the new book My Israel Question
Readers can send questions to rosnersdomain@haaretz.co.il
Antony,
I agree that "if Jews want nothing to do with a state that has no direct impact on their daily lives, this position should be respected." I have no issue with Jews stating that they feel no association with Israel - it is the logical outcome of assimilation. 
However, self-proclaimed Jewish "anti-Zionists" fail to take the next, logical step: to show indifference to Israel and let those who have relatives in Israel and a stake in the country go about their business. Why not demonstrate your indifference by ignoring the subject altogether? This is the paradox - Jews who are utterly alienated from their own roots claim a privilege to attack Israel based on their own Jewishness, thereby re-asserting the "ethnocentrism" they so passionately decry in Israel. 
And of course, many Israelis would love to reduce their country's dependence on the US. Sadly, having been cut off from French support on the eve of the 1967 war, and having lost billions in income due to the Arab boycott, they perceive themselves as lacking an alternative. As a state's first obligation is to protect its own citizens, rather than soothe the conscience of distant Sydneysiders, why should this criticism affect Israelis even one iota?   
Benaiah MosesLondon, UK
Judaism has always been a very broad church and this trend should most certainly continue. If Jews have the "right" to remain silent on Israel, then surely they have the equal right - I would say responsibility - to demand the Jewish state lives up to its claims of being a humane and moral nation. 
You claim that anti-Zionists should show indifference to Israel because they oppose the concept of a Jewish state. In fact, the opposite is true. Speaking for myself, I feel incredibly Jewish and am very proud of my religion's dissenting traditions. I write extensively about Israel and the Palestinians precisely because I care deeply about the fate of the Jewish people, not because I want to shun my background. 
You seem to be saying that being truly "Jewish" would automatically dictate an unquestioning love for Israel. Uncritical Zionists have pursued this path for decades, and contributed to Israel's current status as an international pariah . True friends of Israel, whether Zionist or anti-Zionist, want Israel to stop making excuses for not making peace. End the occupation once and for all, and become a truly modern nation. In its current form, it is rooted in a bygone era. 
When I co-founded Independent Australian Jewish Voices (IAJV) earlier in the year, a prominent Zionist leader in Australia condemned many of our members as "Jewish-born individuals", as if attending synagogue, giving money for Israeli trees and engaging in the community is the only way that Jews gain the right to comment on Israel. You seem to be making a similar argument. I am not simply condemning Israel because I am Jewish - this ethno-centric mentality is far too prevalent amongst Zionist Jews - but rather as a human being who is also Jewish. There is a major difference. 
You write that Israel would love to reduce its ties to the US, but is unable to do so. Well, then Israel cannot honestly call itself an independent nation. It is a client state, like many other similiar countries around the world. Washington has convinced Israel that it can act however it wishes towards the Palestinians and suffer no punishment as a result, such as reduced aid etc. Of course, the US is happy for Israel to behave brutally towards the Palestinians, because it has little time for their claims, wishes or rights. But as the US becomes less important in the Middle East - as the Iraq war has thankfully brought - Israel will have to make a decision. Stay wedded to Washington, or find its own path. The initial signs are not too positive. 
You rightly state that a state's first obligations are to its citizens, but Israel's behaviour is in fact endangering these very people. Maintaining and expanding the occupation, launching disastrous wars into Lebanon, encouraging war against Iran and still praising the "stability" of the Iraq war are all contributing to a decrease in safety for Israelis. How does the Zionist lobby in all honesty truly believe that a military strike against Iran will improve Israel's position in the Middle East? Virtually every Middle East expert - not working for the American Enterprise Institute or the Weekly Standard, of course - will tell you that, and yet the mainstream Jewish position on the Iranian "threat" is to attack first, ask questions later. Such reckless behavior almost proves the adage that Israel is a democracy for Jews where the military actually makes the major decisions. 
Israelis know that their country is becoming more internationally isolated, and it's not because of biased media or anti-Semitic governments. When, not if, America starts to exercise a more balanced policy in the region, how will Israelis react then? With indifference? I doubt it. 
I wonder how you believe criticism of Israel should be transmitted. Never? Silently? Only amongst friends? It's more than time for Jews to stand up and demand their homeland behave more morally and legally.
Best wishes,
Antony
Antony,
I try not to argue with my guests even when I strongly disagree with their views, so let me ask you this: Even assuming that you are right on the issues, and that Israel is an "anachronism" (whatever that means), there's one problem I think you don't address properly. Jewish Israelis will not dismantle their country just to please you or any other critic. If the Arab-Israeli conflict needs solution - and it does - yours might be one of the most impractical ideas. How do you envision the way forward for peace and stability and justice in a world in which real, practical, solutions matter? 
Rosner
You ask what I mean when I talk of Israel being an "anachronism." Let me briefly explain. I was liberally borrowing Tony Judt's expression. He wrote in 2003: "The very idea of a 'Jewish state' - a state in which Jews and the Jewish religion have exclusive privileges from which non-Jewish citizens are forever excluded -  is rooted in another time and place." I share this belief. 2007 is not 1948, and racially based nations are no longer as acceptable as they clearly were in the 20th century. Humans progress, and so do our ideas about race and religion.  
It is not impractical to talk of granting full rights to all Israeli citizens. It is not impractical to speak of the Jewish state allowing full marriage rights to both Israelis and Palestinians. And it is not impractical - indeed, it is essential if Israel is to remain even vaguely relevant in the 21st century - for the racially based occupation to end immediately. These are all achievable goals. Any nation that ignores such basic human rights should not be welcomed into the global community. Surely you would have objected to the ways in which apartheid South Africa both exploited and discriminated against its black population. This is exactly what is happening against the Palestinians in the occupied territories today.  
My earlier suggestions for a more humane Israel do not demand that Israelis cease to be Israelis, ignore their history (and suffering) or commit national suicide. I am in fact articulating a Jewish state that may have a future, unlike the current impasse that can only lead to its destruction. I say this with a heavy heart, not glee. How much longer will world support continue when the US's superpower status begins to recede? 
The majority of Israelis claim they want the occupation of the West Bank to end, yet barely put any pressure on their government to make this happen. Olmert's "convergence" plan was actually a ploy to gain international support for simply removing some settlements, and leaving many more. A desperate Palestinian leadership may accept this in the heat of negotiations - though it's unlikely the Hamas government would - but Israelis should demand ALL the settlements be removed, not just those with no strategic purpose.  
Moving forward on the Israel/Palestine conflict is not as difficult as Western commentators often describe. Both sides have intransigent elements, and both sides need to at least partially accept the other's narrative. This is no easy task. For example, Hamas (and the PLO before it) was told it must recognise Israel's right to exist. This sounds fine in principle, but Israel has never settled its borders, so is Hamas being asked to recognise the 1948 borders, or '67 or some other arbitrary lines? Israel, in its current form, is a constantly expanding entity and remains addicted to land acquisition. How many mainstream Jewish organisations in the West are actively pressuring the Israeli government to dismantle these ever-growing settlements? Their deafening silence suggests that their real interest is short-term political goals rather than long-term Israeli security.  
If you believe that my ideas are impractical for Israel's future, Zionists and the Israeli government would probably agree. But achieving peace is more than simply mouthing platitudes and hoping for the best. You want some practical solutions, so let me present a few. Israel must completely cease settlement expansion. The Palestinian government must end violence against Israeli citizens. Israel must allow the free movement of Palestinians in and out of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank and unilaterally release thousands of Palestinian prisoners, many of whom are guilty of no crime other than legally resisting Israeli occupation.  
Danny Rubinstein writes this week in Haaretz: 
"If Israel and the Palestinian Authority fail to reach an agreement based on a two-state solution, the only alternative would be a single-state solution. There is no other prospect.  
"This single state would not be a "secular democratic nation," as the PLO advocated in the past, nor would it be a state of all its citizens...The strong Jewish majority would not allow that. The only option remaining would be an apartheid state, whose first signs - and possibly more than just that - are already visible in the West Bank and in Gaza.  
"In this case, the struggle in store for the Arabs of the occupied territories would be directed to achieving equal rights and equality within the State of Israel. This would include establishing full unity between them and the Arab Israeli minority - a unity that does not exist today." 
In many ways, the two-state solution is already a virtual impossibility. Only full Israeli withdrawal from the occupied territories would allow such a possibility and that simply isn't going to happen in the current climate. Years of Israeli stalling has resulted in the bi-national option becoming more palatable to many Palestinians and Zionist critics the world over.  
I would never dare tell Israelis or Palestinians how to resolve their age-old conflict, but my ideas have moved from the fringes to the mainstream in the last years. Demanding equal treatment for both Israelis and Palestinians within Israel's borders isn't a revolutionary thought, it's common sense. I often wonder why so many Jews are resistant to the concept of Palestinians being treated as fairly as Jews.  
Best wishes, 
Antony
Antony,
Here's a big challenge: For the benefit of my readers who haven't read your book - can you please present the abridged version of your main complaints regarding Israel, and a solution that would make Israel more acceptable to you? 
Best
Rosner
My book aims to articulate an alternative Jewish perspective on the Israel/Palestine conflict. In my view, the separation of Zionism and Judaism is one of the key challenges for 21st century Judaism. For too long, they have been inextricably linked. It is the duty of Jews, and all global citizens, to speak out against injustice, not just misbehavior against Jews. 
I believe that Israel can no longer be a Jewish state, a nation that actively discriminates against anybody who isn't born Jewish. Whether Arab or Palestinian, a modern country that wants international recognition and respect, cannot continue to institute policies that are racially based. For the record, I am equally against an Islamic or Christian nation or any other religiously-sanctioned country. Israel must recognize that a progressive state doesn't continue to find legal ways to bar Jews marrying non-Jews or Palestinians living with Jewish partners.  Apartheid South Africa instituted similar policies and the world finally reacted appropriately to such outrages. Jimmy Carter's recent book, "Palestine: Peace not Apartheid", succeeded in mainstreaming the realities of the occupied territories and detailed the day-to-day realities of life for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Israel must grant equal rights to all its citizens. 
Secondly, the Palestinian right of return is a sacred issue that will not simply disappear by Zionists wishing it would. Around five million Palestinians have the historical and legal right to return to land stolen in 1948, ethnically cleansed for the sake of a Jewish state. Arguably the vast majority of these Palestinians would not return to their ancestral lands, but they, like Jews, must have the right to do so. Many Jews and the Israeli government fear that such moves would dilute a Jewish state and make its future impossible. They're right, but only if a racially exclusive nation is their ideal. Israelis have the right to live in peace in their ancestral lands, and so do Palestinians. 
The occupation of Palestinian land must end immediately. The Gaza "withdrawal" was a sham that essentially allowed the Israelis to imprison over one million Palestinians. Haaretz journalist Amira Hass has written of the Israeli mentality towards these Palestinians: "They are behaving as expected at the end of the extended experiment called 'what happens when you imprison 1.3 million human beings in an enclosed space like battery hens.'" Even as Israeli leaders across the world talk of peace and compromise, the expansion of West Bank settlements continues apace, making a truly contiguous Palestinian state virtually impossible. Such demographic realities make a one-state solution almost the default position, despite the posturing of the Bush administration and its global spokespeople. Spending time in the occupied territories, especially in places like Hebron, one is struck by the immorality of allowing a tiny minority of extremist Jews to control the lives of millions of Palestinians. Is this what the Holocaust taught Jews? Every single settlement on occupied land must be removed, no questions asked. The difficulties of doing so - and the real possibility of civil war within Israel - should not be reason enough to avoid this necessity. The future of Israel depends on this happening. 
Finally, Israel must start to extricate itself from the incestuous embrace of successive American administrations. For a nation that claims to be independent in both word and deed, its actions indicate the exact opposite. The long-term viability of Israel is with the Arab world, not a superpower thousands of miles away. If the Jewish state wants to continue being a client of the US, that is its right, but a growing political awareness amongst Muslim Americans, coupled with the rise of India and China as global superpowers, makes Israel's current path unsustainable. 
There are many aspects of Israeli culture that are vibrant and enviable. Its policies toward the Palestinians are not among them. As a Jew who believes that both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to live in peace together, corrupt Israeli leadership, blindly supported by Zionist spokesman in the Western world, is endangering Jewish lives by refusing to recognize the rights of another people. The equation is simple. Israel has the right to exist, but so does Palestine. Whether that's in one-state, two-states or some other formulation, that's for both peoples to decide. 
Most importantly, however, as already stated by British-born historian Tony Judt, Israel, in its current form, "is truly an anachronism." It is not enough anymore for Zionists to merely deflect all criticism as anti-Semitic or anti-Zionist. In many countries around the world, including Australia, such rhetoric no longer has the power to shut down debate. A humane, responsible and moral Israel must not be allowed to shame its historical mandate. The soul of the Holocaust is not for Zionists to use and abuse. We all suffered in that cataclysmic event. Israel knows what it must do to be internationally accepted. 
best,
Antony
Dear Antony,
Your book is a harsh criticism of Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, but also of the American and Australian Jewish community. So let's start with this general question: What is it that bothers you about the support Jewish Diaspora gives to Israel - or maybe you think that no support is needed? 
Thank you,
Rosner
Thanks Shmuel,
Although it's not unique to the Jewish community, an unhealthy tendency has developed within many Jewish Diaspora communities since the birth of Israel. An ethno-centric and racially superior mentality has flourished that places the lives and concerns of Israel and Jews above all others. In this worldview, Israeli lives are always more precious than Palestinian ones. Israel's "security" is far more important than the existence or safety of a future Palestinian state. Such thinking, in my home country of Australia and elsewhere, has long troubled me. Is this what Zionism was destined to become?
When it relates to Israel, far too many Jews are able to defend, justify and explain the Jewish state's behavior, no matter how illegal or immoral. A recent letter published in the Australian Jewish News succinctly articulated the problem: "I have always believed that whatever Israel does is always right for the Jews." This uncritical and anti-intellectual stance completely contradicts the noble Judaic tradition of rigorous thought and dissent.
Since I started writing extensively on the Israel/Palestine conflict in the last years, I've been astounded by the reactionary response of some Jews to the idea of justice for all. Hate-mail and death-threats, by fellow Jews, has sadly become a fact of life. It is as if the overwhelming evidence of Israel's crimes in the occupied territories is always issued by "biased" media, NGOs or governments. Are only Israeli foreign ministry press releases worth respecting?
I have long thought that it is not the duty of all Jews to support Israel. If they want to engage with the Jewish state and improve its international standing, so be it. If Jews want nothing to do with a state that has no direct impact on their daily lives, this position should be respected. If they want to become unofficial spokespeople for the Israeli cause, good for them.
Personally speaking, I may be a harsh critic of Israel's policies (and Palestinian intransigence) but I still call myself a true friend of Israel, the kind the country needs to survive in the long-term, not "yes-men" only concerned with even-greater military reprisals against the Palestinians. After decades of these failed policies, why do many Jews still think that the Jewish state can thrive through force alone?
In my experience, Diaspora Jewish communities regularly prefer to ignore the true reality of the now 40-year occupation and the myriad of ways in which their beloved homeland has persecuted another people for generations. Is this something Jews should really be proud of?
These Diaspora communities need to ask themselves some tough questions, namely how their complicity in the current morass can be reversed. It's never too late to expect an Israeli government of any political stripe to behave morally and legally and rediscover the true Jewish soul.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An unlikely advocate</title>
<date>Sat Sep 01 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Robin Shepherd is not the first person to try and define the world's oldest hatred, but he is perhaps one of the most unlikely. The senior research fellow of the Chatham House center in London, has no significant connection to the Jewish people and his visit to Israel last week was only his second, his first being in 1989 as a student. But still he believes that his decision to spend a year researching the new European anti-Semitism is perfectly relevant for any serious observer of international affairs.
When asked on his interest in the subject, he prefers to answer first on a philosophical level by quoting the polemicist Christopher Hitchens who has said that "only a moral cretin thinks that anti-Semitism is a threat only to Jews." He then answers from an academic position "that the Israel-Palestine conflict is one of the key issues in international relations and there are very few people in this field without a position on it." His previous study was on the wave of anti-Americanism sweeping Europe and this lead him to believe that a new form of anti-Semitism was also at the root of the increasingly critical attitude towards Israel on the continent. 
Shepherd is only at the start of what he expects to be a year of research in the subject, culminating probably in a book, but he already has a number of basic insights. The first is a clear differentiation between the old and new types of European anti-Semites, or as terms it, "subjective" and "objective" anti-Semitism. 
"Subjective anti-Semites, basically hate Jews and therefore usually hate the Jewish state," he says.
There are people in Europe who are hostile to Jews, but it's only on the fringes, in the far-right and far-left. Interestingly, Shepherd notes that the old-style anti-Semitism is still fairly prevalent in the post-communist central and eastern Europe countries, but at the same time, there's much less anti-Zionism there as in western Europe. What in his opinion is "a much bigger problem is the objective, anti-Semitism, the hatred of the state of Israel. Since Israel is a Jewish state and if you use false analogies between Israel and Apartheid South Africa and Nazi Germany, you are comparing them with Jews and you are therefore engaged in anti-Semitism." That doesn't mean that everyone who uses the comparison is an actual anti-Semite says Shepherd, "that depends on how central it is for you. When it becomes an obsession, and this is one of the things you find increasingly in Europe, then at this point it becomes a new form of anti-Semitism."
This obsession is Shepherd?s answer to the standard response given by Israel's detractors in the West that "not every criticism of Israel is anti-Semitism. Of course one can criticize Israel, but there is a litmus test and that is when the critics begin using constant key references to South Africa and the Nazis, using terms such as "bantustans". None of these people of course will admit to being racist, but this kind of anti-Semitisim is a much more sophisticated form of racism and the kind of hate-filled rhetoric and imagery are on the same moral level as racism, so gross and distorted that they are defaming an entire people, since Israel is an essentially Jewish project."
To explain this distinction, he brings an example from another continent. "A lot of people will defend themselves by saying that their motivation is the cause of the Palestinians. Well if you wanted to express your disapproval of Robert Mugabe?s regime by highlighting his violation of human rights and the way he's destroying the country, then you could say your motivation is human rights, but if you expressed your objection with a cartoon of Mugabe as a gorilla jumping up and down on blood-soaked bananas, that kind of imagery of black people is pure racist. But it?s the kid of imagery being used against Israel." 
Shepherd studied Russian and East European studies at the University of London and did an advanced degree in political philosophy at the London School of Economics. After that he worked as a reporter for Reuters in London, Prague and Bratislava and was the Moscow Bureau Chief for the Times of London for a year and a half. In 2003 he left full-time journalism and worked for a number of research centers think-tanks as he wanted "to focus more on the analytical side? though he still writes occasional commentary and op-ed pieces for various newspapers. He defines his politics as "center-right on international affairs with very liberal social views." He attributes the rise of the new anti-Semitism to the crisis of the "old ideological left" in Western Europe.
"The main thrust is coming from the left wing of the old European Labor and Social-Democratic parties and of course from the surviving Communist, Trotskyite and Marxist parties. These are groups that might have a marginal place in wider society but there influence is focused in the trade unions which are boycotting Israel and the opinion-forming classes such as the media. The ideological left has been comprehensively defeated, and it knows it. That's why it has no positive campaign as it had in the past, like nationalization of the economy. In the absence of a positive program, it is about what they hate, the US, the global capitalist economy and the state of Israel, because Israel is the frontline to the only force that is challenging all that, is the Arab world. That is why despite the horribly reactionary attitude of the Islamic radicals towards women and gays, there is common cause "my enemy's enemy is my friend."
This feeling is largely absent in the former Communist countries. ?These groups are weak in Eastern Europe because they've thoroughly discredited. In Poland, for example, politicians do occasionally come out with anti-Semitic sayings but it doesn?t translate into anti-Zionism. These feelings are concentrated more in countries like Britain, Spain, parts of Belgium, Norway and Sweden. France and Germany are interesting countries, because the political classes are different generally different in this from the opinion forming classes, but it might be feeding through."
Another excuse often made by Israel's poisonous critics who say they are not anti-Semites, is that there also prominent Jews among their ranks. Shepherd says that this is one of the most interesting points that he plans to research. "I know there is a tendency to call them self-hating Jews but the key point is much more subtle. This is where you have to understand people like Noam Chomsky who is American but an iconic figure for the European left. He is not a self-hating Jew but his political standing in the left is more important for him than his Jewish identity. That's why the extreme Jewish critics of Israel almost always come from the far left, for them politics is the most important of their identity. They are in thrall with a system of thought that happens to have as one of its main objects of belief an obsessive hatred of Israel. It might be personally painful for them but the ideological left is a secular religion, more than any other political group, and for them this religion comes before being Jewish."
More Jewish World news and features

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Arrow, THAAD or both?</title>
<date>Tue Jan 02 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Update: Israel wants to increase the likelihood of the U.S. deploying emergency missile defense systems within Israeli territory. The heads of the Homa anti-missile project in the Defense Ministry asked the U.S. Department of Defense about two months ago for information on two advanced defense systems being developed in the U.S.: The ground-based Theater High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, and a new model of the Aegis naval defense system. According to a Defense Ministry source, the request for information was aimed at promoting the possibility of an "operational link" between the Israeli and U.S. defense systems, as a continuation of an ongoing project. The Defense Ministry source said that development and manufacture of Arrow missiles will continue over the coming years. 
This is the second story on this subject, following the one I wrote about yesterday (both with Aluf Benn, reporting from Tel Aviv). Read it in full here
Arrow
I have an interesting piece of information in the print edition today (Aluf Benn helped me to get some of it in Israel). In recent months Israel and the United States have discussed the possibility of an Israel acquiring the American-made missile defense system THAAD, instead of developing a new generation of the indigenous Arrow defense missile. Israeli decision-makers will have to make up their minds in the coming year whether to commit to acquiring the American weapon system or invest in the development of a more advanced Arrow.
According to the sources we used, The United States will be able to provide Israel with THAAD missiles by 2009, at which time the maker of the system, Lockheed Martin, will have completed development and testing. However, the American missile system still suffers from a number of technological bugs that have not yet been resolved. 
Israel's dilemma is of course not just financial and revolves around both the costs of continuing the development of the Arrow system and issues of technological and operational independence. When Ehud Barak was chief of staff, he opposed the development of the Arrow and the creation of the "Homa" anti-ballistic defense system, arguing that the cost of independent development was too high and that it would be wiser to acquire THAAD. Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin decided otherwise, explaining that the Americans would only agree to transfer to Israel the advanced technologies included in THAAD if they are convinced that it can develop its own independent capabilities and compete with the American industry. These are the more important details, but if you feel the need to read more, you can go to the full item in the print edition
Guest
Evangelicals? support for Israel is a big enough issue for a long seminar, and is hotly debated among American Jews. My Guest this week
The real reasons American Jews fear conservative Evangelicals are political and social, not theological? many Jews still see evangelicals as dumb southern rednecks. There is a fair amount of snobbery and even (dare I say it) bigotry, in this stereotype.
Evangelicals are human. They may love Israel but it doesn't mean they love being mocked, denounced and generally despised by the /intellectual/political elite? If the American Jewish leadership wants to make enemies out of 70 million fellow citizens, attacking them publicly on every issue is a good way to start.
Liberal American Jews by and large have nothing against assimilation or intermarriage. They aren't concerned that fundamentalist Christians will marry their daughters; they are worried that they will defeat their candidates or upset the present cultural and social equilibrium.
Carter
And talking about religion: Jimmy Carter is in On Faith
Apartheid
And talking about Carter: Ali Abunimah is upset with Carter for using the word apartheid in a limited way (Carter keeps insisting that he is talking only about the occupied territories and not about Israel itself). Abunimah wrote
Boxer
Time magazine, web edition, has this story

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ashrawi: Palestinians face one of most difficult phases in their history</title>
<date>Tue Oct 30 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
ATLANTA - The Palestinian people have plunged into a deep depression with unemployment and poverty at record levels, and peace with Israel is the only answer, longtime Palestinian lawmaker Hanan Ashrawi said Monday.
"Palestinians are experiencing one of the most difficult phases in our history," said Ashrawi, an elected member of the Palestinian Legislative Council and an active voice in the Mideast peace process.
"Now we see not just a political and economic battle but a battle over the soul of Palestine," she told an audience of about 200 gathered at Emory University. "We find ourselves in the grip of ... the deconstruction of Palestine."
"Nearly 75 percent of Palestinians living in Gaza are dependent on welfare and the territory's unemployment rate has skyrocketed to 50 percent," she said. Conditions have worsened in Gaza since the militant Islamic group Hamas seized control in June.
Ashrawi's lecture was part of a series of speeches on the Emory campus focusing on peace building in wartorn regions. One of the more controversial lectures was by former President Jimmy Carter, who spoke there about his much-criticized book, Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid.
The book was condemned by critics and Jewish groups for comparing Israeli actions in Palestine to the oppression of blacks under South Africa's apartheid regime.
Ashrawi praised Carter as a prophet and a man of conscience, and one of a dwindling number of people who still believe peace is possible in the Mideast.
She noted that peace talks must move forward as opposed to waiting for the violence to subside.
"You cannot hold peace hostage and say, 'Until every single Palestinian becomes peaceful, I'm not going to have talks,'" Ashrawi said. "You have to talk in order to bring about peace."
.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bush, the divider</title>
<date>Sun Feb 04 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Among the hundreds of anecdotes about U.S. deliberation on whether to support the partition plan for Palestine, on the eve of the 1947 United Nations vote, there are some that reveal more about the president than about the supporters of the emerging state. Harry S Truman wavered during those days between his basic sympathy for the vision of the Jewish state and his anger at the incessant pressure exerted upon him. Even after he had announced his decision to support partition, it was actually a letter of appreciation that he received from Claude Pepper, then a U.S. senator from Florida, that managed to rankle him: "While this matter was pending, I received about 35,000 pieces of mail and propaganda from the Jews in this country," a vexed Truman wrote in response to Pepper. "I put it all in a pile and struck a match to it." 
Robert J. Donovan, in his 1977 book "Conflict and Crisis," on Truman's first term in office, doubts the veracity of this story. He interviewed several members of the president's staff and they all agreed that the bonfire was only in Truman's imagination. In the end, Truman contained his anger, and the following spring, after Israel declared its statehood, he agreed to recognize it. A somewhat anti-Semitic comment here and there, and Truman's refusal to more actively support Israel after its establishment, did not make much difference. Among "the Jews," he had already taken his place in the golden book of chronicles. 
Among the presidents who succeeded him, there were ups and downs - both in their support for Israel and in the fondness of American Jewry for them. Professor Kenneth W. Stein, who resigned from the Jimmy Carter Center after the recent publication of the former president's book, "Palestine: Peace not Apartheid," noted in an article in the current issue of the Middle East Quarterly that the meager support Carter received from Jews in the 1980 elections was a consequence of Carter's "increased pressure on Jerusalem." Since 1920, there had been no Democratic candidate who received so few of their votes, Stein notes in a section of the article entitled "The Roots of Carter's Anger." 
The roots of most of American Jewry's anger toward the current president, George W. Bush, cannot be traced to Israel. They did not vote for him in the first place. His ongoing support for Israel may be recognized and appreciated by the establishment, Israeli and Jewish, but it does not receive due credit among a wide Jewish-American public that is liberal, Democratic, dovish and very angry at Bush for significant and various reasons. 
Much has been written in recent weeks about the decline in interest in Israel among American Jews, but the writers made scant mention, if they mentioned it at all, of American politics. They should have - because Bush, strange as it may sound, is one of the factors behind the widening of the gap between Jews in America and Israel. 
This is one of those bizarre anomalies that characterize the period: The Jews of Israel comprise perhaps the most sympathetic group toward Bush in the entire world. They are certainly more supportive than the general American public and may very well be more sympathetic than any particular group of Americans. On the other hand, American Jews constitute one of the least sympathetic groups. A vast majority of them oppose Bush. Indeed, many really loathe him. 
In a survey conducted by Professor Camil Fuchs for Haaretz last November, it turned out that the overwhelming majority of Jewish Israelis do not agree with the statement that Bush is "dangerous for the world" - as the majority of people in Western countries hold (not to speak of public opinion toward Bush in the Middle East). In a Haaretz survey taken before the presidential election two years ago, Bush was clearly preferred by Jewish Israelis over his rival, John Kerry. But the Jews of America voted en masse for Kerry. 
Some American Jews have a hard time digesting a reality in which an Israeli prime minister can stand at Bush's side and describe the war in Iraq as an achievement. In fact, it could be said that the Israelis' fondness for Bush actually serves to alienate these American Jews from Israel. It is a sort of purist self-indulgence that does not tolerate contradictions: Jews from Israel. If this is the type of leader Israelis respect, and this is the type of leader who is a fan of Israel, how, these Jews wonder, can they identify with Israel? 
And here as well develops a line of revisionist denial of the reality that nearly every average Israeli accepts: Bush is actually "bad for Israel," and only its short-sighted citizenry and leaders fail to realize this. It is ostensibly a positive line, because those who choose it are looking for a way to continue to support Israel. Actually, however, it is patronizing and dangerous, as it is basically an arrogant attempt to deny Israel an independent assessment of the correct path for itself. 
Here's the catch. Bill Clinton, the friendliest president until Bush, and Lyndon Johnson, the friendliest until Clinton, did not put the Jews to this type of test. These two presidents received their votes and advocated policies vis-a-vis Israel that were acceptable to most American Jews. In any case, Bush is also the first president for whose support Israel is paying a price, even if it is a hidden price, among other important supporters, the Jews of America. He is making it difficult for a certain Jewish public to understand Israel and is making it easier for them to distance themselves from Israel. Of course, it's not he who is the guilty party. In this test, it is only the Jews who are failing. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter defends 'apartheid' book, says attacks on character hurt</title>
<date>Wed Jan 24 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter defended on Tuesday defended his controversial book on Israel's treatment of Palestinians, telling students at Brandeis University that his goal was to revive Middle East peace talks.
Carter also told students that rge attacks on his character following the release of his book had hurt him and his family.
Jewish groups have expressed outrage at "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid," arguing that its comparison of Israel's treatment of Palestinians with South Africa's reviled apartheid system of racial segregation could undermine perceptions of Israel's legitimacy.
Brandeis, in the Boston suburb of Waltham, is a secular university founded by American Jewish leaders, and about half of its 5,300 students are Jewish. The school is named after Louis Brandeis, the first Jew on the Supreme Court and a robust defender of the right to free speech. 
The former United States president, in his first direct address to Jewish Americans on his book, said the title referred to human rights in the Palestinian territories, not in Israel.
He said the word "apartheid" was intended to provoke debate on the rights of Palestinians, who he said were being treated unfairly by Israel.
He said he never asserted that Jewish money was controlling the U.S. media, as some critics have charged, but only that the pro-Israel lobby was strong.
"I've been hurt and so has my family by some of the reaction," Carter, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002, told about 1,700 students at the university.
"I've been through political campaigns for state senator, governor and president, and I've been stigmatized and condemned by my political opponents. But this is the first time that I have ever been called a liar. And a bigot and an anti-Semite and a coward, and a plagiarist. This is hurtful," he said.
"I can take it," he added, joking that he could handle the attacks because as a former U.S. president he still had Secret Service protection.
Carter, 82, has been dogged by protests during a promotional tour. In the book, Carter traces the history of the Middle East from the 19th century to the present via the Camp David Accords in 1978, a year into his presidency.
He apologized for a passage that can be interpreted as supporting suicide bombings as a negotiating tactic, saying it was a "mistake" and would be removed from future editions.
But he said a full Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territories was crucial for lasting peace.
The university originally invited Carter on the condition that he debate lawyer and Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz, a critic of the book.
But Carter said he would only visit the campus without conditions. He later accepted an invitation from a committee of students and faculty to speak without taking part in a debate. 
The event was tightly controlled and closed to the public, preventing Dershowitz, one of Carter's more scathing critics, from openly questioning him.
Dershowitz wanted to ask Carter why he had accepted money from Saudi Arabia and why the Carter Center, an Atlanta-based humanitarian organization, had criticized Israel while not looking into human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia.
Instead, a student asked those questions.
Carter responded in part by saying all donations were audited with Arab nations contributing a tiny fraction with most of the money going to humanitarian programs.
About 60 protesters, detractors and supporters, gathered outside, some holding Israeli or Palestinian signs and flags.
"We support what Jimmy Carter is saying," said Alan Meyers, 56, a Jewish doctor from Boston. "We feel that there is not enough attention being paid to dissenting Jewish voices in the United States."
Nearby, Israeli-American Gilend Ini, 29, handed out fliers identifying five portions of Carter's book that he said contained falsehoods. "We're trying to let the public know that much of what he said in his book was factually incorrect information."
In preparation for Carter's appearance, metal barricades were erected along the road leading to the athletic center, where Carter was to speak, and people entering the place had to go through a metal detector. 
But a few hours before the appearance, only about two dozen demonstrators showed up, and most were carrying signs with a pro-Palestinian view. Among them: "Closing our eyes to injustice is not a Jewish value" and "Support Jimmy Carter. End the occupation now." 
Carter's book has been criticized by some Jewish leaders as riddled with inaccuracies and distortions. Some have complained that it appears to equate South Africa's former apartheid system of racial segregation with Israeli treatment of the Palestinians. 
Fifteen questions were selected ahead of time from a list of least 120 by the committee that invited Carter, according to the university. 
"The whole idea was that everyone would benefit if there is a more focused way of getting questions to the president, not having 1,700 people raise their hands to ask questions," said university spokesman Dennis Nealon.
Critics were particularly frustrated that Dershowitz was not allowed to debate Carter. "It's puzzling because he said that he wants to have a discussion of his book and then refused to appear with Professor Dershowitz," said retired Brandeis history professor Morton Keller. 
Gordon Fellman, a sociology professor and a member of the committee that arranged the visit, said Dershowitz is neither a student nor faculty member at Brandeis and therefore "he can't get in - and it's not anti-Dershowitz.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter defends book against allegations of anti-Israel slant  </title>
<date>Thu Jan 25 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
WALTHAM, Mass. - Jimmy Carter, whose latest book has been attacked as slanted against Israel, received two standing ovations Tuesday as he answered critics during a much-anticipated talk at the historically Jewish Brandeis University.  
The uproar over "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid" recently prompted 14 members of an advisory board at Carter's international-affairs think tank, the Carter Center, to resign in protest.  
Carter briefly addressed an audicence of 1700 students and faculty members, and responded to 15 questions selected in advance. "I can certainly see now it would provoke some harsh feelings," he said, referring to criticism of the book's title, which he said was a reference to human rights in the Palestinian territories, not in Israel. But, he added, "in the long run, it has precipitated discussion."  
About 60 peaceful demonstrators gathered, many carrying signs with a pro-Palestinian message. Among them: "Closing our eyes to injustice is not a Jewish value" and "Support Jimmy Carter. End the occupation now."  
Carter's book has been criticized by some Jewish leaders as riddled with inaccuracies and distortions. Some have also argued that its comparison of Israel's treatment of Palestinians with South Africa's reviled apartheid system of racial segregation could undermine perceptions of Israel's legitimacy.  
"I've been hurt and so has my family by some of the reaction," Carter, 82, told the audience. And he apologized for a passage that can be interpreted as supporting suicide bombings as a negotiating tactic, saying it was a "mistake" and would be removed from future editions. But he said a full Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territories was crucial for lasting peace.  
The university originally invited Carter on the condition that he debate lawyer and Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz, a critic of the book. But Carter said he would only visit the campus without conditions. He later accepted an invitation from a committee of students and faculty to speak without taking part in a debate.  
The event was tightly controlled and closed to the public, preventing Dershowitz, one of Carter's more scathing critics, from openly questioning him.  
Dershowitz wanted to ask Carter why he had accepted money from Saudi Arabia and why the Carter Center, an Atlanta-based humanitarian organization, had criticized Israel while not looking into human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia.  
Instead, a student asked those questions.  
Carter responded in part by saying all donations were audited with Arab nations contributing a tiny fraction with most of the money going to humanitarian programs.  
Carter brokered the 1978 peace accord between Israel and Egypt and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002.   

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter to talk at Brandeis about his book </title>
<date>Wed Jan 24 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
WALTHAM, Mass. - Venturing into the lion's den, Jimmy Carter headed yesterday to Brandeis University, known as a Jewish college, to confront the furor over his new book on the Middle East, which has been attacked as slanted against Israel.  
The uproar has been going on for several months and recently prompted 14 members of an advisory board at the former president's international-affairs think tank, the Carter Center, to resign in protest over the book, "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid."  
A tightly controlled discussion was planned, with 15 questions selected in advance. Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz had also hoped to debate Carter but was told he would not be allowed inside.  
Metal barricades were erected along the road leading to the athletic center, where Carter was to speak, and people entering the place had to go through a metal detector.  
But a few hours before the appearance, only about two dozen demonstrators showed up, and most were carrying signs with a pro-Palestinian view. Among them: "Closing our eyes to injustice is not a Jewish value" and "Support Jimmy Carter. End the occupation now."  
A smaller number of demonstrators passed out leaflets pointing out five portions of Carter's book that they say contained falsehoods.  
Brandeis, in the Boston suburb of Waltham, is a secular university founded by American Jewish leaders, and about half of its 5,300 students are Jewish. The school is named after Louis Brandeis, the first Jew on the Supreme Court and a robust defender of the right to free speech.  
The university originally invited Carter on the condition that he debate Dershowitz, a critic of the book. But Carter said he would only visit the campus without conditions. He later accepted an invitation from a committee of students and faculty to speak without taking part in a debate.  
Carter's book has been criticized by some Jewish leaders as riddled with inaccuracies and distortions. Some have complained that it appears to equate South Africa's former apartheid system of racial segregation with Israeli treatment of the Palestinians.  
'Apartheid' does not apply to Israel 
Carter, who brokered the 1978 Camp David peace accord between Israel and Egypt and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002, has said his use of "apartheid" did not apply to circumstances within Israel. The 15 questions were selected from a list of least 120 by the committee that invited Carter, according to the university.  
"The whole idea was that everyone would benefit if there is a more focused way of getting questions to the president, not having 1,700 people raise their hands to ask questions," said university spokesman Dennis Nealon. Critics were particularly frustrated that Dershowitz was not allowed to debate Carter. "It's puzzling because he said that he wants to have a discussion of his book and then refused to appear with Professor Dershowitz," said retired Brandeis history professor Morton Keller.  
Gordon Fellman, a sociology professor and a member of the committee that arranged the visit, said Dershowitz is neither a student nor faculty member at Brandeis and therefore "he can't get in - and it's not anti-Dershowitz." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Coalition launched to combat boycott </title>
<date>Sun Jun 17 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
LONDON - "Bad for Britain, bad for academic freedom, bad for Palestinians, bad for peace," ads in British newspapers declared last week. Two leading Jewish-British institutions are behind the ads, which were the first step in a well-financed campaign against the decision to promote an academic boycott of Israeli academic institutions. Along with Israeli academic institutions, the Israeli Foreign Ministry, Israel's embassy in London and a number of private individuals like Alan Dershowitz, they comprise a coalition combating academic blacklisting in particular and the boycotting of Israel in general.  
The University and College Union's explosive decision two weeks ago to promote the boycott is now at the center of the loaded debate over Israel's image in Britain. All the major papers quickly denonced the move in their editorials. The Financial Times said it was "stupid"; the Guardian called it "bad and one-sided." Even the left-wing Independent said it was "unhelpful" and called on the UCU to reverse itself. British Prime Minister Tony Blair slammed the decision and dispatched his education minister, Bill Rammell, to Israel to demonstrate his government's opposition to the boycott. Academic organizations like the Russell Group, representing leading universities, joined the censures. American pro-Israel organizations are now trying to leverage this criticism to boost Israel's image.  
"What we have here is an opportunity to decide the battle for Israel's image through this poor decision on an academic boycott," said Lorna Fitzsimons, head of the Britain Israel Communications and Research Center, a six-year-old pro-Israel Jewish group.  
"When was the last time all the broadsheets in Britain, hundreds of academics and the entire political system came together to denounce an anti-Israel decision? We believe there is a chance to isolate the initiators of boycotts and change once and for all the attitude among the British left toward Israel," she added.  
Along with the Jewish Leadership Council, also working under the aegis of the Jewish community, Fitzsimons is leading the campaign to stop the boycott.  
The campaign's major goal is presenting the UCU decision to its 120,000-strong rank-and-file. The decision was made at the end of May at a meeting of UCU representatives. As part of the campaign, hundreds of British academics - many of them UCU members - signed a petition calling on UCU director Sally Hunt to bring the decision to a vote. However, a spokesperson for Hunt, who had previously pledged to bring the decision to a general vote, argues that the decision calls only for "debate on a boycott" and therefore she "cannot at this time call a vote."  
"The consequences of losing are unthinkable," Ronnie Fraser, head of the Academic Friends of Israel, says. Fraser's group has been fighting lecturers' associations boycott initiatives for the past three years. The Academic Friends of Israel is a signatory to the petition against the boycott, but Fraser believes the campaign's target is wrong. "You do not insist on a ballot if you have no control over the question being asked, and if you are not sure you can win, you don't ask the question," he wrote last week. Fraser believes the battle must be waged outside the UCU, where he says the anti-Israeli organizations have the upper hand, and must be moved to the universities themselves.  
Bar-Ilan University's International Advisory Board for Academic Freedom (IAB), which has been working against the expected decision to boycott Israeli academic institutions, is now focusing on long-term future action. "We are working with the Israeli government. For example, we are trying to revive the Israel-British research foundation," IAB manager Ofir Frankel said. The IAB "works with others to expand scientific cooperation substantially between Britain and Israel, trying to allocate the required resources and prove in the coming year that the boycott decision will lead to the opposite outcome ... the strengthening of scientific cooperation between the two countries."  
Frankel said the IAB rejects staging a boycott of Britain in response, since this would go against the principles of academic freedom. American attorney Alan Dershowitz, along with American academics, has threatened such a boycott, including legal action and cutting ties with those who vote for the anti-Israel boycott. "They will end up being the objects of the boycott because we will get tens of thousands. We will isolate them from the rest of the world. If the union goes ahead with this immoral petition, it will destroy British academia," Dershowitz told the Guardian.  
As matters now stand, the UCU must decide how to present and discuss the promotion of the academic boycott in its approximately 500 branches throughout the U.K. Fitzsimons says pressure currently is focused on persuading UCU members to demand the leadership put the issue to a vote. "If we win this battle, the implications will be enormous," she said.  
Correction 
The list of organizations that appeared under the headline "Supporters" ("Fighting the apartheid state," Haaretz, June 15) represents a partial list of organizations affiliated with the "Enough!" coalition, which campaigns to end the Israeli occupation, and not as published.  
Haaretz regrets that Friends of the Earth and other organizations were mistakenly represented as supporting the academic boycott against Israel and a single-state solution, and viewing Israel as an apartheid state.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fighting 'the apartheid state' </title>
<date>Fri Jun 15 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
LONDON - Britain's University and College Union's decision to promote a boycott against Israel two weeks ago did not just materialize out of thin air. In recent years, the U.K. has seen a multitude of organizations devoted to protesting Israel's presence in the territories, and the mass anti-Israeli rally last weekend in the center of London attracted thousands of participants.  
One of these groups, Jews for Boycotting Israeli Goods, opened a stand at the rally, calling for protesters to disrupt Israel's soccer match against England scheduled for Wembley Stadium on September 8. Next week, pro-Palestinian activists plan to call for a boycott against Israeli produce at a conference held by UNISON, Britain's biggest trade union.  
Another organization, the Islamic Council for Human Rights, handed out flyers listing international corporations with branches in Israel, such as McDonald's and Calvin Klein.  
Activists from the Palestine Solidarity Campaign handed out flyers calling for the British government to cease its weapons deals with Israel, under the banner "Palestinian blood on British hands."  
The anti-Israeli front in Britain is made up of dozens of nongovernmental organizations including Islamic movements, radical left associations, workers unions, Israeli and Jewish panels, Christian organizations and human rights committees, operating various charity funds.  
The activists at these groups may differ on issues such as religion and gender equality, but they are united in their perception of Israel as an apartheid state. They all advocate boycotting Israel and believe in diverting funds from it.  
The organizations subscribe to the belief that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must be resolved in the form of a single-state solution, and granting the Palestinian refugees the right of return. In the past year, this group of organizations has boasted several important accomplishments, first and foremost the UCU resolution.  
"We're on a roll. We're now receiving increasing sympathy for the Palestinian cause," Sue Blackwell told Haaretz Tuesday. Blackwell is a veteran activist who has been promoting boycotts against Israel for years at Birmingham University, where she works as an English lecturer. During the UCU's meeting in Bournemouth, she wore a T-shirt reading "Caterkiller," in protest against the company Caterpillar, which sells bulldozers to the Israeli Defense Forces.  
In the meeting, Blackwell argued that the European Union must sever all its ties with Israeli academic institutions. Her motion was passed with a large majority.  
"In 2003, when we first called for the Association of University Teachers [the AUT, which merged with the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education to form the UCU] to boycott Israel, only one-third of the members voted in favor. Union regulations prevented us from readdressing the issue in 2004, but we did in 2005, and then the motion was accepted," she says.  
That motion was later overturned in a special AUT meeting, until the UCU voted in favor of it last month. It passed 158 to 99.  
Blackwell describes herself as a pro-Palestinian lobbyist. She attributes the campaign's recent success to her cross-country activities. "The Palestine Solidarity Campaign invites me to speak at its conferences. I also attend other conferences of workers unions," she says.  
Blackwell is also a member of the British Committee for Universities of Palestine (BRICUP), the lobby for cooperation to support Palestinian universities, staff and students. The organization is headed by Hillary and Steven Rose, who started the boycott initiative five years ago with a letter to the Guardian daily newspaper.  
Other organizations target Israelis and Jews. "We tried working with the Israeli public in the past, but we did not manage to make any headway there," says Jeff Halper, who heads the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions in the U.K.  
"The Israelis as a whole believe there is no partner on the Palestinian side, and are thereby making themselves politically irrelevant. This is why we've had to address the civil society, represented by human rights groups, churches, universities and other organizations to warn against the Israeli apartheid regime," he says.  
"The recent success we have experienced in the field is serving to unite different left-wing organizations. Our activity will culminate in May 2008, as Israel celebrates its 60th birthday."  
This article is the first of a series. On Sunday, Haaretz will examine the backlash of efforts to boycott Israel in the U.K.    

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>First violin / Prelude to dialogue </title>
<date>Mon Dec 24 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
"I was shocked to see these walls, it's a new apartheid, barbaric behavior: How can you impose such a collective punishment and separate people? After all, we are all living on the same planet. It seems to me the world should have already learned from what happened in South Africa. And a country that hasn't learned should be boycotted, so that's why I don't perform in your country."  
This was the response offered this summer in an interview with Haaretz by internationally renowned British violinist Nigel Kennedy when asked why Israeli impresarios had yet to bring him here despite repeated attempts. Kennedy's comment hit on a facet infrequently discussed when debating the Israel boycott: The cultural boycott and, in particular, the musical boycott.  
The automatic responses of boycott opponents weren't long in coming. As usual, they had a hint of insult and victimization. Prominent among them was the accusation of anti-Semitism, a charge immediately leveled against any boycotter, whomever he may be (a review of Kennedy's life and the cultural wealth in it, including the Jewish element, raises serious doubts about the possibility of his being an anti-Semite).  
Targeting  the wrong audience 
Also apparent is mockery of the British hypocrisy (who pick on Israel, while in China and Sudan, for example, far greater crimes are perpetrated), as if the injustices happening there, and also those that Britain itself is still perpetrating, justify or cancel out the tragedy that Israel is inflicting on the Palestinians. As if hypocrisy is a crime in and of itself.  
An argument was made that, specifically, musicians and music lovers are the least appropriate target for a boycott because among them are leftists who oppose the occupation. But who among this community protested the destruction of musical instruments in Ramallah during Operation Protective Shield? Or the siege of Nablus that prevented a music teacher there from going to supplementary classes and purchasing instruments? And the humiliation of musicians at checkpoints, the detention and eventual deportation of a piano tuner at Ben-Gurion Airport; the restrictions on movement that led to the dismantling of the children's choir in Bethlehem; the bus of music students on the way to a summer camp whose path was blocked? The willful refusal to see such injustices among the musical community in Israel makes it no less responsible than any other.  
Whether or not to involve music in the boycott was debated: After all, music is inherently based on dialogue, inner expression and listening to others simultaneously. The fact that is also an abstract art, lacking words, ostensibly endows it with the power to bridge both sides, leading to cooperation and understanding between the parties. An Israeli violinist and a Syrian violinist sitting together in front of the same sheet of Beethoven in the Diwan East West Orchestra are having a dialogue. But, by definition, dialogue takes place between equals; it is hard to say Israeli and Palestinian sides are in equals in this situation.  
Classical musicians have engrained in them a kind of conservatism. They are an oppressed minority; therefore, their voice is silent in boycott matters. An exception is the English singer Emma Kirkby who, despite her courageous contacts with the Israeli music scene and the mutual love between her and the audience and musical institutions here, in 2000 announced a boycott "until the occupation ends."  
Other visiting musicians expressed discomfort with appearing in Israel but are less well-known for their refusal to play in Israel. Consequently, their political reasons will be less significant. Who cares and how will their boycott contribute to the end of the occupation, if they are simply replaced by others and their protest is not heard?  
Therefore, these musicians, and primarily the famous among them, such as Kennedy and Kirkby, can seemingly use a more effective method: Instead of boycotting and then being forgotten, they can actually come and talk. They can make their visit contingent on a performing in the Palestinian areas as well: in concerts, master classes, workshops or lectures and thereby give voice, publicly and privately, to the issues. Awareness will trickle down to the Israeli public, that Palestinians, like us, love classical music and hold a Mozart festival and contemporary music workshops. That they, too, have conservatories and youth orchestras and chamber music series. And that they, too, can fill a concert hall with a festive audience for a symphony orchestra concert.  
Mandated parity 
Israelis are still shocked when they hear that musicians are playing the violin in Jenin or that Ramallah has a youth symphony orchestra. What better way to get it to sink in than by declaring that every musician visiting Israel will perform there also?  
This will create a dialogue between impresarios and institutions on both sides about exchanges of musicians among them. The increased number of performances is likely to reduce the funding burden on each institution.  
In this way, many musicians will also be exposed to the problems in the region and perhaps also develop an independent opinion on them. And Palestinians will develop new contacts, expand the international community's support for them and enjoy an increased number of international performers who come to Israel. Here is a situation in which grassroots organizers have a chance to influence the decision makers above them.  
"It is not in the Palestinians' interest to welcome pilgrimages by musicians to Israel just because we will perhaps benefit," a Palestinian artist, one of the leaders of the boycott against Israel, said in response. According to him, "this is local treatment of the problem, and that is not how it will be resolved. The cost the Israelis pay for the occupation must be raised by widening the boycott, and, at the same time, an original and independent relationship of our own with the international community must be created, not through or via Israel.  
"I'm not interested in Sting performing in Ramallah because it was a condition for performing in Israel, but because that is what he chose to do, of his own free will and out of an authentic and joint initiative with us. You will have to resolve via another means the distortion by which you see us as half-humans."  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>FM to U.K. counterpart: Israel views boycott calls with severity</title>
<date>Fri Jun 01 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni on Friday conveyed to her British counterpart Margaret Beckett the severity with which Israel views the intentions of a British lecturers union to boycott Israel's academic institutions. 
In a telephone conversation between the two, Livni told her colleague that the British University and College Union's (UCU) boycott plans are in utter conflict with the good relations maintained by Israel and Britain. 
Early next week Livni plans to convene a special discussion of the union's boycott calls, which will include representatives from both the government and the academe. 
On Thursday, British Minister of State for Lifelong Learning, Further and Higher Education Bill Rammell criticized his country's lecturers union for boycotting Israeli academe, saying the decision "does nothing to promote the Middle East peace process."
"The U.K. government fully supports academic freedom and is firmly against any academic boycotts of Israel or Israeli academics," said. "Whilst I appreciate the independence of the UCU, I am very disappointed that the union has decided to pass a motion which encourages its members to consider boycotting Israeli academics and education institutions."
The vote was passed by 158 votes to 99 at UCU conference in Bournemouth on Wednesday.
Professor Uriel Reichman, President of the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, said Thursday night that the British boycott is "a modern reformulation of Judenreine" a German expression used by the Nazis meaning "Jew free," describing areas they had emptied of a Jewish presence.
The professor called on Anglo-Jewry to send their children to learn in Israel "instead of sending them to institutions where there exists one-sided preaching for the elimination of the Jewish State."
Reichman made these comments at a ceremony for graduates of the college.
Cabinet minister Yitzhak Herzog, responsible for the government's handling of issues related to anti-Semitism, denounced Thursday as "scandalous, discriminatory and one-sided" a British lecturers' union decision.
Herzog has spoken with British Ambassador to Israel Tom Phillips to convey Israel's condemnation of the move. 
It is especially troubling, Herzog told Israel Radio, that "the decision was taken in a nation which is considered friendly to Israel."
The decision "necessitates soul-searching on that part of all citizens of Britain," he said. 
The motion passed Wednesday says that the UCU will present the question of a boycott on Israel's academics for discussion by all its members. According to the motion, congress much send "the full text of the Palestinian boycott call to all branches for information and discussion."
Among the amendments added to the proposal and approved by the union was a clause pledging the group to campaign for "a moratorium on research and cultural collaborations with Israel via EU and European Science Foundation funding until Israel abides by UN resolutions."
The discussions are scheduled to take place over the next 12 months. The motion encouraged union members to "consider the moral implications of conducting ties with Israeli academic institutions." 
The vote was preceded by a heated discussion in which Israel was repeatedly referred to as an apartheid state, engaging in crimes against humanity in the Palestinian territories. The union representatives said the situation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip did not allow spectators to stand idly by. 
As part of the motion, the congress will disseminate Palestinian trade unions' request for a boycott against Israel in all the union's offices. 
The congress also said it would arrange for academics from the Palestinian Authority to attend delegations to the U.K. The union's representatives also decided to establish direct contact with Palestinian workers' organizations. 
Ronnie Fraser, who heads the British group "Academic Friends of Israel," said that "the vote proved that nothing has changed within the ranks of the U.K.'s academic unions. This is another boycott." 
In 2005, Fraser acted to overturn another boycott against Israel, which had been approved by the Association of University Teachers (AUT.) That decision was overturned a month after it was passed. In 2006, the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education (NATFHE) also moved to boycott Israel, but its decision became invalid shortly thereafter when NATFHE and AUT merged to form the UCU. 
After the vote, the head of the UCU, Sally Hunt, reiterated her opposition to the motion. 
'As I have made clear in the past, and as I reiterated on the floor of congress this morning, I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of UCU members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union," she said in a statement on the UCU Web site. 
She said, however, that the 120,000 members of the union would now have a chance to express their opinions on a boycott, a move that she said she supported. 
"Today's motion... means all branches now have a responsibility to consulate all of their members on the issue and I believe that every member should have the opportunity to have their say. The earlier motion means that any future calls for a boycott must pass key tests before a boycott can implemented."
Israeli Ambassador to the United Kingdon Zvi Hefetz called the resolution offensive to the British Jewish community, saying that, "Its slanted phrasing reeks of ignorance." 
Adrian Fronda, a senior mathematics lecturer who had joined the union solely to vote against the boycott, was less diplomatic. "I came here to oppose the prevalent anti-Semitism we see all around us here," he said. 
Education Minister Yuli Tamir condemned the union's decision, saying she would address British Education Secretary Alan Johnson on the matter.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>For art or money </title>
<date>Wed Aug 15 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Israel will host its first ever Biennale for Contemporary Art in Herzliya this September. This will be one of the world's 348 biennales and triennales this year. While the Herzliya municipality will measure its success based on the number of visitors, the art world will look at the museum curators and directors, journalists, art critics, art dealers, collectors and gallery owners - all the professionals invited to the pre-opening event.  
Such a crowd came to the Documente in Kassel, Germany - one of the most important art events in the world - about two months ago. Every evening of the week before the official opening, a large party was held for these professionals. Everyone came, and almost everyone knew almost everyone - the renowned curator, the director of the prestigious museum, the famous collector. The art community comes together from the four corners of the globe for these pre-event events, and disperses immediately afterward. Far from a footnote to the main occasion, this is actually the real thing.  
"I came first of all to see what is going on, which new artists have joined the scene; to try to make connections and meet other professional viewers," says Nira Itzhaki of the Chelouche Gallery. "This is one of my job's important and decisive meeting places. I find out who has switched to which gallery and who is going to curate what. At the last Venice Biennale, I met the person who is directing the next Basel art fair, and he asked me a lot of questions about Israeli art."  
In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of biennales, fairs and giant exhibitions - every city seems to have its own event. For example, this April, fairs were held in Brussels, Cologne and Dusseldorf. In June there was the Venice Biennale, the fair in Basel, the Documente in Kassel and the sculpture exhibition in Munster, Germany. In September there will be four new biennales - in Lyon, France and three cities in the Middle East: Istanbul, Athens and Herzliya. The Art Forum Berlin, the Freize Art Fair in London and Art Basel in Miami will also open that month.  
The success of Far Eastern artists in the western art market has increased the number of events in Asia. Last October there were four biennales there: two in South Korea, one in Shanghai and one in Japan. Next month, art fairs will open in Hong Kong and Tokyo, and a new one will be held in Shanghai. One can expect that each fair will be accompanied by smaller, similar fairs that initially present themselves as alternative events, but later become regulars in the club.  
A great many of these tagalong events take place in cities or countries near the main event. The timing is no accident; they are designed to offer art travelers an itinerary. If someone goes to the Venice Biennale, he will undoubtedly also visit Basel, and from there, it would be a shame to miss the Documente Kassel and the sculpture exhibition in Munster. Such itineraries were offered to guests at the Asian biennales, and will be drafted for two biennales in the Middle East. Herzliya apparently will not be included in the current round.  
Giant art malls 
At first glance, mega-exhibitions such as the Venice Biennale and the Documente seem to be in a different category from the giant fairs. In fact, they both serve the very rich, whether openly or under the surface.  
The fairs are commercial events held for a relatively short period of time, and they charge galleries registration fees. One could describe them as giant shopping malls accompanied by lots of parties and exclusive evenings, and opportunities to meet celebrities and see the latest fashions. They offer no intimacy, and certainly no time for close examination. The artwork is presented as nothing more than a commodity.  
Like the giant exhibitions, these fairs are an integral part of the art market's transformation into a global gallery.  
"Today it doesn't matter where you have your gallery," says Sergio Edelsztein, director of the Center for Contemporary Art in Tel Aviv. "You can sell anywhere in the world, from fair to fair. This is very important, particularly for us [in peripheral locations], as we used to be stuck on the sidelines. The fairs provide a venue for unmediated relations between dealers and collectors, gallery owners and museum directors. When you're at a fair, you're with everyone."  
Jerry Saltz, the Village Voice art critic, called art fairs "perfect storms of money, marketability, and instant gratification-tent-city casinos where art is shipped in and parked for five days-everybody plays: artists, dealers and buyers."  
Saltz wrote that even though the gallerists claim to hate art fairs, they keep returning just to maintain their standard of living, visibility and sales levels. He described how the fairs have created a new category of buyers:  
"Now, there are collectors and there are buyers. Collectors go to galleries and cultivate relationships with dealers and artists. They look, deliberate and buy in private, often acquiring works from various periods of an artist's career. Buyers are the opposite: They tend to buy only in public, acquire impulsively, and usually buy only one work by an artist. They rarely cultivate relationships with dealers or artists, and according to numerous gallerists, buyers never set foot in their galleries."  
The fairs try to gain some importance in terms of content, too. Many hold panel discussions or one-day seminars with the best lecturers and guests (no shortage of money there). First, however, the fairs are commercial events. Booths cost $10,000 to $50,000, depending on size and location.  
"The fair admissions committees are really tough," says Irit Zomer of the Zomer Gallery, "they accept participants based on specific projects. Sometimes they also review the offerings. Then I have to justify my selection. Even after you are admitted to the fair, they check whether your booth matches the original proposal and every night photograph the booths, to check if the artwork has been changed."  
The giant exhibitions, unlike the fairs, are supposed to offer an artistic and political agenda. Their preparation takes much longer and they are managed very selectively, based on the tastes of the curator or curators. Like the fairs, the have become part of the global market, and may be what made the market global.  
For example, Chinese art broke into the international market after curator Harold Szeemann displayed Chinese works at the Venice Biennale in 1999 and 2001. That biennale, says Itzhaki, is a prime example of a quality exhibition blurring into a commercial event.  
"A group of Chinese collectors exploited their economic power," says Itzhaki, "and used their money to gain entry for a group of Chinese artists. Ever since, Chinese art has been a hit. The commercial mechanism is more evident at the fairs; at the biennales, it is under the surface. Ultimately, everything is connected to power. Above all, those exhibitions are a game between curators, gallerists, collectors, art critics and museum owners. After them come the viewers, who do not participate in the game at all."  
Force of tourism 
To whom do the viewers matter? Mainly the tourism industry of the host city or country, which may invest 20 million euros in a giant exhibition. This is how much was spent on the Documente (partially provided by commercial bodies).  
"Tourism is one of the main driving forces behind the fairs and the big exhibitions," says Edelsztein. "Even though Venice has tourists year round, the biennale brings the more affluent. Right now Kassel is full of tourists from all of Germany and beyond. In another three months, the city will go back to being dull and gray."  
In addition to attracting tourists, however, the exhibitions are also a political tool. The Documente Kassel was inaugurated in 1955 in order to help West Germany regain its cultural status after World War Two. At that time, this event also served the United States, which invested in the exhibition in response to the KGB's support for culture in East Germany.  
"The bodies behind these events are the establishments, and sometimes they have interests beyond tourism," adds Edelsztein. "Take South Africa, for example. The first thing they did after the end of apartheid was the Johannesburg biennale. Some of the local biennales that have cropped up in Africa recently are funded by private individuals. The only problem is that a biennale requires long-term consistency and commitment. This is usually what also brings down these exhibitions."  
How does all this affect the art? The giant displays clearly have changed how we view art.  
"I always feel distressed before traveling to such events," says curator Sarit Shapira. "I know that I will have to see a ton of stuff, and that I will not be seeing it properly. The mega-events require snapshot viewing, like watching commercials. Even so, there is a good way to look at them. They offer a richer, more abundant expanse than ever before, and the viewer can wander and choose what to see and where he wants to interact."  
The giant exhibitions have helped develop products that were less commercial, such as photography and video installations, and have created a new way of life.  
"A large share of the exhibitions are based on works created specifically for them," says Edelsztein. "The artist comes, spends a while there, and then moves on. This has created a breed of artists with no studio or base, who drift between exhibitions, projects and grants."  
This roving group has a lesser presence at the fairs, which naturally have fewer video works and more marketable items. The desire to sell creates incessant pressure on artists to supply works, says Itzhaki.  
"It sends the whole system spinning. The galleries are afraid they will have nothing to display, the collectors put pressure on the galleries, and all this affects the artists, too."  
What does it do to them?  
"Some of them become production lines for fairs."  
Does this affect their work?  
"The importance of works created for fairs is purely commercial."  
Susan Landau, a senior curator at the Israel Museum (this year she curated the Israeli pavilion at the Venice Biennale), feels the era of the huge events must end. This prompted her to resign from the committee for the Israeli Biennale in Tel Aviv, which has been postponed from this year until next year. Her resignation was influenced by, among other things, the big discrepancy between the curators' statements and the works she saw at Documente.  
"This could not be the result of five years' work," she says. "This is an exhibition that came out against the commercialization of art, but the curators did not have any problem using a 20 million euro budget. They made no attempt to connect between works, everything seemed neutral, as if it had nothing to say, and I thought to myself, either there has to be some innovativeness here, or one has to stop, to understand what it means. In the end, I realized that maybe we don't need such exhibitions, that we essentially have come to the end of the era of big exhibitions, which have become an empty vessel, devoid of content. I believe there is a lot to say in art, but not via globe-spanning exhibitions. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>France is falling in love with Israel </title>
<date>Wed Nov 21 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
LONDON - Over a decade after the Israeli right in effect abandoned the vision of a Greater Israel, the radical left in both Israel and Britain has come to favor the idea - with a few essential changes.  
On Sunday, London saw the conclusion of a conference on the so-called one-state solution for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. While pro-Israel groups accused the organizers of staging a provocation aimed at bashing Israel's image, academics from Israel and the Palestinian Authority discussed possible models for the formation of a single state ranging from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River - and maybe even further east.  
The conference, which attracted many academics as well as local activists from Palestinian solidarity groups, students and Arab activists, was perhaps the latest stage in a series of projects that have given London its image as one of Europe's most anti-Zionist capitals.  
Indeed, the British left's attitude toward Israel has been characterized by warrants for the arrest of Israel Defense Forces officers, boycotts of Israeli products on the part of various trade unions, condemnations of Israel as an apartheid state by churches, and the recent academic boycott initiative.  
The latest two-day event, at the University of London's School of Oriental And African Studies (SOAS), attracted no less than 300 people. The participants discussed establishing either a binational state or a "state of all its citizens" - i.e. a secular democracy - that would include the entire population of the Palestinian Authority plus all the Palestinian refugees. They also entertained the notion of an Israeli-Palestinian confederation and other creative solutions.  
Among the notable guests were Palestinian civil rights activist Omar Barghouti, Israeli historian Ilan Pappe and one of the instigators of the academic boycott, Professor Haim Bereshit. The panel members discussed the status of Palestinians and Israelis in the would-be unified state, relying on historic precedents like South Africa and Northern Ireland.  
The conference was organized by the London One State Group - an association of about a dozen Israeli, Palestinian and Jewish students who are studying or have studied in London. The funding, they say, came from ticket sales.  
Along with the lofty talk about political theory, visitors could hear radical views on Israel, which was regularly described as "a colonialist power" and "an apartheid state." In the small conference hall, Zionism was not only a dirty word, but an immoral, inexcusably cruel utterance. "I don't believe the Jewish lie," one Arab representative said.  
Yonni Eshpar, a young graphic designer from Tel Aviv who was among the conference's initiators, said that he put the event together because "Israel is a discriminatory and racist country and I am interested in seeing to my children's future." The group's main goal, Eshpar said, was to initiate a discussion of the one-state issue.  
Explaining why he wanted to include residents of the Palestinian Authority in his proposed "state of all its citizens," Eshpar said: "They are the citizens of this land. They were there before us. Besides, the nation-state system has concluded its historical role all over the world, from Singapore through Denmark to Israel."  
Pro-Israel groups say that this initiative should not be taken seriously. "Our internal polls have shown that the majority of British people support the Balfour Declaration and the existence of the Jewish state," said Lorna Fitzsimons, CEO of the pro-Israeli organization BICOM, the Britain Israel Communications and Research Centre.  
According to Fitzsimons, the one-state initiative - which has recently become somewhat trendy in academic circles - should not be associated with the academic boycott of Israeli educational institutions.  
"How do you propose to deal with the crimes the Israelis are perpetrating in the Occupied Territories?" a female Palestinian student asked panel members at the end of the conference's first day. "Should Israeli military commanders be put on trial for war crimes? Should truth and reconciliation committees be set up?"  
It was then that an Israeli student remarked: "Excuse me, but you sound just like the far right in Israel. Are the Israelis not entitled to self-determination? Do Israelis only understand force? This kind of discussion hampers progress, because it fails to recognize the other side."   

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Germans worried over growing denial of Israel's right to exist </title>
<date>Mon Mar 12 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
BERLIN - The state of Israel is facing two strategic threats: an Iranian nuclear bomb and the denial of its right to exist. During a week in which German bishops compared Israel's actions in the territories with the deeds of the Nazis and an international survey determined that Germans have the lowest opinion of Israel in Europe, it is difficult to say which option is more frightening.  
That, at least, is the picture that emerged from the annual European-Israel Dialogue held in Berlin this weekend, whose participants included Chancellor Angela Merkel, leading academics and several Israeli diplomats and officials.  
The growing delegitimization of Israel in recent years was raised in every session of the conference, organized by the Axel Springer Foundation. This year in particular, Merkel said at the opening session, in light of the threats emanating from Iran, it is important to emphasize that Germany supports Israel and that protecting Israel's right to exist will continue to stand at the center of Germany's foreign policy. "I regret that I am forced to reiterate this repeatedly," the chancellor added.  
As a recent example of a statement undermining Israel's right to exist, speakers at the conference referred to the remarks made by German bishops during a visit to the Palestinian Authority, following a visit to the Yad Vashem Holocaust Martyrs' and Heroes' Remembrance Authority in Jerusalem.  
"In the morning, we see the photos of the inhuman Warsaw Ghetto, and this evening we travel to the ghetto in Ramallah; that makes you angry," Bishop Gregor Maria Hanke of Eichstatt told Sueddeutsche Zeitung.  
In a conversation with Haaretz, former German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer called Hanke's remarks "scandalous," adding, "personally, I was angry that no denunciations were voiced from within Germany."  
The President of Tel Aviv University, Itamar Rabinovich, said at the conference that since according to the German Bishops, Israel's right to exist derives from the Holocaust, "the fact that the State of Israel is now behaving 'like the Nazi regime' undermines its right to exist."  
However, it appears that the parallel drawn by the bishops, which was repudiated in a letter sent by the leader of Germany's Catholic Church to the board of Yad Vashem, represents the view held by a significant portion of Germans. According to a poll carried out in January by the Bertelsmann Foundation, 30 percent of German residents agree that Israel is doing to the Palestinians "what the Nazis did to the Jews in the Third Reich." A recent poll carried out for the BBC World Service ranked Israel (together with Iran) as the country with the most negative influence on the world. The vast Germany ranked highest among all European countries polled for its negative views of Israel, with 77 percent of respondents reporting "mainly negative" views of Israel.  
Some conference attendees said these figures join articles in leading newspapers describing Israel as an "apartheid" state, economic boycotts against the country by churches and labor unions and the academic boycott by European universities in the trend toward questioning Israel's moral right to exist.  
"I am amazed anew each time at the fact that the question of Israel's right to exist is still a matter for discussion," the Jewish-German author and journalist Henryk Broder told Haaretz. "What more needs to happen for Israel to be accepted as a state, 60 years after its founding?"  
The former head of the Mossad, Ephraim Halevy, believes the legitimacy issue is rooted in Israeli academia. "The source of the problem lies in Israel," Halevy told Haaretz. "The central figures in the debate are in Israeli academia and the issue must be solved within Israel by means of academic confrontation with the 'deniers.'"  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Good Ackerman, bad Ackerman</title>
<date>Thu Nov 08 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
There are people in Jerusalem who have not yet forgotten the criticism leveled at Prime Minister Ehud Olmert by Gary Ackerman, a United States congressman from New York and head of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. He "kissed President Bush's ass," said the representative, in language that was not quite diplomatic, commenting to The Forward about Olmert's criticism of the new Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, after her visit with Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus last April. Olmert managed to annoy senior members of the Democratic Party several times in the past year  not only in his confrontation with Pelosi, a Democrat, but also in his declarations of support for George W. Bush's Iraq policy.
Ackerman's slaps at Olmert might have led one to suspect that the 64-year-old, 12-term congressman misses Ariel Sharon, Olmert's predecessor. And perhaps he really does miss Sharon a little, but the criticism that he levels today against Sharon's most dramatic decision  the withdrawal from Gaza  is harsh. It was, he says, "a mistake."
But you supported this move
"True," admits Ackerman, but he reminds me that there he didn't have many alternatives. As an American legislator, nobody consulted with him. The decision was presented as a fait accompli, and it seemed better to support it and to hope that the move would succeed than to express meaningless and useless opposition. In general, though, Ackerman says he feels that unilateral moves are not wise. Israel left Gaza without having anyone to whom it could hand over the keys.
So is that the problem, that they didn't give Gaza to Abu Mazen? Would that have worked?
No, he says, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, has to date not proven an ability to receive keys and to turn them in the lock as well. Therefore, this opposition was not available to Sharon.
So if there is nobody to give it to, and unilateral withdrawal is a mistake, what should have been done?
"Under those circumstances," states the legislator, "it would have been preferable to continue the status quo." In other words, a continued Israeli presence in Gaza. 
And Ackerman hastens to explain that this is not "stating a position regarding the settlements." He does not think that Israel should have remained in Gaza forever, only for the time being, until there was someone to whom it could "transfer responsibility."
Repeatedly, Ackerman refers to the need for a "dash of political realism," during a long conversation he had with Haaretz in his Capitol Hill office last week, shortly before he embarked on another lightning visit to the Middle East.
Ackerman, who represents New York's Fifth Congressional District, which takes in parts of Long Island and Queens, was a teacher in the New York City school system before entering politics (he served five years in the New York State Senate before being elected to the U.S. House for the first time, in 1983). 
Ackerman's keyboard has worked overtime in recent weeks. His new pen pal: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. In an October 19 letter he sent her concerning the peace conference planned for Annapolis, Maryland, at the end of this month, Ackerman and a Republican colleague from Louisiana, Charles Boustany ?(who is of Lebanese heritage?), declared, "We believe the meeting in November could mark an important turning point"  and also recommended forceful steps to strengthen the Palestinian Authority and its leader. The letter was welcomed by dovish Jewish organizations like Peace Now and the Israel Policy Forum. We can "all learn from the example" of these legislators, said Debra DeLee, president and CEO of Americans for Peace Now ?(APN?). Afterwards the establishment AIPAC ?(the American Israel Public Affairs Committee?) also joined the supporters of the letter. Ackerman, with his typical political savvy, had managed to appeal to the tastes of many groups.
In reality, the U.S.-sponsored meeting in Annapolis, the one that "could mark an important turning point," is making Ackerman squirm in his seat. As in the case of the mistake of withdrawing from Gaza, here too he hastens to mention that "this was not my decision." The facts were determined by others. "The moment a meeting has been announced, I don't want it to fail."
But was the decision to convene a conference the right decision? 
Ackerman doesn't say it wasn't, but neither does he say it was. But what he is clear about is his belief that "there was not enough preparation." And also: "What if there's a party and nobody comes?" and furthermore: "The idea was too amorphous, very problematic in my opinion." And even: "You have to do homework before the exam."Ackerman fears for another failure. Like the failure of the withdrawal from Gaza, for which Israel is to blame; like the "tremendous failure" of the elections for the Palestinian parliament two years ago, for which he blames the United States. It was President Bush, he says, who "forced his supposedly best friend"  namely, Ariel Sharon  "to agree to Hamas participation in the elections." The consequences are well known.
Ackerman walks a thin line when he talks about the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. On the one hand, the Jewish Ackerman has an unreserved love for Israel and is wary of backing steps that could endanger its welfare; on the other, he has a political need to align himself with the party ethos that sees the attempt to achieve an agreement as a crucial need. Added to these are his reluctance as a Democrat to show support for a step, any step, taken by the Bush administration, along with the understanding that the administration is in fact now trying to accomplish something positive. He will closely monitor the limits of the discussion, when it is clear to everyone that there is a side that he supports in this story, or as he put it, "I have a dog in this fight."
In late October, Ackerman and several of his colleagues, also Jewish legislators, met with former president Jimmy Carter, who came to the Hill to try and find a common language with them, after the major uproar engendered by his book "Palestine: Peace, Not Apartheid." Ackerman says his presence at the meeting was intended, not to reconcile with Carter, but to explain to him what he thinks of his views and his book. Among other things, Carter was told during the discussion that he had "lost the ability to present himself as someone who cares about Israel." Participants describe the off-the-record dialogue as "tough," "unpleasant," "bitter."
Fears for the region"I now fear for the stability of the region more than ever in the past," says Ackerman. His conclusion: We have to exploit the opportunity that Rice is trying to create. "You can claim that we have to wait for a Palestinian messiah, and that this is not the ideal time  but time is not on our side because politics move fast. The longer we wait the worse the outlook." Therefore  we have to act, and now. "To close the best deal possible." That's the reason for urging Rice to support a program for the rehabilitation and building of the PA. "To [make the Palestinians] decide now between Fatah and Hamas." In other words  denying vital support to Fatah today will bring Hamas to the West Bank and perhaps even further tomorrow.
But there is also another side to the coin. Ackerman looks at Mahmoud Abbas and does not see a genuine leader who is capable of bringing about change. He says that he doesn't want to give money to the PA "without a specific goal" and without close supervision to insure that that goal has been achieved. Rice, he says, has to "insist" that the PA demonstrate that it is doing something "real" with the money that the American taxpayer transfers to it. "We'll give to you only if you provide the goods, sounds less supportive and more conditional."
So that the letter he co-signed is in effect an expression of his two personae: - the "good Ackerman" and the "bad Ackerman." Apparently those who supported him chose to read into it what suits them, no less than what the legislator intends to say.
The arrows of Ackerman's criticism are directed at the administration and at the PA, but most of all at the "Arab world," which he says caused Bill Clinton to fail when it did not give Yasser Arafat the necessary push at Camp David in 2000. That is what Rice says about the Arabs, and what Ackerman says as well. Therefore he doesn't understand how a conference that was intended to have Arab participation could have been announced without the host, the United States, knowing in advance what "the Arabs are willing to give." We must have "expectations of them," he says. Recently he himself met with the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., and complained that his country had stopped sending money to the PA since the collapse of the Mecca agreement of last February between Fatah and Hamas.
And as noted, Ackerman is trying to adhere to the line being promoted by his party  a line that calls for greater American involvement in the peace process  but occasionally he presents a relatively hawkish stance. For example, in a second letter to the secretary of state, from October 24, he discussed the crisis in Lebanon and recommended upgrading the economic and political sanctions against Syria. The same Syria that led him to criticize Olmert, after Jerusalem criticized the visit there by Speaker Nancy Pelosi last spring.
Ackerman looks at the ongoing unrest and instability in Lebanon, on the eve of the decision to appoint a new president, and finds no reasons for complacency. "I said to the administration, you think that losing Gaza is problematic? Try losing Lebanon!" Like most of his Democratic colleagues, he will call for "dialogue" with Syria, but when he says it, it sounds like a very tough dialogue indeed.
Lebanon, he says, has a chance of being a "reasonable player" in the Middle Eastern arena, but in order to make that possible there is need for an American and international effort, details of which he spells out in the letter to Rice. Apply strong pressure, impose sanctions, all in order to avoid having to choose between appeasement and war. He suggests the same recipe for dealing with Iran. The failure in Iraq, he accuses the Bush administration, is what caused this problem to grow to its present dimensions. "We did not succeed in teaching the region a lesson," he asserts.
Wherever Ackerman looks in the region he sees a problem, which he chooses to illustrate with the help of a horrifying example. We, he says, are like people on the top floors of the World Trade Center on 9/11. We have to decide quickly what to do: To stay? To try to go downstairs? To wait for the rescue forces? "Not deciding is also a decision," he reminds us. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Good Ackerman, bad Ackerman</title>
<date>Sun Nov 11 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
WASHINGTON - There are people in Jerusalem who have not yet forgotten the criticism leveled at Prime Minister Ehud Olmert by Gary Ackerman, a United States congressman from New York and head of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. He "kissed President Bush's ass," said the representative, in language that was not quite diplomatic, commenting to The Forward about Olmert's criticism of the new Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, after her visit with Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus last April. 
Ackerman's slaps at Olmert might have led one to suspect that the 64-year-old, 12-term congressman misses Ariel Sharon, Olmert's predecessor. And perhaps he really does miss Sharon a little, but the criticism that he levels today against Sharon's most dramatic decision - the withdrawal from Gaza - is harsh. It was, he says, "a mistake." 
But you supported this move.
"True," admits Ackerman, but he reminds me that there he didn't have many alternatives. As an American legislator, nobody consulted with him. The decision was presented as a fait accompli, and it seemed better to support it and to hope that the move would succeed than to express meaningless and useless opposition. In general, though, Ackerman says he feels that unilateral moves are not wise. Israel left Gaza without having anyone to whom it could hand over the keys. 
So is that the problem, that they didn't give Gaza to Abu Mazen? Would that have worked?
No, he says, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, has to date not proven an ability to receive keys and to turn them in the lock as well. Therefore, this opposition was not available to Sharon. 
So if there is nobody to give it to, and unilateral withdrawal is a mistake, what should have been done?
"Under those circumstances," states the legislator, "it would have been preferable to continue the status quo." In other words, a continued Israeli presence in Gaza. And Ackerman hastens to explain that this is not "stating a position regarding the settlements." He does not think that Israel should have remained in Gaza forever, only for the time being, until there was someone to whom it could "transfer responsibility." 
Repeatedly, Ackerman refers to the need for a "dash of political realism," during a long conversation he had with Haaretz in his Capitol Hill office last week, shortly before he embarked on another lightning visit to the Middle East. 
Ackerman, who is Jewish, represents New York's Fifth Congressional District, which takes in parts of Long Island and Queens. He was a teacher in the New York City school system before entering politics (he served five years in the New York State Senate before being elected to the U.S. House for the first time, in 1983). And he is next in line to take over the chairmanship of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, when its current Democratic chair, Tom Lantos, retires. 
Ackerman's keyboard has worked overtime in recent weeks. His new pen pal: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. In an October 19 letter he sent her concerning the peace conference planned for Annapolis, Maryland, at the end of this month, Ackerman and a Republican colleague from Louisiana, Charles Boustany (who is of Lebanese heritage), declared, "We believe the meeting in November could mark an important turning point" - and also recommended forceful steps to strengthen the Palestinian Authority and its leader. 
The letter was welcomed by dovish Jewish organizations like Peace Now and the Israel Policy Forum. We can "all learn from the example" of these legislators, said Debra DeLee, president and CEO of Americans for Peace Now (APN). Afterward, the establishment AIPAC (the American Israel Public Affairs Committee) also joined the supporters of the letter. Ackerman, with his typical political savvy, had managed to appeal to the tastes of many groups. 
In reality, the U.S.-sponsored meeting in Annapolis, the one that "could mark an important turning point," is making Ackerman squirm in his seat. As in the case of the mistake of withdrawing from Gaza, here too he hastens to mention that "this was not my decision." The facts were determined by others. "The moment a meeting has been announced, I don't want it to fail." 
But was the decision to convene a conference the right decision? Ackerman doesn't say it wasn't, but neither does he say it was. But what he is clear about is his belief that "you have to do homework before the exam." He adds: "The idea was too amorphous, very problematic in my opinion." 
Ackerman fears for another failure. Like the failure of the withdrawal from Gaza, for which Israel is to blame; like the "tremendous failure" of the elections for the Palestinian parliament two years ago, for which he blames the United States. It was President Bush, he says, who "forced his supposed best friend" - namely, Ariel Sharon - "to agree to Hamas participation in the elections." The consequences are well-known. 
Ackerman walks a thin line when he talks about the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. On the one hand, Ackerman has an unreserved love for Israel and is wary of backing steps that could endanger its welfare; on the other, he has a political need to align himself with the party ethos that sees the attempt to achieve an agreement as a crucial need. 
Added to these are his reluctance as a Democrat to show support for a step, any step, taken by the Bush administration, along with the understanding that the administration is now trying to accomplish something positive. But it is clear to everyone that there is a side that he supports in this story, or as he put it, "I have a dog in this fight." 
In late October, Ackerman and several of his colleagues, also Jewish legislators, met with former president Jimmy Carter, who came to the Hill to try and find a common language with them, after the major uproar engendered by his book "Palestine: Peace, Not Apartheid." Ackerman says his presence at the meeting was intended not to reconcile with Carter, but to explain to him what he thinks of his book. Among other things, Carter was told during the discussion that he had "lost the ability to present himself as someone who cares about Israel." Participants describe the off-the-record dialogue as "tough" and "unpleasant." 
Fears for the region
"I now fear for the stability of the region more than ever in the past," says Ackerman. His conclusion: We have to exploit the opportunity that Rice is trying to create. "You can claim that we have to wait for a Palestinian messiah, and that this is not the ideal time - but time is not on our side because politics move fast. The longer we wait the worse the outlook." 
Therefore - we have to act, and now. "To close the best deal possible." That's the reason for urging Rice to support a program for the rehabilitation and building of the PA. "To [make the Palestinians] decide now between Fatah and Hamas." In other words - denying vital support to Fatah today will bring Hamas to the West Bank and perhaps even further tomorrow. 
But there is also another side to the coin. Ackerman looks at Mahmoud Abbas and does not see a genuine leader who is capable of bringing about change. He says that he doesn't want to give money to the PA "without a specific goal" and without close supervision to insure that the goal has been achieved. Rice, he says, has to "insist" that the PA demonstrate that it is doing something "real" with American taxpayers' money. "We'll give to you only if you provide the goods, sounds less supportive and more conditional." 
The letter he co-signed is in effect an expression of his two personae - the "good Ackerman" and the "bad Ackerman." Apparently those who supported him chose to read into it what suits them, no less than what the legislator intends to say. 
Ackerman's criticism is directed at the administration and at the PA, but most of all at the "Arab world," which he says caused Bill Clinton to fail when it did not give Yasser Arafat the necessary push at Camp David in 2000. That is what Rice says about the Arabs, and what Ackerman says as well. Therefore he doesn't understand how a conference that was intended to have Arab participation could have been announced without the host, the United States, knowing in advance what "the Arabs are willing to give." Recently he himself met with the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., and complained that the diplomat's country had stopped sending money to the PA since the collapse of the Mecca agreement of last February between Fatah and Hamas. 
Though Ackerman is trying to adhere to the line being promoted by his party - which calls for greater American involvement in the peace process - occasionally he presents a relatively hawkish stance. For example, in a second letter to the secretary of state, from October 24, he discussed the crisis in Lebanon and recommended upgrading the economic and political sanctions against Syria. The same Syria that led him to criticize Olmert, after Jerusalem criticized the visit there by Speaker Nancy Pelosi last spring. 
Ackerman looks at the ongoing unrest and instability in Lebanon, and finds no reasons for complacency. "I said to the administration, you think that losing Gaza is problematic? Try losing Lebanon!" Like most of his Democratic colleagues, he will call for "dialogue" with Syria, but when he says it, it sounds like a very tough dialogue indeed. 
Wherever Ackerman looks in the region he sees a problem, which he chooses to illustrate with the help of a horrifying example. We, he says, are like people on the top floors of the World Trade Center on 9/11. We have to decide quickly what to do: To stay? To try to go downstairs? To wait for the rescue forces? "Not deciding is also a decision," he reminds us. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Gov't defends decision to curb power supply to Gaza Strip</title>
<date>Fri Nov 02 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
In a letter to the High Court of Justice, State Prosecution on Friday defended the government's decision to curb the supply of fuel and electricity to the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, claiming it is not a form of collective punishment.
State prosecution argued the measure was appropriate considering that the area is controlled by an organization that calls for the destruction of the State of Israel and is used as a base for militants who launch regular rocket attacks against its civilian population. 
"Any measure taken by one state that has negative consequences on the economy of another will also hurt the citizens of that state," State Prosecution wrote. "In such instances, one can claim that any measure made within the context of an armed conflict is a form of collective punishment of the civilians of that state; a mistaken and absurd argument that counters international law and common practice."
"According to such an incorrect argument, imposing a financial boycott or pressure on countries such as South Africa during the Apartheid, or Iran today, would not be possible because any such measure would hurt the populace of the said country," it added.
Human rights organizations petitioned the High Court demanding it prohibits Israel from carrying out its decision to cut power supplies to Gaza. Groups claimed such action would hurt innocent civilians. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guardian editor condemns U.K. journalists' boycott of Israel </title>
<date>Wed Apr 18 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
The editor of the London Guardian yesterday condemned as "misguided" a resolution passed by a British journalists' union last week that called for a boycott of Israeli goods.  
"The Guardian disapproves of these kinds of boycotts and does not think they serve a useful purpose. It was a misguided motion," editor of the British daily Alan Rusbridger told Haaretz by telephone last night.  
On Friday, at its annual meeting, the National Union of Journalists (NUJ) in the UK voted for a boycott of Israeli goods in protest of last year's Lebanon war and Israeli "aggression" in the territories.   
The vote, which carried 66 to 54, read: "This ADM [annual delegate meeting] calls for a boycott of Israeli goods similar to those boycotts in the struggles against apartheid South Africa led by trade unions and the TUC [Trades Union Congress] to demand sanctions to be imposed on Israel by the British government," according to reports in the British press. It followed an earlier motion, which was passed by a larger majority, condemning the "savage, pre-planned attack on Lebanon by Israel" last year and the "slaughter of civilians by Israeli troops in Gaza and the IDF's continued attacks inside Lebanon following the defeat of its army by Hezbollah."  
The union has a membership of nearly 40,000 British journalists, who work in all the leading media outlets in the UK.  
"My guess is that the majority of working journalists would feel very uneasy and hostile to the motion which was published in their names," one senior British journalist told Haaretz. "It's just an embarrassment for us all," said another.  
Members of the Foreign Press Association (FPA) in Israel discussed yesterday at their annual general meeting whether to submit a formal response to the NUJ, said the organization's chairman Simon McGregor-Wood, of ABC News, who is British. "The resolutions seem to go against some of the core ethics of journalism that we are here to protect, such as balance and objectivity. I don't think any representative body of journalists should be taking a side," he said.  
Much of yesterday's FPA meeting was devoted to discussing further demonstrations to protest the kidnapping of BBC correspondent Alan Johnston, thought to have been forced from his Gaza apartment by masked men on March 12.  
It is not the first time the NUJ has made political moves likely to be out of sync with its membership. In 1986 its delegate conference sent a "telegram of condolence" to Colonel Muammar Gadhafi after the U.S. bombing of Libya, a book about the 100-year-old union recalls.  
The British journalists' union boycott follows a short-lived academic boycott a year ago by Britain's university lecturers' union, which was overturned four days after it passed. The Church of England synod has also called for disinvestment from Israel.  
Zvi Heifetz, Israel's ambassador in London, commented on the NUJ motion to Haaretz: "It is a shame that an organization that represents journalists threatens to boycott goods from Israel only one day after worrying rumors surfaced about the fate of one of the union's own members. The timing of this move is also peculiar in light of the recent bi-weekly meetings between PM Olmert and President Abbas and the attempts made by the Arab world and Israel to revive the peace process, based on the Saudi initiative."  
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev said: "We obviously view such activity negatively, but I wouldn't overstate the significance of this event."  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guardian editor condemns U.K. journalists' call to boycott Israel</title>
<date>Wed Apr 18 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
The editor of the London Guardian on Tuesday condemned as "misguided" a resolution passed by a British journalists' union last week that called for a boycott of Israeli goods. 
"The Guardian disapproves of these kinds of boycotts and does not think they serve a useful purpose. It was a misguided motion," editor of the British daily Alan Rusbridger told Haaretz by telephone last night. 
U.K. Foreign Office Minister Kim Howells also criticized the decision. "I was disappointed to hear that on 13 April 2007 the National Union of Journalists (NJU) voted to boycott goods from Israel," he said. 
"The government believes that, as a friend of both Israel and the Palestinians, we can best exert influence by encouraging both sides to take the steps needed for progress toward peace through close engagement," he added.
On Friday, at its annual meeting, the National Union of Journalists (NUJ) in the UK voted for a boycott of Israeli goods in protest of last year's Lebanon war and Israeli "aggression" in the territories. 
The vote, which carried 66 to 54, read: "This ADM [annual delegate meeting] calls for a boycott of Israeli goods similar to those boycotts in the struggles against apartheid South Africa led by trade unions and the TUC [Trades Union Congress] to demand sanctions to be imposed on Israel by the British government," according to reports in the British press. It followed an earlier motion, which was passed by a larger majority, condemning the "savage, pre-planned attack on Lebanon by Israel" last year and the "slaughter of civilians by Israeli troops in Gaza and the IDF's continued attacks inside Lebanon following the defeat of its army by Hezbollah." 
The union has a membership of nearly 40,000 British journalists, who work in all the leading media outlets in the UK. 
"My guess is that the majority of working journalists would feel very uneasy and hostile to the motion which was published in their names," one senior British journalist told Haaretz. "It's just an embarrassment for us all," said another. 
Members of the Foreign Press Association (FPA) in Israel discussed Tuesday at their annual general meeting whether to submit a formal response to the NUJ, said the organization's chairman Simon McGregor-Wood, of ABC News, who is British. "The resolutions seem to go against some of the core ethics of journalism that we are here to protect, such as balance and objectivity. I don't think any representative body of journalists should be taking a side," he said. 
Much of Tuesday's FPA meeting was devoted to discussing further demonstrations to protest the kidnapping of BBC correspondent Alan Johnston, thought to have been forced from his Gaza apartment by masked men on March 12. 
It is not the first time the NUJ has made political moves likely to be out of sync with its membership. In 1986 its delegate conference sent a "telegram of condolence" to Colonel Muammar Gadhafi after the U.S. bombing of Libya, a book about the 100-year-old union recalls. 
The British journalists' union boycott follows a short-lived academic boycott a year ago by Britain's university lecturers' union, which was overturned four days after it passed. The Church of England synod has also called for disinvestment from Israel. 
Zvi Heifetz, Israel's ambassador in London, commented on the NUJ motion to Haaretz: "It is a shame that an organization that represents journalists threatens to boycott goods from Israel only one day after worrying rumors surfaced about the fate of one of the union's own members. The timing of this move is also peculiar in light of the recent bi-weekly meetings between PM Olmert and President Abbas and the attempts made by the Arab world and Israel to revive the peace process, based on the Saudi initiative." 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev said: "We obviously view such activity negatively, but I wouldn't overstate the significance of this event."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hamas calls off Palestinian census in Gaza due to rivalry with Fatah</title>
<date>Sun Dec 02 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Gaza's Hamas rulers on Sunday ordered census workers to halt the first Palestinian population count in a decade, derailing a rare joint endeavor with the rival Fatah movement.
Hamas had agreed to cooperate with the census, which is being conducted by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' rival government in the West Bank. But Hamas officials on Sunday shut down the Gaza census office, saying the surveyors had violated an agreement to share their data with Hamas.
"Data can't just be given to one side and not the other, said Mohammed Madhoun," an official in Gaza's Hamas government. "The government wants to make use of it for its future projects."
Demographics play a central role in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Many Israeli demographers believe the Palestinian population, combined with Israel's own Arab minority, could soon outnumber the Jewish population in the region.
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has argued that creation of a Palestinian state is necessary because of the demographic issue. Last week, he said Israel could one day face a struggle resembling apartheid-era South Africa
Palestinians had said they hoped the first census since 1997 would help them in future peace talks with Israel.
The census at first had escaped the rivalry between Hamas and Fatah because of their common interest in the count.
Two earlier phases, collecting data on institutions and residences, were completed without interruption on Nov. 15. The final stage, counting people, began Saturday in the West Bank, but not in Gaza, and is expected to take two weeks. Hamas radio and mosques even called for people to cooperate with the surveyors.
Hamas took control of Gaza by force in June, prompting Abbas to expel the Islamic group from the Palestinian government and install his own Cabinet in the West Bank. There has been little contact between them since then.
Loai Shabana, head of the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics, accused Hamas of ruining what was meant to be an apolitical effort.
"This is blatant and unjustified interference that sabotages a professional endeavor, Shabana, who is appointed by the president," said from his West Bank office. He added that the data is off limits to all political factions until it is complete.
"No lawmaker or government official can get a peak at our records. This would...undermine our credibility," he said. "I wish they let national interest prevail, and not let temporary problems between Hamas and Fatah ruin a strategic project."
The census will cost $8.6 million, with the Palestinian Authority paying 20 percent. The rest comes from the United Nations, Saudi Arabia, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, the Netherlands and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Some 5,000 Palestinians were working on the project, including 2,000 in Gaza.


</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>High Court delays ruling on JNF land sales to non-Jews</title>
<date>Mon Sep 24 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
The High Court of Justice on Monday delayed its ruling on whether the Jewish National Fund should be obligated to sell its land to non-Jews by at least four months, in order to give the JNF time to reach an agreement with the Attorney General. 
The JNF asked the court to delay the ruling, after JNF and Israel Lands Association representatives agreed last Thursday to temporarily implement a proposal by Attorney General Menachem Mazuz that JNF lands be marketed to any potential customer, without discrimination based on ethnicity.
In exchange, any time JNF land is sold to a non-Jew, the ILA will compensate it with other land, thereby ensuring that the overall amount of Jewish-owned land in Israel remains the same. 
According to the state's response to the High Court petition, which was signed by the head of the Justice Ministry's High Court department, Osnat Mandel, the new arrangement will be in effect for three months. 
The brief asked the court to postpone the hearing during this time, which the JNF and the ILA will use to discuss ways for the JNF to preserve its original goals while obeying the law.
The JNF has long insisted that its lands be sold only to Jews, due to the fact that the land was purchased with money from Jewish donors for the purpose of settling Jews in the Land of Israel.
This "tactical retreat" reportedly stems from the JNF's concern that the High Court will issue a precedent-setting ruling in response to a 2004 petition filed by Adalah, the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel.
Adalah rejected the JNF's declaration on Monday, saying it would appeal it in court. 
Adalah Director Hassan Jabareen said the JNF has had enough time in the 3 years since his organization submitted the petition to reach a conclusive, long-term decision, rather than offer a temporary 3-month arrangement.
He called the JNF declaration a "manipulative move aimed at buying time." 
"JNF controls 13 percent of the land in Israel, and under this plan only Jewish communities could be built on it. This is a typical form of apartheid," Jabareen said.
Adalah petitioned the court on behalf of Arab citizens who were refused permission to bid on an Israel Lands Administration (ILA) tender for residential housing lots in Carmiel. The potential purchasers were told that the land belonged to the JNF, and was therefore intended only for Jewish use. The Association for Civil Rights in Israel and several Arab rights organizations supported the petition. 
The JNF's position was dealt a blow in 2005, when Mazuz ruled that the policy was discriminatory and he would not defend it in the High Court. Mazuz reiterated this stance to the High Court four months ago. 
Several public figures, including Nobel Prize laureate Robert (Israel) Aumann and former Israel Defense Forces chief of staff Moshe Ya'alon, were to join the petition Monday morning as respondents, arguing that the JNF has a responsibility to its contributors to reserve the lands it purchased with their money for Jews only. 
The brief filed by the state makes it clear that the JNF has not changed its original position, whereby "rights to the land it owns should not be awarded to those who are not Jewish," but the ILA, operating on the attorney general's instructions, recognizes its obligation to market lands, including those of the JNF, without discrimination. 
Nevertheless, the JNF has been persuaded to give in for the moment out of concern that the court might issue a ruling undermining the JNF's policy, similar to its precedent-setting ruling in 2000 in favor of Adel Kaadan, an Israeli Arab who successfully petitioned the court for the right to build a home in the Jewish community of Katzir. 
The JNF holds approximately 2.6 million dunams (some 650,000 acres) of land in Israel, which constitutes 13 percent of all state lands. 
The response to the High Court indicates that the JNF and the ILA view an exchange of lands as a long-term solution and are looking for a mutually acceptable way to apply it on a large scale. In the past, however, Arab organizations opposed this solution, arguing that it preserves a situation in which large amounts of land in Israel are not available for use by all of its citizens.
More Jewish World news and features

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>IDF lifts ban on Israelis transporting Palestinians</title>
<date>Mon Mar 26 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Israel Defense Forces GOC Central Command Yair Naveh yesterday canceled a ban prohibiting Israelis from taking Palestinian passengers in their vehicles within the West Bank.  
Naveh issued the order a few months ago to prevent Israeli citizens from picking up illegal workers or potential suicide bombers from the occupied territories, and driving them to Israel.  
The order, which was due to take effect in January, was never put into practice and was finally withdrawn due to a petition filed by civil rights groups with the High Court of Justice.   
In their petition, the groups claimed the ban constituted an "apartheid measure" because it institutionalized racial separation.  
"Such was the situation in South Africa during the apartheid, and such it was in the American South until the 1960s. There are some things one does not do," they wrote.  
Shin Bet security service and military probes of suicide bombings in recent years show that in a not-insignificant number of these attacks, terrorists were transported with the help of Israeli Arabs, who had license plates allowing them to pass through West Bank checkpoints without thorough inspection. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ira Forman </title>
<date>Mon Aug 06 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
A veteran of nearly 40 years of political activity at the state, local and national levels, Ira Forman has served since January 1996 as the Executive Director of the National Jewish Democratic Council
NJDC strives "to educate American Jews across the country about the differences between their political candidates on issues of concern to them - focusing on protecting reproductive rights, the separation of church and state and a strong US-Israel relationship". 
Forman also serves as the Research Director of The Solomon Project
In 2001 the Solomon Project released the book "Jews in American Politics: A Sourcebook"
We will discuss Jewish involvement in American politics. Readers can send questions to rosnersdomain@haaretz.co.il
Dear Mr. Forman,
Based on your experience, can you please tell me what in your opinionare the issues that Jewish voters will be most concerned about? Is itbasically the same as the rest of the population (and I'm not justtalking about Israel but about other issues as well).
Thank you for an insightful exchange.
Hannah
Dear Hannah,
This is a very good question. Jewish Americans care about the same set of issues as other Americans except - for where they differ.  Let me explain.
During a time of war Americans are concerned about the war.  During recessions Americans care about the economy and jobs.  The list of issues that voters say are most important will change depending on the country?s current circumstance,s and Jewish voters are no exception to this rule.
In 2004 a NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that the top two issues for Americans were "the War in Iraq" and "Terrorism and Homeland Security."  In 2007 the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that the top two issues were "the War in Iraq" and "Health Care."  This increased interest in health care is almost certainly reflected in increased interest by Jewish Americans in health care.
Yet Jewish Americans are also very distinctive in their views. The average American voter is pro-Israel. Jews, however, are more supportive of Israel than the rest of the country. Though most Jewish voters don't pick Israel as one of their "top" issues, a very significant percentage of them will not vote for a candidate who is anti-Israel.  
In general Jewish voters look like other voters with high levels of education - though probably a bit more liberal. In 2005 the American Jewish Committee released a survey that highlighted the distinctiveness of Jewish Americans - demographically and attitudinally (See it here
In 2008 both the Democratic and the Republican nominee for president will state their support for Israel. Therefore, most Jewish Americans will vote for candidates based on a set of issues that mirror the concerns of other Americans. These Jewish voters, however, will approach many of these other issues from a more liberal perspective than the average non-Jewish voter. 
Mr. Forman,
You ignore some facts. Opinion polls highlight the widening chasm between the parties. A study by the Pew Research Center found that 68 percent of Republicans sympathize more with Israel than with the Palestinians, compared to just 45 percent of Democrats. Similarly, a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll found that Republicans favored alignment with Israel over neutrality - 64 percent to 29 percent. By contrast, 39 percent of Democrats supported alignment with Israel, while 54 percent favored neutrality.
Are these two parties really supportive to the same extent?
Eli CorenTel Aviv
Dear Eli,
Thanks for your question.
I was not trying to "ignore" this polling data. Shmuel gives his guests a word limit and it's very difficult to fully cover all aspects of this topic within these limits.
There are many ways to measure support for a strong U.S.-Israel relationship.  Public opinion surveys are one measure.  
Polls over the last few years vary over the degree of support for Israel among Republicans, Independents and Democrats.  Most recent polls show Republican voters are more supportive than Independents and Democrats.  Most of this difference is accounted for by the overwhelming support given to Israel by Evangelical Christians - among Independents and Democrats there is a much larger percentage that are undecided/don't know. But even the polls that portray the Democrats in the worst light also show that Democrats support Israel over the Palestinians by a 4-1 or 5-1 margin.  This is hardly the profile of an anti-Israel party.
Another measure of support is how the parties vote in Congress.  The most important vote year after year is support for the foreign aid bill in Congress.  Israel and Egypt are the largest recipients of U.S. foreign aid.  This last month 164 (out of about 200) House Republicans voted against the foreign aid appropriations bill.  For the first time in recent memory the Republican leadership recommend a "no" vote on this bill - 161 Republicans actually voted to cut Israel?s aid by $24 million.  Almost no Democrats voted against this bill or for cuts in Israel's aid.
Another way to measure support for the U.S.-Israel relationship is to review which members of Congress support resolutions. Last year a resolution in the U.S. Senate called upon the European Union to declare Hezbollah a terrorist organization.  All but ten Senators signed onto this resolution.  Eight of the ten Senators who withheld their signatures were Republicans.
I can provide numerous example of where Democrats were more supportive of Israel.  But none of these examples prove that the GOP is anti-Israel -  or even less pro-Israel than the Democrats.  What it does show that sometimes one side makes a "mistake" and sometimes there are a handful of dissenters on both sides of the aisle.
This entire debate over which party is more supportive is unproductive.  In the United States both major parties are overwhelmingly supportive of Israel.  Democrats and Republicans fight like cats and dogs over a wide range of issues.  We should celebrate the bi-partisan consensus on Israel.
Dear Mr. Forman,
Don't you think all this talk of yours will invite more anti-Semitism? Why do we need so many Jewish legislators? It's too many for our own good.
Thank you for responding,
Debbie, New York
Dear Debbie,
I understand your concern.  I worry that a discussion of the honorable role American Jews play in public life will "provoke" the people who hate Jews.  Unfortunately, the anti-Semites of the world will decide to spread their poison whether we talk honestly about Jewish involvement in civic life or whether we remain silent.  
The best weapon we have against anti-Semitism is a healthy democracy. The best method we have to promote a healthy democracy is public involvement.  As President Jefferson said "the price of freedom is eternal vigilance." 
We should be proud of the large number of American Jews who are involved in politics and chose to serve their country through public service.  We should encourage our friends and neighbors to take an interest in public service. We should encourage other minority groups (including Muslim Americans) to become more involved in bettering our communities through public service.  
I don't believe it's a question of whether we have too many or too few Jewish legislators. The better question is over the quality of our legislators - whether they are Jews or non-Jews.
We can't stop extremists from concocting conspiracy theories about Jewish power. We can only tell the truth about how Jews, like other Americans, involve themselves in politics for many honorable reasons. We can only combat the haters by working to build a better America for all our citizens.
Dear Ira,
One thing you didn't address in your reply is the nature of Jewish influence with the Democratic Party. My previous guest, with which you said you do not agree, argued that they are taken for granted - meaning less influential.
How do you asses the "Jewish influence"?
Rosner
Dear Shmuel,
Jewish Americans play an influential role in both parties.  However, Democrats are much more dependent on Jewish votes and Jewish political activism than Republicans.  For example, there are 43 Jewish Americans who serve in the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate and all but three of them caucus with the Democratic party.  Jews are a necessary part of any majority coalition Democrats put together - in both congressional and presidential elections.
Jewish Americans participate in all aspects of American politics to a degree which may be unequaled by any other minority group in America.  Jews register and turn out to vote in very high numbers. Jews represent only about two percent of the population but they run for elected office in much higher numbers. A significant proportion of the most prominent political journalists are Jewish.  Jewish Americans provide both parties (especially Democrats) a disproportionate share of their campaign contributions. I can state from personal experience that Democratic party leaders deeply appreciate this level of Jewish activism on behalf of their candidates.
Anti-Semites may use the above description of Jewish political activism to paint a distorted picture of Jewish domination of U.S. politics - a picture that comes right out of the Protocols. The reality, of course, is very complex and very different
Prior to the last half of the twentieth century Jews were not particularly active in American politics. Even when Jews began to vote heavily Democratic in the early 1920s they remained underrepresented among the political elites of both parties.
At the same time that Jews began to participate in greater numbers in American politics they also began to organize for specific causes. In the 1960s Jewish individuals and organizations were disproportionately active in the civil rights movement. In the 1970s and 1980s parts of the community focused on the support for Israel. This ability to organize effectively and focus narrowly gave Jewish Americans greater influence on a few narrow areas of public policy.
Today, however, just because individual Jews have become politically active does not mean that these individuals are involved in the political process for the same reasons. The Jews among America?s opinion leaders are a diverse lot.  Relatively few of them could be considered part of the so-called Israel lobby. Only truly anti-Israel policies? the kind that characterize some European foreign policies?unite most of these diverse activists around a common agenda.
Within the Democratic Party individual Jewish Americans are active in a number of public policy agendas? health care reform, Darfur, separation of church and state, education policy, reproductive rights, civil rights, foreign policy, etc. The party's leadership does not see these agendas as particularly "Jewish" issues.  However, one of the reasons the party is engaged in an issue like Darfur is because there are so many Jewish political activists who are passionate about this issue.
Party leaders view Israel as a Jewish issue but because of the pro-Israel sentiment within the larger electorate they also view support for Israel as a popular issue. This is why Democrats are out front on issues as diverse as foreign aid, sanctions on Iran and opposition to Hamas and Hezbollah. Moreover, when Jimmy Carter strays from this pro-Israel consensus and compares Israeli policies to apartheid he is criticized by a diverse set of Democrats?from Bill Clinton to Nancy Pelosi to Congressman John Conyers. 
Jewish Americans wield significant influence within the Democratic Party. The pro-Israel policies of the party are partially due to this influence and partially due to the larger public opinion environment in the United States.
Dear Ira, 
I'll start with you where I started with my previous guest, Gabriel Schoenfeld of Commentary. Here's what he wrote last week: "Jewish influence inside the Democratic Party has always been large and remains large today. But by the logic of electoral politics, when any one voting segment is believed to be in the pocket of a given party, that party can to some degree afford to ignore the interests of that segment. This has increasingly been the case with Jewish voters and the Democratic Party. The trend is clearly discernible in the way in which the party has tolerated the emergence of a distinctly anti-Israel caucus within its ranks." 
My assumption is that you do not agree with him, but I want you to explain why. 
Best 
Rosner
Dear Shmuel, 
You are correct.  I strongly disagree with your previous guest's arguments. 
Because American Jews usually vote for the Democratic party it does not follow that Jews are "in the pocket" of the Democratic party.  This is a very simplistic model of American politics and it bears little relationship with today's reality.   
Some frustrated conservative political pundits have decried the stupidity of American Jewish voting - "the masses are asses" theory of American politics.  However, I agree with the late political scientist, V.O. Key, who argued that American voters are very skilled in recognizing which party supports their interests.  
In 2007 American Jews support the Democratic party and its candidates because on a range of issues Democrats reflect the positions of the vast majority of Jews.  Support for Israel is only one among many issues that are important for American Jews.  However, a Democratic candidate who is considered antagonistic towards Israel will lose a considerable percentage of the Jewish vote. 
The exit polls support this "rational voter" theory.  Between 1972 and 1988 Republican presidential candidates captured a sizeable percentage of the Jewish vote - between 30-39%. During this period the Democratic party was criticized for veering too far to the left.  After capturing nearly 70% of the Jewish vote in 1976, Jimmy Carter barely bested (45%-39%) Ronald Reagan in 1980.  Significant numbers of Jews turned against Carter over his criticism of Israel as well as his handling of Iran hostages and the economy. 
It is only since 1992 that the GOP share of the Jewish vote has decreased to between 11-22%. What happened in 1992?  President George W. Bush had opposed loan guarantees for Israel. In addition, the 1992 GOP primary season and convention highlighted the growing power of the religious right within the party.  Moreover, Jews, like other Americans, were concerned with the sluggish economy. In 2006, in the wake of Iraq and a host of other Bush Administration failures, the GOP Jewish vote for Congress plummeted to 12%.  
In recent years some individual Republicans candidates have captured a significant proportion of the Jewish vote. Almost always these candidates have been moderates. Given this history, Democrats understand they can't be complacent about Jewish political behavior. 
Another argument advanced by your previous guest is that the Democrats are tolerating "the emergence of a distinctly anti-Israel caucus" within their party and that the rise of Muslim American political power encourages this development.  However, by nearly any measure - votes on foreign aid, resolutions, public statements - both the Democratic and the Republican parties are equally supportive of a strong U.S.-Israel relationship.   
There are a few exceptions to this rule. Democrats have Jimmy Carter and Jim Moran. Republicans have their votes against foreign aid, Ron Paul and Darrell Issa. The Democratic leadership, Bill Clinton, Howard Dean, and Nancy Pelosi, far from tolerating an anti-Israel caucus, have criticized former President Carter for his statements on Israel.  Republicans with their 11th commandment (thou shall not criticize a fellow Republican) are more reluctant to go after their "bad apples." 
This bipartisan pro-Israel consensus is based partially on the power of Jewish American activism.  But the most important foundation for this consensus is the overwhelmingly pro-Israel attitudes among American voters.  This consensus supports Israel's right to exit as a Jewish state within secure borders and  supports a peace process based on a two-state solution (even if many Americans, Jewish and non-Jews, are doubtful that the Palestinians are ready for such a peace).  
The most significant difference between the two parties is that there is a minority faction within the GOP (which does not include the Bush Administration) which opposes a two-state solution and "land for peace."  Yet, conservative opinion leader Bill Kristol and one of the most senior Republicans on House Foreign Affairs, Dan Burton, have asserted there is no difference between the two parties when it comes to support for the U.S.-Israel relationship. 
The Muslim American population is growing.  However, it is still considerably smaller than the Jewish population.  No serious analyst has argued that the diverse Muslim American community, which is largely politically unorganized, poses a threat to the pro-Israel consensus anytime in the foreseeable future.   

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli Arab group proposes new 'multi-cultural' constitution</title>
<date>Wed Feb 28 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
A proposed constitution written by the Israeli Arab advocacy center, Adalah, states that Arab Knesset members will be able to bring about the disqualification of bills that impinge on the rights of Arabs, and classifies the State of Israel as a "bilingual and multicultural" country rather than a Jewish state.
The proposal, entitled "The Democratic Constitution," also calls for majority and minority groups to split control of the government in such a way that will strengthen the Arab minority on issues relating to the character of the state.
Adalah's version of the constitution essentially abolishes the Jewish elements of Israel, but allows the Jewish majority to maintain its character through educational and cultural institutions. The proposal invalidates the Law of Return, which grants automatic citizenship to people with at least one Jewish grandparent, and states that citizenship will be granted to those who come to Israel for humanitarian reasons, regardless of their religion. 
The document states that the "internal refugees" Arab residents and their descendants expelled in 1948 and whose number is estimated at about a quarter of today's Israeli Arab citizens will return to the area where they used to live and receive compensation. The introduction to the proposed constitution demands that Israel recognize its responsibility for the "historical injustices that it caused the Palestinian nation in its entirety," withdraw from the territories and recognize the Palestinian people's right to self-determination. The proposal sets the state's borders along the 1967 cease-fire lines.
The proposed constitution grants citizenship to all descendants of Israeli citizens, whether they were born here or abroad, as well as to all spouses of Israeli citizens thereby undermining Israeli efforts to limit marriages between Israeli Arabs and Palestinians living in the territories. 
Instead of dealing with the issue of who is a Jew, says Adalah, the proposal deals with the issue of who is a citizen.
Adalah's constitution is the first one proposed by an Arab institution, though there have been many proposed by various Jewish ones. Adalah chairman Prof. Marwan Dwairy said the other proposals are not based on democratic values.
"They relate to Arab citizens like foreigners in this homeland, in which history, memory and collective rights are the legacy of Jews alone," he wrote.
Adalah hopes that its proposal will spur public discourse on the legal and cultural standing of Israeli Arabs.
"If this 'Democratic Constitution' succeeds in highlighting the large gaps that exist between it and the other proposals, and generates dialogue and topical public discussion on the nature of the freedoms and rights in the this country, we will see it as an important step," wrote Dwairy.
According to the proposed constitution, all assets of the Waqf (the Muslim religious trust) that were expropriated after 1948 and all assets seized by the state from Arabs will be returned to their original owners, who will also receive compensation for the period of expropriation. The state must also immediately recognize all unrecognized Arab villages, the proposal states.
The document does not state what the symbols of the country should be, but says that they will be determined either by a Knesset committee, half of whose members will be Arab, or by agreement of 75 percent of Arab MKs. 
All official publications, court rulings and media reports will be in both Hebrew and Arabic, according to Adalah. The proposal states that every cultural group, whether religious or ethnic, will be able to run their own institutions, and that national minorities can choose their own representative body, at the state's expense.
The proposed constitution grants the judicial system the authority to overturn any laws that contradict the constitution.
Adalah says that many of its sections are based on international declarations of human rights, and has consulted with legal experts from around the world, including some who were involved in South Africa's changeover from an apartheid state to a democratic one.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli Arab human rights group unrolls 'Democratic Constitution' </title>
<date>Wed Feb 28 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
A proposed constitution written by the Israeli Arab advocacy center, Adalah, states that Arab Knesset members will be able to bring about the disqualification of bills that impinge on the rights of Arabs, and classifies the State of Israel as a "bilingual and multicultural" country rather than a Jewish state.  
The proposal, entitled "The Democratic Constitution," also calls for majority and minority groups to split control of the government in such a way that will strengthen the Arab minority on issues relating to the character of the state.  
Adalah's version of the constitution essentially abolishes the Jewish elements of Israel, but allows the Jewish majority to maintain its character through educational and cultural institutions. The proposal invalidates the Law of Return, which grants automatic citizenship to people with at least one Jewish grandparent, and states that citizenship will be granted to those who come to Israel for humanitarian reasons, regardless of their religion.  
The document states that the "internal refugees" - Arab residents and their descendants expelled in 1948 and whose number is estimated at about a quarter of today's Israeli Arab citizens - will return to the area where they used to live and receive compensation. The introduction to the proposed constitution demands that Israel recognize its responsibility for the "historical injustices that it caused the Palestinian nation in its entirety," withdraw from the territories and recognize the Palestinian people's right to self-determination. The proposal sets the state's borders along the 1967 cease-fire lines.  
The proposed constitution grants citizenship to all descendants of Israeli citizens, whether they were born here or abroad, as well as to all spouses of Israeli citizens - thereby undermining Israeli efforts to limit marriages  between Israeli Arabs and Palestinians living in the territories.  
Instead of dealing with the issue of who is a Jew, says Adalah, the proposal deals with the issue of who is a citizen.  
Adalah's constitution is the first one proposed by an Arab institution, though there have been many proposed by various Jewish ones. Adalah chairman Prof. Marwan Dwairy said the other proposals are not based on democratic values.  
"They relate to Arab citizens like foreigners in this homeland, in which history, memory and collective rights are the legacy of Jews alone," he wrote.  
Adalah hopes that its proposal will spur public discourse on the legal and cultural standing of Israeli Arabs.  
"If this 'Democratic Constitution' succeeds in highlighting the large gaps that exist between it and the other proposals, and generates dialogue and topical public discussion on the nature of the freedoms and rights in the this country, we will see it as an important step," wrote Dwairy.  
According to the proposed constitution, all assets of the Waqf (the Muslim religious trust) that were expropriated after 1948 and all assets seized by the state from Arabs will be returned to their original owners, who will also receive compensation for the period of expropriation. The state must also immediately recognize all unrecognized Arab villages, the proposal states.  
The document does not state what the symbols of the country should be, but says that they will be determined either by a Knesset committee, half of whose members will be Arab, or by agreement of 75 percent of Arab MKs.  
All official publications, court rulings and media reports will be in both Hebrew and Arabic, according to Adalah. The proposal states that every cultural group, whether religious or ethnic, will be able to run their own institutions, and that national minorities can choose their own representative body, at the state's expense.  
The proposed constitution grants the judicial system the authority to overturn any laws that contradict the constitution.  
Adalah says that many of its sections are based on international declarations of human rights, and has consulted with legal experts from around the world, including some who were involved in South Africa's changeover from an apartheid state to a democratic one.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>KC Johnson</title>
<date>Sun Nov 18 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
KC Johnson is a professor of history at Brooklyn College and the CUNY Graduate Center. For the 2007-2008 academic year, he is Fulbright Distinguished Chair in the Humanities at Tel Aviv University. Educated at Harvard University, he has authored several books on Congress and U.S. foreign policy (More bio here
An early critic of the prosecution's conduct in the Duke Lacrosse case, Johnson published a highly regarded blog on the issue, Durham Wonderland
We will discuss issues related to academia, the U.S. and Israel. Readers can send questions to rosnersdomain@haaretz.co.il
Dear Prof.,
The last question will be about Congress and foreign policy. You wrote a book about Congress' role in the cold war, I want to ask you about the role of congress in Iraq today, and maybe Iran tomorrow. How big a role will it play / should it play / in devising American policy in the middle east? 
Best and happy thanksgiving,
Rosner
Broadly speaking, the Constitution gives three types of foreign policy powers to the Congress: the power to declare war; the Senate's power to approve treaties; and the appropriations power.
During the Cold War (1947-1989), the first two of these powers weakened. From the Korean War onwards, presidents argued that the commander-in-chief power gave them authority to send troops abroad without congressional approval. And executive agreements, unilaterally made by presidents, gradually replaced treaties.
So the power of the purse - spending bills - became the most significant way for Congress to influence foreign policy. Beginning in the 1960s, Congress started attaching policy riders first to foreign aid bills and then to defense spending measures. That's how Congress ultimately mandated the withdrawal from Cambodia in 1970; similar bills cut off funding for the U.S. covert operation in Angola (1975-1976) and restricted covert operations in Nicaragua in the 1980s.
So, it's not that surprising to see Congress, especially now that the Democrats have the majority, using defense spending bills to try to accelerate the withdrawal from Iraq.
That said, there are several practical obstacles to a congressionally mandated withdrawal.
First, the balance of power in the current Congress lies with moderate or conservative Democrats - people like Claire McCaskill (Missouri) in the Senate or Heath Shuler (North Carolina) in the House. They've made clear that they oppose immediate withdrawal from Iraq. Democrats seem likely to gain seats in the 2008 elections, but until then, the narrowness of the Democratic majority means that the party leadership needs the votes of people like McCaskill or Shuler to prevail.
Second, attaching policy riders to defense spending bills when troops are in the field exposes supporters to (unfair) charges that they're "playing politics" with the troops' well-being. And there's no guarantee of success even if such an amendment were passed, especially with a president like Bush, who has been very aggressive at bypassing congressional will.
Third, at least two of the leading Democratic candidates (Obama and Clinton) have implied they don't support an immediate withdrawal of all U.S. troops. It's unlikely that congressional Democrats will want to adopt legislation that would put them at odds with the party's presidential nominee.
As a result, while Congress has the tools to force a pullout?and precedent exists for such an action - it's doubtful we'll see any move in this direction, at least until after the 2008 elections.
Dear Prof.,
Moving on to a totally different topic, I want to ask you about a US President with which you've been dealing a lot: Lyndon Johnson.
Way back, in a dialogue I had with the Israeli Prof. Abraham Ben-Tzvi
Best
Rosner
I'd agree with that assessment - in part because Johnson operated in a much different strategic, regional, and political environment than either Clinton or Bush.
In the 1950s, Dwight Eisenhower seemed to look upon Israel as (at best) an inconvenience in his efforts to construct an alliance of anti-communist Arab states. He consistently spurned Israeli requests for military assistance, was skimpy in the economic aid he provided, and resisted calls for a U.S. security guarantee of Israel's borders.
John Kennedy's administration authorized an important arms sale to Israel (of Hawk missiles, in 1962) - but Kennedy made clear that this was a one-time move. Nuclear non-proliferation was also a major issue of Kennedy's foreign policy, and U.S.-Israeli relations in the early 1960s were complicated by Prime Minister Ben Gurion's reluctance to allow U.S. inspectors into the Dimona facility.
The Dimona issue persisted throughout the 1960s, though LBJ didn't press the nonproliferation question to the extent that Kennedy had. And he proved much more sympathetic to Israel on the question of arms sales, even as his Secretary of State, Dean Rusk, urged a different course. In 1965, after West Germany backed out of a deal to supply Israel with tanks, the United States filled the order itself, selling 210 M-48 Patton tanks. The next year, Johnson authorized the sale to Israel of 48 A-4 planes - the first time the United States supplied Israel with combat aircraft. The move represented a clear statement of U.S. support for Israel's security.
Johnson also provided Israel with diplomatic backing in the aftermath of the 1967  war. The President resisted pressure from the Soviet Union for a UN resolution that would demand an Israeli withdrawal from all territory occupied in the conflict before the two sides addressed the political and diplomatic issues that had caused the war.
What explained Johnson's sympathy for Israel? 
Geopolitics played some role: throughout the late 1960s, the United States was intent on bolstering King Hussein's beleaguered Jordanian regime, and Israel's willingness to accept U.S. arms sales to Jordan was a precondition to U.S. backing for the Eshkol government. Politics also was a contributing factor: during his time as Senate majority leader in the 1950s, Johnson had worked closely with American Jewish leaders in raising money for Democratic Senate candidates. As President, he respected the power of the Israel lobby and was loath to cross it.
But Johnson also seems, on a personal level, to have considered the U.S.-Israeli alliance morally important.
Johnson's decisions laid the foundation for the U.S.-Israeli alliance on which future Presidents, including Clinton and Bush, would build.
Dear Prof. Johnson,
A couple of years ago you wrote this:
Two factors more strictly related to the academic world join anti-Semitism in explaining the growth of anti-Israel attitudes on contemporary campuses. The first...  is the increasing tendency of professors to use Israel (which is, after all, the most faithful American ally in the world) as a proxy for their criticizing U.S. foreign policy... The most significant such change centers on a movement that urges colleges and universities to redesign their courses to focus on teaching "democratic citizenship," a scheme... [that] has championed restructuring curricula to "provide students with the knowledge and commitments to be socially responsible citizens." 
Is this trend still growing, or is it declining? And do you see any new factors playing a role?
Best,
Shmuel Rosner
I fear that both patterns are becoming more pronounced.
A good example of the conflation of academic anti-Bush and anti-Israel activism came just last week, at Columbia University. On 12 November, around 70 professors calling themselves "Columbia University Faculty Action Committee" issued a public letter
The group's evidence for this extraordinarily serious charge revealed much more about the signatories that about Bollinger. The president, they asserted, had "allied the University with the Bush administration's war in Iraq, a position anathema to many in the University community" - because he had the temerity to rebuke President Ahmadinejad during the Iranian leader's recent visit to Columbia (It goes without saying that millions of Americans who oppose the war in Iraq nonetheless find Ahmadinejad's policies repulsive, a distinction that apparently evaded Bollinger's faculty critics).
The signatories then moved on to criticize Bollinger's conduct on issues relating to the Middle East. They faulted the president for not publicly saying that alumni and the media have no right to comment about Middle East Studies faculty, as the president of Barnard had done after an outcry when a rabidly anti-Israel professor, Nadia Abu El-Haj, received tenure. And, as the New York Sun noted
Similarly, the last few weeks featured an egregious example of how focusing on "democratic citizenship" functions as a code for ideologically one-sided instruction. The University of Delaware implemented a curriculum
Students were told "a racist is one who is both privileged and socialized on the basis of race by a white supremacist (racist) system. 'The term applies to all white people (i.e., people of European descent) living in the United States, regardless of class, gender, religion, culture, or sexuality. By this definition, people of color cannot be racists.'" In one-on-one meetings with resident advisors, white students were pressed to disclose how they had oppressed people in the past, or when they discovered their sexual orientation.
Incredibly, a senior administrator at the University described
Since I wrote the passage quoted in your question, the media (and some alumni groups) have become more aware of the pervasiveness of "groupthink" in the academy. Most important, there seems to be a growing recognition that the problem of groupthink is not a left-versus-right issue but one of protecting students' rights to free speech and to learn in an intellectually open campus atmosphere. The Delaware example cited above, for instance, was terminated after massive media criticism, from newspapers of all ideological persuasions. Similarly, the anti-Bollinger professors have received no substantial editorial support, even from newspapers (such as the New York Times) whose editorial boards are clearly left of center.
Dear Prof.,
The illuminating book you wrote about the famous Duke Lacrosse rape case contends that it was not just academia, but also the mainstream media and many other forces who bear responsibility to the group-thinking that made this case possible. However, if one is trying to apply the same method to the issue of Israel many will argue that the opposite is true: pro-Israel forces are generally so powerful and influential in America that only in academia one can hear dissenting voices. 
Would you accept such argument?
Best
It's clear in the Duke lacrosse case that a "groupthink" mentality initially seized institutions - the academy, the mainstream media, civil rights organizations - that we expect to uphold due process. All betrayed their ideals in gleefully rushing to judgment, perhaps none more so than the "Group of 88," the 88 arts and sciences faculty who signed an April 2006 statement declaring unequivocally that something had happened to the rape accuser and saying "thank you for not waiting" to protesters who had, among other things, carried "castrate" banners in front of the lacrosse players' house.
But in the end, nearly all of the media and (more reluctantly) most civil rights groups admitted their error, and conceded that this case was really about massive abuse of power by a local prosecutor. The Group of 88, on the other hand, remained defiant - this January, after the criminal case had collapsed, nearly all signed onto another statement affirming that they never would apologize for presuming guilt. Eschewing the dispassionate evaluation of evidence, they instead clung to their ideological prejudices and displayed an almost stunning closed-mindedness. In other words, whether theirs was a majority opinion or the perspectives of dissenters, the Group of 88?s quality of thought was unimpressive.
Like most elite universities, Duke has had its share of campus controversies on Middle Eastern issues: in 2004, it hosted the conference of the Palestine Solidarity Movement, perhaps the most extreme of the anti-Israel groups on American college campuses; some Duke faculty also agitated for the University to divest from companies that did business with the Israeli defense establishment.
Many of the same professors who took an extreme position on the lacrosse case had previously distinguished themselves for vehement anti-Israel beliefs. Dozens signed a 2005 pro-divestment petition comparing Israel to apartheid South Africa and claiming that "torture is endemic and systemic-part and parcel of the Israeli Occupation and Israel's security culture." Wahneema Lubiano, author of the Group of 88's ad, was one of three Duke professors to speak at the PSM conference. She was joined there by another Group of 88 member, Rebecca Stein, who in a 2005 interview
In short, the Group of 88 demonstrated no more intellectual acuity in their comments about issues relating to Israel than they did in their perspective on the lacrosse case. I'm dubious, therefore, about rationalizing academic anti-Israel polemics as a necessary dissenting balance to pro-Israel sentiments in the public, media, or political classes - without examining the quality of those dissenting arguments.
It's also worth remembering that we're less than two decades removed from the frosty relationship between George H.W. Bush and Yitzhak Shamir. Indeed, as recently as the late 1990s, a good portion of the media (and some politicians) blamed Israel for the failure to achieve peace.
The twin events of the second intifada (with the Palestinians launching a campaign that used murder of civilians as a deliberate strategy) and the 9/11 attacks (which made most Americans more sympathetic to the kinds of threats Israel long has faced) helped to create the overwhelmingly pro-Israel nature of contemporary U.S. public opinion. But as memories of both events fade, I suspect public opinion will return to the more varied perspective of the 1990s. The anti-Israel contingent of the academy, however, will remain very much entrenched.
Dear Prof.,
So here is what ought to be the most important question on this issue: to what degree those university scholars actually influence the thinking of their students. Do you suspect that a generation of anti-Israel elites is now planted around the US, and that the impact of such academia-bias will be felt in the coming years? 
Best
Rosner
This question, obviously, is key, but also is very difficult to measure. It's comparatively easy to determine what is being taught - you can look at course syllabi or descriptions (and sometimes course assignments) or read the scholarship of professors. In exceptional cases, such as the crisis in Columbia's Middle Eastern Studies Department, students will make public class notes. But it's very difficult to measure how students are receiving the instruction.
A two-part response. At non-elite institutions - a majority of colleges and universities in the United States, after all - the problem is severe. Most students enter such colleges after graduating from public high schools. In most cases, they don't have an in-depth familiarity with international affairs. And most students assume that what professors tell them is true.
For these students, their sole exposure to matters relating to the Middle East will come through heavily ideological, required "diversity" courses on foreign cultures, or through new curricular fads such as "global studies." The latter, which has been adopted at dozens of non-elite schools around the country, sounds banal but in fact almost always consists of a cluster of courses designed to criticize contemporary U.S. foreign policy.
The only other nation targeted through global studies classes is Israel. At St. Lawrence University's global studies program, for instance, the only class offered on Israel is called "Palestinian Identities," which introduces students to Palestinian identification "as a political and cultural community as they continue to struggle to free themselves from Israeli domination." The course concludes with a forced political activity: "using what we have learned," Professor John Collins notes, "we organize and produce a public activity of some sort; with the goal of educating the community about the importance of understanding what Edward Said has called 'the question of Palestine.'"
At elite institutions, the situation is somewhat more optimistic. The bias in classes on the Middle East is still present. Columbia's Rashid Khalidi, for instance, explained his approach in a 2005 interview with New York magazine: "Most kids who come to Columbia come from environments where almost everything they've ever thought [about the Middle East] was shared by everybody around them. And this is not true, incidentally, of Arab-Americans, who know that the ideas spouted by the major newspapers, television stations, and politicians are completely at odds with everything they know to be true." In other words, Arab-American and only Arab-American students know the "truth" about the Middle East. And Khalidi is widely, and correctly, perceived as among the more "moderate" members of the Middle East Studies establishment.
Khalidi's comment, however, also revealed the problem that faculty ideologues encounter at elite schools. Most students there are at least somewhat familiar with Middle Eastern affairs - whether through the media or through following political debates. Because they have some information to challenge the anti-Israel biases of their instructors, these students are far less subject to indoctrination.
That said, it's depressing to note that the best for which supporters of Israel can hope is that students at elite schools will get nothing out of the Middle East Studies classes that they take in college, because these classes tend to be so wildly biased.
Most universities have as part of their mission statements a claim to be training future democratic citizens. Because of the one-sided nature of Middle East instruction, and because of its excessive focus on the issue of Israel, quite beyond the question of possible indoctrination, America's colleges and universities are failing a generation of students - and future citizens - by not providing them comprehensive coverage of a region of the world that will be critical to U.S. security for the foreseeable future.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Leftist asks court for jail time after convicted of protesting illegally</title>
<date>Sun Feb 18 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
A left-wing activist convicted of participation in an illegal protest against the separation fence on Sunday asked the Tel Aviv Magistrate's Court to sentence him to jail time, rather than community service or a suspended sentence. Despite his request, the court decided to issue him a three-month suspended sentence.
Jonathan Pollack, an central activist in the Anarchists Against the Fence movement, was convicted of participating in an illegal protest against the separation fence held in 2004 outside of the government compound in Tel Aviv. During the protest, the demonstrators blocked traffic on Kaplan Street.
Pollack said in his plea, "This trial - if it wasn't administered by a court of the occupation, in the only democracy in the world in which 3.5 million citizens are homeless - was supposed to be a trial of the [separation] wall, the same wall defined as a legal jail by the highest legal authority in the world, the same wall that serves as a political tool in the campaign of ethnic cleansing Israel is running in the occupied territories."
"It was not us who were supposed to stand here in the dock, but those who plan and carry into action the Israeli apartheid," he added.
Pollack said later that he was not surprised when the court found him guilty, but could not accept his punishment as legitimate and therefore will not cooperate with the probation board and does not plan to perform the community service duties imposed on him by the court. 
"I want to say that though this is my first conviction it certainly won't be my last. I still believe that what I did was necessary and right considering the situation, and that the resistance against oppression is every man's duty, even if it comes at a price," Pollack said. "I ask that the court punish me with a prison sentence and not a suspended one. In a country where any gathering in the territories is considered illegal because of its widespread anti-democratic policies of closed military zones, any suspended sentence given to me will quickly become a prison term," he added.
In conclusion, Pollack addressed the judge and said "If your honor thinks that a prison sentence is befitting the crime that I have committed, your honor will take the liberty and personally send me to prison right here and now."
The prosecution in the case asked for a suspended sentence and a fine to be paid by the defendant. Judge Landman who presided over the case decided to sentence Pollack to a three-month suspended sentence. In the case that Pollack should participate in an illegal gathering within the next two years, he will be put in prison for three months. The other defendants in the case were sentenced to 80 hours of community service without convictions. 
Landman said "it saddens me that a mature and articulate individual has come to the conclusion that the only way he can express his opinions is through the violation of the law, even if the law does not seem appropriate."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Let the settlers stay where they are</title>
<date>Fri Aug 31 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
It's taken me all these years to finally realize that the settlers were right.
It came to me while checking the news schedule for this coming week. On Sunday, the IDF Chief of Staff is to award Medals of Valor and decorations, some of them posthumously,  for courage in combat during the Second Lebanon War. At the same time, a pro-settler group called the Headquarters for the Salvation of the Nation and the Land plans to hold a parallel ceremony, handing out alternative medals of bravery - and cash prizes donated by U.S. Jews - to Israeli soldiers who refused orders to take part in the eviction of two families squatting in the  Hebron souk. 
At last, it all fell into logical place - the hardships, stumbling blocks and failures of the peace process, the dismal consequences of the disengagement from Gaza, the commandment to settle all of the Land of Israel and the rabbinical prohibitions against giving back one grain of soil. 
The answer is simple. The settlers are right. They should stay right where they are. No matter what. Even if there is an eventual peace. Even if the land they live on is part of a Palestinian state.  
For decades, the leaders of the settlement movement have told us that they will not leave their homes for the sake of a decision of the sovereign government of the state of Israel. They vow to make any future substantial evacuation of settlers from the West Bank so gut-wrenchingly difficult as to be functionally impossible. 
It is time we took the settlers at their word. They are not out there holding out for monetary compensation. They are out there in the primacy of their faith that a Jewish presence on the land of the Old Testament is a commandment and a sacrament. The settlement movement is firm in its view that no elected government of Israel has the right to uproot the Jewish residents of Judea, Samaria, and the neighborhoods of Jerusalem captured in the 1967 Six Day War. 
It is true that the vast majority of settlers reject the idea of soldiers refusing military orders. But it is also true that over the Green Line, Israeli defiance of Israeli law is by no means limited to a radical settler fringe. From its inception, the governing operational principle of the settlement movement has been to take action which is either questionably legal or clearly illegal, and then to force, finesse, or sleaze the way to retroactive ratification. 
The ingenuous mantra of the settler movement "We're here because the government of Israel sent us here," is thus doubly dishonest. These people were not expelled to the West Bank, evacuated to the West Bank, ordered to the West Bank, banished to the West Bank.  
Every Jewish Israeli living beyond the Green Line is a settler by choice. Many of them went there in defiance of the government. Many went to make it impossible for the government to change the status of the land under a peace agreement with the Palestinians.  
Every single one of them went there knowing that there was a chance that they'd be uprooted one day under a government decision. 
They went there by choice. Not the government's choice. Their choice. Does anyone seriously think that if the government decided against their being there, they would just go ahead and move because the government sent them back? 
In fact, after several generations of Israelis have been born on the West Bank, it could be said that Israel has no right at this point to order them back. 
Let us, then, take the settlers at their word. If settling the land captured in 1967 is of paramount importance to the Jewish people, settling the land should also take precedence over making sure that land belongs to the Jewish state.  
And while we're at it, let us take the Palestinians at theirs. If they are so concerned about the evils of apartheid, then they must accept the idea of Jews living in their midst.   
On the scale of racist evils, surely a government - like Saudi Arabia for example, or a potential Palestine - which forbids religious or ethnic or national groups from entering or living within its borders, has much to answer for.   
Under a future peace agreement, it is reasonable to expect that settlers from across the West Bank will be invited to resettle in Green Line settlement blocs to be annexed to Israel in a territorial exchange with the Palestinians. 
But who could blame settlers in outlying enclaves for refusing to budge, given the government's abysmal track record in resettling less than 10,000 uprooted families since the 2005 disengagement? 
Let them stay. Let them stay right where they are. Let them have the courage of their beliefs. It's a test. For the settlers and, especially, for the Palestinians.  
And if the Palestinians counter that Israel must allow an equal number of Palestinian refugees into Israel proper, say 200,000 of them, so be it.  
We made this mess in the West Bank. We'll have to be creative about how we set it right.
_________________ 
Recent blogs:
We're not man enough to make peace
__________________
The guiding principles of the talkback forum for this article will be mutual respect and openness to dialogue. Participants, even if they rule out, dismiss or oppose coexistence, must, within the confines of this forum, practice it. 
Censorship will be unapologetic. 
Political orientation will have absolutely no bearing on whether a comment is posted or rejected. 
The following will be grounds for deletion: 
1. Racist remarks, as well as slurs on the basis of religion, ethnicity and gender.  2. Use of the terms Nazi, Hitler, to describe the actions and policies of Israelis, Palestinians or other parties to the Israel-Arab conflict. 3. Disparaging remarks, personal attacks, vulgarities and profanities directed at other participants in the forum. 4. Advocacy of violence against individuals or religious, ethnic or racial groups, including statements which may be construed as urging attacks on leaders, officials, security forces or civilians.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Livni meets with British ambassador over U.K. boycotts </title>
<date>Mon May 28 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni met with British Ambassador to Israel Tom Philips on Monday, following reports of a planned U.K. boycott of Israeli labor unions.
Britain has become in recent years the battlefield in Israel's fight for its existence as a Jewish state. 
The number of British organizations calling for the boycott of Israel, their public campaigns, and their constant comparisons between Israel and the apartheid regime of South Africa have made the battle for British public opinion particularly significant. 
On Wednesday, representatives of the new British University and College Union (UCU) are scheduled to meet in Bournemouth. On the agenda is another proposal to boycott Israel's academic institutions.
In her meeting with Philips, Livni expressed her dissatisfaction over the planned boycotts and noted that they stand in complete contradiction to the otherwise positive relationship between Israel and the U.K. 
Ambassador Philips stated that his government is opposed to the boycotts, and repeated the British position, according to which boycotts and sanctions are not helpful to resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Philips also informed Livni of British Council activities, as well as those of other British cultural institutions, aimed at improving the connections between academic institutions in Britain and Israel.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Livni meets with British ambassador over U.K. boycotts </title>
<date>Tue May 29 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni met with British Ambassador to Israel Tom Philips yesterday over reports of a planned United Kingdom boycott of Israeli labor unions.  
Britain has become a major battlefield in Israel's fight for its existence as a Jewish state in recent years. The number of British organizations calling for a boycott of Israel, their public campaigns and their constant comparisons between Israel and the apartheid regime of South Africa have made the battle for British public opinion particularly significant.  
Tomorrow, representatives of the British University and College Union (UCU) are scheduled to meet in Bournemouth. The agenda includes a proposal to boycott Israeli academic institutions.  
In her meeting with Philips, Livni expressed dissatisfaction over the proposed boycotts, noting that they stand in complete contradiction to the positive relationship between Israel and the UK.  
Philips replied that his government is opposed to the boycotts and repeated the British position that boycotts and sanctions are not helpful in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Philips also informed Livni of activities by the British Council and other British cultural institutions that are aimed at improving ties between academic institutions. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>More News in Brief </title>
<date>Mon May 21 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
An open letter calling on the Rolling Stones not to appear in Israel was sent to the band by a Palestinian group yesterday. The organization, Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) "strongly urged" the group cancel to its September concert because of what it called Israel's "colonial and apartheid designs to further dispossess, oppress and ultimately ethnically cleanse Palestinians from their homeland," and to do so "until the time comes when [Israel] ends its illegal occupation of Palestinian territory and respects fundamental human rights." PACBI compared performing in Israel to performing in apartheid South Africa and noted that the Rolling Stones had supported the boycott of South Africa in the 1980s. The letter listed groups that have blacklisted Israel and then asked, "Is it too much, then, to expect conscientious artists like the Rolling Stones to similarly uphold the values of freedom, equality and justice for all by supporting the growing boycott against Israel?" The group's producer in Israel, Shuki Weiss, declined to comment on the report. (Tamar Sukenik)   
The Tel Aviv District Court yesterday sentenced a man convicted of sodomizing his 17-year-old daughter to nine years in jail and NIS 20,000 in compensation payments. The court said the father took advantage of the daughter's emotional dependence on him, as she had met him only a year before the attack. Afterward he threatened to kill her, her brother and her mother if she told anyone. Judges Shlomo Timen, Tchia Shapira and Sarah Brosh wrote that the man's act was one of the most "despicable on the books." However, the judges decided to impose a lesser sentence considering the man's difficult circumstances. (Nir Hasson)   
The Secondary School Teachers Association (SSTA) yesterday called off the strike planned for today for the central district, after progress was made in talks with the finance and education ministries. They also said they would not strike anywhere for the next six workdays. The sides moved ahead in talks on the three main issues: payment for work with pupils with learning disabilities, the determining of past wage erosion, and a quota for retiring teachers. SSTA head Ran Erez said the Education Ministry had shown a "positive attitude" and had come up with about NIS 45 million more for teaching the learning-disabled. (Or Kashti)   
The Jewish National Fund must allocate land without discriminating between Jews and Arabs, Attorney General Menachem Mazuz has decided. Mazuz informed the High Court of Justice of his decision a few days ago, in response to a 2004 petition by Arab citizens against the JNF's refusal to sell them land. Even before this decision, the Justice Ministry had ordered the Israel Lands Administration to cancel a sale of JNF lots in Carmiel in which the tender stipulated that only Jews could participate. However, plots purchased by non-Jews will be set aside until the court rules on the petition, instead of being handed over immediately. (Yuval Yoaz)   
The High Court of Justice rejected a petition by the parents of slain Katzrin teenager Tair Rada to reopen their daughter's murder case. Shmuel and Ilana Rada claim police failed to thoroughly investigate all leads. The justices wrote in their verdict that they "had not found that the petitioners have evidence of essential faults" in the investigation. They said the Radas' complaints seem to have been addressed in the response by the State Prosecutor's representative, and these issues should also be addressed during the trial of the murder suspect, Roman Zadorov. (Eli Ashkenazi)  
The National Fraud Squad has finished its investigation into suspected acts of bribery in the Lod Municipality and has transferred the file to the central district State Prosecutor's Office. The police believe the evidence shows suspicions of bribery, money laundering, fraud and breach of trust in the promotion of certain projects by former mayor Benny Regev, his relatives and his bureau chief, Maor Abergil. Police also suspect certain corporation heads who worked with the city of giving bribes, and believe there were financial improprieties in funds raised for an association supporting Hapoel Lod soccer team. (Arnon Ben-Yair) 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>New English-language station seeks  to air peace through radio waves </title>
<date>Wed Feb 21 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
An English-language radio station based in Ramallah and financed by a Jewish South African went on air live this morning with the aim of providing a platform for "peaceful dialogue" between Israelis and Palestinians.  
The station, 93.6 RAM FM, is based on the popular South African radio station, 702 Talk Radio, which its founders believe played a key role in the transition from the country's apartheid regime to democracy.  
The format will include adult contemporary music, as well as hourly news updates provided by the station's service, Middle East Eyewitness News.  
Call-in and talk show programs in English will be introduced within a year.  
The station has studios in both Ramallah and West Jerusalem, but will be transmitted from the West Bank, which means that certain parts of the country, including Jerusalem, may have difficulty picking up the signal.  
The project required an initial investment of $2 million, 25 percent of which was funded by Isaac (Issie) Kirsh, the Jewish South African who is the founder of 702 Talk Radio. It will operate independently of any governmental or NGO funding and is a purely commercial enterprise that aims to become self-sustaining through advertisements.  
"There is a need for a daily debate on the issues affecting both Israelis and Palestinians," said Kirsh, who was also involved in the establishment of Radio Tel Aviv. "This will be an opportunity for Israelis and Palestinians, in the comfort of their homes, to talk to each other, build bridges."  
Kirsch conceived of the idea for RAM some five years ago in the hopes of replicating 702 Talk Radio's success in the Middle East.  
"I am not doing this for the money," he told Haaretz. "I don't need the money."  
RAM, which bills itself as "in touch, in tune and independent," hires Israeli, Palestinian and international reporters. They have freelance journalists in Baghdad, Cairo and Damascus, with a plan to possibly expand coverage into Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Iran.  
John Berks, a popular South African radio personality who was a key member of the 702 radio staff during the country's transition to democracy, has been tapped to co-host RAM's morning broadcast.  
"We're committed to telling both sides of the story," Andrew Bolton, the station's news editor said at a press conference yesterday launching the station. "We are apolitical and will not toe any political line, other than peace."  
Bolton said the news program would therefore not include either terms like "martyr" or "terrorist," both of which he called "loaded."  
702 Talk Radio, which was founded over 25 years ago, is said to have contributed to South Africa's transition into a post apartheid society. Nelson Mandela has called the station "democracy in action."  
RAM received a license from the Palestinian Authority in December 2005 and has been in its test broadcast stage for about a year. They do not have a license to operate in Israel. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>News in brief </title>
<date>Mon Jan 08 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Court petitioned on W. Bank driving ban
Eight human rights groups petitioned the High Court of Justice yesterday against a military order prohibiting Israelis from driving Palestinians in private vehicles in the West Bank. Attorney Michael Sfard, who filed the motion for Yesh Din, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, Gisha, the Public Committee Against Torture in Israel and others, criticized GOC Central Command Yair Naveh's order, slated to take effect January 19, saying it will "lead to a rift between Israelis and Palestinians who have legitimate social, political and commercial ties." The groups call the order reminiscent of apartheid, as it "implements an ideology of separation by creating criminal sanctions on different peoples." (Yuval Yoaz)  
Israel still occupying Gaza, group claims
A human rights advocacy group charges that Israel did not relinquish control of the Gaza Strip in the disengagement. Although Israel removed certain components of control, it tightened its hold on others, according to a report by Gisha: Center for the Legal Protection of Freedom of Movement, slated for release to diplomats and European Union delegates in Israel later this week. "Imposing a strict curfew on the movement of people and goods in and out of the Gaza Strip and halting funding for public services have contributed to an economic and humanitarian crisis in the Strip of a severity unknown in the 38 years of occupation," the report states. (Yuval Yoaz)  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinian group urges Rolling Stones to boycott Israel</title>
<date>Mon May 21 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
A Palestinian group lobbying for boycotts against Israel has urged the Rolling Stones to cancel their scheduled September performance in Israel, comparing performing in Israel to performing in apartheid South Africa and noting that the legendary rock band had supported the boycott of South Africa in the 1980s. 
An open letter calling on the Rolling Stones not to appear in Israel was sent to the band by the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) on Sunday. 
The letter listed groups that have blacklisted Israel and then asked, "Is it too much, then, to expect conscientious artists like the Rolling Stones to similarly uphold the values of freedom, equality and justice for all by supporting the growing boycott against Israel?" 
In the letter the organization "strongly urged" the group cancel the planned concert because of what it called Israel's "colonial and apartheid designs to further dispossess, oppress and ultimately ethnically cleanse Palestinians from their homeland." 
It called on the Stones to refrain from performing in Israel "until the time comes when (Israel) ends its illegal occupation of Palestinian territory and respects fundamental human rights." 
The group's producer in Israel, Shuki Weiss, declined to comment on the report.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinian news: Now in English </title>
<date>Thu Jan 18 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
RAMALLAH - "It's not that publishing a Palestinian newspaper in English was my idea," says Othman Al Haj Mohammed, the proprietor of the new Palestine Times, "but I was the only madman who decided to go for it."  
What makes you a madman? 
"Because everyone says I am. Everyone who wanted to put out a Palestinian newspaper in English wasn't prepared to take the economic gamble. But I say, 'No courage, no glory.' There is a vacuum that needs to be filled. The foreigners who live in the territories and Israel, the educated people in Israel - all these people are interested in reading news from a Palestinian point of view as well."  
Haj Mohammed, a 41-year-old resident of Beit Hanina, north of Jerusalem, says he dreamt of running a newspaper from an early age. By age 10 he had a subscription to Time magazine. He attended high school in Ramallah, later went to the United States, and returned to Ramallah in 1995.  
"Three years later, my fondness for magazines and journalism led me to try to put out a magazine called Zaman, in the hopes of creating an Arabic Newsweek. But after a year, I realized there weren't enough readers in the Arab world. We didn't have customers.  
"But the field continued to fascinate me. I understood that setting up a magazine or a newspaper isn't all that complicated, but that keeping it up over the years is the real challenge. I spent a number of years in England, and in 2003, when I returned to Ramallah, I started to think about why there wasn't an English-language newspaper that exposes people who don't read Arabic to the Palestinian-Arab angle.  
"By the end of 2003 and the beginning of 2004, the idea was already rolling. We had to get a publishing permit from the Palestinian Authority, and the permit arrived in February 2005. I met with journalists and businesspeople and came to a number of clear conclusions on criteria for success: The newspaper must be independent, it must provide news from a Palestinian angle but not be identified politically with any faction or organization, and it must give all opinions and approaches a platform.  
"I realized we have to take the best journalists Palestinian society has and offer the most interesting contents. It is impossible to pull anything over the reader. We have very difficult competition from Haaretz and The Jerusalem Post. Our customers will come from among these newspapers' readers. It wasn't easy to find the right people. We are an Arabic-speaking people, and many in the territories do not have a suitable education."  
The good, the bad and the ugly 
Will you be able to write freely about negative stories in the PA? 
"That's not a problem. I am a Palestinian and the writers are Palestinians. Beyond the fact that I'm biased in favor of the Palestinian cause, I don't see any problem with criticizing corruption or political phenomena in the territories. Our problem is that in this part of the world, they don't sue you for damaging someone, they simply shoot you. Therefore, I have to be careful.  
"I want to show the good, the bad and the ugly. My vision is for the newspaper to show the Western world that Palestinians aren't just Fatah, Hamas, terror and armed struggle, but also business, culture, medicine, education and art. Human beings. Most Palestinians would agree with me that we want to live in peace, and it's not easy to show this. My aim is that not only will the newspaper become one of the most important in the Middle East, but also that 50 years from now, it will still be widely distributed."  
In terms of economics, how do you overcome the fact that there aren't many potential buyers? 
"First of all, by means of advertising. Beyond that, we intend to expand sales in Israel too. We have received a permit to sell in Israel, and we are in touch with a number of the large Israeli distributing groups. The potential for subscriptions in Israel is larger than we had thought, and we are hoping that by next month, people will already be able to have the newspaper delivered to their homes in Israel. There are quite a lot of Israelis who are interested in reading news about Palestine from Palestinian sources. I spend hours at Steimatzky's bookstores, and am already waiting for the day when I see people buying the newspaper there."  
Do you believe the newspaper will also be sold at newsstands and small shops in Israel? 
"I am certain it isn't going to be easy in the beginning. I've already heard about an Israeli shopkeeper whose employee sold our paper without his knowledge. He was angry, and he refused to pay us for what was sold. It is clear to me that some people in Israel will refuse to sell the paper. But if you can find Haaretz and The Jerusalem Post in Ramallah, then maybe they'll also sell the Palestine Times in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. Aside from Israel, there is interest in other countries. We have been contacted by a company in Dubai that is interested in distributing the paper there too. The Lebanese Daily Star is interested in an article-sharing arrangement."  
Big is good 
Haj Mohammed says he has been receiving positive reactions from Palestinian readers, even though the newspaper has chosen to use terminology that will not win it very much affection on the Palestinian street.  
What are you going to call a suicide terrorist? Or the Israel Defense Forces? 
"In English it's easier. I'll write 'suicide bomber' and not 'martyr.' In the case of the army, it's 'the Israeli army' and not 'the Israel Defense Forces,' but also not 'the occupation forces' or 'the Zionist occupation.' The wall is a wall, but not 'the racist apartheid wall.' I am against the use of the term 'militant' - it has too negative a connotation."  
And what about censorship? If you have received a distribution permit for Israel, presumably you will be under the supervision of the military censor. 
"The censorship laws in Israel apply to me. But thus far, no one from the censor has contacted me about an article that has been published. I certainly don't intend to contact them. If there is a problem, they can talk to me."  
Haj Mohammed refuses to specify how much money has been invested in the newspaper. "The employees here haven't come only for the money. They know I have a problem paying them full salaries. The first few times I met with them, it was important for me to understand that they are enthusiastic about the idea and not just about the pay. There are journalists and workers here from the United States, Britain, Holland, Australia, one Belgian and someone from France. They live in Ramallah and are committed to the newspaper's success."  
The newspaper has 45 employees, including 25 journalists. The rest are graphic artists, marketing staff and others. The main offices, where Haaretz met with Haj Mohammed, are located south of Ramallah, but the newspaper also employs a large team of correspondents in Gaza, Jerusalem and within the Green Line. The front pages are devoted to news, "with an emphasis on the headline being ours and not from the news agencies," he adds. The inside pages present articles the Israeli reader won't usually find in the Hebrew press: an article about the most popular form of entertainment in Gaza (the Turkish bath), a feature about the new generation of female Palestinian film directors, and a lot of sports. Alongside items about the bleak situation of the Gaza Strip soccer teams, on Wednesdays and Fridays there is a special column on English soccer.  
The newsstand price has been set at NIS 7 in Israel. The paper is printed in broadsheet format, and employs a team of eight workers to handle the design of the newspaper, in part to market it more efficiently.  
"Everyone is pressuring me to move over to a tabloid," says Haj Mohammed, "but I thought that in this part of the world, we would not be taken seriously if we produced a tabloid. In Palestine and the Middle East, we like to hold a big paper. It makes us feel good." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Polish right-wing party accused of running anti-Semitic campaign ad</title>
<date>Mon Oct 15 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
WARSAW - A right-wing party ran a campaign ad Monday suggesting Polish lives have been put in danger in Iraq to serve Jewish and U.S. interests, and it immediately drew accusations of anti-Semitism.
The League of Polish Families' TV spot features footage of President Lech Kaczynski, first at a meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush, and then with Orthodox Jews at Israel's Western Wall, where he dons a yarmulke. The words Our allies, are flashed across the scene. "They put us in the line of attack."
A grim voiceover then warns: "It is our nation that is going to fall victim. Let the nation decide."
The advertisement - issued as part of campaigning for Sunday's general election - sparked a firestorm of criticism. Jacek Kurski, a lawmaker with the governing Law and Justice party, slammed it as a pathetic masquerade that was seasoned with some anti-Semitism.
League of Polish Families leader Roman Giertych defended the spot, saying it was not anti-Semitic but insisting there is a connection between the war in Iraq and Israel.
"One can be against the war in Iraq without being an anti-Semite," Giertych said at a news conference.
"This ad shows the cooperation between Poland and the U.S., and Poland and Israel - we have a right to criticize it. The war in Iraq threatens our country and this is why the Polish troops should be pulled out from Iraq as soon as possible."
But Poland's chief rabbi, Michael Schudrich, noted that the sequence of images was laid out in such a way as to provoke a negative feeling about Kaczynski being at the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest place.
"You see the tanks, you feel bad, you see people being blown up, you feel bad, you see President Kaczynski at the Wall, you feel bad," he told the AP.
"Now the question is why should someone feel bad about President Kaczynski being at the Western Wall? What is negative about the president of the country visiting a holy site?"
Poland's Stop War movement, which opposes Polish involvement in Iraq, immediately distanced itself from the ad, saying it has strong anti-Semitic connotations.
Poland contributed combat troops to the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, and still has 900 soldiers stationed there.
The League of Polish Families, which served as a coalition partner in the conservative government of Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski before being dismissed this summer, is fighting for its political survival.
Most opinion polls show it with between 2 and 4 percent support - below the 5 percent threshold needed to enter parliament.
It is not the first time the party has faced accusations of anti-Semitism.
Giertych's father and fellow party member Maciej Giertych, a European Union lawmaker, was reprimanded early this year by the European Parliament for publishing a brochure that described the Jewish people as a tragic community that tends to settle among the rich while still choosing to live in apartheid from the surrounding communities.
The party is also closely linked to a youth movement, the All-Polish Youth - founded by Giertych in 1989 - which has attacked gay rights activists and used Nazi slogans and gestures.
Maciej Giertych in November dismissed his assistant after a newspaper published a photo of her giving a straight-armed Nazi salute at an All-Polish Youth rally with a burning swastika in the background.
Giertych in December said his party had severed all ties with the radical youth wing after the swastika burning scandal.
More Jewish World news and features

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pro-Palestinians in Canada to boycott bookshops owned by IDF donor</title>
<date>Mon May 14 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Pro-Palestinian Groups in Canada have launched a campaign to boycott a chain of bookstores owned by Jewish billionaire Gerry Schwartz, who donates money to lone IDF soldiers.
Schwartz and his wife Heather Reisman established the Heseg Foundation two years ago which supports hundred of lone soldiers serving in the IDF. The foundation donates roughly three million dollars a year.
The Coalition against Israeli Apartheid (CAIA) in Canada launched a campaign last week for a consumer boycott of Chapter and Indigo bookstores, which are owned by Schwartz and Reisman. 
The CAIA said that by giving donations to IDF soldiers, Schwartz and Reisman were aiding the oppression of Palestinians by Israeli security forces. 
Schwarz and Reisman refused to respond to the campaign launched against them, however associate Aviv Bushinsky said "these provocative actions due not lessen their commitment to Israel. In fact, the opposite is true. In the last dew months the amount of donations to Israel has only gone up".  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Protesters block Highway 443 to protest ban on Palestinian traffic</title>
<date>Thu Oct 25 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Israeli and Palestinian demonstrators blocked Highway 443 early Thursday morning to protest the ban on Palestinian vehicles from the road, which is a major artery connecting Jerusalem to Lod, Army Radio reported.
The protesters, a coalition of Jewish and Arab members of leftist organizations, carried signs which read, among other slogans, "Caution Apartheid Road" and "Paved Road on Pilfered Land," Army Radio said.
"Highway 443 is an example of what is taking place in the territories," one of the demonstrators told Army Radio. "[The authorities] are expropriating land from the Palestinians in order to build a highway which is then declared off limits to Palestinian traffic."
"There is a policy here of apartheid," Hadar Grievsky, another protester, told Army Radio. "Highways are built on roads that were seized from Palestinians and is only permitted to Jewish drivers."
Organizers of the protest said that 70 demonstrators participated, most of them Palestinian residents of nearby towns. Israel Defense Forces soldiers and police arrived at the scene to disperse the crowd approximately 10 minutes after the road was blocked. Seven people were taken into custody for questioning, according to Army Radio.
The commander of the Binyamin police station, Chief Superintendent Benny Har-Nes, told Army Radio that law enforcement received information on the demonstrators' plans to block the highway, enabling authorities to deploy the necessary amount of force.
"We knew of the plan to [block the road] and we prepared accordingly," Har-Nes said. "We arrived at the scene within five minutes from the start of the event, and after trying to persuade them to evacuate willingly, we declared the matter an unlawful gathering and we cleared them out."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Punk rebel with a classical cause </title>
<date>Tue Jul 24 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
When the lights went down at the "Tombs of the Kings" archaeological site, on East Jerusalem's Salah a-Din Street last Sunday, the starry sky and a crescent moon briefly illuminated the vast crowd. Five musicians and a sound technician took to the enormous, equipment-packed stage of the Yabous Productions Jerusalem Festival. Violinist Nigel Kennedy introduced them as "Robert de Niro, Andre Agassi, Dracula, Sean Penn and my second wife," before announcing their distinctly Polish real names. After a short pronouncement of solidarity with a Palestinian audience that included many Israelis, he raised an electric violin. The first notes of jazz, which emerged from an instrument consisting of little more than a metal frame with strings, promised two hours of tremendous pleasure for the crowd.  
Eight hours earlier and a short distance away from the concert, on the balcony of his room at the American Colony Hotel, Kennedy described his Polish friends, "I went to clubs in Krakow, where I have lived for the past seven years. I listened to the musicians and chose the best. This is no easy feat because the jazz musicians there are wonderful. We started with traditional jazz: Kenny Burrell, Wayne Shorter, things like that, and finally we got to my pieces.   
"My life in Krakow is very rich when it comes to music," he continued. "I perform in the Polish Chamber Orchestra, which to me is a pleasure because it's not like in England where someone always looks at his fucking watch and says, 'Shit, there's a break now.' Here [in Krakow], they stop only when the music is finished. I also play with a Klezmer trio, Trio Kroke. Kroke is the Yiddish word for Krakow. We play everything, from Jewish music to Balkan music. In Krakow, you can find all kinds of music, from highland-techno to rap, a growing trend in Poland now, which is pretty understandable given the poverty and the hopelessness in certain parts of the country."  
Were you always into jazz?  
"Since I was 12," Kennedy answers, invoking two legendary classical and jazz violinists who influenced him. "I studied under Stephane Grappelli, with whom I met on a weekly basis at the time when I studied under Yehudi Menuhin. Menuhin's wife made sure his hair was combed and always offered me muesli. Grappelli and I wandered around the antiques market, and he always wanted to have a double pint. They were also good friends, despite all the differences between them, and they played a lot together."  
Didn't that confuse you?  
"On the contrary, it enriched me. Everyone always says, 'one teacher - one way.' When you study with one teacher whom you respect and admire, you are certain that his way is the only right way and you get stuck there. Two teachers open up endless possibilities.  
"Anyway, I grew up in South London. There were Christians and Muslims and Jews, people from all over the world: the Balkans, India. As a boy, when I had no idea about religion, I nevertheless understood that there were many types of people with different beliefs, that there are many religions and that you have to respect all of them because they are all valid. That's what made me have diverse interests, and not be single-minded."  
How did you get to Poland?  
"My wife brought me there. She's Polish. I met her in England, in Malvern, the most boring city in the world, at the most boring party they ever threw there. She took me to Krakow, seven years ago. When I saw that beautiful city, its culture, the incredible music you hear all the time, I said, 'Hey, man, that's where I want to make my home."  
Nigel Kennedy made his first appearance on the classical music scene in the early 1980s. Although he won the 1985 Gramophone award for a recording of the Elgar Violin Concerto, he was considered as eccentric by the classical world. Most of them rejected him because of his punk image and manners that contradict their norms.  
Many at New York's Juilliard School, where Kennedy was a student of acclaimed violin teacher Dorothy DeLay, predicted he would fail his studies because he ignored the institution's orders that he not play jazz with Stephane Grappelli in Carnegie Hall.   
"I stood backstage with a bottle of whiskey," he once said in an interview, "and I didn't know what to do. Then I said, 'Hell, I'm not willing to live my life regretting that I didn't play with Grappelli in Carnegie Hall.' So I went on stage and did it."  
The classical world attacked Kennedy for his 1989 release of a recording of Vivaldi's "Four Seasons," which became an all-time bestseller that made it to the hit parades in every musical category. He was also criticized for refusing to play with English orchestras because of what he called their lack of professionalism: Critics mocked him and slammed his performances.  
"It happened because I opened the doors to a private club. That was the problem," he says. "Proponents of classical music saw all kinds of undesirable types from the street entering their private club, commoners who are not part of the nobility. It's like English tennis. When they invented the game, they created bizarre rules, like points that jump from 15 to 30, and terms like 'love' for zero and 'deuce' when the score is tied, just so the servants won't understand the game and join in. Wimbledon, the aristocracy and all that phoniness - I really hate it. The realization of any capitalist's dream means the destruction of the lives of 10 anonymous people, somewhere in the world. Not that I am better than others: I'm sure that the vest I am wearing now was made in China - but I choose to fight this system."  
Since then, Kennedy recorded a CD inspired by Jimi Hendrix, a concerto to music by "The Doors," and jazz produced by the prestigious New York "Blue Note" label, in addition to classic violin repertoire: Beethoven's Concerto, Brahms, Sibelius and Tchaikovsky. He has also performed all over the world.  
Orchestras and festivals in Israel have attempted to book you for a long time, without success, and now you have come to perform in East Jerusalem.  
"It's no coincidence. I became aware of the Palestinian story while I was a student in New York. My girlfriend then was Palestinian, and, through her, I began to familiarize myself with and understand the problem even before the [separation] wall and the other atrocities. She had to return home every year or she would lose her citizenship, and, like it was for all of us students, that wasn't exactly her thing. Then I understood that it was simply a way to harass the Palestinians and prevent them from studying.  
"And today, I was really shocked when I saw the wall here. It's a new type of apartheid, barbaric behavior. How can you impose collective punishment and divide people from one another? We are all residents of the same planet. I would think that the world learned something from South Africa. And the world should boycott a nation that didn't learn. That's why I won't perform in your country.  
"The concert tonight is very emotional," he adds, "because I am performing for people who are imprisoned, to give them two hours of fun and show them that the world has not forgotten about them."  
The technique of classical music pervaded every note, musical phrase, embellishment and improvisation Kennedy produced on his violin throughout the concert, regardless of all the folklore and jazz he played, and all the technical effects.  
Do you still record classic repertoire?  
"Yes. I recently released two CDs with the Polish Chamber Orchestra: One of concertos by forgotten Polish composers of the Romantic era, and one with concertos by Mozart and Beethoven, with my own cadenza, on electric violin.  
"I had a mental block when it came to Mozart's music. Only now am I playing it for the first time since I was 17," he says. "Back then, I tried playing my own cadenza and ended on the wrong key. So I simply threw away the music and didn't play it anymore. I didn't like the authentic performances on ancient instruments, the New York-style with all its vibrato and enormity. In any case, Mozart's operas and works for piano are so much greater than his concertos for violin. It took me some time to understand what to do with it."  
At the end of two hours, the crowd rose to its feet, and Kennedy asked, "Want another one for the road, before we go drink something?" He finished with a folkloric piece and sent the joyous audience off into the chilly Jerusalem night.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ramallah radio station to debut, funded by South African Jew</title>
<date>Tue Feb 20 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
An English-radio station based in Ramallah and financed by a Jewish South African will go on air live beginning Wednesday morning.
The station, 93.6 RAM FM, aims to provide a platform for "peaceful dialogue" and is based on the popular South African radio station, 702 Talk Radio, which the station's founders believe played a key role in the transition from the country's apartheid regime to democracy.
The format will include adult contemporary music, as well as hourly news updates provided by the station's service, Middle East Eyewitness News. 
Call-in and talk show programs in English will be introduced within a year. 
Ram, which is short for Ramallah, also means high or lofty in Hebrew.  
The station has studios in both Ramallah and West Jerusalem, but will be transmitted from the West Bank, which means that certain parts of the country, including Jerusalem, may have difficulty picking it up. 
The project required an initial investment of $2 million dollars, 25 percent of which was funded by Isaac (Issie) Kirsh, the Jewish South African who is the founder of 702 Talk Radio. It will operate independently of any governmental or NGO funding and is a purely commercial enterprise that will collect revenue from advertisements.
"There is a need for a daily debate on the issues affecting both Israelis and Palestinians," said Kirsh, who was also involved in the establishment of Radio Tel Aviv. 
The station, which bills itself as "in touch, in tune and independent," hires Israeli, Palestinian, as well as international reporters. 
"We're committed to telling both sides of the story," Andrew Bolton, the station's news editor said. "We are apolitical and will not toe any political line, other than peace."
Bolton said the news program would therefore not include either terms like "martyr" or "terrorist," both of which he called "loaded."
The station's holding company, Middle East Broadcasting Holding Ltd., is based in South Africa. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rice consults Clinton, Carter in run-up to Annapolis summit</title>
<date>Sat Oct 27 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is looking to the past for lessons on how to make next month's Mideast peace conference a success.
As she prepares to host the international meeting in Annapolis, Maryland, Rice has delved into the history of U.S. attempts to mediate peace in the region, plunging into the diplomatic annals and seeking out the major players responsible for both successes and failures.
"She's trying to draw on the historical record and the experiences of others to see what she can glean and how that may be applicable to the current day," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Friday, ahead of Rice's Nov. 4-6 trip to Israel and the Palestinian Authority, her second in three weeks to organize the Annapolis gathering.
Most recently, she met this week with Jimmy Carter, sitting down in her office on Wednesday for a talk with the former president who brokered the 1978 Camp David peace accord between Israel and Egypt, the first between Israel and an Arab nation.
Carter has been a vocal critic of the Bush administration's Middle East polices and wrote a recent book, Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid, that some believe is anti-Israeli. McCormack said the differences in approach were not a subject of her conversation.
Rice has also spoken by phone with former President Bill Clinton about his work on the 1994 Israel-Jordan peace deal. She discussed with both Clinton and former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright the unsuccessful 2000 attempt in Shepherdstown, West Virginia, to mediate an Israeli-Syrian agreement and their bid later that year at Camp David to forge an Israeli-Palestinian pact.
Others she has reached out to include former secretaries of state Henry Kissinger and James Baker, and to one-time U.S. peace negotiators like Dennis Ross, who played a key role in the Clinton administration and the administration of former President George H.W. Bush.
In addition, Rice, whose background is in Soviet studies, asked the State Department historian's office to prepare a voluminous, and classified, compendium of its records on the U.S. role in Middle East peacemaking.
McCormack declined to offer details of her private readings and conversations or discuss any conclusions she may have drawn from them. But he noted that Rice, especially given her background as an academic, has intense interest in studying past diplomacy for clues about what might work as the Annapolis meeting approaches.
"We view the situation as qualitatively different than it has been, the history moves on, people change roles, situations," McCormack said.
"That said, you can take the lessons of history and apply them," he said. "She is a student of history and has a keen appreciation for how we can apply the lessons of history, what we can learn from those who have gone before us."
Rice faces serious obstacles in organizing Annapolis, with both Israel and the Palestinians far apart on a joint statement to be presented to the meeting that she and President George W. Bush hope will launch the start of formal peace talks.
The two sides have fundamental differences over how detailed the document must be and whether it should contain a timeline for progress in the eventual negotiations.
The Israelis want the statement to be as vague as possible while the Palestinians are pushing for deadlines and specific references to the key issues in the conflict, among them the borders of a Palestinian state, the status of disputed Jerusalem and the fate of Palestinian refugees.
Rice's last trip to the region, a furious four-day shuttle diplomacy mission earlier this month, produced little apparent progress on bringing the two sides together.
However, she did win at least public support for the Annapolis conference from Egypt and Jordan, two critical Arab allies of the United States that had both expressed skepticism about the utility of the meeting.


</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rosner's Guest: Gil Mann</title>
<date>Sun Sep 02 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Mann is the author of 2 books: Sex, God, Christmas & Jews, Intimate Emails About Faith and Life Challenges
Mann is also the author of Jewish E-Mail, a column syndicated to Jewish websites and newspapers in the U.S. and Canada and the producer of beingjewish.org
He speaks and writes about Jewish identity, continuity, intermarriage and assimilation. These will be our topics of discussion. Readers can send questions to rosnersdomain@haaretz.co.il
Gil, 
Here's a question I compiled following some readers' remarks:
Is it time for rabbis to accept reality and officiate ceremonies for mixed couples?
Best
Rosner
Shalom again Shmuel:
My answer is yes with an asterisk.  Marriage according to Jewish law is not possible.  A wedding with a rabbi that integrates Jewish traditions is possible. 
I believe we need to find every possible way to welcome intermarried couples and show them the beauty of  Judaism.  To increase the chances that this couple will want Judaism for themselves and especially for their children, rabbis and our institutions need to show warmth.  To do the opposite will not make the couple "fall out of love," but does run the risk of alienating them with the impression that Judaism is a non-loving intolerant religion.
I've heard from couples who told me their rabbi said "No, I won't perform the wedding, but I would be willing to come to the dinner afterwards."  I understand why a rabbi would have this position.  But the couple viewed this as a huge insult that made them want nothing to do with Judaism. I understand their position as well. 
Again, I acknowledge that asking a rabbi to marry a couple with the traditional Jewish vow that the couple is being married "according to the religion of Moses and the people Israel." is simply not accurate or appropriate.
What to do instead?  When a couple is "rabbi shopping," calling synagogues till they find a rabbi who says "Yes, I perform intermarriages."  I think the response should be: "Yes, the rabbi will 'officiate' but always needs to meet with the couple in advance."
Meeting the couple and discussing the issues and challenges of intermarriage is critical.  The rabbi should respectfully and gently pose questions about their individual faith, how they plan to reconcile differences and most importantly how they plan to religiously raise their children.  
(As an aside, many young couples think "love conquers all" and that they will just work things out when the time comes.  This plan is often naive.  I say this based on emails I've received from unhappy or confused children and parents of such marriages.  Hopefully  the conversation could lead to many more with the rabbi as well as connection to  resources available such as Interfaithfamily.com and JOI.org.)
Having said all that, in my mind "officiate" can be flexibly defined.  I think rabbis should find ways to be a part of the ceremony with a judge doing the legalities.  I'm not sure about co-officiating with a clergy of another religion ...that could be an especially difficult situation for a rabbi.  I also can see a problem if the couple flat out says they plan to raise the children in a religion other than Judaism.
Every case is unique, but In general, in addition to a rabbi participating, as far as I am concerned (and I know some would disagree), the ceremony could include many Jewish traditions from a chuppah to Jewish blessings/music and breaking the glass.  Personally I would be comfortable with the synagogue being the venue.
The bottom line for me is I love Judaism and intermarriage is a big reality today.  To reconcile both, I think we need to find every possible way to have intermarried couples embrace Judaism and Judaism embrace them...including having a rabbi somehow be a part of the actual wedding ceremony (and not just at the dinner afterwards.) 
Gil
Dear Gil
I understand all of your points about Freedom Judaism; it make a lot of sense. The only thing that I would disagree with you about is your overall sense of optimism. I am pretty pessimistic about the future of Judaism because I sort of imagine Freedom Judaism ending with a bunch of half-Jews who feel culturally Jewish to varying degrees. This wouldn't be too bad, because I think such people will lead moral and ethical lives, but it does sadden me that there will be very little distinctively Jewish about their lives. 
I agree that the next 50 years are pivotal, and in that regard, they will be exciting to live through. But I find myself getting more and more depressed with the state of Judaism every time the holidays come around.  Take last year for example. I live in a Jewish fraternity house which means I am surrounded by Jews who are OK identifying as Jews.   Yet, on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur, my hall mates are opting out of shul in favor of watching football, doing homework, going out to dinner, etc.   
What I am trying to say is that  I don't see Freedom Judaism yielding particularly Jewish results. It may produce ethical people that get Bar Mitzvahed, but if that is all the Jewishness new age Jews possess, the future might not be so bright for Judaism. 
A
Dear A:
I share some of your fears.  I should clarify one point. I am not suggesting that Judaism be a free for all.  I am saying that  in this era of Freedom Judaism anyone can and does choose whatever they want.  If Judaism is to be chosen and continue,  we will need to reinvent ourselves in ways that make Judaism and our institutions relevant, compelling and sustainable.  We can not impose Halacha, Judaism or anything else on Jews in an era of freedom. 
I'll put things a different way:  I once gave a lecture and an 80 year old man stood up at the end of the lecture and asked:  "These issues of intermarriage and assimilation you describe did not exist when I was younger.  Don't you think anti-Semitism in a way was a blessing?" 
My reply was, "I would not call anti-Semitism a blessing.  It is true, that as a result, the Jewish people learned many positive things and  we were kept together....but I would not want to trade places Jewishly with my great grandfather!"
So yes, I am optimistic.  As I wrote earlier, I do not believe Judaism will end...Judaism as we know it will.  But we have always evolved.  Over thousands of years the Jews and Judaism have changed a lot.
Further as I noted in the first answer, Jewish woman today are perhaps the most educated women in the history of humanity.  They are at the fore front of some of most impactful and positive innovations in Jewish life from new Jewish Music and liturgy to Jewish Healing Centers and special needs inclusion efforts etc.  We are unleashing 50% of our people!   This potential is most exciting for our future.
So put on your seatbelt and keep your hands on the wheel, be prepared for forks in the road and new unusual destinations.  I am not sure where we are going, but I feel lucky to have the opportunity to be part of this journey, to play a tiny role and live in this era.
I embrace and love the uniqueness of Jewish spirituality, ethics and peoplehood.  But who knows?  Perhaps over time (decades or centuries from now)  Jews and gentile will believe similarly in such a way as described in the Aleinu prayer when all people will know a single God and the world will be perfected.
Gil
Dear Gil,A new study shows that young American Jews are more and more alienated from Israel. One quote: "Every measure indicates a decline of attachment"
Why? What should be done as to reverse this trend?
Rosner
Dear Shmuel
During the Yom Kippur war in 1973, I brought a transistor radio to my largely non-Jewish high school to hear the hourly newscasts. I quickly realized that I was one of the few people (Jewish or non-Jewish) who was this concerned about what was happening during the war.
Since that time I have always observed lesser concern for Israel all the way to alienation with sadness...but understanding.  
Unlike most American Jews especially younger Jews, I had a strong personal connection to Israel.  I had uncles and cousins who were fighting during this war. I had been to Israel many times.  In addition, I deeply valued the importance of Israel, as many members of both of my parents' families had perished in the Holocaust.
Most American Jews don't have these personal connections. And there are three additional reasons that many young Americans feelings for Israel are at best apathy at worst alienation.
One is that the average young American Jew has experienced little or no anti-Semitism.  Unlike their parents and grandparents (and me), the current generation of Jews did not feel the Holocaust, the establishment of the State of Israel, the Six Day War or the Yom Kippur War.  To those who lived through the events, these were serious survival threats that were tangible examples of the existence of anti-Semitism. 
In contrast, young Jews today have grown up seeing a strong and secure American Jewish community, a mighty Israel and loving and accepting non-Jewish neighbors.  For them the notion of Jewish peoplehood and the necessity of an Israel is not as compelling as it was for earlier generations "who knew Pharaoh."
A second reason many young Americans feel negatively or apathetic towards Israel is misconceptions or ignorance of Israel.  Most American Jews have never been to Israel.  Their understanding of the Middle East is largely a result of what they see in the media.   Israel is often portrayed as an oppressive occupier, an evil apartheid state.  
If you are young, see and hear awful things about what Israel does to the Palestinians, don't know the history of Israel, and you don't feel a strong gut feeling for the need for a Jewish homeland as a safe haven from anti-Semitism, the result can be alienation.
There is a third reason for alienation.  When famous Israeli authors, or the Israeli government, or say the former President of Israel (Katzav) insult American Jewry or the Conservative or Reform Movements, this can and does repel American Jews. 
What to do you ask?  Education.  American and Israeli Jews have many misconceptions about each other.  American Jews do not adequately understand the existential and anti-Semitic threats faced by Israel and other Jews.   Israelis don't adequately understand American Jewish life. 
Fortunately many fine educational efforts are happening.  Birthright Israel (getting Jews to Israel) and The Israel Project (getting accurate and fair media coverage) are two great example.  These efforts should grow.  Having Israelis participate and interface with American Jews in these efforts is a win-win.  Programs like Wexner that bring American and Jewish leaders together are part of the solution.  I'll throw out another idea, there should be a huge high school exchange program for American and Israeli youth to live in each others homes for a quarter or semester.
Understanding will result and rather than alienation, Jews in Israel and America will have the blessing of connection.
Gil
Dear Gil,
Do you see Halachic Judaism adjusting to the new circumstances the way people like Samson Raphael Hirsch adjusted to emancipation, or do you see 'Freedom Judaism' replacing Halachic Judaism? Halachic Judaism is doing well in terms of birth rate, while Freedom Judaism is suffering from assimilation, intermarriage and low birth rate.
Joe Feld
Dear Joe: 
I believe Freedom Judaism has already replaced Halachic Judaism for all but Orthodox Jews and a few others. As I noted in the earlier response, perhaps as much as 90% of the Jewish world today does not lead a life governed by Halacha. For that matter, most Jews today have very little knowledge of Halacha!
In the emails I've received over the years, I have found that many Jews are interested to hear what Jewish law has to say about an issue. However, when faced with a decision like:  Should I get a tattoo? Jewish law is but one of many "voices" they will consider as they ponder options. They might be influenced by Jewish law and tradition, but they certainly do feel or act bound by Halacha. A much more widespread example is not keeping kosher.
As for the issue of birth rate, I agree, those who observe Halacha have more babies and this is one reason there will always be a part of the Jewish world that observes Jewish law. I would not say however, that birth rate is a barometer of the health of Halachic Judaism. 
Only a few centuries ago, most Jews lived Halachic lives, yet most Jews today do not. How many times have you heard a non-Orthodox Jew say, "My grandparents, or great grand parents were Orthodox?" Birth rate is not able to sustain widespread observance of Halachic Judaism. I listed 7 (mostly wonderful) changes in our world in response to an earlier question that partially explain the decline in Halachic Judaism. In a word, I sum them up as: freedom. This is why I say we are now in the third Jewish era that I call Freedom Judaism.
The issues of assimilation, intermarriage, low birth rates etc are significant challenges for Judaism. Many Jews are upset that these phenomena will mean the end of Judaism. I believe they will end Judaism as we know it... but not end Judaism. They will change Judaism.
The evolution from Temple Judaism to Rabbinic / Halachic Judaism took several centuries as the oral Torah was codified and written and as new institutions replaced the Temple. I believe we will evolve much faster this time.  The next 50 years will be pivotal. Some consider these changes frightening and disturbing. Judaism is changing... as radically as when the Temple was destroyed. I do not know what we will look like, but I think this era of Freedom Judaism is perhaps the most exciting time in our people's history to be a Jew. 
Gil
Dear Gil,
The role a rabbi should play in the community occupies some space in your book. "So many Jews now have expectations of a rabbi that are virtually impossible for one person to achieve".
But was is the role of the rabbi in this age of post-Halachic Judaism you've described?
Best
Rosner
If you examine your life, you spend almost all of your waking hours engaged in:
1.  Work (broadly defined)  2.  Relationships,  3.  Health or 4.  Recreation.  
When is the last time you had a question in one of these realms where you thought:  "I think I will consult with a rabbi or Halacha to find an answer?" 
For example: How should I respond to a customer?  How much should I go into my credit card line to pay my bills at home?   How should I respond to my daughter's desire to drive the car with 3 other teens, Should I lose some weight? or I wonder what movie I'll watch this week?
These are pretty standard day to day questions.  Would you think to ask a rabbi or have your answer driven by Halacha? 
Most non-Orthodox Jews today would say no.  So what is the role of a rabbi today for non-Orthodox Jews?  I believe to become teachers of how Judaism is relevant for day to day modern life.  Said differently, to teach how Judaism's wisdom can help answer questions like those above and countless others.
The information must be relevant because in this era of Freedom Judaism and the sovereign self, Jews freely choose the answers that resonate and discard the others.   The reality is that Judaism is just one source of knowledge they consider.  Granted this is a challenge for rabbis, especially since Judaism is a tradition of commitment, seriousness and obligation.   But Judaism is also a tradition of great benefit to individuals, community and all humanity.  In their roles as teachers, rabbis must be marketers of these compelling benefits.  
And in spite of living in this post Halachic era of Freedom Judaism, I believe rabbis have many opportunities to teach.   Most Jews today will not bind themselves by Halacha but are interested to know what Judaism has to say about many issues. I say this based on the thousands of emails I have received (to see some go here
One other important role for the rabbi relates to major life events. Jews still look to the rabbi when a family member has a bris, a bar/bat mitzvah, wedding, a crisis, divorce or funeral.   However, as you can see from this chapter
Finally, rabbis continue to play a role as community representatives and leaders.
Dear Gil,
Here's a soft-ball: give us the shortened 500 words explanation of your concept of "Freedom Judaism".
BestRosner
When the temple was destroyed 2000 years ago, Judaism was forced to reinvent itself.  Over time, our leaders brilliantly came up with a way to perpetuate Judaism that was not centered on the temple.  They invented Rabbinic Judaism or what some call Halachic Judaism.
Today, perhaps as many as 90% of the Jews on the planet no longer lead a life governed by Halacha. (Orthodox Jews and a small number of others make up the remaining roughly 10%).  Yet Jews and Judaism still exist.  If we do not live in era of the Temple or Rabbinic Judaism, what is this era?  I believe we are reinventing ourselves as radically as when the temple was destroyed.
I call this third new era Freedom Judaism.   It began when Jews were first emancipated in Europe.  In the last 100 years or so, Freedom Judaism has become a radical new reality for Jews because of 7 phenomenon:
1. Mobility: Almost all Jews alive today live in a country other than the country of their great grandparents. This modern exodus is many times greater than the Biblical exodus from Egypt. In addition, the way people regularly move from city to city today is a smaller ongoing exodus. 
2. The Holocaust: The post-traumatic shock of losing a third of the Jewish people deeply affects Jewish and non-Jewish thinking, especially in matters of spirituality (attitudes toward God) and Jewish Peoplehood. 
3. Establishment of Israel: What should a free Jewish state be? This historic work in progress poses endless challenges, among them: Who is a Jew? How do democracy and theocracy coexist? How does a people that has been powerless for 2,000 years, ethically use its newfound power? What does a Jewish homeland mean to the Diaspora? How does realization of the dream of a Jewish state impact Jewish theology, messianic thinking, prayers, holidays, etc?
4. The shrinking of the globe: Today, knowledge and travel are quickly accessible to an unparalleled percentage of the Earth's population. 
5. The empowerment of women: Women in the West have unprecedented rights, education, and opportunities. As a subset, Jewish women are perhaps the most educated and influential women in the world today - for that matter, in all of human history! Today, Jewish women routinely are esteemed professors, doctors, lawyers, rabbis, judges, legislators, businesspeople, members of a myriad of other professions, and volunteer leaders. Some of the most successful innovations in the Jewish world today come from Jewish women: prolific writings, new and inspiring Jewish liturgy and music, new programs, and institutions such as the Jewish Healing Centers. Unleashing the talents of 50 percent of the Jewish people bodes well for a Jewish future. 
6. The liberation of the Jews: Jews today can more freely choose where to live, work, attend universities, participate in government, and join organizations than at any time in history, (though anti-Semitism, especially outside of North America, is active and dangerous.) Jews also have great freedom of choice in deciding how, or even whether, to practice Judaism, another religion, or no religion.  6a: Intermarriage: A significant aspect of Jewish freedom that deserves special mention is the loving embrace (literally) of non-Jews, such that intermarriage today is commonplace. The long-term effect of these marriages is not known, but there is little question that they will impact the future of Judaism.7.  The Western ideal of individual Freedom.  Jews live in societies today that embrace the idea that we each choose what we want in our lives.  Nobody has the right to impose anything upon on us (we protest when the government wants to tax us or even tell us to wear seatbelts.  This is the notion of the sovereign self.  Each of us is a king or queen in charge of our own lives.
I am not suggesting that Freedom Judaism is preferable or better than Halachic Judaism.  What I am saying is that this is reality today.  And we need to face this reality honestly, fearlessly and creatively.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>S. Africa defends invite to Palestinian PM </title>
<date>Tue May 08 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
JOHANNESBURG - South Africa yesterday defended its invitation to Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh to make his first visit outside the Muslim world, saying it was "myopic" to reject opportunities for dialogue.  
Intelligence Minister Ronnie Kasrils, who provoked controversy last week when he extended the invitation during a visit to the Palestinian territories, said South Africa's own experience showed the need to talk to all sides.  
"Those who myopically object to such invitations merely show that they have learned nothing from South Africa's transition," Kasrils said in a statement. "Such logic as they espouse would not have allowed [apartheid era president] PW Botha to have met with the imprisoned [Nelson] Mandela nor his release by [former president] FW De Klerk as a partner in negotiations."  
No date has been set for the trip, which Kasrils said had been endorsed by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. South Africa's Jewish Board of Deputies has criticized the invitation, saying the "racist ideology" of Haniyeh's Hamas organization, which leads the Palestinian unity government, stood in contrast to South Africa's own post-apartheid ideals.  
"As Jews and South African citizens, we cannot but view these developments with the deepest unhappiness," board chairman Michael Bagraim said in a statement.  
Kasrils - who is himself Jewish but also an outspoken critic of Israel - used his visit to "reiterate the commitment of the South African government toward the achievement, through peaceful negotiations, of a two-state solution based on a viable Palestinian state on the 1967 borders," his statement said.  
Since becoming Palestinian prime minister in March 2006, Haniyeh has visited Arab states, some Gulf states and Iran, but he has not traveled beyond that. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African unions seek Israel boycott, severing ties </title>
<date>Thu May 31 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
South Africa's largest trade union federation will launch a campaign against "the Israeli occupation of Arab lands" this week, demanding that Pretoria impose a boycott on all Israeli goods and break diplomatic relations. South African Intelligence Minister Ronnie Kasrils, who is Jewish, told Haaretz that he actively supported the initiative - which contradicts the policy of his own cabinet.  
The president of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), Willy Madisha, announced the launching of the campaign last week in Johannesburg, calling on the government to cease all diplomatic relations with Israel after its attacks on Palestinian leaders.  
"The best way to have Israel comply with United Nations resolutions is to pressure it by a diplomatic boycott such as the one imposed on apartheid South Africa," Madisha said. Cosatu belongs to a recently-formed coalition of organizations operating under the banner "End The Occupation."  
Kasrils' anti-Israeli organization Not In My Name belongs to the coalition working toward an embargo on Israel. This runs contrary to South Africa's official stance, and to President Thabo Mbeki's decision to strengthen trade ties with Israel. Mbeki, who heads the ANC ruling party, even appeared as a guest at Israel's Independence Day celebrations in Durban last month.  
Kasrils, a member of the ANC, told Haaretz that his support for severing all ties with Israel was not in opposition to his cabinet's policy. "Cosatu is an ANC ally in the coalition against the Israeli occupation. Most elements of this coalition call for boycotting Israel, although the ANC does not," he said.  
"We respect their right to encourage people to boycott Israeli goods. As a South African consumer I personally will not purchase Israeli goods until Israel changes its present policy regarding the Palestinians."  
Cosatu's spokesman, Patrick Craven, said Kasrils was involved in directing the campaign for imposing a political and economic embargo on Israel. "This is intended to include the diamond trade," he added.  
Craven acknowledged that his organization's primary objectives did not pertain to the Middle East, noting that while Cosatu's main goal was improving the material conditions of its 1.8 million members, "it could not stand idly by as Israel perpetrated atrocities in Palestine." Adding that he anticipated "some short-term damage" to South Africa's economy following the boycott, Carven said the damage was "vastly outweighed by the importance of stopping injustice."  
The campaign that Cosatu has helped mount will begin Friday, with sermons in South Africa's mosques on "the plight of the Palestinian people". The Christian organizations of the coalition will begin addressing the issue in churches Sunday.  
The organizers intend to picket across South Africa next week, including a picket by members of parliament and a candlelight vigil outside the U.S. Consulate in Johannesburg. The ANC ruling party has called for a parliamentary debate on "Israeli occupation."  
Campaign activists will also hold pickets outside selected stores selling Israeli goods. The events will culminate in mass marches and rallies on Saturday, June 9, both in Cape Town and Johannesburg.   

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa's largest trade union seeks to boycott Israel </title>
<date>Thu May 31 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
South Africa's largest trade union federation will launch a campaign against "the Israeli occupation of Arab lands" this week, demanding that Pretoria impose a boycott on all Israeli goods and break diplomatic relations. South African Intelligence Minister Ronnie Kasrils, who is Jewish, told Haaretz that he actively supported the initiative - which contradicts the policy of his own cabinet. 
The president of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), Willy Madisha, announced the launching of the campaign last week in Johannesburg, calling on the government to cease all diplomatic relations with Israel after its attacks on Palestinian leaders. 
"The best way to have Israel comply with United Nations resolutions is to pressure it by a diplomatic boycott such as the one imposed on apartheid South Africa," Madisha said. Cosatu belongs to a recently-formed coalition of organizations operating under the banner "End The Occupation." 
Kasrils' anti-Israeli organization Not In My Name belongs to the coalition working toward an embargo on Israel. This runs contrary to South Africa's official stance, and to President Thabo Mbeki's decision to strengthen trade ties with Israel. Mbeki, who heads the ANC ruling party, even appeared as a guest at Israel's Independence Day celebrations in Durban last month. 
Kasrils, a member of the ANC, told Haaretz that his support for severing all ties with Israel was not in opposition to his cabinet's policy. "Cosatu is an ANC ally in the coalition against the Israeli occupation. Most elements of this coalition call for boycotting Israel, although the ANC does not," he said. 
"We respect their right to encourage people to boycott Israeli goods. As a South African consumer I personally will not purchase Israeli goods until Israel changes its present policy regarding the Palestinians." 
Cosatu's spokesman, Patrick Craven, said Kasrils was involved in directing the campaign for imposing a political and economic embargo on Israel. "This is intended to include the diamond trade," he added. 
Craven acknowledged that his organization's primary objectives did not pertain to the Middle East, noting that while Cosatu's main goal was improving the material conditions of its 1.8 million members, "it could not stand idly by as Israel perpetrated atrocities in Palestine." Adding that he anticipated "some short-term damage" to South Africa's economy following the boycott, Carven said the damage was "vastly outweighed by the importance of stopping injustice." 
The campaign that Cosatu has helped mount will begin Friday, with sermons in South Africa's mosques on "the plight of the Palestinian people". The Christian organizations of the coalition will begin addressing the issue in churches Sunday. 
The organizers intend to picket across South Africa next week, including a picket by members of parliament and a candlelight vigil outside the U.S. Consulate in Johannesburg. The ANC ruling party has called for a parliamentary debate on "Israeli occupation." 
Campaign activists will also hold pickets outside selected stores selling Israeli goods. The events will culminate in mass marches and rallies on Saturday, June 9, both in Cape Town and Johannesburg.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Carter trap</title>
<date>Mon Jan 15 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
"If you ever have any questions or advice for me, just put Jimmy Carter, Plains, Georgia on the envelope," the then-presidential candidate told audiences in the 1970s. "I open every letter myself, and read them all." That claim, of course, was completely false, as the cover story of The Atlantic Monthly, which dealt with lies told by presidents, pointed out this week. 
It is impossible to know whether Carter personally opened the letter he received last Thursday. The Carter Center sent a measured, noncommittal response to its contents, but the authors gained the attention they had sought. The press quoted from the letter and television networks discussed it. Its 14 signatories, members of the Carter Center's Board of Councilors, informed Carter that they had decided to resign - publicly and with great fanfare, albeit "with sadness" - due to publication of his book "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid." 
This book has featured for weeks on the bestseller lists, and has also provoked a huge outcry. It is no small matter when a former American president accuses Israel of an "apartheid" policy in the territories, and also holds it largely responsible for the ongoing bloodshed. "Your book," wrote the resigning board members, "has confused opinion with fact, subjectivity with objectivity." 
At almost the same time, a group of Reform rabbis announced that they had decided to cancel a planned visit to the Carter Center in March. In their announcement, they urged Carter to resume working to promote "peace, not prejudice." 
Accusations have been leveled at Carter's book since the day it was published. Those well-versed in the details of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, such as the Clinton administration's peace envoy, Dennis Ross, have found in it a plethora of falsehoods, fabrications and half-truths. "Mr. Carter's presentation badly misrepresents the Middle East proposals advanced by President Bill Clinton in 2000," Ross wrote. 
The resigning board members' letter cites several other lies Carter is trying to disseminate. For instance, his assertion in the book that UN Security Council Resolution 242 states that "Israel must withdraw from territories" - to which the letter responded: "But you know the word 'must' in fact is not in the resolution." Kenneth W. Stein, who was the Carter Center's first executive director, and resigned from his position as a fellow several weeks ago because of the book, told Haaretz that it contains "intentional falsehoods" and accused Carter of "irresponsible remarks." 
These "irresponsible remarks," to use Stein's term, were the straws that broke the backs of many people who had admired Carter, even if they did not always agree with him. Two of the most prominent such remarks were Carter's claim, in the book, that "Palestinian groups" had promised to stop suicide bombings the moment Israel accepted the principles of "international law" and the "ultimate goals of the road map for peace;" and various statements that appear to allege a Jewish conspiracy aimed at silencing critics of Israel, such as a sentence that appeared in an article he wrote for the Los Angeles Times: "Book reviews in the mainstream media have been written mostly by representatives of Jewish organizations." The 14 resigning board members said in their letter that they view the former statement as "condoning violence against Israelis." The latter statement elicited a harsh letter from Abe Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, who told Carter that such statements are "dangerous stuff." Martin Peretz, editor-in-chief of the weekly The New Republic, wrote that the former president "will go down in history as a Jew hater." 
It seems that the well-publicized resignation by the Carter Center board members and the Reform rabbis' letter, both developments of the past few days, have tipped the scales against Carter and his book. After all, neither the resigners nor the boycotters can be suspected of being enemies of the peace process. They are lily-white, proven doves for whom Carter simply went too far. A clear line has been drawn here, with Carter's help: a consensus that defines the boundaries of what cannot be said about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, even in the eyes of fierce critics of Israeli policy. 
Nevertheless, one problem remains: The critics, as Carter justly claims, are almost all Jews. That is the only card left in his hand, but it is a strong one, which embodies a trap from which there is no escape. 
On one hand, this problem, too, could be solved: All it needs is one well-known, well-respected, non-Jewish critic to come out publicly against Carter. If such a person does emerge, it will be possible to completely undermine the legitimacy of this miserable book. But on the other hand, what lies behind the assumption that such a critic is needed? Is this not a disturbing admission that even in America, when it comes to Israel, the word of Jews is still not, and may never be, completely sufficient?
More about Carter on Rosner's Domain:
Is Carter an anti-Semite?

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K. minister slams British boycott of Israeli academic institutions</title>
<date>Thu May 31 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
A British minister slammed his country's lecturers union for boycotting Israeli academe on Thursday, saying the decision "does nothing to promote the Middle East peace process." 
"The U.K. government fully supports academic freedom and is firmly against any academic boycotts of Israel or Israeli academics," said Minister of State for Lifelong Learning, Further and Higher Education Bill Rammell. "Whilst I appreciate the independence of the UCU, I am very disappointed that the union has decided to pass a motion which encourages its members to consider boycotting Israeli academics and education institutions."
The vote was passed by 158 votes to 99 at the University and College Union (UCU) conference in Bournemouth on Wednesday.
Professor Uriel Reichman, President of the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, said Thursday night that the British boycott is "a modern reformulation of Judenreine" a German expression used by the Nazis meaning "Jew free," describing areas they had emptied of a Jewish presence.
The professor called on Anglo-Jewry to send their children to learn in Israel "instead of sending them to institutions where there exists one-sided preaching for the elimination of the Jewish State."
Reichman made these comments at a ceremony for graduates of the college.
Cabinet minister Yitzhak Herzog, responsible for the government's handling of issues related to anti-Semitism, denounced Thursday as "scandalous, discriminatory and one-sided" a British lecturers' union decision.
Herzog has spoken with British Ambassdor to Israel Tom Phillips to convey Israel's condemnation of the move. 
It is especially troubling, Herzog told Israel Radio, that "the decision was taken in a nation which is considered friendly to Israel."
The decision "necessates soul-searching on that part of all citizens of Britain," he said. 
The motion passed Wednesday says that the UCU will present the question of a boycott on Israel's academics for discussion by all its members. According to the motion, congress much send "the full text of the Palestinian boycott call to all branches for information and discussion."
Among the amendments added to the proposal and approved by the union was a clause pledging the group to campaign for "a moratorium on research and cultural collaborations with Israel via EU and European Science Foundation funding until Israel abides by UN resolutions."
The discussions are scheduled to take place over the next 12 months. The motion encouraged union members to "consider the moral implications of conducting ties with Israeli academic institutions." 
The vote was preceded by a heated discussion in which Israel was repeatedly referred to as an apartheid state, engaging in crimes against humanity in the Palestinian territories. The union representatives said the situation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip did not allow spectators to stand idly by. 
As part of the motion, the congress will disseminate Palestinian trade unions' request for a boycott against Israel in all the union's offices. 
The congress also said it would arrange for academics from the Palestinian Authority to attend delegations to the U.K. The union's representatives also decided to establish direct contact with Palestinian workers' organizations. 
Ronnie Fraser, who heads the British group "Academic Friends of Israel," said that "the vote proved that nothing has changed within the ranks of the U.K.'s academic unions. This is another boycott." 
In 2005, Fraser acted to overturn another boycott against Israel, which had been approved by the Association of University Teachers (AUT.) That decision was overturned a month after it was passed. In 2006, the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education (NATFHE) also moved to boycott Israel, but its decision became invalid shortly thereafter when NATFHE and AUT merged to form the UCU. 
After the vote, the head of the UCU, Sally Hunt, reiterated her opposition to the motion. 
'As I have made clear in the past, and as I reiterated on the floor of congress this morning, I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of UCU members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union," she said in a statement on the UCU Web site. 
She said, however, that the 120,000 members of the union would now have a chance to express their opinions on a boycott, a move that she said she supported. 
"Today's motion... means all branches now have a responsibility to consulate all of their members on the issue and I believe that every member should have the opportunity to have their say. The earlier motion means that any future calls for a boycott must pass key tests before a boycott can implemented."
Israeli Ambassador to the United Kingdon Zvi Hefetz called the resolution offensive to the British Jewish community, saying that, "Its slanted phrasing reeks of ignorance." 
Adrian Fronda, a senior mathematics lecturer who had joined the union solely to vote against the boycott, was less diplomatic. "I came here to oppose the prevalent anti-Semitism we see all around us here," he said. 
Education Minister Yuli Tamir condemned the union's decision, saying she would address British Education Secretary Alan Johnson on the matter. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K.'s boycotters of Israel support a single-state solution</title>
<date>Fri Jun 15 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Britain's University and College Union's decision to promote a boycott against Israel two weeks ago did not just materialize out of thin air. In recent years, the U.K. has seen a multitude of organizations devoted to protesting Israel's occupation of the territories, who organized a mass rally last weekend in the center of London attracted thousands of participants. 
One of these groups, Jews for Boycotting Israeli Goods, opened a stand at the rally, calling for protesters to disrupt Israel's soccer match against England scheduled for Wembley Stadium on September 8. Next week, pro-Palestinian activists plan to call for a boycott against Israeli produce at a conference held by UNISON, Britain's biggest trade union. 
Another organization, the Islamic Council for Human Rights, handed out flyers listing international corporations with branches in Israel, such as McDonald's and Calvin Klein. 
Activists from the Palestine Solidarity Campaign handed out flyers calling for the British government to cease its weapons deals with Israel, under the banner "Palestinian blood on British hands." 
The British front against Israel's occupation of the territories captured in 1967 is made up of dozens of nongovernmental organizations including Islamic movements, radical left associations, workers unions, Israeli and Jewish panels, Christian organizations and human rights committees, operating various charity funds. 
The activists at these groups may differ on issues such as religion and gender equality, but they are united in their perception of Israel as an apartheid state. They all advocate boycotting Israel and believe in diverting funds from it. 
The organizations subscribe to the belief that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must be resolved in the form of a single-state solutions, and granting the Palestinian refugees the right of return. In the past year, this group of organizations has boasted several important accomplishments, first and foremost the UCU resolution. 
"We're on a roll. We're now receiving increasing sympathy for the Palestinian cause," Sue Blackwell told Haaretz Tuesday. Blackwell is a veteran activist who has been promoting boycotts against Israel for years at Birmingham University, where she works as an English lecturer. During the UCU's meeting in Bournemouth, she wore a T-shirt reading "Caterkiller," in protest against the company Caterpillar, which sells bulldozers to the Israel Defense Forces. 
In the meeting, Blackwell argued that the European Union must sever all its ties with Israeli academic institutions. Her motion was passed with a large majority. 
"In 2003, when we first called for the Association of University Teachers [the AUT, which merged with the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education to form the UCU] to boycott Israel, only one-third of the members voted in favor. Union regulations prevented us from readdressing the issue in 2004, but we did in 2005, and then the motion was accepted," she says. 
That motion was later overturned in a special AUT meeting, until the UCU voted in favor of it last month. It passed 158 to 99. 
Blackwell describes herself as a pro-Palestinian lobbyist. She attributes the campaign's recent success to her cross-country activities. "The Palestine Solidarity Campaign invites me to speak at its conferences. I also attend other conferences of workers unions," she says. 
Blackwell is also a member of the British Committee for Universities of Palestine (BRICUP), the lobby for cooperation to support Palestinian universities, staff and students. The organization is headed by Hillary and Steven Rose, who started the boycott initiative five years ago with a letter to the Guardian daily newspaper. 
"We tried working with the Israeli public in the past, but we did not manage to make any headway there," says Jeff Halper, who heads the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions in the U.K. 
"The Israelis as a whole believe there is no partner on the Palestinian side, and are thereby making themselves politically irrelevant. This is why we've had to address the civil society, represented by human rights groups, churches, universities and other organizations to warn against the Israeli apartheid regime," he says. 
"The recent success we have experienced in the field is serving to unite different left-wing organizations. Halper says that the 40-year anniversary of the six Day War created a unifying effect on the front against the occupation; the next milestone will occur in 2007 when Israel celebrates its 60th birthday." 
This article is the first of a series. On Sunday, Haaretz will examine the backlash of efforts to boycott Israel in the U.K.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K. union backs calls for boycott of Israel academe </title>
<date>Wed May 30 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
Britain's University and College Union (UCU) voted on Wednesday to promote a boycott of Israeli academic institutions, protesting Israel's policy on the Palestinians. Jewish and Israeli officials in the U.K. and Israel reacted with outrage to the motion which, for the most part, is a rhetorical move. 
The motion was approved by a 158 to 99 vote, and called for freezing European funding for Israeli academic institutions, while condemning "Israeli academia's cooperation with the occupation." 
In addition, the UCU decided to bring the question of whether to boycott Israel up for discussion by all the union's members, numbering about 120,000. The discussions are scheduled to take place over the next 12 months. The motion encouraged union members to "consider the moral implications of conducting ties with Israeli academic institutions." 
The vote was preceded by a heated discussion in which Israel was repeatedly referred to as an apartheid state, engaging in crimes against humanity in the occupied territories. The union representatives adopted two separate resolutions promoting an academic boycott against Israel. They said the situation in the territories did not allow spectators to stand idly by. 
In addition, the union congress pledged to advertise the Palestinians' request for a boycott against Israel in all the union's offices, and to arrange for academics from the Palestinian Authority to attend delegations to the U.K. The union's representatives also decided to establish direct contact with Palestinian workers' organizations. 
The union will also act toward halting academic cooperation with Israel, which is currently conducted through the European Union. The motion called for freezing all EU funding for Israeli academic institutions until Israel will "comply with the United Nation's resolutions." 
Ronnie Fraser, who heads the British group Academic Friends of Israel, said that "the vote proved that nothing has changed within the ranks of the U.K.'s academic unions. This is another boycott." 
In 2005, Fraser acted to overturn another boycott against Israel, which had been approved by the Association of University Teachers (AUT.) That decision was overturned a month after it was passed. In 2006, the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education (NATFHE) also moved to boycott Israel, but its decision became invalid shortly thereafter when NATFHE and AUT merged to form the UCU. 
UCU's general secretary, Sally Hunt, also opposes the motion. "I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of UCU members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union," she said. "Now, the union's branches will consult their members to form a stance on the boycott. Any decision to actually impose a boycott will have to overcome serious stipulations." 
Israel's ambassador to Britain, Zvi Hefetz, responded by saying that the resolution was offensive to Britain's Jewish community. "Its slanted phrasing reeks of ignorance," he added. Adrian Fronda, a senior mathematics lecturer who had joined the union solely to vote against the boycott, was less diplomatic. "I came here to oppose the prevalent anti-Semitism we see all around us here," he said. 
Education Minister Yuli Tamir condemned the British union's decision, saying she would address the British education minister on the matter. 
The chairman of the Committee of University Heads, Professor Moshe Kaveh, called on British scientists to continue conducting joint projects with Israeli scientists. Tamara Traubmann contributed reporting.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K. union votes to promote Israeli academic boycott </title>
<date>Thu May 31 00:00:00 IDT 2007</date>
<content>
BOURNEMOUTH, U.K. - Britain's University and College Union (UCU) voted yesterday to promote a boycott of Israeli academic institutions, protesting Israel's policy on the Palestinians. Jewish and Israeli officials in the U.K. and Israel reacted with outrage to the motion which, for the most part, is a rhetorical move.  
The motion was approved by a 158 to 99 vote, and called for freezing European funding for Israeli academic institutions, while condemning "Israeli academia's cooperation with the occupation."  
In addition, the UCU decided to bring the question of whether to boycott Israel up for discussion by all the union's members, numbering about 120,000. The discussions are scheduled to take place over the next 12 months. The motion encouraged union members to "consider the moral implications of conducting ties with Israeli academic institutions."  
The vote was preceded by a heated discussion in which Israel was repeatedly referred to as an apartheid state, engaging in crimes against humanity in the occupied territories. The union representatives adopted two separate resolutions promoting an academic boycott against Israel. They said the situation in the territories did not allow spectators to stand idly by.  
In addition, the union congress pledged to advertise the Palestinians' request for a boycott against Israel in all the union's offices, and to arrange for academics from the Palestinian Authority to attend delegations to the U.K. The union's representatives also decided to establish direct contact with Palestinian workers' organizations.  
The union will also act toward halting academic cooperation with Israel, which is currently conducted through the European Union. The motion called for freezing all EU funding for Israeli academic institutions until Israel will "comply with the United Nation's resolutions."  
Ronnie Fraser, who heads the British group Academic Friends of Israel, said that "the vote proved that nothing has changed within the ranks of the U.K.'s academic unions. This is another boycott."  
In 2005, Fraser acted to overturn another boycott against Israel, which had been approved by the Association of University Teachers (AUT.) That decision was overturned a month after it was passed. In 2006, the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education (NATFHE) also moved to boycott Israel, but its decision became invalid shortly thereafter when NATFHE and AUT merged to form the UCU.  
UCU's general secretary, Sally Hunt, also opposes the motion. "I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of UCU members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union," she said. "Now, the union's branches will consult their members to form a stance on the boycott. Any decision to actually impose a boycott will have to overcome serious stipulations."  
Israel's ambassador to Britain, Zvi Hefetz, responded by saying that the resolution was offensive to Britain's Jewish community. "Its slanted phrasing reeks of ignorance," he added. Adrian Fronda, a senior mathematics lecturer who had joined the union solely to vote against the boycott, was less diplomatic. "I came here to oppose the prevalent anti-Semitism we see all around us here," he said.  
Education Minister Yuli Tamir condemned the British union's decision, saying she would address the British education minister on the matter.  
The chairman of the Committee of University Heads, Professor Moshe Kaveh, called on British scientists to continue conducting joint projects with Israeli scientists. Tamara Traubmann contributed reporting.    

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN: Almost half of Palestinians in Gaza, W. Bank are food insecure</title>
<date>Thu Feb 22 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
The United Nations said Thursday that the Palestinian economic crisis had left almost half the people in Gaza and the West Bank food insecure.
The crisis has made previously secure workers - fishermen, farmers, and small traders - increasingly desperate, the World Food Program and the Food and Agricultural Organization said in a report Thursday.
Poverty has risen since the international community cut off aid to the Palestinian Authority after Hamas militants won parliamentary elections last year.
Kirstie Campbell, spokeswoman for the WFP, said 46 percent of Palestinians are now food insecure or vulnerable. In 2004, 35 percent of Palestinians were food insecure, she said.
Many people, who cannot afford to buy food, have been forced to sell off valuable assets such as land or tools, the report said.
To tackle the growing need, the WFP increased its food assistance by 25 percent in the past year, feeding some 260,000 non-refugees in Gaza and 400,000 in the West Bank. Another UN agency, UNRWA, handles food distribution for refugees.
The poorest families are now living a meager existence totally reliant on assistance, with no electricity or heating and eating food prepared with water from bad sources. This is putting their long-term health at risk, said Arnold Vercken, WFP Country Director.
Campbell called the increased humanitarian assistance a Band-Aid solution.
In order to improve the situation, we need economic growth, progress, and restoring trade links between the West Bank and Gaza, she said. 
UN rights expert says Israeli actions in PA similar to apartheidAn independent report commissioned by the United Nations compares Israel's actions in the West Bank and Gaza to apartheid South Africa..
The charges that drew angry rebukes from Israel and were sure to revive charges that the United Nations Human Rights Council is biased against Israel.
The report by John Dugard, independent investigator on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for the council, is to be presented next month, but it has been posted on the body's Web site. In it, Dugard, a South African lawyer who campaigned against apartheid in the 1980s, says Israel's laws and practices in the Palestinian territories certainly resemble aspects of apartheid.
The 24-page report catalogues a number of accusations against the Jewish state ranging from restrictions on Palestinian movement, house demolitions and preferential treatment given to Jewish settlers in the West Bank.
"Can it seriously be denied that the purpose of such action is to establish and maintain domination by one racial group - Jews - over another racial group - Palestinians - and systematically oppress them?" he asks.
Israel says it aims mainly to prevent Palestinian suicide bombings and other attacks that have killed more than 1,000 Israelis in the past six years, and officials note that violence broke out in 2000 after Israel's proposal to pull out of the vast majority of the West Bank and Gaza in exchange for peace was rejected.
Its ambassador in Geneva criticized Dugard for directing attacks only at Israel. Any conclusions he may draw are therefore fundamentally flawed and purposely biased, said Yitzhak Levanon.
The report will be presented next month at the 47-nation rights council's first session of the year. The new body has been widely criticized - even by its founder, former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan - for only censuring one government in the world, Israel's, over alleged abuses.
Dugard's report accuses Israel of terror by F16 fighter jets setting off sonic booms above residential areas. In the West Bank residents live in fear of settler terror.
He says it is grossly inaccurate to say Israel's 2005 removal of settlers and soldiers from Gaza constituted an end to its occupation of that territory, captured from Egypt in the 1967 Six Day War. "Israel retained control of Gaza's air space, sea space and external borders, and the border crossings," he writes. "Gaza became a sealed off, imprisoned and occupied territory."
War crimes have been committed by both sides, he says: "This applies to Palestinians who fire Qassam rockets into Israel; and more so to members of the Israel Defense Forces who have committed such crimes on a much greater scale.
Dugard was appointed in 2001 as an unpaid expert by the now-defunct UN Human Rights Commission to investigate only violations by the Israeli side, prompting Israel and the United States to dismiss his reports as one-sided. 
Israel refused to allow him to conduct a fact-finding mission on its Gaza offensive last summer.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>When Ingmar Bergman rang </title>
<date>Mon Oct 01 00:00:00 IST 2007</date>
<content>
Danish director Bille August is one of the few filmmakers whose works have won two Golden Palm awards at the Cannes Film Festival. The first was for "Pelle The Conqueror" in 1988. This film is about a father and son who immigrate to Denmark in the late 1800s to build a new life. Aided by the powerful performance of Swedish actor Max von Sydow as the father, "Pelle" also won the Oscar for best foreign film. August won his second Golden Palm in 1992 with "The Best Intentions," a film based on a screenplay by Ingmar Bergman that describes the legendary filmmaker's difficult relations with his parents. The actress playing Bergman's mother was Pernilla Wahlgren, whom August later married.  
August, 59, is heading the judges' panel at the Haifa Film Festival's Israeli Film Competition this year. He says he is yet to see an Israeli movie, and that he is excited to do so through the competition. In honor of his participation in the festival, his new film, "Goodbye Bafana," (which has been purchased for commercial distribution in Israel) will be screened there. This film is based on the memoirs of James Gregory (played by Joseph Fiennes), the white South African prison warden who guarded Nelson Mandela (Dennis Haysbert) for years - both when Mandela was first imprisoned in the Robben Island jail, and later when he was transferred to more comfortable conditions. The film begins in 1968, as Gregory arrives at Robben Island along with his wife Gloria (Diane Kruger) and their children, and ends with Mandela's release in the early 1990s. Gregory's memoirs convey how South Africa gradually loosened the bonds of apartheid.  
August says he received the screenplay for "Goodbye Bafana" before he had read Gregory's book (whose authenticity has been in question since its publication in 1995. Critics claim Gregory's position afforded him illegal access to Mandela's correspondence, and that Gregory fabricated the story of his close friendship with the future South African leader).  
"What interested me about the story," says August, "is that this is the tale of a relatively simple young man who, at the beginning of the film, staunchly believes in the apartheid laws, and all he wants is to lead a normal life and take care of his family. He changes, however, after meeting Mandela. [Gregory] is living proof that people can ideologically and morally rehabilitate themselves, that they can change."  
What led you to believe that in 2007, people would still be interested in the story of apartheid, which already belongs to the somewhat distant past? What makes the story relevant today?  
"All I believe is that if a story intrigues me and touches me, it will intrigue and touch others, too; that if it tells me something, it bears a message for other people, too. This is my guiding instinct, and I cannot do otherwise. In addition, I believe there are great similarities between what happened during that period in South Africa and what is happening today in Iraq. South Africa was on the brink of civil war prior to the 1994 elections, but Mandela's leadership, wisdom and vision managed to prevent it. We need men of vision today no less than we needed them in South Africa. I believe that if Iraq were to have its own Mandela - a man with a broad perspective - the situation there, and in other places around the world, would be different today."  
Here in Israel, too?  
"Yes. People have expressed their amazement at how the first issue Mandela addressed upon his release was the need for forgiveness; how, after 27 years in jail, he had not become a bitter and angry man. I think, however, that Mandela's long imprisonment was for him a long meditation, during which he prepared himself for the bloodless creation of a new South Africa."  
Your film is a confrontation between two figures: One has familiar human weaknesses, and the other, Nelson Mandela, is an icon, a legend, one of the most admired men in the world. How did you navigate between such different characters?  
"It was not easy, and this is the reason why, even though there have been many attempts to make a film about Mandela, most of them never made it. It is hard to make a movie about a larger-than-life person while maintaining the ability to depict him as flesh and blood. What helped me in making this film is that the story is presented through Gregory's eyes. In a certain way, my film follows the same pattern as the play and movie "Amadeus," which tells Mozart's story through Salieri's eyes. James Gregory is my Salieri."  
Have you met Mandela?  
"Unfortunately, no. Before filming began, I sent him a letter detailing my ideas for the film and how excited I was about making it, but I did not expect a response. I heard through his close associates only that he was very concerned that the film not distort what really happened. Indeed, all the scenes involving Mandela are based on historical fact. The movie has not yet been released in South African theaters, and I imagine that some viewers will claim it has not enough or too much Mandela, that it is too political or not political enough, but this is inevitable."  
August, a graduate of the Danish Film Institute, began his filmmaking career as a cameraman. He directed his first film in 1978, and his second one only five years later. He won international acclaim in 1985 with "Twist and Shout," a teen comedy. Since his two Golden Palm awards and his Oscar, August's career has taken several turns, not all of them successful. His subsequent films included "The House of Spirits" in 1993, a star-studded international production whose cast featured Jeremy Irons, Meryl Streep, Glenn Close, Winona Ryder and Antonio Banderas. August says he learned much from that film and the difficulties in producing it. In 1996 he directed "Jerusalem," based on the novel by Selma Lagerlof. August visited Israel for the first time before filming began, but for economic reasons, the movie was ultimately shot in Morocco. His next film, produced in 1997, was "Smilla's Sense of Snow," which was not a success, even though it was based on a best-selling book. This was followed by another box-office failure, a 1998 remake of "Les Miserables."  
"After 'Pelle the Conqueror,' I received a slew of offers to make films about immigrants, but I decided I already had made my immigration film," says August. "I wanted to make different films gradually, and to portray what really interests me. I do not want to make political films. I believe politics belongs to the politicians. Still, I believe good films can infuse a political situation with a heart and soul. I think it is too easy to use the cinema for political declarations. To me, there is no magic in that."  
How important is it to you that your films have a unifying personal signature?  
"When you are making a movie, you cannot think about that. You can only try to make the film in the fairest possible way. Even so, I believe that in choosing the story and molding the characters, you make your personal mark on your films. Of course, some movies are more important to you, closer to your heart."  
How did your collaboration with Ingmar Bergman come about?  
"The phone rang, and the person on the other end identified himself as Ingmar Bergman. He told me he had written a screenplay he wanted me to read. At first I thought it was one of my friends, playing a prank on me, but slowly I realized that I really was speaking with Ingmar Bergman.  
"I set two conditions: that if I did not like the screenplay I would not make the film, and that if I directed the film I would not be Ingmar Bergman's assistant - I wanted to be the film's director. I read the screenplay, and of course I liked it very much. I traveled to Stockholm to meet with Ingmar, and the first thing he said to me was that I would be the director, he would be the screenwriter and he had no intentions of interfering with my work. And that's how it was. He did not interfere even once.  
"We spent a few months together, discussed his childhood, his life, filmmaking. I remember that for some reason Ingmar hated Christmas, and there was an occasion when he really did not want me to leave him to go celebrate the holiday with my family, because he hated Christmas. We kept in touch, and now he's dead. This has been a great loss for me."  
Do you still consider yourself a Danish director?  
"Not really. For example, I would not be able to direct a film about Denmark's young people today, because I no longer know them. I do not understand them. I live in London and Denmark, but most of my time is spent traveling the world. Every time I direct a film in a certain place, I feel I belong to it." 

</content>
</article>
