
Home Print Edition Sports
On the Couch / Sporting reflections on the tsunami
It's the defining event of the moment. It may well be the defining event of the decade, perhaps even of the half century. The tsunami disaster is very much a very, very global catastrophe.
By Jerrold Kessel	| Jan. 7, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
It's the defining event of the moment. It may well be the defining event of the decade, perhaps even of the half century.

It's certainly going to be the defining TV moment, especially on global television channels. The tsunami disaster is very much a very, very global catastrophe.

Since this terrible event is causing so many people to revaluate their thinking, to re-address fundamental conceptions of life and belief, it's not only right but absolutely critical that sports people should not remain indifferent to this great challenge to how life in our global world is shaped. Politics and war apart, sport, along with pop music and Hollywood, is television's prime global phenomenon.

The sporting world hasn't remained aloof. In many ways sportsmen have beaten the politicians to the punch by committing themselves to help. They have set example for their adoring publics to follow - clubs from the English Premiership to the NFL and NBA joining multimillionaire soccer, tennis and cricket stars in the growing effort to assist victims.

And then there was a major philosophical question - whether or not to continue play in the face of tragedy. Last week, Channel 2's Yoram Binur reported the curiosity of pubs re-opening along Phuket's entertainment strip in Thailand while Sky News showed several young Dutch men saying "We did our best to help the survivors but now it's time to go back to girls and beer," as they rock and rolled in some of the night spots.

Sri Lanka's cricketers, mindful of the terrible suffering in their nation, called off their tour of New Zealand and returned home. Over on India's hard-hit east coast, however, a decision was taken to go ahead with the opening event of the international tennis season at Chennai (Madras) despite the devastation. Several players said they'd match any prize money they earn and contribute it to the relief fund.

As we all reflect on the implications of a world turned upside down, perhaps it's time for a couple of sobering reflections on sports in a troubled world.

Pakistan was one of the few south-Asian countries whose coasts were shielded from the disaster. Their new cricket star is Danish Kaneria, who blotted his copybook after some magnificent on the field achievements in the series against Australia by engaging in a vicious swearing match with the young Australian batsman Michael Clarke. He was duly fined a hefty sum. On reflection he had the courage to admit he had erred terribly and apologized, saying that something as ugly as that should not happen on the sports field. This is the kind of attitude we need sports people to display toward their competitors, their fellow human beings.

In the dark Apartheid days, South Africa's premier sports commentator was Charles Fortune - something of a an old fuddy-duddy with stark conservative political and social ideas. But one of his strictures bears recalling at this somber time.

When sports people celebrate the defeat of an opponent - a boxer knocked out, a goal scored, a batsman dismissed, Fortune used to lecture that "other players shouldn't behave like barbarians at a fertility dance, yelling and leaping on anyone near you. Have some consideration for the opponent. Remember he has been sharing the game with you. Allow him to retain his self-esteem intact."

Showing consideration for the other - not a bad sporting thought to consider as we ponder the meaning of this, that and everything. Charity, however meritable, is not the only way to pay homage to all those who have suffered as we consider how to act in the wake of the global suffering this disaster has wrought.


Home Print Edition Opinion
From Khan Yunis, you can't see settlers
The invisible occupation is sometimes crueler even than the open occupation that manifests itself at the checkpoints of the West Bank. In Gaza, the soldiers and settlers do not have human form; they are faceless and incorporeal; only voices that bark out commands, bulldozers that destroy and settlements that look like fortresses.
By Gideon Levy	| Jan. 9, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
On the face of it, one could think that the disengagement was already in place. From Khan Yunis, one hardly sees any settlers or settlements at this point. If, in the West Bank, red roofs and water towers are visible from every Palestinian home, here, in the center of the Gaza Strip, people see only watchtowers, camouflage nets and concrete walls. The settlers, the settlements, the soldiers are all hidden on the other side of the vast, cleared-out expanses, fortified behind the armored positions, the iron walls, the tanks and the fences.

Even the soldier at the notorious Abu Huli checkpoint, which splits the main road from Gaza to here, is both visible and invisible as he issues his orders to Palestinian drivers. Only his voice is heard through the scratchy loudspeaker located high on the tower that dominates the road, and the kowtowing drivers rush to obey.

At one time, settlers' vehicles drove through the junction, and the Palestinians knew that they faced a delay of hours because of them. Now, the settlers cross on the bridge above, hidden behind concrete walls, while the Palestinians travel - or are delayed without knowing why - on the road below.

The invisible occupation is sometimes crueler even than the open occupation that manifests itself at the checkpoints of the West Bank. In Gaza, the soldiers and settlers do not have human form; they are faceless and incorporeal; only voices that bark out commands, bulldozers that destroy and settlements that look like fortresses.

In Khan Yunis, there is no need to wait for the settlers to carry through their threats to resist government decisions by force in order to come to the conclusion that Israeli democracy has been wounded.

The very presence of settlements such as Ganei Tal and Neveh Dekalim, which are depicted in the media as flourishing communities, with kindergartens, synagogues, lush fields and residents who are now experiencing serious distress, attests to the existence of apartheid. On one side, you have a minority that lives in affluent communities and dictates the life of the majority around it by means of military force that protects it and maintains total separation on the ground. On the other side, across from the terrifying watchtowers that encircle the two settlements, is the Khan Yunis refugee camp, with streets of sand and mud, a place most Israelis never see.

The attacks on the settlers are described as murderous terrorism that is perpetrated in a vacuum, the product of a bloodthirsty character; but the day-to-day suffering that the settlers cause the Palestinians is not shown. The Khan Yunis refugee camp is now in mourning for its sons who were killed and its houses that were demolished. No one here is talking about the disengagement plan or about the elections being held today. Here, they are all preoccupied with a cruel battle of survival. Mourners' tents can be seen in every corner of the camp. Fresh memorial posters are put up on the walls every day. One of them shows the face of Ahmed Touman, 17, who suffered from Down's Syndrome and was killed a few days ago. The hospital report states that bullets were found in his head, his heart and his ribs, and that fragments were found in his leg and hip. The Israel Defense Forces Spokesman's Office stated that soldiers had fired warning shots at his legs.

In the muddy alleys, terrified children pick at the new ruins. Every rainfall turns the camp into a vast swamp, and with the razed houses, the place looks like a disaster zone. Much of the residents' suffering is due to the existence of the settlements, which choke them from the west and dispossess them of their land; and when this situation prompts armed individuals to open fire at the settlements, the army responds disproportionately, causing harsh suffering to thousands of innocent people.

But do we have the right to look only at the present and forget the past, which led to their wretched existence? Shouldn't that past at least create the feeling of a desire for atonement?

Every family here carries the memory of a different life, on the streets of Majdal and in the fields of Isdad, in the groves of Kastina and the bountiful lands of Faluja - 45 towns and villages in the area north of the Gaza Strip that were destroyed and lost to them. Everyone whose house is now being demolished under the tracks of the IDF bulldozers is a child of families who once experienced similar destruction. Hardly a day goes by here without leveling and demolition operations. Only the silver sea of the greenhouses in Ganei Tal and Neveh Dekalim is left untouched. In their fields, which border the refugee camp, another ugly side of the new pioneers is revealed - the NIS 35-48 a day that a handful of workers from Khan Yunis earn for the privilege of working the plots where the settlers grow spices for export.

In Gush Katif, they haven't heard of minimum wage or about justice. It's hard to describe in words what the Khan Yunis refugee camp looks like. The camp reaches the consciousness of Israelis only through IDF reprisal operations such as "Purple Iron" or "Autumn Wind." Few ask what sin these people have committed; the only desire of most of them is to live in humane conditions at long last. They are suffering primarily from the occupation, which is here because of the settlements, and from Khan Yunis, an end to the occupation looks very far off indeed.

As the settlers brandish "moral considerations" against "the evacuation of Jews from their land," we must remember what life in Khan Yunis is like, whose land this is, who the real victim is and how all this suffering settled on the local population here.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Jan. 10, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Another historical distortion

Regarding "National imperative vs. civil rights," January 4

That Moshe Arens should be looking for historical parallels to support his stand against the withdrawal from Gaza is no surprise, but his selection of the evacuation of the Japanese from the western coast of the United States and their relocation in internment camps is yet one more example of the distortions of history to which the anti-disengagement forces are resorting. Granted, it is less offensive than the sick comparison drawn by those who have donned the orange star in a vile attempt to liken their journey from the Gaza beaches to the Negev sands to a one-way ticket from the streets of Munich to the ovens of Auschwitz. Nonetheless, the analogy drawn between the Evacuation and Compensation Law and Executive Order No. 9066 is an affront to those Japanese who spent the war under guard in barren camps in remote, desolate areas in the U.S. interior after being branded enemy aliens.

There is one point, however, on which I must agree with Arens: If the settlers choose to remain after the IDF has withdrawn, let them. No one can accuse the state of abandoning them. They are being offered hundreds of thousands of dollars in compensation, alternative housing, psychological services, logistical support - in brief, everything down to assistance in bubble-wrapping the fine china. If a fanatic minority responds to this with "Hell no, we won't go," the state should neither cajole nor threaten and certainly not engage. Rather, it should announce the date on which Israel is turning out the lights in Gaza and bringing its boys home. Let us not dance to the tune of those who choose to stay behind in defiance of the national will; it is to them that we must say that there is no partner.

Susie Becher

Herzliya

Confrontational mindset

Israeli politicians continue to be stuck in a confrontational mindset. To what extent are the terrible events of the last four to five years the product of such confrontational actions as Ariel Sharon's deliberately provocative visit to the Temple Mount? What would have happened if, instead of starting to shoot at the demonstrators shortly afterward, we had started to discuss their grievances with them? If we had been prepared then to admit, as some of our leaders and most of the public belatedly now do, that the occupation was a mistake, the current murderous intifada and our severe retaliation could have been avoided. And now, when it comes to withdrawing from Gaza, this time we find ourselves, consistently, in a situation of confrontation with the settlers.

Wouldn't it be a lot better if our political leadership were to simply tell the settlers: If you are prepared to come back to Israel we will help you - but if you insist on staying where you are, that's fine, as long as you realize that you will be on your own? After the date of withdrawal, we will not send soldiers to protect you and we will not provide you with any services. You will become residents of another country, subject to its rule of law. This principle should, of course, be followed too with respect to the West Bank - it is most likely the only practical way of achieving a reasonable solution.

In the long run (maybe very long) it is, after all, absolutely inevitable that some sort of federated state will emerge - a repressive apartheid regime cannot survive for very long.

Ben Kaplan

Haifa

Too little, too late

Regarding "Ministry decides Shin Bet will no longer scrutinize Arab educators," Jaunary 6

The reversal of the Education Ministry's offensive policy of Shin Bet investigations of teachers and principals in the Arab education sector is welcomed, but it is also too little and too late. What about the scores of individuals who were harmed by this policy and similar policies in other sectors of Israeli society? Do they not have a right to redress and compensation for the wrongs they suffered? In addition, a few years ago Human Rights Watch published a report that documented the inherently separate and disgracefully unequal nature of Arab education in Israel. This is a result of the same type of ethnocratic attitudes that permitted the Shin Bet supervision. It is time to end these policies and build a real democratic society here.

Louis Frankenthaler

Jerusalem

U.S. Haredi example

Regarding "All for the sake of the children," January 6

The distress of the Haredi (ultra-Orthodox) community at the requirement to include the core curriculum in their schools strikes one as rather ingenuous. The state is not trying to deprive their children of money, as they contend, but simply to make certain that they can function as productive, self-supporting citizens of Israel. Since the Talmud itself teaches that a father is obligated to teach his children a trade, it seems strange that they are opposed to having their schools do just that. If they don't want to, they can educate their children as they wish, but they will have to pay for it. Taxpayers have no obligation to fund schools that do not meet the standards the state has set for education.

When one compares the status of the Haredi community in other countries - the U.S. is a prime example - with their status here, it becomes obvious that Israel has done them no favor in catering to their demands through the years. The Haredi community in the U.S. is flourishing. Most of its children receive an education that includes the tools needed for modern living. Most of the community members also earn their livings in various trades and professions and still manage to study Torah. Only a small number devote themselves exclusively to a life of study. They pay for their own institutions and schools, since in America religious schools do not receive state funding, yet they manage very well.

It is to be hoped that the government here will stick to its guns - though it is very unlikely. And if not, the court should step in to see to it that the principle of equality is upheld here. The Haredi community would do well to look abroad to see a more efficient pattern of life than that that they have adopted in Israel.

Rabbi Reuven Hammer

Jerusalem


Home Print Edition News
Probe ordered into HMO's arrangement with hospitals
Civil Service Commissioner Shmuel Hollander yesterday ordered a probe into the arrangements in place between the Maccabi health maintenance organization and government hospitals Assaf Harofeh in Tsrifin and Wolfson in Holon.
By Ran Reznick	| Jan. 14, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Civil Service Commissioner Shmuel Hollander yesterday ordered a probe into the arrangements in place between the Maccabi health maintenance organization and government hospitals Assaf Harofeh in Tsrifin and Wolfson in Holon.

As published yesterday in Haaretz, Maccabi members - as opposed to individuals covered by the other HMOs - are hospitalized at the two medical centers in separate wards and receive preferential treatment that includes expedited care, direct contact with senior doctors and sometimes better hospitalization conditions.

Maccabi and the hospitals did not request or receive approval for the arrangements from the Health Ministry.

Hollander yesterday instructed attorney Yoram Kovnik, the deputy disciplinary commissioner, to conduct an urgent probe into the affair, and to ascertain whether senior members of the management at the hospitals and the Health Ministry have been involved in implementing and backing the arrangements.

Hollander said the affair raised concerns regarding the undermining of the legal obligation to provide equal medical case at state-run hospitals.

MK Shaul Yahalom, the chair of the Knesset Labor and Welfare Committee, said yesterday that his panel would be holding an urgent discussion on the matter next week, while Labor MK Eitan Cabel asked Health Minister Dan Naveh for answers as to why Maccabi members were getting preferential treatment at hospitals run by the Health Ministry.

A senior Health Ministry official told Haaretz yesterday that he was ashamed to be a part of the ministry's management, which had given de facto approval and support to such arrangements, noting that the phenomenon could lead to "medical apartheid."


Home News
Destroying Zionism for a generation
By Adam A. Salkin, University of Leeds	Jan. 24, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
As an active member of Britain's foremost Jewish campus body, it has proven impossible not to notice a veritable trend amongst the Jewish student population. Ever increasingly, it seems that the majority's attitude towards the State of Israel is ill-informed and marked by plain ambivalence.

So from where has this monster of indifference reared its ugly head? The answer is almost certainly found in the last few years of fighting, biased news reporting and prejudiced views.

Regardless of moral, legal and political justifications, the image of an Israeli soldier with an indefensible child at gun point leaves an intractable impression on the adolescent mind. This in itself is a problem which will gather pace as time goes by.

On the one hand, less and less students have had the 'Israel Experience' that a post-16 tour provides, and which once formed the bastion of Zionist Education in the UK. Moreover, this is compounded by the decision of so many Jewish gap-year travelers to choose the Far East and South America over Israel.

Meanwhile, Jewish teenagers were taught Hasbara and Israel Advocacy with exigency. Of course, this was most necessary and pertinent. The only problem was that so much attention was paid to defending the actions of the Israeli government that we forgot to explain why Israel was worth defending.

Finally, it became increasingly apparent that the boundaries between Jewish identity and Israel were unclear, leaving obvious problems. Questions started to arise: Does anti-Zionism constitute anti-Semitism? And if so, is that right? Is support for Israel a burden worth carrying? And so on.

Do not think for a moment that I am suggesting that the students of yesteryear were all inexorable foot soldiers of Zion. Clearly, this was never the case. But what I do submit is that for a whole generation of Diaspora students who grew up during the intifada, disenfranchisement has taken a hold.

To release that grip, immediate action should be taken. Birthright activity should be expanded, exchange programmes with British universities should be initiated and the most important men and women in Israeli society should come and explain why Israel is so important to their lives.

When the third in line for the throne dons a Nazi uniform, one can be assured that memories fade easily. On campus itself it was only last term that students witnessed the establishment of a fake 'Wall of Apartheid' mocking Israeli policy in the territories. The sad truth is that when anti-Semitism remains latent, ambivalence to one's homeland is a luxury that students simply cannot afford.

Whilst the erection of a defining Separation Fence has indeed been applauded by senior politicians as victory over Palestinian terror, the yardstick of victory should not simply be measured by the suicide attack rate.

Although vital, the truth is that the intifada has destroyed Zionism for a generation, our generation. This defeat is not only detrimental to the Jewish students themselves but to the state of Israel as well whose hopes and dreams for this new century are pinned on youth of the Jewish world today.


Home News
70 Nobel Prize winners laud beleaguered UN chief
By Reuters	| Jan. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
UNITED NATIONS - Seventy Nobel Prize laureates, including former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, on Thursday endorsed the leadership of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in the face of questions about his role in the tainted Iraq oil-for-food program.

"He has never failed to take a critical look at the UN to examine its weaknesses and recommend improvements," the prizewinners said in a statement released by the nonprofit New York-based Better World Campaign.

"We commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for effectively leveraging his moral authority, independence, and wisdom to elevate the United Nations to meet its highest principles," the letter said.

The United Nations said Annan was grateful for the warm words.

The UN chief "trusts that he can count on them to use their expertise in their respective fields to further the goals of the United Nations," it said in a statement.

Annan, who shared the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize with the United Nations, was this week questioned for a third time by a commission he appointed to investigate mismanagement of the $67 billion U.N. oil-for-food program.

Some conservative U.S. lawmakers have demanded his resignation and the head of the commission, former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, was expected to issue his first findings in the inquiry next week.

Those signing the statement included winners for their work in peace, medicine, literature, physics, chemistry and economics.

On the list were authors Nadine Gordimer, Gunter Grass of Germany, Toni Morrison, Seamus Heaney and Elie Wiesel.

Also signing the document were Kim Dae-Jung, the former South Korean president and economist Joseph Stiglitz.

Besides Carter, former Nobel Peace Prize winners included ex-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, former Costa Rican President Oscar Arias, South African anti-apartheid campaigner Bishop Desmond Tutu and former South African President F.W. de Klerk.

The Better World Campaign, which organized the letter, is a sister group to the UN Foundation, created in 1998 by a $1 billion pledge by media mogul Ted Turner in support of UN programs.


Home General
You can count on them
A new study purports to defuse the demographic issue by giving smaller estimates of the Palestinian population. But is it accurate?
By Aluf Benn	| Jan. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Bennett (Ben) Zimmerman couldn't believe his eyes as he looked down from the settlement of Har Bracha at the city of Nablus, which lies at the foot of the hill. "When I visited the West Bank and saw Nablus, I asked myself, `Is that the whole thing?' I thought it would be a lot bigger," he relates. Zimmerman once saw a Palestinian spokesman being interviewed on CNN and talking about an Arab majority in the Land of Israel. The visit to the territories convinced him that it's inconceivable, that the numbers just don't add up. Where are all these Palestinians? He smelled a plot. When he got back to Los Angeles he wrote an article for the Internet site of Arutz Sheva, the settlers' pirate radio station, entitled "Time for a Recount."

The article, which appeared in November 2003, warned about a Palestinian campaign for the establishment of one state with equal voting rights for all, like the struggle that was conducted against South Africa in the 1980s. The Palestinians, he maintained, were trying to inflate the number of residents in the territories in order to undercut Israel's image. The best way to deprive the Palestinians of this tactic, he wrote, is to challenge the accuracy of their exaggerated numbers. He addes that if the data of the Palestinian Authority were accepted without proper checking, Israel's existence would be based on an Arab lie.

Zimmerman, who supports Jewish sovereignty west of the Jordan River, decided to investigate the subject and to show that the public debate over the "demographic problem" is being conducted on the basis of mistaken data that inflates the number of Palestinians and diminishes the scale of the Jewish majority in the country. He contacted Yoram Ettinger, a former Israeli diplomat who is a strategic adviser and a well-known extra-parliamentary right-wing activist. Ettinger had previously published articles casting doubt on the severity of the demographic threat.

"Ben called me and said, let's seize the initiative; I would invite a few people in Israel, he would invite a few people abroad, and we would see if we were right and they were wrong," Ettinger said this week. "I deliberately chose a range of people who would bring me back to earth in case I let ideology take control."

The missing 1.5 million

Their efforts were presented this month at think tanks in Washington and Jerusalem and in the Knesset's Foreign Affairs and Security Committee. Their findings purport to undermine the conventional verities and show that there are a lot fewer Arabs in the territories than is generally thought. According to their calculations, there are 2.4 million Arabs in the territories and not 3.8 million, which is the number usually accepted by politicians and researchers and is based on data of the Palestinian Authority's Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS). The "million-and-a-half person gap," they call it.

These statistics are political dynamite. The "demographic problem" is the cardinal justification for supporters of Israeli separation from the territories. It has become a truism of the public and political discourse that within a few years the Jews will become a minority "between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean" and that if the Israeli occupation continues, Israel will find itself in the midst of an unavoidable explosion between its Jewish identity and its democracy. Either it will become a binational state with an Arab majority or it will be reviled, like South Africa in the apartheid period.

During the years of the intifada, this approach trickled from the left into the political center, and even Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who in the past denied the existence of a "demographic threat" now cites it as justification for withdrawing from the Gaza Strip. The Palestinians are aware of this Israeli anxiety and are trying to intensify it. Saeb Erekat, a Palestinian cabinet minister, who this week spoke at a conference held by the Pares Center for Peace, warned his listeners, "Every additional house you add in the settlements prevents a solution of two states for two peoples. And then there will be one state, but you will be a minority in it." However, if the Jewish majority is large and stable, and there really is no demographic problem, there is also no rush to get out of the territories.

Exaggerated estimate

The findings of the study (which can be found at www.pademographics.com) are generating doubt about the previous assumptions. The study's authors cleverly used official Palestinian data in order to undermine the familiar numbers. Cross-matching of figures issued by the Palestinian Health Ministry, which counts the number of births and deaths in the territories, with the data of Israeli Border Control, which monitor the entrances to and departures from the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, showed that the estimate of the PCBS was exaggerated. The birthrate in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip was lower than expected and the Palestinian balance of immigration was negative in recent years, in contrast to the forecast. The PCBS also counted Palestinians who are residents of East Jerusalem, who also appear in the official statistics of Israeli residents. After these adjustments, the number of Palestinians in the territories is put at 3.06 million, which is hundreds of thousands lower than the accepted figure.

But the group did not stop there. They maintain that the Palestinian Health Ministry exaggerated the number of births, perhaps as a result of political pressure. Therefore, they cross-matched those figures with the data of the Israeli Civil Administration in the pre-Oslo years and with a press announcement by the Palestinian Elections Committee, according to which 200,000 Palestinians are living abroad. By this means they succeeded in reducing the number by another 650,000. Subsequently they tried to refute the claims that the Palestinian birthrate is the highest in the world, and to remove from the count Palestinians who moved from the territories to inside the Green Line and received Israeli ID cards. Those figures, though, are more controversial.

The project leader, Ben Zimmerman, is a businessman who runs a small fund for investing in shares of Israeli high-tech companies. He votes Republican and loves the old songs of Elton John. He got into politics a few years ago when he established American Friends of the Golan and fought against the withdrawal plan of former prime minister Ehud Barak.

"I love being on the Golan Heights," he said this week. "They have a special way of life there, which has to be preserved for future generations. And there is no demographic issue, either." Zimmerman lived in the Golan Heights for a few months and ran his business affairs from there, but did not consider immigrating to Israel, he says. "I am an American and I don't even use the title `Zionist,' because that means moving to Israel."

Zimmerman is part of a group of Jewish activists from the West Coast who bypassed the traditional Jewish establishment and launched aggressive pro-Israel activity during the intifada. Historian Roberta Seid, who took part in the demographic study, is the author of a book on the slim image among woman. In recent years she has been active in the organization "Stand With Us," which demonstrated in favor of the separation wall in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague.

Yoram Ettinger, the Israeli partner in the study, enlisted for his team Brigadier General (res.) David Shahaf, a former head of the Civil Administration in the West Bank, who is not politically involved. After examining birth rate data in neighboring countries and trying to infer from them the trends in the Palestinian society, Shahaf succeeded in obtaining the reports of the Palestinian Health Ministry. That was the breakthrough. According to Ettinger, getting the data from the Israeli authorities, and especially from the Interior Ministry, was more complicated. The work went on for about nine months.

Zimmerman raised the funds, about $15,000, donating a third himself, getting another third from a person named Peter Mander, and the rest from a few donors in Los Angeles. The research team included only one demographic expert, Avraham Shvout, as well as several historians and mathematicians. Publication of the findings was delayed, Ettinger says, until professional confirmation was received from another demographer, Nick Eberstadt, from the American Enterprise Institute, the bastion of Washington neoconservatives.

Need for a check

Objections to the new study have been voiced by Prof. Sergio DellaPergola, one of Israel's leading demographers and a researcher at the Jewish People Policy Planning Institute in Jerusalem. In a report he published last year, DellaPergola estimated that the Jewish majority in the Land of Israel would reach an end around 2010. His conclusion was that the country should be divided on a demographic-ethnic basis, with exchanges of populated areas: The Palestinians would get the Arab towns and villages in the Triangle area in return for the settlements adjacent to Jerusalem and those in western Samaria: Ma'aleh Adumim in exchange for Umm al-Fahm.

According to DellaPergola's calculations, there are 3.4 million Palestinians in the territories. After reading the Zimmerman-Ettinger study, he says he did not take into account the emigration of Palestinians and thinks this has to be examined, as well as examining the birth and mortality statistics of the Palestinian Authority.

"The emigration question requires investigation, and we also need to understand the difference in number of births between the PCBS and the Palestinian Health Ministry," he says. But he disputes both the view that the birthrate among Muslims in the territories and inside the Green Line can be expected to decline significantly, and the optimistic forecasts about an increase in the number of Jews.

According to DellaPergola, "Even if we make the unreasonable assumption that the Arab fertility rate will fall immediately to the Jewish level, without taking emigration into account, there will be erosion in the Jewish majority. It will be slower, but in the end we reach the day of a tie, and the day on which the Jews will be a minority between the sea and the river. In the light of far more reasonable fertility assumptions, the Jewish majority will end very quickly." Zimmerman, in contrast, says that if 50,000 Jews immigrate to Israel every year it will be possible to preserve the 60:40 Jewish majority over time.

So who's right? Both sides show in their reports that demographic forecasts tend to be proved wrong, especially in unstable areas such as the Land of Israel. But despite the crucial importance of demography to the political debate and the shaping of Israeli policy, the government has flinched from undertaking a thorough examination of the data.

Zimmerman says he was surprised to discover that since the Oslo accords and the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, no Israeli government department has conducted an orderly monitoring of the Palestinians' natural rate of increase and of emigration from the territories. Discussions held last year in the National Security Council produced no clear conclusions. The new study, even if its findings are controversial, will undoubtedly generate a reexamination.


Home News
Canadian Jews condemn 'Israeli Apartheid Week'
By The Associated Press	| Jan. 31, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
TORONTO - Jewish groups are condemning the University of Toronto for permitting an Arab student club to hold a weeklong series of lectures entitled, "Israeli Apartheid Week."

The program, organized by the Arab Students' Collective, begins Monday with lectures about the roots of what the students call Israel's ethnic cleansing and segregation of Palestinians.

"We're trying to educate people on the fact that Israel is an apartheid state and not simply a military occupier of the Gaza," said Hazem Jamjoum, a member of the student group. "Today we'll talk about the origins of the conflict, the 1948 war, when the first half of Palestine was colonized."

The students set up a mock Palestinian refugee camp on campus in an attempt to show passers-by the conditions in which they say many Palestinians have lived since the war.

The students insist their program is not meant to be a slight against the Jewish people, but what they call an oppressive Jewish state. They note Jewish students are taking part in some activities and Ilan Pappe, an Israeli historian at the University of Haifa, is scheduled to speak Thursday. Other speakers come from pro-Palestinian and Arab groups.

The program has infuriated Jewish and human rights groups, noting the title alone is enough to frighten thousands of Jewish students on campus.

"The title of this conference appears to be a conclusion, not a call for debate, and the roster of speakers is almost laughably one-sided," said Alastair Gordon of the Canadian Coalition for Democracies. "Is the University of Toronto hosting a free and scholarly exchange of ideas, or a racist rally masquerading as an academic conference?"

B'nai Brith Canada, the country's leading Jewish human rights group, has dubbed the weeklong program a "hate fest" and called on the university to cancel the event, or at least provide additional security for Jewish students.

The Toronto Police Service said it would provide extra security if warranted.

Canada has been named one of the five countries with the highest rates of anti-Semitic incidents, along with France, Britain, Russia and Germany. The number of anti-Semitic incidents in Canada more than doubled since 2000, with 584 incidents in 2003, according to B'nai Brith.

"We distinguish between hate speech and free speech," said Frank Dimant, vice president of B'nai Brith Canada. "Israeli apartheid is a lie, it's hate, and it's a continuation of the demonization of the state of Israel and the Jewish people."

Dimant said he found the weeklong program all the more repugnant, coming on the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, the Nazi concentration camp in Poland.

"It was words that started the road to Auschwitz and we're hearing the same kind of horrific words again," Dimant said, adding that the university had shown "cowardice" by not banning the event. "We hope that there won't be violence, but my heart goes out to the visible Jewish students, those wear skullcaps and identify themselves as Jews, who have to run the gauntlet this entire week."

David Farrar, vice-provost of students, defended the university by saying the student club had the right to free speech. "The very fact that the Arab Students' Collective and other campus groups exist speaks to a central value at the University of Toronto," Farrar said in a statement. "As an academic community, we have a fundamental commitment to the principles of freedom of inquiry, freedom of speech and freedom of association."

Home Print Edition News
Jewish groups blast `Israeli Apartheid Week' at U. of Toronto
By The Associated Press	| Feb. 1, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
TORONTO - Jewish groups are condemning the University of Toronto for permitting an Arab student club to hold a weeklong series of lectures entitled, "Israeli Apartheid Week."

The program, organized by the Arab Students' Collective, began yesterday with lectures about the roots of what the students call Israel's ethnic cleansing and segregation of Palestinians.

"We're trying to educate people on the fact that Israel is an apartheid state and not simply a military occupier of the Gaza," said Hazem Jamjoum, a member of the student group. "Today we'll talk about the origins of the conflict, the 1948 war, when the first half of Palestine was colonized."

The students set up a mock Palestinian refugee camp on campus in an attempt to show passers-by the conditions in which they say many Palestinians have lived since the war.

The students insist their program is not meant to be a slight against the Jewish people, but what they call an oppressive Jewish state. They note Jewish students are taking part in some activities, and Ilan Pappe, an Israeli historian at the University of Haifa, is scheduled to speak Thursday. Other speakers come from pro-Palestinian and Arab groups.

The program has infuriated Jewish and human rights groups, noting the title alone is enough to frighten thousands of Jewish students on campus.

"The title of this conference appears to be a conclusion, not a call for debate, and the roster of speakers is almost laughably one-sided," said Alastair Gordon of the Canadian Coalition for Democracies. "Is the University of Toronto hosting a free and scholarly exchange of ideas, or a racist rally masquerading as an academic conference?"

B'nai Brith Canada, the country's leading Jewish human rights group, has dubbed the weeklong program a "hate fest," and called on the university to cancel the event or at least provide additional security for Jewish students.

"We distinguish between hate speech and free speech," said Frank Dimant, vice president of B'nai Brith Canada. "Israeli apartheid is a lie, it's hate, and it's a continuation of the demonization of the state of Israel and the Jewish people."

The number of anti-Semitic incidents in Canada more than doubled since 2000, with 584 incidents in 2003, according to B'nai Brith.


Home News
Imbalance of exposure - 'Israeli Apartheid Week'
By Tilly Shames, Lauren Parl	Feb. 3, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The success of Hillel Toronto's IsraelFEST 2005 went almost unnoticed by the media, instead overwhelming coverage was given to Israeli Apartheid Week - another week-long event, which was developed to detract from our positive Israel programming on campus.

The imbalance of exposure for these two events raises the question of just what sparked such massive attention for the anti-Israel event.

Quite simply, by creating a media spectacle for the Arab Students' Collective, external groups, both Jewish and non-Jewish, inadvertently advertised the very events they worked to undermine.

The Arab Students' Collective, with its 12 volunteers on campus and its recycled information, could not alone achieve such international attention for the small refugee tent that was ignored by most students.

Public calls to force the University of Toronto to cancel the anti-Israel events, trying to ban speeches on campus, inundating the Institute for Women's Studies and Gender Studies with letters over their involvement (despite their total disassociation from the event and its principles), heckling speakers while waving banners about terrorism and creating a media stir have all been viewed by Hillel as ineffectual tactics that only take us further from positive results on campus.

Hillel of Greater Toronto, as a beneficiary agency of UJA Federation of Greater Toronto and supported by the Canadian Council for Israel and Jewish Advocacy, strongly objects to the title, tone, and objectives of Israeli Apartheid Week. Hillel at the University of Toronto has held successful meetings with the university administration to ensure that the rights and safety of Jewish students on campus are upheld and that offensive propaganda will be monitored to comply with all regulations.

Hillel will continue its IsraelFEST activities. With our focus on the IsraelFEST slogan, "Keep it Cultural," Hillel students at the university remain committed to presenting the real Israel to their campus community and will not allow their message to become politicized.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Referendum means apartheid
Employing the tactic of repeating a lie, Yesha Council officials are reiterating the same dubious "truth" according to which "the evacuation of Jews from their homes" is immoral, but if the nation decides in a referendum then everything would be fine.
By Yitzhak Laor	| Feb. 3, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The self-satisfaction of the doves, as if they were righteous and thus their work were being done by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, allows the settlers' demand for a referendum to spread as a malignant affliction, gaining legitimacy. Employing the tactic of repeating a lie, Yesha Council officials are reiterating the same dubious "truth" according to which "the evacuation of Jews from their homes" is immoral, but if the nation decides in a referendum then everything would be fine.

This position, with its peculiar contradictions, is heard non-stop in the media. It raises a sad question about the moral outlook of the Yesha Council [Council of Jewish Settlements of of Judea, Samaria and Gaza District] officials. Would a referendum make the withdrawal more ethical? More worthy of obedience? The integrity of the Yesha Council officials also comes into question. If these matters indeed reach the extent of Holocaust images, concentration camps, Star of David patches, what does the magical solution of a referendum have to do with all that?

And if a referendum decides in favor of "a transfer of Jews," should the Israelis who participate in this - regarded by Yesha officials as Nazis sending Jews with yellow badges to death transports - be worthy of an attitude different from the one the train guards deserve?

If the cries of "Auschwitz" can be set aside, for reasons of good taste, the playing of the chord of democracy must not be accepted with forbearance because it constitutes part of the winning tactics of Yesha Council officials. If the opposition or the left wing of the coalition had a bit more courage, its members should have said several explicit things that Sharon cannot say, because he does not think them.

The settlers believe that there is no sovereign that can give up "parts of the Land of Israel," which God promised to the people of Israel. The State of Israel, according to this anti-democratic outlook (which makes wide use of the rhetoric of democracy), cannot represent the people living in Israel. Words to this effect were already written in the declaration establishing the Greater Israel movement immediately after the conquest of the territories, a manifesto that rejected the legitimacy of any government that might try to return the territories.

Moreover, a referendum on the future of the occupied territories that is not held among the Palestinians - the only legal residents of the territories - not only makes a mockery of democracy, and not only from the perspective of international law, but also from the perspective of Israeli law. A referendum of Jews on the future of the Palestinian territories grants a legal seal of approval to the existing de facto state of apartheid in the territories. Why are the settlers so eager to conduct a referendum that they would clearly lose? Because this type of referendum, which requires a legislative process, would give legal validity to apartheid.

These things must be said to counter the settlers' propaganda campaign, but the response must not be confined to a legalistic framework. The silence about the demand for a referendum or the formal answers (about the supremacy of decisions by the Knesset and government) contributes toward reinforcing the Israeli ethnocracy, a polite name for the Jewish collective, "clean of Palestinians." The way the argument is currently being sounded, the arrangement does not affect the residents of the territories at all. According to this argument, their ancestral home has already belonged to the Jewish people for a long time, whether or not the Jewish people decides to give it up.

From the perspective of raising a new generation of masters - masters of the land, the settlers' victory has already been achieved under the auspices of the rear guard battle over disengagement if they are not told the truth: Democracy exists so that human beings and nations can decide their fate and future. It cannot be divided - "only for Jews."

Anyone familiar with the political discourse in Israel realizes that the moment a referendum process begins, the demand will be raised to deny Arab citizens of Israel the right to vote in it. Masters Avigdor Lieberman, Yuri Stern and other democrats have expressed their opinions on the ethnic cleansing of the State of Israel. An argument over the referendum, which does not utterly reject this type of poll, subscribes to the logic of Lieberman.

Strange is the silence of those who believe their role is currently limited to group photographs with Sharon.


Home News
British college reverses ban of Israeli embassy official
By Haaretz Service	| Feb. 5, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The student union at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) in London is being accused of censorship after attempting to ban a senior Israeli embassy official from taking part in a debate later this month, The Guardian reported on Saturday.

Roey Gilad, a political counsel in London, was invited by the student union's Jewish Society. But students voted to ban his appearance and the society was sent an email instructing them that hosting any speaker from the embassy would be "against union policy" and that they should "uninvite" him, the British daily reported.

On Friday, authorities at the college, which is part of London University, forced the student union to reverse the decision, which they said would have contravened freedom of speech laws, according to the report.

Colin Bundy, the college director, made it clear that "it's not on and contradicts our commitment to freedom of speech. I think this comes with the turf of being a very political institution," according to The Guardian.

In a statement, Kavita Meelu, co-president of the union responsible for its societies, said they would heed the university's advice and allow Gilad to address members, but refused to support the event. "We have advised the society that the student body ... has explicitly expressed that they do not wish for this speaker to be allowed a platform, and therefore will not be actively supporting the society's event."

Meelu confirmed that the union set a policy last November which made the elimination of "foreign occupation, apartheid, [and] Zionism" as a prerequisite for peace a fundamental belief of the union. Hosting an official from the Israeli embassy would compromise this, she said in an email.

Gilad told The Guardian: "This goes against freedom of speech which should be everywhere but in universities in particular. It prevents someone presenting his agenda, and someone who represents a legitimate state. I didn't expect this in the UK, let alone at a university."

Gilad said that the embassy would pursue the issue should the ban stop any Israeli citizen speaking at the union, according to the report.

The row is the latest in an on-going feud within the student union over the Israeli - Palestinian conflict. The Jewish and Palestinian societies have repeatedly clashed.

Last November members of the Jewish Society complained after a conference was held entitled Resisting Israeli Apartheid: Strategies and Principles, which relaunched attempts to garner an academic boycott against Israel, The Guardian reported.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Feb. 7, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Arafat's heritage

Regarding "The Last Palestinian," January 20

How interesting that in describing Yasser Arafat, the writers didn't mention that he was the "grandfather of modern-day terrorism." In addition, Arafat was not a Palestinian. He was born in Egypt and hijacked the Palestinians, just as he did airplanes. He left them in far worse condition than he found them, stealing money the world gave to better Palestinian society. Arafat used the Palestinians for his own accumulation of wealth and his own twisted sense of aggrandizement. Never interested in democracy, which would have freed the Palestinian people, he kept the Palestinians under his dictatorial boot, and left them almost breathless with a whipped-up hatred for Israelis.

I hope and pray that Abu Mazen can resurrect the Palestinian people into a freedom-loving democracy that will peacefully coexist with Israel.

Arlene Samuels

Mount Pleasant, SC

Sharansky's acts

Regarding "Jewish groups blast `Israel Apartheid Week' at U. of Toronto," February 1

I found it interesting that, next to your op-ed column on the expropriation of land in Jerusalem is the article on "Israeli Apartheid Week."

Natan Sharansky, who presents himself as the ultimate champion of democracy and civil rights, doesn't hesitate to act as though he is still in the USSR, and not in a prison, but as a typical Soviet official deciding - in the absence of others - to steal private property.

I would be interested in knowing the reaction of President Bush, who loved Sharansky's book on democracy, on this expression of democracy, civil rights and freedom. Is this how Bush wants democracy to be spread in the Middle East?

Sharansky should be ashamed. He probably will accuse anyone who disagrees with him of anti-Semitism, to justify his Bolshevic act!

Avner Azulay Pinkas

Tel Aviv


Home Print Edition Opinion
The cost of the alternatives
The settlers on the right believe that continuing the Zionist dream requires more time to fulfill the divine promise, and that the Land of Israel belongs only to the people of Israel.
By Shaul Arielli	Feb. 9, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
On the eve of the opening of a political window of opportunity, it would have been a good idea to make clear to the Israeli public the long-term significance of success or failure of the two sides to get back to the negotiations table and reach a permanent final status agreement. Such a recognition of what is at stake could have an influence on the prime minister's readiness to move with the necessary determination from the Sharm el-Sheikh summit to an end to the conflict.

The Israeli debate about the solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict moves between two poles. One, adopted by most of the public, is based on the two states for two peoples idea, with a variety of positions regarding the territorial solution ranging from a return to the Green Line to an evacuation of no more than 40 percent of the territories.

The other pole is the position held by the settlers and their representatives to the right of the prime minister, who are trying to master the entire Land of Israel and want to push the Palestinians eastward, whether through a long-term process based on the current policies or as a result of a war, which from their perspective is inevitable.

The debate between the supporters of the two alternatives is over the principle, and does not take place on the same level between them. Most of the first group would also be happy to live in a State of Israel that goes from the sea to the Jordan River if it could manage to maintain a Jewish majority, a democratic regime, economic prosperity and be a member in good standing of the family of nations. But this public is aware at various levels of the limits of Israel's ability to have its cake and eat it too, and wants to implement the Zionist dream now on only part of the Land of Israel.

The settlers on the right, on the other hand, believe that continuing the Zionist dream requires more time to fulfill the divine promise, and that the Land of Israel belongs only to the people of Israel. They explain that the demographic issue will be solved through divine intervention, without too much enthusiasm for democratic values.

If the different futures sketched out by the two alternatives are similar in essence and different only with regard to the amount of time and effort involved, then the question must be asked, what is the price of a mistake by the alternatives and what is the probability of either being actualized?

The failure of the alternative based on a partition of the land along the 1967 lines, in addition to losing 23 percent of the land of our forefathers, could be expressed in the creation of a small and poor Palestinian state suffering from anarchy, instability and a lack of governmental uniformity, and exports local terror and criminal activity against Israel as the preferred manner of dealing with the frustration and despair of its citizenry. The state of Israel will have to continue fighting the Palestinians, parallel to its economic support for the Palestinian state.

On the other hand, insistence on the dream of the Greater Land of Israel could, because of the absence of Palestinian emigration eastward and the impossibility of separation on demographic grounds that exist nowadays, be turned into a nightmare where the State of Israel maintains an apartheid regime, with the Jews rejecting the demand by a majority of the Arabs for equal civil rights.

The international excommunication and pressure to change the situation could lead to a binational state led by an Arab majority in the Knesset that hurries to cancel the Law of Return and open the gates of the country to Palestinians from the world over. The economic fate of a state of Palestine-Israel, which would still be better than its neighbors, would turn into a magnet for the poor in the region, something that would motivate that Jewish population that could afford it to emigrate. The Zionist dream would turn into a 100-year-old episode in the 1,500 year history of Muslim rule in the Land of Israel.

The failure of the Oslo Accords to reach a permanent solution turned into a belief in Israel that there is no partner on the Palestinian side for the first alternative, and by default led to the perpetuation of the current situation, which serves the expansion of the settlement enterprise in Judea and Samaria, the heart of the second alternative.

The anticipated strengthening in the 21st century of Islam, which already numbers some 1.3 billion people around the world, the nuclearization of Islamic countries and the continuing war of cultures in which Western Europe does not regard Israel as either an ally or in the forefront of the struggle tilts the outcome; in less than a generation, all the negative ramifications of the rightist settlers' alternative will come true, with a heavy price to be paid for the mistaken "all or nothing" approach.

The fact that the price of the mistake of the settler alternative is obviously greater than the other alternative requires most of Israeli society to start to work on behalf of the partition idea, while there is a partner in the form of Mahmoud Abbas, and to reunite around the strategic choice made by David Ben-Gurion, who preferred a Jewish state over the Greater Land of Israel.

The writer headed the peace administration team in former prime minister Ehud Barak's bureau and was one of the initiators of the Geneva Accord.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Democracy versus demography
The difference between the opponents and supporters of the disengagement is in the measure of transparency of their hostility toward the Arabs and mastery over them.
By Lev Greenberg	Feb. 9, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Yitzhak Laor argued that the demand for a referendum is not democratic but meant to consolidate an ethnocentric regime ("Referendum means apartheid," Haaretz, February 3). He also called on "doves" who support the disengagement to stop the formalist-legalist discussion and raise democratic arguments about the rights of the Palestinians. I agree with his criticism but the question is, why is there no real democratic discourse in Israel?

The position of strength of the Yesha zealots in Israeli politics is not numerical. They do not have a coherent strategy for the future of the country. Their strength is in the discourse, language and myths that grant legitimacy to the regime, and the "doves" of Labor and Yahad share that with the messianic zealots.

Disengagement opponents use everything that "works" in the public discourse: the Jews as victims, Holocaust, democracy.

They know very well that a discourse about civil rights and democracy is "leftist," so therefore they demand a referendum. The amazing thing is that the messianic zealots' discourse is seemingly "democratic" while the "left's" is "demographic."

The difference between the opponents and supporters of the disengagement is in the measure of transparency of their hostility toward the Arabs and mastery over them. The discourse of the disengagement supporters presents the Arabs as a threat and tries to frighten the listener by speaking of the "demographic danger." The disengagement opponents simply ignore the human existence of the Palestinians.

But in the debate between democracy and demography the zealots of Yesha have the upper hand, and it is possible that in a "democratic" struggle they will win a majority in the referendum, especially if only the votes of the Jews are counted. After all, if everyone agrees that it is the Jews who will decide on the lives of the Palestinians, then there is no " demographic danger."

That is the power of the Yesha Council and the messianic zealots in the public debate, despite their numerical weakness: the agreement between "doves" and "hawks" that the Land belongs to "us," the Jews, and the only relevant nation to decide on the fate of the Land is the Jewish nation. According to that approach, the Palestinian residents of Gaza need not be asked what the fate of Gaza will be. It's up to the "nation in Zion," Israelis living inside the 1967 borders and the Jews living in Gaza and the West Bank, to decide. That is the approach of a "master nation": The Jews will decide what is best for the Palestinians. The consensus between the Yesha zealots and the "dovish left" is called "a democratic Jewish state." See the Kinneret Covenant for proof.

That is not a democratic state with a Jewish character and culture, but a discriminatory regime that grants more rights to Jews, and denies equal rights to Arabs. No democracy in the world has one nation deciding what is good for another nation. Such a regime has been called by Prof. Oren Yiftahel an "Ethnocracy" and it is the wish of "the nation in Zion": to be the masters of the entire land.

Every discussion of the Palestinians as equal human beings born in the image of God is termed "treasonous," the language of "Arab lovers." Therefore, there is no language or democratic discourse that supports disengagement and rejects a referendum.

The racist view that ignores the existence of occupied peoples or represents them as inferior, wild and dangerous emerged in Europe of past centuries to justify the white man's takeover of land and natural resources he did not own in Africa, America and Asia. That's how they sought to legitimize their acts of plunder, looting, repression and killing. In Europe, that racist approach was applied to "the Semitic" nations "invading" Europe, starting with the Jews. We were the victims of that racism, and history - or divine intervention - has now given us a difficult test.

In the attempt to escape anti-Semitism, we built a colonialist reality in the Promised Land that negates the humanity of the "natives." After the occupation in 1967, that view became the exclusive discourse, so much so that it was frightening to dispute it in public.

I am aware that it is difficult to change a discourse, especially when its protectors are so violent. Yitzhak Rabin (may he rest in peace) paid for it with his life. A week before the murder he was asked on TV how he would conduct the withdrawal if he did not have a Jewish majority. The question infuriated him, and he termed it a racist question. The delegitimization of Oslo was based on the argument that it was based on "Arab votes." It is difficult to change a discourse, but the problem is that it is even more difficult to dismantle an occupation's apparatus without dismantling the discourse, the language and myths that justify and perpetuate it.

The writer is a political sociologist at Ben-Gurion University.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Feb. 11, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Splitting hairs

Regarding "What makes refusal legitimate?" February 4

The sad truth is that the tolerant reception by your paper and others on the left for the actions of the "refuseniks" during the intifada has led directly to the catastrophe of the coming refusal of those on the right. Instead of stepping up and taking responsibility for this terrible mistake, you print this ridiculous piece, which has more hairsplitting than a Talmud lesson in the Ponevezh yeshiva.

Why don't you say loudly and clearly that anyone who refuses to serve, and particularly those who incite others not to serve, on the basis of government policy, are doing great harm to the democratic process in Israel?

Hershel Wein

New York

Let's heal the rifts

In her column, Dahlia Scheindlin sets up a straw-man argument for cutting down anti-disengagement refuseniks and propping up refuseniks on the left. One could just as easily recast the terms to have the opposite effect.

For example, it would be quite easy to say that refuseniks on the left are only attempting to undermine Israeli security and army morale by blatantly flouting military directives decided upon through the civil administration and Israel's democratically elected officials and appointed defense minister. In fact, they do so knowing it to be illegal and that they will stand trial for it, and it is likely they have the political objective of forcing the government to pull out of the territories, rather than any real moral conviction at the core of their actions.

In addition, rather than consulting the most moral among them, they have consulted only professors of the post-Zionist persuasion, who have a clear political agenda. It is doubtful that anyone looked into these professors' backgrounds to see how many cheat on their spouses, or engage in immoral practices such as visiting houses of prostitution or viewing pornography.

By contrast, the anti-disengagement refuseniks are appealing to a higher moral compass about a violation of civil and human rights of Jews who were encouraged to settle the land, and were turned on by an administration that, while democratically elected, obtained its position only through lies, since it proceeded to do exactly what it was elected not to do: capitulate to Palestinian demands to turn over Gaza and parts of Judea and Samaria.

The sheer horror of such a thing drove the anti-disengagement refuseniks to seek refuge from the moral turmoil by turning to their rabbinic leaders for help in making such a difficult decision.

It is doubtful that either side would consider an act of utter moral reprehension to be a legitimate act of the government. For example, if it decided to transfer Israeli Arabs, I doubt Ms. Scheindlin would all of a sudden feel this was a legitimate government action. So now that we've proven each side is articulate, perhaps it is time we sat down and started discussing these issues as reasonable people, as Jews, as brothers and sisters who need desperately to understand how deep the rifts are between us so we can begin, at last, to heal them. Better we learn to get along sooner rather than later.

Marc Jacob

St. Louis, Missouri

Vital proactive measures

Regarding "A ticking bomb under our noses," February 4

In Yoel Marcus' piece, Marcus eloquently references the threat to Prime Minister Sharon's life from the settler movement. These indeed are tense times and, except for the security surrounding Sharon, greatly reminiscent of the last months of Yitzhak Rabin's life. If we have learned anything from the assassination of Rabin, it is that we should be alert to such threats to Israeli leadership and the democratic institutions they lead. The increased security details prove, in part, that something was learned from this most unfortunate chapter in Israeli history.

However, the security measures are greatly reactive in kind, and there must be proactive measures implemented to protect the prime minister. The government must start arresting anybody who encourages sedition and incitement. Rabbis and leaders of the settler movement must be meticulously monitored and aggressively handled for the actions they are taking today. Only when these proactive measures are taken will Sharon's life be safe once again.

Steve Berman

Atlanta, Georgia

Israel's UN obligations

What I found interesting in Yoel Marcus' article was the mention that it cost a "cool million" to protect Ariel Sharon while he attended an annual luncheon held at Beit Sokolow to commemorate the United Nations vote on establishing the Israeli state. Of course, no mention was made of just about 65 other UN resolutions that Israel has arrogantly defied or ignored, including Resolution 194 - enshrining the right of return of the Palestinian refugees, or compensation for those not wishing this - as well as the decision by the International Court of Justice, the principal judicial organ of the UN, that Israel dismantle its apartheid wall in occupied Palestinian territory.

In its 57-year history, 181 is probably the only UN resolution Israel has recognized and demanded that the world do likewise. It is high time for the world to demand that Israel finally honor its obligations and its own declaration that it would remain faithful to the principles of the UN charter.

Marlene Newesri

New York

Ushering in a new era

The gathering of the four leaders in Sharm el-Sheikh on Tuesday and the hopeful speeches by all of them could usher the region into a new era, if what we heard represents a genuine departure from the old ways into something new that will meet the aspirations of the people in our region. Despite the setbacks of the last few years, the thousands of dead and injured, and the atmosphere of suspicion and mistrust between Arab and Jew, it was quite promising to see the four leaders sitting together speaking in Arabic and Hebrew with no American (at least, no visible American) presence, in the conference room.

I truly believe that we - Arabs and Jews - can live together in peace and can replace enmity and bloodshed with friendship and a good neighborly relationship. After all, we are so similar and have so much in common. Let's hope that this time our long-held ambitions and dreams will come true.

Issam Abu Roza

London

NY Jews are flourishing

Regarding "The `Silent Jews' speak out" February 7

I can tell Shoshana Kordova, as a Jewish New York resident and Columbia graduate, that Natan Sharansky's depiction of an intimidated Jewish student body is nonsense from beginning to end. The Jewish community in New York is flourishing: Its members are overrepresented in the faculty of local universities proportional to their numbers in the population and Jewish students are likewise overrepresented as a proportion of those enrolled. So far from being intimidated or discriminated against, they have been accepted in large numbers in one of the nation's most competitive universities, are affluent (Columbia is expensive) and are prominent among university financial supporters. Yet Sharansky, instead of expressing a deep satisfaction at the status of America's Jewish citizens, is doing his best to convince them and the rest of the world that they are somehow not receiving their due.

Miriam M. Reik

New York


Home Print Edition Opinion
Good morning to the Israeli left
After an eternally long hibernation, we are starting to hear the sounds of its awakening. Only when the wind is once again blowing in its direction - and not because of anything it did - does the extra-parliamentary left dare to come out of the closet where it locked itself up more than four years ago.
By Gideon Levy	| Feb. 13, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Good morning to the Israeli left. After an eternally long hibernation, we are starting to hear the sounds of its awakening. Only when the wind is once again blowing in its direction - and not because of anything it did - does the extra-parliamentary left dare to come out of the closet where it locked itself up more than four years ago.

Perhaps one should welcome these signs of awakening, but it is impossible not to hold it accountable for its lengthy, disgraceful and cowardly silence that abandoned the street to the right and the settlers. For more than four years Israel has been doing anything it wanted in the occupied areas, practically without any domestic criticism. It killed and demolished, uprooted and brutalized, and practically nobody protested. The world saw what was going on and shouted about it. But not us. When Israel desperately needed an alternative view, a clear sound of protest, practically nothing was heard, not a peep, except from a few small and brave organizations.

So it is difficult to forgive those who were silent, looked away and wrapped themselves in indifference, thus depicting Israel as monolithically supporting the government. The rustling noises that are beginning to be heard from the Zionist left are too late to clear it of its responsibility: With its silence until now it became a partner to all the government did during those damnable years. With the evaporation of the Labor Party and the fear and impotence that gripped the other bodies of the Zionist left, the only active element in society was the settlers. Thus the government managed to continue its brutal policies and the settlers nurtured their enterprise without disruption.

Now, under cover of a prime minister from the right, the left suddenly has remembered that it also has something to say, as a weak, pale echo of Ariel Sharon. The first to speak up, as usual, were the writers of the avant-garde, at the head of the camp. In a properly stylish advertisement a few days ago, Amos Oz, A.B. Yehoshua, David Grossman, Meir Shalev, Agi Mishol and a few other elite writers called out for "a change in consciousness and feeling."

What change? What consciousness? They also called for a renewal of the political negotiations, a very daring move after the Sharm el-Sheikh summit, and proposed the government recognize the suffering of the Palestinian people, in exchange, of course, for their recognition of our suffering.

A group of filmmakers and musicians joined in that call, but with one difference. At least in the advertisement from Daniel Barenboim, Pinhas Zuckerman and Zubin Mehta, there is at least an admission that the occupation is the direct source of the suffering of the Palestinian people and there is a clear call in their ad for an end to it; the authors weren't ready to go that far.

It's hard to believe: After nearly 38 years of occupation and four years of intifada, the leading writers of the peace camp are still dividing the responsibility for what is happening symmetrically between the two sides: "In our eyes, each of the sides bears some of the responsibility for the injustice, the suffering and the tragic situation in which the two nations are trapped," they wrote with self-righteousness.

That "we're all guilty" approach is no less outrageous than the silence that went on and on and on. How does one break the silence of the peace camp? Attribute the same measure of responsibility to the occupier and occupied, the powerful and the weak. Call both the soldiers at the checkpoints and their subjects, whose lives are beneath the soldiers' feet, "to change consciousness and feeling" even before the checkpoint is lifted; preach to the assassin and the assassinated to fall into each other's arms; draw parallels between a nation whose economic, cultural, social and emotional lives were completely destroyed and a nation in which the vast majority of people can go on with their lives as if nothing has happened; a people that has been imprisoned and humiliated, versus a free people in their own sovereign state.

Even without counting casualties - three times as many on the Palestinian side - there is no room for comparison, not of the extent of the suffering nor of the measure of responsibility. Can't the writers see the decisive weight of responsibility that lies on the occupier's side for the creation of the injustice, or did they not summon up the courage to admit as much, lest it anger the readers?

Immediately after the authors awoke, Peace Now came out of its faint. In another two weeks, it has been said, it will be returning to the street and squares. "The Coalition of the Majority," the umbrella organization of the left and the protest groups (oxymoronic titles if ever there were) is to convene a mass demonstration. Why didn't they do it beforehand, in the dark years of assassinations and demolitions when the need was far more critical? The explanations and excuses are ridiculous: the desire to maintain as broad a common denominator as possible and the fear of failure.

But the silence was the greatest failure of all. It is impossible not to ask now where everyone was for the 346 children that Israel killed. What prevented them from protesting when 112 wanted men were assassinated without trial and another 521 innocent passersby were killed at the same time? The demolition of half of Rafah, the uprooting of olive trees in the West Bank, the erection of the wall, the apartheid roads for Jews only, the imprisonment of an entire nation behind checkpoints for years - none of it awakened most of the artists or the "coalition of the majority." They were silent. They were afraid. They were complicit.

The alternative voices, the voices of the protest movements and authors, have a vital role in society that goes far beyond merely what they say. They are supposed to pave the way and protect the pluralistic and democratic character of the state. But after four and a half years in which society spoke in one uniform voice, the disgraceful silence on the left, the camp that only awakens under the patronage of the prime minister, shows it is a cowardly, frightened camp.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Feb. 15, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Basic and obvious

Are the opponents of a long school day for real? Is it possible that there would be opposition to the most basic building block of society? Around the world children go to school for a whole day and survive, thrive and do better in math and reading comprehension tests than our kids do.

For years I had to stop work to run across town to pick up kids. How can the economy operate if women can only work half a day? How can people oppose this idea? It is beyond me. There is so much to learn, children deserve more than four to five hours of education a day.

Barbara Shaw

Jerusalem

Bias on campus

As graduates of the School of Oriental and African Studies, we were disappointed to read that once again its Student Union is the vanguard of anti-Israeli bias when we read the story "British college reverses ban of Israeli embassy official." The Student Union attempted to ban Roey Gilad, a Jewish Israeli government representative, from appearing on campus in protest against what it describes as "foreign occupation, apartheid, [and] Zionism." Just weeks ago, however, the school hosted Israeli-Arab MK Azmi Bishara. Though Bishara is an outspoken proponent of Palestinian rights in Israel and the Palestinian territories, he is also an elected member of the Knesset and a representative of the same Israeli government that SOAS has allegedly banned.

It is inconsistent and racist of the Student Union to permit Israeli-Arab officials to speak at the college while excluding Jewish-Israeli officials. It appears that this campus, like others in the United Kingdom, Canada and the U.S. are not serving as forums for dialogue and reconciliation, but instead as the incubators of hate and partisan politics.

Matthew Miller, New York

Ravit Kadosh, Toronto / Tel Aviv


Home Print Edition Opinion
The natives' time is cheap
Foreign diplomats and Palestinian VIPs are signaling to Israel that as long as their precious time is not affected, Israel can continue unhindered to maintain the apartheid roads - that is, the apartheid reality in the West Bank.
By Amira Hass	| Feb. 23, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Every day between 8 and 9 A.M., or between 3 and 4 P.M., two lines of cars - one short, one long - stretch beyond the concrete cubes, the guard tower and the soldiers at the eastern exit from Ramallah. In the morning the lines are heading for Ramallah. In the afternoon they are leaving it. The Israelis call this the Beit El checkpoint, which separates the Ramallah salient from the Jewish settlement in the West Bank, the buildings of the Civil Administration and the huge military base. The Palestinians call it the DCO checkpoint, after the former location of the Israeli-Palestinian District Coordination Office, which is intended for foreigners and Palestinians with pull and special permits, including ambulances and service vehicles.

The short line of cars is in the middle lane of the crossing point. The longer one in the outer lane. The short line is short because it is populated by VIPS, who have preferential crossing rights: first of all the diplomats, the representatives of foreign countries; respected directors and employees of international organizations; and of course Palestinian VIPs of the first rank. The cars in the long line sometimes wait 10 to 15 minutes for the foreign and Palestinian VIPs who have just arrived to go through first.

Sometimes one feels like getting out of the car that is waiting in the long line and asking the diplomat or the VIP who has just arrived and will go through in a moment - his face looking straight ahead and not to the sides - whether he really thinks that his time is more precious than all the other people's time. But this desire is quelled by a sense of shame, because those who are in the long line of cars are also better off than those who have to go through the Qalandiyah checkpoint, or those whom Israel does not allow to go through at Qalandiyah, or those who go through only on foot, because the waiting in a taxi is too prolonged.

All in all, at the DCO checkpoint it is the privileged who are allowed to go through, among them Palestinian merchants, high status Jerusalemites who work in Ramallah, second- or third-rank Palestinian VIPs. Everyone who waits in the two lines of cars, Western diplomat or Arab diplomat, Israeli journalist or Palestinian VIP, will get onto the bypass road that is blocked to most Palestinians.

Each of the two lines collaborates the consistent Israeli policy of creating apartheid roads in the West Bank. There is one system of roads for the natives, and it is winding, narrow, long, bumpy, sown with military checkpoints and frequently closed. And there is the system of road for "Whites," that is, Israelis, or all kinds of people who have been whitened - diplomats, VIPs, wealthy people with permits, merchants, journalists.

The travelers in the two lines collaborate with the logic of the occupation, whereby in order to protect the welfare and well-being of the Jewish settlers, it is permissible to create two separate transportation networks.

There is one transportation grid for Whites that connects the Jewish settlements in the West Bank to Israel. It ensures not only superior transportation contiguity for the Jews but also Jewish territorial contiguity, while breaking any Palestinian territorial contiguity. The special transportation network for Whites was conceived by the Israeli authorities in the 1980s, and a prolonged legal battle that the Palestinians waged against the plan delayed it for almost a decade. And then - under the guise of the peace talks in the 1990s - the construction of the "bypass" roads began on lands that were stolen from the Palestinians for the sake of the master plan to expand and perpetuate the Jewish settlements in the West Bank and to link them to Israel.

The two road grids, like the Pass System (travel permits) that Israel introduced in 1991 and that to this day limits most Palestinians' freedom of movement, ensure Israel's control over the time of all Palestinians. Stolen land is concrete, so now and then calls are heard to stop the construction in the Jewish settlements or halt the confiscation of lands.

But time? It is abstract. Time, however, is a precious resource for every human being. Time that is robbed while waiting at checkpoints, or waiting for permits, cannot ever be returned. The loss of time, which Israel is stealing every day from 3.5 million people, is evident everywhere: in the damage it causes to their ability to earn a living; in their economic, family and cultural activity; in the leisure hours, in studies and in creativity; and in the shrinking of the space in which every individual lives and therefore the narrowing of their horizon and their expectations.

The travelers in the two lines collaborate with the logic that the time of the natives or of the non-VIPs is not precious, as opposed to their own time. The foreign diplomats and the Palestinian VIPs are signaling to Israel that as long as their precious time is not affected, Israel can continue unhindered to maintain the apartheid roads - that is, the apartheid reality in the West Bank.


Home Print Edition News
World Council of Churches calls for divestment from Israel
By Haaretz Staff	and Reuters	| Feb. 24, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
PARIS - The World Council of Churches, the main global body uniting non-Catholic Christians, encouraged members earlier this week to sell off investments in companies profiting from Israeli control of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

The Council's Central Committee, meeting in Geneva, praised the United States Presbyterian Church for examining the possibility of divestment in Israel similar to the financial boycott it used against the apartheid regime in South Africa two decades ago.

The Presbyterian threat, which echoes divestment debates at some U.S. universities, has set off a wave of dissent in the church and angered American Jewish leaders.

But the Central Committee, in a document approved at a week-long meeting at WCC headquarters that ended on Tuesday, highlighted the divestment push and encouraged other member churches to consider doing the same.

"This action is commendable in both method and manner, uses criteria rooted in faith, and calls on members to do the `things that make for peace'," it declared, quoting St. Luke's Gospel. "Economic pressure, appropriately and openly applied, is one such means of action."

It was not clear how many of the WCC's 342 Protestant and Orthodox member churches would heed the call.

"Multinational corporations have been involved in the demolition of Palestinian homes," the WCC statement said, adding that they were also involved in "the construction of settlements and settlement infrastructure on occupied territory, in building a dividing wall which is also largely inside occupied territory, and in other violations of international law."

The Presbyterian Church's General Assembly last July called for a "phased, selective divestment" beginning no earlier than July 2006. A dissident group is asking church leaders to place a moratorium on the project as early as next month.

No companies have been singled out, but a report naming the most likely targets is due in August.

Human rights groups have urged Caterpillar Inc., the world's largest maker of construction machinery, to stop selling bulldozers to the Israel Defense Forces, saying they are used to wreck innocent Palestinians' homes in Gaza and the West Bank.

The occupation "is at the center of the cycle of violence in the region, whether it is suicide bombings or the displacement caused by the occupation... and impedes a peaceful solution to that conflict," the committee now selecting possible divestment targets said recently.

It is unclear how much of the church's $8 billion portfolio - investments covering pensions and other holdings controlled by its leadership - might be at issue.

Jewish groups are clearly upset.

"Instead of talking about peace, we're talking about Presbyterians," David Elcott, director of inter-religious affairs for the American Jewish Committee, said this month. "They have deflected conversation in a very negative way."

The move was also condemned by the Anti-Defamation League. "As we have said repeatedly in conversation with Presbyterian Church leaders," National Director Abraham Foxman said in a statement, "divestment policies are counterproductive and a detriment to the newly revived peace initiative between the Israelis and Palestinians, and fundamentally flawed as a mechanism for resolving the conflict. Divestment hurts not only Israel, but has economic impact on Palestinians as well."

The 2.5 million-strong church, the ninth largest in the U.S., represents most U.S. Presbyterians.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Feb. 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The knife of occupation

On January 29, a few days before the Sharm el-Sheikh summit, the Israeli army handed the people of Lower Beit Hanina land-confiscation orders so that the accursed apartheid wall could be built in and around the village. The wall will, in effect, imprison the villagers and cut them off from their historic lands and orchards, as it snakes its way in and around the village. The people of Beit Hanina (upper and lower) have lost more than 60 percent of their lands to the settlements and bypass roads that bisect the village and connect the settlements.

Now it seems that they stand to lose another 60 percent of the lands that are left, which leads me to question the motives of Sharon's "disengagement" plan. It seems that Ariel Sharon is ridding Israel of the Gaza Strip and "trading up" by grabbing more of the lands of the West Bank!

In the words of Malcolm X, "Don't stick a knife in me 10 inches, pull it out six, and tell me you've made progress." In our case, the Israeli government has stuck the knife in the Palestinian people 10 inches, pulled it out two inches, and then stuck it in six more and has the gall to call it "progress"!

We want the "knife" of occupation completely out of our body!

Mike Odetalla

Canton, Michigan and Beit Hanina

Reclaiming Shabbat

Regarding "Battle of wills and walls," February 20

I totally agree with Shahar Ilan's analysis of the significance of the [Western] Wall. I have always said this about other areas where the Orthodox enjoy a spiritual monopoly. Leaders can only be leaders where there are followers. If everyone marrying in Cyprus made alternative arrangements for their weddings, held their own private services in Israel and stopped worrying about the religious court, the government would have to find a legal solution for the situation.

My dream is to see the secular Jews of Israel reclaim Shabbat. What if the secular/traditional community stood up proudly and said: We keep Shabbat. Shabbat is important as a day of rest, a family and friends day, and we keep it religiously by going to the beach or having a barbecue? Instead of rejecting religion, instead of looking to the Orthodox community for legitimization, we should all enjoy being religious in our own way. A strong and proud-to-be-celebrating Judaism, secular/traditional community is the only way to keep Israel both Jewish and modern.

Rachel Selby

Jerusalem

Enough for misfits

First, let me thank you, Mr. Ilan. As an Orthodox Jewish woman and a member of Women of the Wall, I appreciate the way you write about my group. You're one of the few people who understands who we are and what we're about. Most people who write about us either have no idea, or, for various reasons, are not interested in the facts.

Regarding your article: In principle, I agree with your premise that another section of the Western Wall where everyone can worship freely, according to their personal choices, is a good thing. Nevertheless, how much accommodation for everyone will there truly be? I am an Orthodox woman who prefers separate worship. I am also a member of two women's prayer groups, one of which is Women of the Wall. During my prayers - whether as an individual or with a group - I want to be able to concentrate properly, without being jostled by groups of tourists or exposed to the gaze of men. Currently there is no mehitza (divider between male and female worshipers) at Robinson's Arch, and for me that is a problem.

Moreover - speaking as a private person - I would consider worshiping at the Robinson's Arch section only if it contained the same amenities that exist in the current worship space: 24-hour access without a fee, security, running water for washing and drinking, chairs, tables, a secure space in which to keep Torah scrolls, restrooms and a shelter from the winter rain and the summer sun. (In the current worship space, enormous amounts of indoor space are available to the men, while the women have only a tiny room at their disposal. Yet with enough good will and imagination, room in those tunnels could also be made for women, since a separate entrance already exists.)

The area at Robinson's Arch should be an alternative worship area rather than a secondary one. Right now it is barely that. It possesses a floor and a wall, nothing more - which the government evidently believes is enough for misfits.

Rahel Jaskow

Jerusalem

Home News World
We need evangelical Christian support
The evangelicals' influence on the decision-making process in Washington, and particularly on the dominant Republican Party, is several times greater than the influence of American Jewry.
By Yehiel Eckstein	Mar. 7, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
In a recent op-ed column ("A pernicious, dangerous alliance," Haaretz, February 23), MK Avshalom Vilan expressed concern about the alliance that is being "forged" between evangelical Christians in the United States and the extreme right in Israel. A sober and correct consideration of the situation would lead to the conclusion that today, more than ever, the State of Israel and its leaders should welcome the embrace offered by the evangelical community, which should not be taken lightly. This support is particularly important given recent expressions of anti-Semitism and the anti-Israeli attitude of Europe and the UN.

We must understand that "born-again" Christians now constitute one-third of the population of the U.S. and that this group includes some of the most important decision-makers, including the president of the U.S. and many figures in the current political administration. I do not, heaven forbid, belittle the influence of American Jews, who do a great deal for the sake of the State of Israel, but the influence of the evangelicals on the decision-making process in Washington, and particularly on the now-dominant Republican Party, is several times greater than the influence of U.S. Jewry.

Why does Israel receive such overwhelming support from the evangelicals? Mainly because most of them recognize the Jewish origins of Christianity and consider the Bible a sacred book and primary source of authority, in which they find a call for support for Israel and the Jewish people (Genesis 12). Aside from that, the evangelicals consider this support atonement for the thousands of years in which Christianity persecuted the Jewish people. Another reason has to do with political motives, which differ from those noted by MK Vilan: Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East, and the shared friendship has a common goal - of promoting democratic values so opposed to those of despotic Arab regimes.

In contrast to the evangelical movement, the Presbyterian Church, which is considered one of the liberal Protestant movements, declared a consumer boycott and a move toward divestment from Israel a few months ago. The Presbyterians were not even embarrassed to say their objective was to produce economic isolation, as was done to South Africa during apartheid. The Episcopalian Church is considering doing something similar. To my regret, these churches have succeeded in creating a media echo that reverberates through the U.S. and Europe. A poll conducted by The Christian Science Monitor, a newspaper that resonates loudly among liberal believing Christians, found that more than 60 percent of its readers support boycotting Israel.

This boycott does not issue from sublime humanitarian motives. These churches did not call for a boycott of the darkest and most savage regimes known to humanity. Needless to say, the evangelical churches enlisted on behalf of Israel and joined American Jewry in raising their united voice in protest at the unjustified boycott.

The economic, political, public relations and tourism support of the evangelical Christians is invaluable, and is critical to the continued existence of the State of Israel. Evangelical Christians are highly important allies - particularly at this time, when Israel finds itself at a political and social crossroads.

While it is true that many of the evangelical Christians belong to the right wing of the political map, their love for the State of Israel is unconditional. The International Fellowship of Christians and Jews, which I head, enlists support from these evangelicals - and contributes more than $100 million annually for the sake of the State of Israel and the Jewish people. These funds are not designated to construction of settlements, but to genuine assistance to all sectors of the population, in areas such as immigrant absorption, security and poverty.

The Torah writes about "a people that shall dwell alone and shall not be reckoned among the nations," but when there is such a large and significant movement of believers who offer their love without limits and without conditions, it is only right that we cooperate with them and thank them for their help, rather than attack them. At a time when the rest of the world is arrayed against us, evangelical Christians are true friends who stand alongside us.

Rabbi Eckstein is the president and founder of the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews.


Home Print Edition Features
When the anti-Israel sentiment comes from within
Abraham Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, has become involved in anti-Israel slander, but this time it comes from the campus of the Hebrew University.
By Yair Sheleg	| Mar. 10, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
For years, Jewish organizations and their leaders seeking to contend with blatant anti-Israel statements have encountered the response, "What do you mean? Similar statements are made in Israel, by Israelis."

A few weeks ago, there was a new precedent for this phenomenon. Abraham Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, sent a letter to Hebrew University President Prof. Menachem Megidor demanding a public response to statements made by the head of the university's German studies department, Prof. Moshe Zimmerman. According to the letter, Zimmerman compared Israel Defense Forces soldiers to Nazis.

University authorities in effect failed to say a thing to Zimmerman. Moreover, the university rector, Dan Rabinowitz, demanded that the former leader of the Jewish community in Berlin, Dr. Alexander Brenner, apologize for his statement that "there are professors at the Hebrew University who compare the behavior of IDF soldiers to the behavior of SS soldiers."

Foxman decided to intervene after the matter was brought to his attention in repeated requests from one of the university's lecturers, Dr. Yaacov Bergman of the School of Business Administration. Bergman, who says that he leans to the political right since the events of September 11, 2001, is leading a campaign over Zimmerman's statements, not only on the political front but also mainly as part of a struggle for the image of universities in Israel. His own university, he says, "acts as a guild primarily protecting the interests of its own members, as opposed to the interests of the public."

In applying pressure to Foxman, Bergman took advantage of the fact that Foxman has been embroiled in a similar affair in New York in recent months. There, in a scandal that made waves across the United States, Foxman urged Columbia University leaders to denounce Arab professors in the Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures Department, who regularly question the legitimacy of Israel.

In the wake of the media storm, Columbia President Lee Bollinger decided to cancel a controversial course entitled "Palestinians and Israel," taught by Prof. Joseph Massad. Massad was quoted as having said in a lecture that "The Jewish state is a racist state that does not have a right to exist," and that Ariel Sharon "resembles Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels."

Another professor, Hamid Dabashi, was quoted as having said that Israel is "a ghastly state of racism and apartheid," and called Israel's supporters "Gestapo apparatchiks." Dabashi later announced that he had decided to exercise caution regarding his public statements, and canceled several public appearances.

Foxman writes to Megidor

Foxman did not enter lightly into the Zimmerman affair at the Hebrew University. Bergman says that he threatened Anti-Defamation League personnel that if they do not intervene here, he would "pick up the telephone and call Bollinger's office to tell him that he does not need to take them seriously."

In recent months, Bergman consistently leaned on Ken Jacobson, who heads the Anti-Defamation League's International Department, to the point where Jacobson angrily responded, "I do not respect your pressure tactics."

However, the pressure appears to have worked. On February 16, after a few weeks of correspondence, Foxman wrote a letter to Megidor. In his letter he notes that, "While any professor has the right to express his or her views, it seems to me that the university administration has an obligation to consider when certain views are beyond the pale and harmful to the institution and the Jewish People. I believe leaders of institutions have an obligation to speak out when hateful messages are conveyed, and to consider taking certain actions against those individuals who are articulating such messages."

As the letter's tone makes clear, Foxman does not point to specific actions. "Because of my feelings regarding the question of freedom of expression and academic freedom, I also did not demand that Columbia University take specific steps," he told Haaretz. "I only demanded that action be taken in this matter, and that is what I demand of the Hebrew University."

Foxman said he indeed approached Megidor with a measure of hesitation partially because a Jewish and Israeli institution was involved.

"However, I cannot finally adhere to a double-standard: One demand of Columbia University and another of Hebrew University."

The affair began in August 2001, with an article written by historian Anat Peri for Haaretz. Peri's article investigated the image of Europe and its relations to Israel. Peri wrote a sentence stating that while smaller European nations denounced Israel and compared Israel to Nazi Germany, "Germany, which cannot afford to denounce Israel as the equivalent of Nazi Germany, supports any Israeli person or group who compares Israel to the Nazis, from B'tselem to Prof. Moshe Zimmerman."

Zimmerman filed a libel suit against Peri and Haaretz. It is not Zimmerman's first libel suit. The late Rehavam Ze'evi sued him for libel in response to an article in the weekly Jerusalem that compared members of the right-wing to Nazis. In 2000, Ze'evi won that suit. This time, too, Tel Aviv Magistrate's Court Judge Yehudit Shevah accepted the assertions of Peri and Haaretz that Zimmerman did compare Israeli organizations and individuals to Nazis, on various occasions. She even cited some examples, "Between Hebron youth and Hitler Youth, between the motivation and conditions of service in some of the IDF's elite units and that of the Waffen SS, between Israeli soccer fans and those of the Third Reich, and between the Old Testament and Mein Kampf."

Zimmerman writes to Brenner

In January 2004, about two months before Zimmerman's suit was dismissed, Alexander Brenner was interviewed on Israel Radio in a program about new European anti-Semitism. "The fact that Hebrew University professors compare Israel to the Nazis fans the flames of German anti-Semitism," he complained. A few days later, Brenner received a letter from Zimmerman demanding an apology, on the grounds that, "The faculty at the Hebrew University may assume that you were hinting about me."

He received another request to apologize several weeks later. This letter, signed by Hebrew University Rector Haim Rabinowitz, actually included a proposed script outlining the language of the apology.

Bergman is convinced that the timing of both demands for an apology is not coincidental. "Zimmerman knew that a judgment in his case was about to be made public, and believed that Brenner's apology regarding such an indictment would influence the magistrate."

The demands made of Brenner were exposed in another article, written by Peri for Maariv in July, entitled, "The Hebrew University's Disgrace." The article was accompanied by a response from the university's spokeswoman, Orit Sulitzeanu. According to Sulitzeanu, "The rector believed, based on information which he received, that Dr. Brenner was interested in apologizing to the professors of the university, and, therefore, he was offered a proposed transcript of a letter which would make it possible for him to withdraw his general indictment of them. In retrospect, the rector believes that he should not have become involved in the matter. Zimmerman's reaction to this reticent response was a letter to Maariv attacking the rector for his failure to meet his obligation to protect fellow members of the academic faculty at the university."

Brenner's response was unavailable this week. University spokeswoman Sulitzeanu reiterated her claim that the rector believed, "that Dr. Brenner is interested in apologizing in order to put an end to the affair."

Even when asked, the spokeswoman failed to address Foxman's demand that the university administration respond to Zimmerman's statements. According to Sulitzeanu, the letter reached the university president's office only this week.

Zimmerman, for his part, does not hesitate to attack. "Brenner's accusations toward me are unfounded, even after Judge Shevah's ruling," he said. "Because, with all due respect, we are talking about the Magistrate's Court, and I have already filed an appeal with the District Court."

Zimmerman does not deny the existence of comparisons he has made between aspects of the Nazi period and present-day Israel, but concludes that they are "The comparisons of a historian, based on his professional principles. Comparison does not mean that both sides are necessarily equivalent."

Regarding the involvement of Bergman and Foxman in the affair, he says, "I don't have to respond to every barking dog in the street," and criticizes Foxman's failure to contact him before turning to university administration. "People have to know the facts before they start running around," he says.

Foxman, in turn, said: "It is not my role to conduct a dialogue with this professor. And what could he possibly tell me? That Israel really does resemble the Nazis? What concerns me is that the university handle this."

Foxman promises to continue to confront those who compare Israel with the Nazis in the future, "exactly as we do in regard to people who are not Israelis or Jews. We must not say that it is forbidden for some and permissible for others."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Forget about `conjugal visits'
How many thousands of years of imprisonment were imposed by means of the system of torture during the 1970s and the first half of the 1980s? Nobody has done the arithmetic.
By Yitzhak Laor	| Mar. 14, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Yigal Amir, the murderer of prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, was arrested, interrogated, tried and convicted of murder. Now they're telling us that he hasn't been granted the rights that other murderers receive. That is not accurate. Moreover, the judicial system is part of a broader system of law enforcement, which definitely distinguishes between crimes, and by so doing also defines criminals of one type differently from criminals of another type. Are the police and the state prosecutor really as strict about the murder of Arabs as they are about the murder of Jews, during the stage of detention (or release) of the suspect, or in taking testimony (with torture or without), in the filing of indictments for murder (or for manslaughter, or in closing files for lack of evidence) and, the main thing: in the decision as to which court to send the person accused of murder - to the military court, where the evidentiary laws are a joke, or to a regular court? Let's say this openly: In all these places, the system (police, State Prosecutor's Office, the Prison Services) is accustomed to clearly discriminating between Jews and Arabs. The settlers who murdered Palestinians are the best examples.

In all these places, the judicial system becomes a part of a discriminatory system. For example, the court cannot oppose a decision of the State Prosecutor's Office to have a settler stand trial for the killing of a Palestinian child, rather than for murder. From the point of view of the court, all the criminal prisoners are criminal; from the point of view of the Prison Services, there are "security" prisoners and "criminal" prisoners. The fate of the "security prisoners," even if they are not murderers, is harsh and bitter. The court's use of a special Shin Bet security forces report on the issue of the danger underlying Yigal Amir's conjugal visits was not grotesque. Amir was treated like most of the Palestinian prisoners. Discrimination against him was made possible thanks to the fact that he is defined as a "security prisoner," a distinction that is made by the Prison Services and has no grounding in the language of the law according to which he was tried.

When people say that the occupation corrupts, they also mean the way in which the judicial system, which is ostensibly above the creeping apartheid, falls into it. Moreover, the judicial system rarely makes its voice heard in areas that the legislator has not touched. That was the case for many years during which Palestinian detainees were tortured. At every trial, their attorneys claimed, as in a ritual, that their confessions had been obtained by torture. The courts preferred to listen to the Shin Bet interrogators, who submitted false versions.

Until the establishment of the Landau Committee in the mid-1980s, when the "method" was exposed, the courts' authority was dominated by the state's silent acquiescence to the lawlessness. How many thousands of years of imprisonment were imposed by means of the system of torture during the 1970s and the first half of the 1980s? Nobody has done the arithmetic. How many "security prisoners" are serving sentences today in the prisons, in the courts authority system, without the rights given to criminal prisoners? How many "security prisoners" are serving sentences after being tried in a dubious judicial proceeding (a military court)? How many of the 5,000 Prison Services "security prisoners" have committed crimes as severe as that of Amir - i.e., homicide? How many of them get to go out on leave? Not one. How many of them receive family visits? For years, "security prisoners" from the territories have not seen their children, their wives, their fathers or their mothers. Never mind "conjugal visits."

What is defined as "security" is in effect a declaration of types of Guantanamos in the areas of institutions and regulations. There is no better word in any language to describe this situation than the Mishnaic word "hefker" (lawlessness, abandonment). There is no more outstanding example of this situation of a lawless territory than the outspoken MK Ehud Yatom: The judicial proceedings regarding his criminal acts in the Shin Bet (he confessed to killing two unarmed terrorists) were dropped in the name of security. The lawlessness of "a classified Shin Bet report" - which is regularly submitted to judges, in a kind of pointless ceremony that reached a peak in the preliminary proceedings against Tali Fahima (a Jewish anti-occupation activist) - this lawlessness occasionally receives enthusiastic cooperation from the judicial system. The moment when the Shin Bet investigator winks at the judge - and the judge's expression is frozen - is the moment when democracy is in danger. It has no connection to our security. It is related to the inability of the judicial system to say: These winks are also a type of harassment.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Opinion / Using the Holocaust to ward off criticism
The pilgrimage to Jerusalem of so many European leaders shows that they are not deterred by the criticism of Israel - they are taking part in a media event that can only be interpreted as support for Israel, as it is today.
By Amira Hass	| Mar. 16, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The crowd of world leaders visiting the new Holocaust History Museum at Yad Vashem attests to the strength of Israel's position in the West.

Israel is often criticized in the home country of these leaders, but many Israelis and Jews will, as usual, attribute such criticism to anti-Semitism. Palestinians and left wingers including Jews will discover that the knowledge about the Israeli occupation in these countries is meager, and the public's interest in it is weak.

The pilgrimage to Jerusalem of so many European leaders shows that they are not deterred by the criticism of Israel - they are taking part in a media event that can only be interpreted as support for Israel, as it is today.

At best, the visit can be seen as encouragement to both sides to stick to the "renewed peace process." But encouragement for what? For the meetings between Mohammed Dahlan and Nasser Yousef with Shaul Mofaz? For the separation barrier, whose construction is continuing with vigor, contrary to the verdict of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague? For the condescending Israeli "gestures" - 200 more movement permits to merchants, a road open to private Palestinian vehicles, not only to public ones? Or for the continued mashing of Palestinian East Jerusalem and severing it from the rest of the Palestinian territory, in violation of the international demand that East Jerusalem serve as the Palestinian state's capital?

Are the German foreign minister and the Dutch and Swedish prime ministers - after crossing themselves and proving they remember the Holocaust - planning to remind Israel that all the settlements, not only the outposts, are illegal? Will they demand that Israel evacuate them? Which of the participants in the ceremony will go to see the roads for Jews only and for Palestinians only? Will any of them protest the laws discriminating against Israeli citizens, only because they are non-Jews - Arabs - and threaten to impose sanctions unless these laws are revoked?

One of the infuriating absurdities in every injustice, especially one of inconceivable proportions like the German murder industry (with extensive European aid), is that the victims and their offspring remember and live it day in and day out. The perpetrators, however, repress and forget it, and it is easy for their offspring to ignore it.

So let the entire diplomatic throng, which is seeking Sharon's audience today, go and talk of the European responsibility for the Holocaust in its own territory, not in Israel. Berlin, Paris, Amsterdam, Krakow, Sarajevo, and the villages and forests around them are soaked with the memories of our parents, with the forgetfulness of the perpetrators and their offspring, and with the helplessness and indifference of those standing idly by. Let the prime ministers and foreign ministers go there and raise the memory and knowledge and historic understanding. And not just once a year, on the day of Auschwitz's liberation or Germany's surrender, just to pay lip service.

We remember and feel the pain of that liquidation day by day. Let us confront them with it day by day. For example, let it be inscribed on a large marble slab outside every house in which Jews used to live, where they were deported and where they were murdered. Let every railway station from which the human transports were dispatched provide the information: when, how many trains a day, how many people. Let the names of those responsible for the transport be written down - at the police station, the railway station, city hall.

The way to fight the fading memory is not merely with memorial monuments and ceremonies. It is done mainly with an uncompromising rejection of the master race ideology, which divided the world into superior and inferior races and denied the principle of equality among human beings. We were placed at the bottom of the ladder of the Nazi ideology. Would this ideology not have been criminal had we been ranked in the upper rungs?

An ideology that divides the world into those who are worth more and those who are worth less, into superior and inferior beings, does not have to reach the dimensions of the German genocide to be improper and wrong - the apartheid in South Africa, for example.

Thirty-eight years of Israeli occupation of the Palestinian nation have accustomed generations of Israelis to regard the Palestinians as inferior, and therefore not as deserving as we are. But hush, one must not say that out loud, because Israelis will raise an indignant cry: "How can you compare?"

In the same way, it is forbidden to demand of us - with diplomatic threats - to change our ways. Because then we will remind them of our people who were murdered.

This widely covered event shows that Israel has turned the liquidation of Europe's Jews into an asset. Our murdered relatives are being enlisted to enable Israel to continue not giving a damn about international decisions against the occupation. The suffering our parents endured in the ghettoes and concentration camps that filled Europe, the physical and mental anguish and torment that our parents were subjected to every single day since the "liberation," are used as weapons to thwart any international criticism of the society we are creating here. This is a society with built-in discrimination on the basis of nationality, and the discrimination is spreading on either side of the Green Line. This is a society that is systematically continuing to banish the Palestinian nation from its land and usurp its rights as a nation and its chances for a humane future.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Using the Holocaust to ward off criticism
The pilgrimage to Jerusalem of so many European leaders shows that they are not deterred by the criticism of Israel - they are taking part in a media event that can only be interpreted as support for Israel, as it is today.
By Amira Hass	| Mar. 16, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The crowd of world leaders visiting the new Holocaust History Museum at Yad Vashem attests to the strength of Israel's position in the West.

Israel is often criticized in the home country of these leaders, but many Israelis and Jews will, as usual, attribute such criticism to anti-Semitism. Palestinians and left wingers including Jews will discover that the knowledge about the Israeli occupation in these countries is meager, and the public's interest in it is weak.

The pilgrimage to Jerusalem of so many European leaders shows that they are not deterred by the criticism of Israel - they are taking part in a media event that can only be interpreted as support for Israel, as it is today.

At best, the visit can be seen as encouragement to both sides to stick to the "renewed peace process." But encouragement for what? For the meetings between Mohammed Dahlan and Nasser Yousef with Shaul Mofaz? For the separation barrier, whose construction is continuing with vigor, contrary to the verdict of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague? For the condescending Israeli "gestures" - 200 more movement permits to merchants, a road open to private Palestinian vehicles, not only to public ones? Or for the continued mashing of Palestinian East Jerusalem and severing it from the rest of the Palestinian territory, in violation of the international demand that East Jerusalem serve as the Palestinian state's capital?

Are the German foreign minister and the Dutch and Swedish prime ministers - after crossing themselves and proving they remember the Holocaust - planning to remind Israel that all the settlements, not only the outposts, are illegal? Will they demand that Israel evacuate them? Which of the participants in the ceremony will go to see the roads for Jews only and for Palestinians only? Will any of them protest the laws discriminating against Israeli citizens, only because they are non-Jews - Arabs - and threaten to impose sanctions unless these laws are revoked?

One of the infuriating absurdities in every injustice, especially one of inconceivable proportions like the German murder industry (with extensive European aid), is that the victims and their offspring remember and live it day in and day out. The perpetrators, however, repress and forget it, and it is easy for their offspring to ignore it.

So let the entire diplomatic throng, which is seeking Sharon's audience today, go and talk of the European responsibility for the Holocaust in its own territory, not in Israel. Berlin, Paris, Amsterdam, Krakow, Sarajevo, and the villages and forests around them are soaked with the memories of our parents, with the forgetfulness of the perpetrators and their offspring, and with the helplessness and indifference of those standing idly by. Let the prime ministers and foreign ministers go there and raise the memory and knowledge and historic understanding. And not just once a year, on the day of Auschwitz's liberation or Germany's surrender, just to pay lip service.

We remember and feel the pain of that liquidation day by day. Let us confront them with it day by day. For example, let it be inscribed on a large marble slab outside every house in which Jews used to live, where they were deported and where they were murdered. Let every railway station from which the human transports were dispatched provide the information: when, how many trains a day, how many people. Let the names of those responsible for the transport be written down - at the police station, the railway station, city hall.

The way to fight the fading memory is not merely with memorial monuments and ceremonies. It is done mainly with an uncompromising rejection of the master race ideology, which divided the world into superior and inferior races and denied the principle of equality among human beings. We were placed at the bottom of the ladder of the Nazi ideology. Would this ideology not have been criminal had we been ranked in the upper rungs?

An ideology that divides the world into those who are worth more and those who are worth less, into superior and inferior beings, does not have to reach the dimensions of the German genocide to be improper and wrong - the apartheid in South Africa, for example.

Thirty-eight years of Israeli occupation of the Palestinian nation have accustomed generations of Israelis to regard the Palestinians as inferior, and therefore not as deserving as we are. But hush, one must not say that out loud, because Israelis will raise an indignant cry: "How can you compare?"

In the same way, it is forbidden to demand of us - with diplomatic threats - to change our ways. Because then we will remind them of our people who were murdered.

This widely covered event shows that Israel has turned the liquidation of Europe's Jews into an asset. Our murdered relatives are being enlisted to enable Israel to continue not giving a damn about international decisions against the occupation. The suffering our parents endured in the ghettoes and concentration camps that filled Europe, the physical and mental anguish and torment that our parents were subjected to every single day since the "liberation," are used as weapons to thwart any international criticism of the society we are creating here. This is a society with built-in discrimination on the basis of nationality, and the discrimination is spreading on either side of the Green Line. This is a society that is systematically continuing to banish the Palestinian nation from its land and usurp its rights as a nation and its chances for a humane future.


Home Print Edition Features
Apre's disengagement, le de'luge
All that Sharon needs to do to get us down off the dangling limb, said a Likud rebel, is let us beat him on the referendum issue. Like us, he knows there's no majority for it in the Knesset.
By Akiva Eldar	| Mar. 24, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Anyone who heard coalition chairman MK Gideon Sa'ar explain that Likud is a brand-name, like Coca Cola and Channel 2, and that a winning brand ought not to be abandoned so easily, would not have been very excited about Monday's storm in the Likud teacup. According to a senior "rebel," most of the group has long since conceded Gush Katif to Sharon but they have no intention of giving up the Likud label. All that Sharon needs to do to get us down off the dangling limb, said the rebel, is let us beat him on the referendum issue. Like us, he knows there's no majority for it in the Knesset.

The trade-off - victory in the finance committee on the budget for Sharon and for the rebels in the law committee on the referendum - therefore satisfies both sides and leaves the Likud cake whole. The rebels can explain to the settlers that they did all they could to save Gaza and northern Samaria, and since the die has been cast it would be best to go home and save what can be saved. Michael Ratzon and Gilad Erdan have no options outside the Likud.

Nor does Labor seem to be counting on the Likud's self-destructing, that is a split between the moderates and the extremists. The new Labor ministers don't expect to spend next winter under Sharon. The closer the disengagement gets, the louder is party chairman Shimon Peres' silence about the day after. It's enough for him to hear from his old friend Abu Ala about the tactics being used by Israel to avoid fulfillment of the Sharm el-Sheikh summit understandings on the departure from Jericho and the release of the 900 prisoners to strengthen that old political fox Peres's feeling that disengagement from Gaza will soon be followed by the disengagement of Labor from Sharon's government.

The noise Sharon is making over the construction of thousands of housing units in area A-1, between Jerusalem and Ma'ale Adumim, sound to Labor ministers like the bells announcing an election. If the Likud is a winning brand, the combination of Likud and "strengthening Israel's capital" doesn't leave much of a chance to any other Zionist party.

The prevailing view in Labor's leadership is that shortly after the disengagement, Sharon will find an excuse, like Abu Mazen's refusal to accept a state with temporary borders, to avoid any renewal of negotiations with the Palestinians. Ehud Barak's call to support the construction in A-1 is yet another sign he is preparing for elections. Who better than he, who knows the Palestinian sensitivity regarding that area, and also knows that going ahead with the plan to fill it with Israeli housing will spell the end of any possible peace agreement with moderates in any Palestinian government. Apparently, Barak also believes that if his brand, One Israel, has lost its appeal, he better not give up the "strengthening Israel" slogan.

Peres is promising to meet Barak, Matan Vilnai, Benjamin Ben-Eliezer and Amir Peretz in the primaries for the Labor Party leadership. His associates say that the Labor Party leader assumes that Sharon, who is pushing 80, will be in a hurry to enlist the popular disengagement brand for his political needs, at home and abroad. As far as Sharon is concerned, after the summer, Labor won't be worth a used tissue.

Democracy, with interest

The Palestinians aren't counting on Sharon. Nazmi Jubeh, one of the Palestinian signatories on the Geneva understandings and close to the PA leadership, was in a Netanya living room meeting on Sunday with Yossi Beilin, and explained what the prime minister looks like as seen from Ramallah. In fluent Hebrew, Jubeh said that "under cover of the disengagement from Gaza, Sharon will complete the separation fence and expand settlement construction in the West Bank, west of the fence. He will say that Israel is only taking 8 percent of the West Bank and that we should establish our state in temporary borders on the remaining land, without East Jerusalem and without a solution to the refugee problem."

Jubeh says that he does not know a single Palestinian leader who would buy that merchandise, and warns that if Israel doesn't reach a deal with Abu Mazen in the next four years on the basis of the Geneva accords, the Israelis won't have anyone to talk to about a two-state arrangement.

What Jubeh didn't say at the meeting was that the brand name Fatah, which for the past decade has been the standard bearer of the two-state solution, is in the midst of a self-destructive internal struggle that makes the troubles in the Likud look like child's play. Intelligence sources say that if Abu Mazen does not put Fatah's house in order he'll wake up on the day after the elections to the Palestinian Legislative Council and find himself in the minority. Unlike the Labor Party, Hamas is not a party that will extend a helping hand to a political rival in trouble. It will pound him without mercy.

While the Fatah leadership is busy negotiating with Israel over lifting another checkpoint in Jericho and freeing another prisoner from jail, Hamas is planning to take over more than the PLC. The heads of the Islamic fundamentalist organization are playing with the idea of taking over the PLO from within. Their first step would be to cancel the Palestinian National Council's 1988 decision which transformed the organization's armed struggle to eliminate the State of Israel into a call for a political agreement based on acceptance of UN Security Council Resolution 242 and support for a two-state solution based on the June 4, 1967 lines.

President Bush wanted democracy in the Middle East and he is getting it, with interest. Next month, when Sharon complains to him about the problems in his party and asks Bush to turn a blind eye to "national" initiatives like construction in A-1 and preparing the borders of the temporary state he has in mind for the Palestinians, Bush will have a pile of intelligence assessments on his desk about the sorry state of the ruling party in Palestine.

When Bill Clinton asked Yasser Arafat to take into consideration the political constraints on Benjamin Netanyahu, including pressure from a Sharon-led right flank, the rais responded, "You think I don't have an opposition?" That was before the intifada turned Oslo, for Palestinians as well as Israelis, from the capital of a peace loving country into a slur, and before the Hamas terror attacks, as Palestinian public opinion polls say, convinced Israelis to get out of Gaza, something that Arafat, Abu Mazen and Nazmi Jubeh didn't manage to do.

Cops on private property

When Sharon spoke on Sunday about moving the West Bank police station to A-1, a senior official said that it occurred to him that the ink had barely dried on Talia Sasson's outpost report on the theft of private property and Sharon was already about to get in trouble by building on private property.

According to that official, the plot designated for the police facility is not located in the broad open spaces that have been expropriated over the years to complete the largest annexation of land to take place here in the last 20 years. When the new plan is published for public comment, the owners will no doubt express their views about turning their private land into a new home for the law enforcement officers.

The ownership issue is not the only obstacle preventing Sharon from implementing Bush's vision of a Palestinian state with territorial contiguity. It would be an understatement to say the Americans are not leaning toward adopting Sharon's interpretation of the term "contiguity," according to which Israel will tighten the connection between the Jewish neighborhoods around Jerusalem while the Palestinians make do with "transportation contiguity," meaning tunnels and bridges.

There is no agreement in the administration, and again, this is an understatement, for the creative idea that Israel connect the area between Ma'ale Adumim and Jerusalem, an area about the size of Tel Aviv, while residents of Nablus who want to visit relatives in Hebron will have to look down on the Jews from above. Maybe they fear that in the end Sharon will hand them the bill for building the bridge he has in mind for the neighbors, the latest word in engineering and apartheid.

Washington is very familiar with the area under dispute. Last August, senior U.S. officials toured it, accompanied by attorney Danny Seidman, legal advisor of the City of Nations non-profit group, one of the leading opponents of fence construction in East Jerusalem. They took note that the Israelis had already begun infrastructure work on the police station and even noticed a sign that said, "The Housing Ministry is Building in A-1."

Meanwhile, the sign's been removed and the Americans have turned their attention to settlement boundaries. Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who cast an eye on the area when he was mayor of Jerusalem, says the Americans have already realized they any agreement will have to take into consideration Israeli population centers in the West Bank. Presumably, Olmert is aware of every word in Bush's letter of last April, including the word "existing," an adjective applied to the term "population centers."

Checks and balances

Ever since the publication of the outpost report, the Jewish Agency's management has been trying to rebuff attorney Talia Sasson's criticism of the contribution made by the World Zionist Organization's Settlement Division to the theft of land in the territories. Agency Chairman Sallai Meridor rejected a request from board member Haim Hayat of Yahad to hold a board meeting on the Sasson report and to freeze the activities of the Settlement Division in the West Bank.

"It's impossible to go on as if nothing happened," says Hayat. "Damage has been done to the WZO and the Jewish Agency, home and abroad. Nobody is convinced by declarations about the distinction between the two bodies, when the chairman of the WZO is also the chairman of the agency, especially since before he was chairman he was head of the Settlement Division."

Hayat says that the legal advisor to the WZO and the agency issued an opinion laying responsibility for the illegal activity of the Settlement Division on the WZO's management. Although the Settlement Division's funding comes from the government, its workers are WZO employees.

According to Settlement Division chief Avraham Duvdevani, he and his people have not been responsible for any illegal activity. He rejected all the accusations Sasson made about his department and declared that they have not been involved in the establishment of any unauthorized outposts. He promised that they were involved, and will continue to be involved, in "Zionist settlement activity." Like Israel's government, the WZO set up a committee to examine the issue. What else?


Home News
Malaysian PM calls for int'l campaign against Israel
By The Associated Press	| Mar. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
An international campaign similar to the one against South Africa's former apartheid policy is needed to create an independent Palestinian state existing peacefully with Israel, the Malaysian prime minister said Monday.

Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi expressed hope that a three-day conference of civil society delegates beginning Monday would initiate such a campaign.

Abdullah said the "Peace in Palestine" conference should "intensify the international campaign for a sovereign and independent Palestinian state, with East Jerusalem as its capital, living side by side in peace and harmony with Israel."

"If a global campaign could be launched, not unlike the (one) against apartheid in South Africa, (it) might indeed succeed in influencing the concerned parties to achieve a peaceful resolution," Abdullah said in a published message distributed to conference delegates.

Abdullah, however, did not say if the campaign should involve a boycott of Israel, like the near-global boycott of white minority-ruled South Africa, which helped lead to the end of the apartheid regime.

More than 300 activists, legal experts and academics are participating in the conference, organized by the People's Alliance for Peace Malaysia, a coalition of 1,100 nongovernment associations, religious groups and political parties.

Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat reiterated a call for resumption of direct political negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.

"There can be no substitute for direct bilateral negotiations," he was quoted as saying in a draft summary of a speech given to reporters. Erekat is scheduled to arrive on Tuesday, when he delivers the speech.

He said the main obstacles to the peace process are Israel's settlements and construction of the separation barrier on occupied land.

The two issues signal to the Palestinians that "the current Israeli government has no intention to fulfill the vision of two states or to live within recognized and secure borders," Erekat said.


Home Print Edition Features
The battle for the capital
Critics charge that moves by Israel will soon eliminate East Jerusalem as a possible Palestinian capital.
By Danny Rubinstein	| Mar. 31, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Palestinian public and leadership have no doubt that Israel and the Palestinian Authority are now engaged in a defining battle on Jerusalem. In about four months, when the disengagement is being implemented, the construction of walls and fences around East Jerusalem will be complete, and some 250,000 Arabs will be cut off from the PA.

Even a disinterested onlooker can see that the elimination of East Jerusalem as a metropolitan center for its Arab hinterlands is now proceeding apace. At some point facts will be created in the eastern part of the city and its metropolitan area that will, to an extent, obliterate the option of East Jerusalem as the Palestinian capital. Yet the demand that East Jerusalem be their national capital remains at the top of the Palestinian national agenda, perhaps even taking precedence over the demand for a solution to the refugee problem. It is clear to all that no final agreement on Jerusalem means no final agreement at all.

The first stage in the isolation of East Jerusalem from the West Bank was blocking the entry of West Bank residents into the city. Israeli security services have invested considerable effort in implementing this change, and now believe that there are few Arabs from the territories in East Jerusalem without the appropriate permits. The Israeli Police and Border Police patrol the streets and West Bank residents who are caught without permits are arrested and punished.

Minibus drivers, who provide the main mode of transportation in Arab neighborhoods, are required to check the documents of their passengers. They do this with the knowledge that if they are found carrying passengers who lack appropriate papers their vehicle will be confiscated. This is true for drivers of private vehicles as well. West Bank residents need entry permits to work, study or receive medical care in East Jerusalem. The permits are valid for three months with the option of extension, but it is no easy task to acquire permits. Closures are put in place a few times a week, or the journey suddenly takes hours. In recent years, most Arab institutions in East Jerusalem that employed West Bank residents have fired them and replaced them with Jerusalem residents. This is true, for example, of the large private schools in the city.

It is still possible to enter the city through the many gaps in the tortuous line of walls and fences. In Abu Dis several days ago, one could see many individuals climbing the fence through one of the gaps. Border police on hand ignored them and, according to the owner of the nearby Ikarmawi grocery, most of those climbing the fence have legal permits. Otherwise, they would not dare to enter. The wall, in this case, is not just an obstructive element of separation, it is an Israeli instrument of control. Its existence permits complete Israeli surveillance of the lives of Palestinians, of commercial activity, of services, of society in general.

New measures, to be implemented in coming months, will require Palestinian residents of East Jerusalem to obtain permits before visiting the West Bank. Until now, passage of Jerusalem Arabs into Ramallah, and Bethlehem, and from there to the northern and southern West Bank was virtually without restriction. Their blue Israeli identity cards granted them freedom of movement inside the territories. All this will change when the walls and fences are complete. Rules regarding such permits have yet to be issued, but everyone knows that they are in preparation. There will be approximately 10 gates in the walls and fences surrounding the city.

At some checkpoints, like Erez on the northern border of the Gaza Strip for example, there is an "Israelis Office" which handles those holding Israeli documents, including East Jerusalem residents. At Erez they are mainly the wives of Gaza residents. The regulations pertaining to these wives are referred to in military terms as "Divided Families Protocol." While there are hundreds of women who fit this description in Gaza, there are many thousands of divided families in East Jerusalem, and it is hard to imagine how similar protocol could be implemented there. According to demographic data, about two-thirds of the Arabs in East Jerusalem come from Hebron clans, and even a partial separation of these Jerusalemites from their families, their places of business, and their property in Hebron appears to be impossible.

Jews have been moving into East Jerusalem neighborhoods for many years. This phenomenon is manifest in a number of homes that have been purchased or allegedly seized by Jewish yeshiva students in the alleys that flank the Jewish Quarter on Haggai Street, Sha'ar Haprahim, the Sa'adia neighborhood, and at the St. John's Hospice near the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.

In the Shiloah Village (Silwan) neighborhood, Israeli organizations continue to purchase and build homes, and a small Jewish neighborhood, Ma'aleh Zeitim, has been built above Shiloah at Ras al-Amud. There is now talk of moving the Judea and Samaria police headquarters, and turning over the spacious compound to settlers.

Jews, mostly yeshiva students, have also moved into the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood, in buildings adjoining the grave of Shimon Hatzadik and two buildings near the Musrara Market next to the U.S. Consulate. The latest venture of Jews into Arab neighborhoods in the city involves a transaction, the details of which are still unknown, involving the purchase by Jews, or to be more accurate, the 99-year lease to Jews, of large buildings and Arab stores in the Jaffa Gate plaza. The owner of this precious real estate is the Greek Orthodox Patriarchy, and the Jewish buyers remain anonymous.

Nikos Papadimas, who was responsible for the funds of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchy, and is now in hiding, said two days ago in an interview to a Greek newspaper that he leased this property to Jews for $130 million.

Papadimas said he executed the transaction with the full knowledge and permission of Jerusalem Patriarch Irineos I, in an effort to save the Patriarchy from a severe financial crisis. Irineos, who had denied any connection to the transaction, went on a visit to Jordan two days ago against the background of a wave of attacks in the media by the Palestinian Authority, the Jordanian government, and other Arab nations, demanding his immediate resignation.

In the heart of the Arab Jabal Mukaber neighborhood, on the hillsides of the Jewish Armon Hanatziv neighborhood, preparations have also begun for the construction of a new Jewish neighborhood, and plans exist for extensive building in the Walja area in south Jerusalem and the large open area between Jerusalem and Ma'aleh Adumim. Recent statements by Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz about a plan to build thousands of homes in this area have created diplomatic turmoil. The Palestinian public is well aware that building in this area would eliminate the option of using vacant land to expand East Jerusalem and large Palestinian settlements, including al-Azaria (Bethany), Abu Dis, Anata, and al-Zaim.

Building in this area would also facilitate the completion of the separation fence around Jerusalem and Ma'aleh Adumim, and make it harder to create territorial contiguity between the northern and southern parts of the PA in the West Bank.

Yehezkel Lein of the B'Tselem human rights organization says that the combination of the construction of "facts on the ground," including the separation fence and building in this area, is a recipe for reaching a point of no return. In other words, fences and walls now being built may be taken down tomorrow, but if they are shored up by facts like Jewish homes based on the location of these walls, an irreversible situation will have been created.

Complaints of mistreatment and discrimination in the allocation of budgetary funds and services to the Arabs of East Jerusalem are all too familiar. Karim Jubran, a B'Tselem researcher from the Shuafat refugee camp, cites the existence of a relatively new term in the lexicon of discrimination in the eastern part of the capital, "Apartheid traffic lights."

There are almost no traffic lights in the Arab neighborhoods of Jerusalem. Stoplights exist mainly in those rare locations where there is Jewish traffic. In these cases, for example the stoplights north of the French Hill intersection, the time alloted to Arab traffic from the direction of Shuafat is much less than the time alloted to cars coming from the the Jewish neighborhood. As a result, during many hours of the day there are long lines of vehicles waiting at the intersection on the "Arab" roads.

The Jerusalem municipality says that claims of discrimination at the intersection is invalid, and the timing of the lights is set according to the volume of traffic.

The picture painted by the internal Palestinian debate on these matters is one of the destruction of the structure of Arab society in Jerusalem with the intention of unifying the city. Recently, a day has not gone by which has not included a conference, declaration and speeches by the Palestinian leadership and Arab civic leaders in Jerusalem warning that, if Israel is allowed to continue to implement these measures, there will be no possibility of a future settlement.


Home Print Edition Opinion
A kippa is not enough
Now he adds to the good guys the violent settlers of Yitzhar, who spent Purim coming out of their dens as drunk as Cossacks.
By Yossi Sarid	| Apr. 6, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
An IDF major general clutched at his kippa as a drowning man would clutch at a piece of flotsam, when he was asked this week to explain his defense of thuggish settlers. Not just any settlers, but the settlers of Yitzhar, who have made a name for themselves as wild and violent, taking out their rage on both Palestinians and our troops alike. The dangerous collaboration between this general and these settlers has already been damned in the Talia Sasson report on illegal outposts.

But the head of the IDF Central Command this week leaped to defend these settlers from his own officers. Lt. Col. Guy Hazut, commander of the Paratroopers 202nd Battalion, spoke for his peers last week when he said at a conclave of officers, "I don't fear going into a Palestinian village as much as I fear entering Yitzhar, where I feel my life is threatened."

When Maj. Gen. Yair Naveh was asked to explain his sycophantic defense of the wasps nest known as Yitzhar, he whined that he was being persecuted as a religious officer, as if the bareheaded receive biased treatement, are never criticized, and are always immune. But wait, take the much criticized chief of staff, is he religious?

Not only is the kippa not harmful, it also assists and promotes. Surely Naveh himself knows that he was the preferred candidate of neither the defense minister nor the chief of staff when he was recently appointed to his position. He was merely a compromise by the two; it was as though they decided that as he had a kippa, he would be the disengagement general in the Central Command. So what can Naveh complain about when his kippa protects its wearer, and even benefits him?

The appointment should have made his superiors hesitate when they read in the IDF weekly, "Bamahaneh," about Naveh's cultural influences, not to mention his childhood and latter-day heroes:

"When I want to take pleasure over something clean, a war with we want in it, without the problem of public opinion, without the problem of purity of arms, without the problem of legitimacy, I go back to the childhood mystery stories of Hasambah [a crime-solving gang of children]. Hasambah is us - good against evil, and the good guys always win."

And now he adds to the list of good guys the violent settlers of Yitzhar, who during Purim emerged from their lairs as drunken as Cossacks in order to carry out pogroms against their neighbors.

The kippa need not be a religious accessory, it can also be a secular one, such as for the members of Kibbutz Bet Alfa, where the difference between "good and bad" also seems to have been blurred. Through the sale of mounted water cannons, they decided to collaborate with the crazed and ruthless ruler of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe, who last week again forged the results of an election in his country. Now, when the people of Zimbabwe demonstrate against the flawed elections, it will be the Bet Alfa water cannons that disperse them.

The people of this kibbutz previously provided Apartheid South Africa with such mounted water cannons, and are now supplying them to Mugabe after most countries in the world have decided to boycott him. (The full story of the relationship between Bet Alfa and Mugabe appeared in an article by Danny Adino Abba and Shahar Ginosar in Yedioth Ahronoth). And so, the metaphorical kippa can also be knitted from a skein of "Zionism, Socialism and the Brotherhood of Man," and they can roll their eyes on Mount Gilboa and not only on the hills of Judea and Samaria.

Naveh wants to advance, and if he doesn't suck up to the settlers of Yitzhar, nobody will save him from their evil deeds. Kibbutz Bet Alfa wants to make a living, and if it doesn't sell Zimbabwe mounted water cannons for riot control, nobody will save them from bankruptcy. Okay, we long ago understood the needs and impulses at the base of human behavior. But for God's sake, take the kippas off your heads, because a kippa - whether religious or secular - that manages to cover a narrow mind is never wide enough to hide a major disgrace.


Home Print Edition News
S. Africa's apartheid party takes final bow
By The Associated Press	| Apr. 10, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
CAPE TOWN, South Africa - The party linked to decades of white racist rule in South Africa formally left the political stage yesterday, with its leader apologizing for "a system grounded in injustice."

The New National Party (NNP) - the successor to the National Party that led apartheid - approved its dissolution at a meeting of its federal council in Johannesburg. This followed a decision taken last April after a humiliating defeat in national elections to join forces with the ruling African National Congress (ANC).

"What we do today is part of our contribution to finally ending the division of the South African soul," said NNP leader Marthinus van Schalkwyk.

"It cannot be denied that the ... National Party brought development to a section of South Africa, but it also brought suffering through a system grounded in injustice," van Schalkwyk said.

The National Party, which came to power in 1948, presided over a systematic and often brutal oppression of the country's black majority.

After prolonged international sanctions and rising domestic pressure, then-National Party leader F.W. de Klerk released ANC leader Nelson Mandela from jail in 1990 and launched reforms that led to the first multiracial elections in 1994.


Home Print Edition News
Who has the time to hear of hunger in the Gaza Strip?
The Knesset members aren't particularly interested in the socioeconomic collapse in the Gaza Strip. The eve of Passover is nigh, and there's shopping to be done for the holiday feast; who has the time for unemployment and idleness among the Arabs?
By Akiva Eldar	| Apr. 12, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Almost at the exact time that someone in the prime minister's entourage briefed reporters that Sharon had plans to tell President Bush that Abu Mazen "isn't lifting a finger against terror" and that the cease-fire "has collapsed," Military Intelligence research chief Yossi Kupperwasser was telling members of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee that the Palestinian Authority chairman is making an effort to stop the shelling of Israeli targets and that the cease-fire has not folded. And Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz said something about giving Abu Mazen another chance. The two didn't mention the fact that the Palestinians reported four casualties over the weekend, including a seriously wounded officer in their security forces, as a result of operations to stop the firing of mortars.

Mofaz and Kupperwasser didn't point toward a possible link between the escalation in the Rafah area and the death of three Palestinian youths from Israel Defense Forces gunfire (the Palestinians have school records indicating that the oldest was 15 and the youngest 13).

The Knesset members aren't particularly interested in the socioeconomic collapse in the Gaza Strip. The eve of Passover is nigh, and there's shopping to be done for the holiday feast; who has the time for unemployment and idleness among the Arabs, or talk of hunger that is driving the Strip youth to acts of despair? This is the hunger that, according to the IDF, pushed the youths into the hands of the arms smugglers, or, according to the Palestinians, enticed them into stealing the cameras positioned on the fence despite fear of the soldiers (according to the story told by the two youths who came through the ordeal by the skin of their teeth). Maybe someone would toss them a few shekels for the cameras.

According to the IDF Spokesman's Office, the Palestinians have passed on a report that notes that the investigation has revealed that the members of the cell were planning a smuggling operation through the fence.

It seems we'll never learn of the true crime of the youths. Cease-fire or no cease-fire, the new military advocate general, Brigadier General Avihai Mandelblit, wasn't able to come up with sufficient reasons to change the investigative procedures - put into practice by his predecessor, Menachem Finkelstein - when it comes to incidents involving the killing of unarmed Palestinian civilians. Under the "state-of-war" procedures that went into effect shortly after the outbreak of the intifada, the commander in the field (namely, the commander whose forces are suspected of the killing) is the one who decides if there is cause to hand over the case to the Military Advocate General's Office and the Military Police - aside from in special cases in which there is a very strong suspicion of a criminal offense. It appears that this time, too, the commander in the field will be the one to investigate who gave the order to open fire - without warning, and to kill - at youths who were posing no threat to the lives of the soldiers.

And we're not talking about the outposts

When someone high up there, in the government, and perhaps even a little lower, in the Yesha Council, wants to sort out construction in the West Bank, the Civil Administration inspectors are very adept in demolishing - you bet!

The IDF also places much importance on enforcing the law in the territories. In a written response to a parliamentary question from MK Zahava Gal-On, Deputy Defense Minister Ze'ev Boim confirmed that "from time to time, reservists ... accompany the inspectors." Gal-On didn't inquire into the situation of the illegal, oops, sorry, "unauthorized" Jewish outposts. After all, everything is down in black and white in Talia Sasson's report. The Yahad faction whip wanted to know if Palestinian neighbors who build without permits from the authorities are treated in a similar fashion.

Gal-On, who during the years she worked for the B'Tselem human rights organization heard a thing or two about the apartheid policy in the territories, couldn't believe her eyes. Boim's letter was accompanied by a detailed list of 362 demolition operations (84 of them were carried out by the offenders) throughout the West Bank. No, we are not talking about "outposts" of course. The document was entitled: "Demolition of illegal Palestinian construction in 2004." All the operations were carried out in Area C, which comes under full Israeli control, and which is home to the vast majority of the "outposts" and a few thousand Palestinians. A small number of structures were razed for the purpose of "exposure," and others in response to terror attacks (a technique that turned out to be misguided and was suspended). Some of them had been built in "firing zones."

In January last year, Shlomo Politis, then legal adviser to the Civil Administration, told the Knesset Constitution, Law and Justice Committee that "on the practical level, there are no more building permits for Palestinians" in these areas. Despite the efforts of the "hilltop youth" to flex their muscles, to poison their wells and their livestock, these miserable shepherds and workers of the land have nowhere to go. To their downfall (yes, they also have "natural growth"), they are trying to imitate their neighbors and underhandedly build a shed, a sheep pen or a toilet. Here and there, someone has tried to lay foundations for a new house or build another floor for the next generation.

Unfortunately for them, as the document shows, when they are faced with a Palestinian target, the inspection forces don't even have to time to take a pee. The following are just a few examples of successful demolition operations involving populated structures - a container in Tsur Baher (16 square meters); six sheds with fabric roofs that served as residences in the village of Ras Karkur in the Ramallah district; a container and development work and a furniture warehouse (about half a dunam) in Abu Dis; four tents and an animal pen in Azun Atma, in the Qalqilyah area; four huts that served as residences (some 125 square meters each) in Beit Hanina; three huts (some 20 square meters) and an animal pen and foundations for a structure in the village of Samua, in the Hebron area.

Who will collect the fees at Karni?

Up until a short while ago, the fees at the Karni crossing were one of the most important sources of income for the Palestinian counter-security apparatus. Responsibility for the crossing, and with it, the bank account, now lies in the hands of the Civil Work Affairs Ministry. What has changed?

According to the Palestinians, the decisive change is Mohammed Dahlan's transformation from being the strong security man in the Gaza Strip into the minister for civil affairs. To his chagrin, the head of the counter-security apparatus, Rashid Abu Shabak, discovered that Dahlan took the fee forms from the crossing with him. The Palestinians charge that Mofaz was the one who had looked out for the interests of his long-time favorite, and that it is a shame that the Israeli leadership is unable to wean itself off the underhand habit of stirring up the murky waters of the PA leadership.

Israeli sources gave the following response: "Mofaz isn't the one to decide which Palestinian organization will assume responsibility for the crossing and who will collect the fees. This is an internal Palestinian matter."

Riddle: What interest would Abu Shabak have in giving Dahlan one of the last of the geese that lay golden eggs?

While the PA bemoans an increasing shortage of arms and ammunition, or hunger in Gaza, the coffers of the Palestinian Investment Fund are bursting at the seams. And all thanks to a successful investment, or successful gamble, as some say, on the part of Yasser Arafat. In 2002, when the Orascom corporation, owned by Egyptian entrepreneur Sawiris family, ran into trouble, the controversial economic adviser and current member of the Orascom board of directors, persuaded the rais to invest no less than $200 million in the company. At the end of 2002, the corporation's share was trading at less than $2; yesterday, it stood at $71.5 - such that the PA investment is currently estimated in billions of dollars. The biggest brokers in the world have yet to forgive themselves for thumbing their noses at the two Palestinians, who in the throes of a violent struggle with Israel, with the intifada at its peak, and with the PA knocking on the doors of the donor countries, decided to invest a huge sum of money in a company that was going bankrupt.

The economic press is reporting that today, the Sawiris family commands a commercial empire worth more than $12 billion. Its business affairs stretch from America and all the way to Bangladesh and Iraq. The total worth of the companies under its control makes up some 40 percent of the value of the Egyptian share market. Its performance in 2004 was among the best seen on capital markets around the world. The most successful business, the one on which the Palestinians gambled, is the Orascom Telecom Holdings mobile telephone company. Naguib Sawiris, the eldest brother who sits at the top of the corporate ladder, wasn't the first to cotton on to the huge potential, estimated at some $600 million, in mobile telephone users in the Middle East. Before Oslo became a dirty word in Israel, there were those - first and foremost, Stuart Eisenstadt, under-secretary of state for trade in the Clinton administration - who believed that this huge market was Israel's for the picking.


Home Print Edition News
UK chief rabbi says student group fails to fight anti-Semitism
Three Jewish officials of the National Union of Students resigned last week over after string of incidents on UK campuses.
By Haaretz Service	| Apr. 12, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Chief Rabbi of the Jewish community in Britain condemned the National Union of Students after three of the union's Jewish officials resigned last week over a perceived failure to tackle anti-Semitism on campuses, according to a report Tuesday in the British daily The Guardian.

Luciana Berger and Mitch Simmons resigned from the national executive of the NUS and Jonny Warren resigned from the steering committee during the union's national conference last week in Blackpool. They claimed that the union's leadership was "turning a blind eye" to anti-semitic leaflets being distributed at conference and a series of rows on campuses throughout the year, the Guardian reported.

Kat Fletcher, the president of the union, said she was "deeply concerned" by the resignations.

Berger, who has been convenor of NUS's anti-racism campaign this year, said: "There's been a host of events throughout the year. Issues of anti-Semitism have been brought to the leadership's attention and there's been total inaction. At conference, which is the heart of our democracy, there were further events of anti-Semitism. The leadership were turning a blind eye to anti-Semitism."

The leaflets at conference referred to the Elders of the Protocol of Zion, a 19th century forgery which claimed that there was a plan for Jewish global domination and was subsequently used in anti-Jewish propaganda. Other instances throughout the year relate largely to an ongoing row at the School of Oriental and African Studies, part of the University of London, where there have been continuing clashes between the Jewish society and the union, the Guardian reported.

Jewish students objected to a conference organised by the Palestinian society on the academic boycott of Israel, entitled Resisting Israeli Apartheid: Strategies and Principles.

In a statement issued by the Union of Jewish students, chief rabbi Jonathan Sacks said: "I am distressed that the atmosphere at this year's NUS conference was so hostile that the Jewish members of its executive felt compelled to resign. They did not do this lightly.

"Having spent the weekend with Jewish student leaders, it is clear that they felt threatened by the atmosphere at NUS conference, disturbed by materials being distributed there, and dismayed at the lack of support from the NUS leadership. This cannot continue if NUS is to win the fight against racism in all its forms," Sacks' statement read.

Fletcher said: "NUS is an organisation which has the principles of equality, diversity and democracy at its very core. We are proud of our record in tackling racism and fascism wherever it occurs and have undertaken excellent work this year in promoting interfaith dialogue on campuses.

"We are deeply concerned that three of our committee members have decided to resign from their last few months in office," Fletcher told the Guardian.

"NUS will be looking at the issues that have come up in great detail and we will be seeking to ensure that students of all faiths and backgrounds can continue to actively participate in our campaigns and our democracy," Fletcher said.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Politicide, no less
When it comes to Israel, the organizers of the boycott campaign, with their many friends in European and American radical circles, argue for a thinly-disguised, politicidal nationalism. In so far as they are able to exert influence, it is to lead away from hopes for stability, compromise and co-existence.
By Jonathan Spyer	Apr. 22, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The British Association of University Teachers (AUT) is due today to debate the question of an academic boycott of Israeli universities. The motions to be discussed single out the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Haifa University and Bar-Ilan University for condemnation. In all three cases, specific grievances are cited. The factual basis of each proves, on examination, to be flimsy in the extreme. Boycott is recommended against Bar-Ilan University, for example, because of a degree supervision agreement with the Judea and Samaria College in Ariel. The agreement is set to end this year - for reasons of a purely academic nature.

Observation of those proposing the boycott - and their statements regarding its intent - indicate that their concerns go beyond the merely parochial. Their fast-and-loose attitude to facts is hence unsurprising. The people behind the boycott campaign, of which the AUT initiative is a part, see in it the beginnings of an international campaign to delegitimize the State of Israel.

The prime mover behind the three motions being discussed by the AUT is a veteran anti-Israel campaigner, Sue Blackwell, who teaches at Birmingham University's Department of English Literature. For 19 years, up until 2002, Blackwell was an active member of the British Socialist Workers Party. This organization, of a Trotskyite bent, is famed for its virulent opposition to the existence of Israel. It is currently involved in an electoral alliance with the Muslim Association of Britain, an Islamist group openly supportive of Hamas.

On the first occasion, in 2003, that Blackwell tried to commit her professional organization to support a boycott of Israeli academic institutions, her motion was heavily defeated. This time, the boycott effort is directly linked to a Palestinian initiative - the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel - launched at Bir Zeit University in July, 2004. This endeavour is led by two not very well known Palestinian academics - Prof. Lisa Taraki, of Bir Zeit, and Omar Barghouti, an Arab-Israeli doctoral student at Tel Aviv University.

The wording of this campaign's founding statement includes a number of demands, including that Israel "accept the inalienable rights of the refugees" - a coded way of demanding that 3.9 million Palestinian Arabs, most of whom have never visited the country, be permitted to take up residence in Israel.

In addition, Israel must be boycotted until it rescinds "the entrenched system of racial discrimination and segregation against the Palestinian citizens of Israel, which resembles the defunct apartheid system in South Africa." Which means Blackwell, Taraki and Barghouti also want an international boycott that would interfere in the policies and identity of a functioning democratic state. Such an occurrence would be quite unique in international affairs. One might point out that the salient right which apartheid denied the majority of South Africans was the right to vote. Israel is in fact the only place in the Middle East (with the possible exception of post-invasion Iraq) which affords its Arab citizens this basic civil right.

We will have to wait in vain, however, for the furious motions at AUT conferences denouncing human rights abuses elsewhere in the Middle East, even without an accompanying demand for a boycott. There is no motion condemning the public execution of minors in Iran - such as the hanging of the 16-year-old girl, Ateqeh Rajabi, for "acts incompatible with chastity," in August, 2004. There is no call for boycotting the regime in Sudan, now reckoned to have murdered around 300,000 of its own citizens. There are no voices raised against the planned executions by the Palestinian Authority of individuals for the capital crime of collaborating with Israel.

All of which should seem strange only to the very naive. Because what lies at the root of the boycott campaign is not human rights, but politics.

The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has been understood by the international community as a clash between two authentic and sovereignty-deserving national entities - the Israeli-Jewish and Palestinian-Arab nations. The need is for a fair compromise between the two, to be accomplished through dialogue and negotiation.

But the organizers of the boycott campaign seek, through the employment of the apartheid metaphor, to market a different version of the conflict. It is a version which paints Israeli Jews as members of a bogus, illegitimate creation. This rootless, artificial collective, the argument runs, lacks the rights generally pertaining to states in the international system. The logical conclusion which they hope the world will draw is a return to the old Arab nationalist demand for politicide - the termination of "undeserved" Jewish sovereignty. To achieve this, what is necessary is not conflict resolution. Rather, the illegitimate entity must be hounded and isolated and confronted until it agrees to its own dissolution.

When it comes to Israel, the organizers of the boycott campaign, with their many friends in European and American radical circles, thus argue - on the basis of a groundless metaphor - for a thinly-disguised, politicidal nationalism. In so far as they are able to exert influence, it is to lead away from hopes for stability, compromise and co-existence. Should they succeed in their goal, which involves destroying any hope for a viable two-state solution, the result would be to condemn the two peoples to a future of strife without end. For the moment, they remain on the margins. It is imperative that they stay there.

The writer is a research fellow at the Global Research in International Affairs Center, Inter-Disciplinary Center, Herzliya.


Home Print Edition Opinion
The same old tune
The 300 trailers will also remain empty, and hundreds of millions more will be wasted. Fertile ground for the state comptroller, who will once again investigate who imported the trailers. Are they by any chance connected to the Likud Central Committee?
By Nehemia Shtrasler	| Apr. 22, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
It was quite clear that one day the trailers would arrive, too. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is simply unable to manage without them. He missed them so much.

In 1990, at the beginning of the large wave of immigration from the former Soviet Union, he was appointed minister of housing. He didn't for a moment consider the possibility of allowing the contractors to decide where to build, according to market demand. Sharon has never believed in the free market. He has a Bolshevist worldview of administration from above. That's why he decided where to build, how to build, and according to what standard. Then he gave the contractors government guarantees of 100 percent, and turned them into millionaires.

The result was one housing project after another, built in inappropriate locations, at a low standard and in places where the new immigrants didn't want to live. A large proportion remained empty. The same fate awaited the thousands of trailers that he purchased for billions of shekels. Fifteen thousand trailers stood empty for years, ruined by the rain and the sun, causing the government to lose billions.

And now the same old tune is playing. This week, the special interministerial committee for the disengagement recently established by Sharon quickly approved, without consideration and without a market survey, an order for 300 trailers for those being evacuated, to be set up in four locations. They will also remain empty, and hundreds of millions more will be wasted. Fertile ground for the state comptroller, who will once again investigate who imported the trailers. Are they by any chance connected to the Likud Central Committee?

The affair of the trailers is only one example of the Disengagement Administration's failure. It had all the time in the world to set guidelines that would have prevented confusion and disgrace, but it did not do so.

The first principle should have been fair compensation for each family. The second principle: Freedom of choice. Each family should decide on its own, without government baby-sitting, where to go and what to do with their money.

The third principle: No evacuation by force. The Israel Defense Forces should leave the Gaza Strip on July 20, and after that date, nobody would protect the settlers. Anyone who has visited the Gaza Strip and seen the tanks, the fences and the soldiers understands that when the army leaves, the settlers will leave a day earlier. They are well aware of how much the Arab residents of the Gaza Strip love them.

With these principles, the entire picture would be different. Each settler would understand that his fate is in his hands. That he himself is deciding on his future.

The crazy idea of establishing a "new Gush Katif" on the sands of Nitzanim at the expense of the nature reserve would never have seen the light of day, because it is entirely a product of the self-interest of the wheeler-dealers and office-holders in the Gaza Coast Regional Council, who want to retain their source of income. And the Tisha B'Av maneuver should have been rejected by Yonatan Bassi and Sharon, because it's only another attempt at postponement.

A tour of Gush Katif presents the disengagement in a different light. A group of 7,500 people turned the life of the 1.3 million Arabs into a hell. They appropriated a large percentage of the land and the water and cut off the residents of Khan Yunis from the sea. The roads are for Israelis only; the local residents travel on twisting dirt roads strewn with roadblocks. The occupation has caused an employment rate of 60 percent! One factory in the settlement of Kfar Darom (an enclave inside the Dir al-Balah refugee camp) uses more water to wash bugs out of lettuce than all the drinking water allotted for the residents of the refugee camp. Apartheid at its most shameful.

The farmers of Gush Katif are demanding an increase to the compensation offered them. They have forgotten the generous government assistance they received when they came to the Gush: Grants, loans and free land. Nor are they talking about what pains them the most: The cost of labor. At present, they pay residents of Khan Yunis who work in their hothouses NIS 40 for a long and hard day's work: Shameful exploitation in conditions of slavery. When they move northward they will be forced to pay the minimum wage. Is such a scandal possible?

Therefore, before we pity them, we should pity the Jewish people, which has paid for this superfluous adventure in blood and money, and only now, belatedly, has decided to put an end to the disgraceful apartheid in the Gaza Strip.


Home Print Edition News
British lecturers boycott Bar-Ilan and Haifa universities
By Tamara Traubman	| Apr. 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The leading union of British lecturers has decided to impose an academic boycott on two Israeli universities - Bar-Ilan and Haifa - on the grounds of what the Association of University Teachers defines as their collaboration with the crimes of the occupation.

The decision carries much declarative significance in that the AUT is the first organization of its kind to decide to support an academic boycott on Israel. The union numbers some 48,000 members, most of whom lecture at leading British universities. If the lecturers heed the union's decision, ties between Israeli and British researchers will be cut: Israeli researchers may not receive invitations to conferences in Britain; British researchers could stay away from Israeli conferences and research papers by Israeli scientists may be rejected.

Exempt from the boycott are "Israeli academics and intellectuals who oppose the colonial and racist policy of their state."

The decision by the AUT has been afforded extensive media coverage in Britain. Sue Blackwell, a lecturer at Birmingham University who co-wrote the motion, told British daily The Guardian that she had been overwhelmed by the result at the union's annual conference in Eastbourne. "We now have a boycott against a quarter of the universities in Israel, and we intend to continue the fight," she said. "I am proud today to be a member of a union that is prepared to stand up for human rights around the world."

The Israeli Foreign Ministry has characterized the AUT's decision as "scandalous," urging British lecturers not to comply with the boycott. "Are they really intending to boycott the Palestinians and the Israeli Arabs who study and work in these institutions, or are they really calling for a boycott of Jews?" said deputy Israeli ambassador to Britian Zvi Ravner. "The last time Jews were boycotted in universities was in 1930s Germany."

According to the AUT, Bar-Ilan University is being boycotted because of its ties with the Judea and Samaria College in the settlement of Ariel. Therefore, Bar-Ilan "is directly involved in the occupation of the Palestinian territories contrary to UN resolutions," says the AUT.

The union claims Haifa University has restricted the academic freedom of staff members who have spoken out against government policies, citing the university's threat to dismiss historian Dr. Ilan Pappe.

"The taboo has been shattered at last. From now on, it will be acceptable to compare Israel's apartheid system to its South African predecessor," said Omar Barghouti, a founder of the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel.

Sources in the Palestinian Authority also welcomed the "gesture of solidarity with the Palestinian people", and hoped that "more international groups will put pressure on Israel."

Israel's Council for Higher Education charged that "most of the accusations against universities in Israel are based on misleading and slanted information," stressing that the Arab population in Israel "has full access to all institutes of higher learning."

U.K. government opposes boycott

The British government opposes the boycott, Britain's ambassador to Israel, Simon McDonald said yesterday in response to the AUT's decision. "The British government opposes academic boycotts in general and this boycott in particular," McDonald said.

For its part, the Anti-Defamation League termed the boycott "a direct attack on academic freedom," while the Board of Deputies of British Jews called the decision "blinkered, irresponsible and dangerous."

Danny Stone, spokesman for the Union of Jewish Students in Britain, urged his government to establish an inquiry into extremism on campuses - among students and staff, terming the AUT's decision "a betrayal of academic principles."

Some 10,000 Jewish students study at British universities; a number have complained in the past that opposition on the part of lecturers to Israel's policies fires anti-Semitism.

"The fact that the AUT is dealing with Israel in a critical way when it is the only country in the Middle East where there is genuine academic freedom is indeed perverse," said a statement from the Israeli Foreign Ministry.


Home News
Security sources: IDF proposes building separation wall in Hebron
Officials say AG may nix plan, because limitations it imposes on Palestinians may violate international law.
By Haaretz Service	and The Associated Press	| Apr. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Israel Defense Forces is proposing building a wall to divide Israeli and Palestinian-controlled sections of the West Bank city of Hebron, security officials said Thursday.

The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject, said the military has presented its plan for the wall to Attorney General Menachem Mazuz for a ruling.

Israel is building a separation barrier along the Green Line border, dipping into Palestinian territory in some places. Palestinians call the barrier the "apartheid wall," though Israel insists its only purpose is to keep bombers and other attackers out of Israel.

The Hebron project would be designed to separate Jews and Arabs in the city, where about 500 Jewish settlers live in three downtown compounds amid 162,000 Palestinians.

The officials said building the wall would put an end to the constant friction between the two sides and allow Palestinian life to return to normal.

However, about 30,000 Palestinians live in the Israeli-controlled zone, and it is unclear how the military plans to accommodate them if the wall is built.

The officials acknowledged that the attorney general might kill the plan, because the limitations it imposes on the Palestinians might violate international law.

Most of the settlers live in buildings that belonged to Jews until they were expelled or killed in Arab riots in 1929 and 1936. Many of the settlers are extreme nationalists who clash frequently with Palestinians. Hebron's Palestinian mayor has demanded that the settlers be removed from the city.

The main focus of tension in the city is the traditional burial site of the biblical Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and three of their wives.


Home Print Edition News
Opposition to AUT snowballs and boycott may be overturned
By Tamara Traubman	| Apr. 29, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The controversial decision by Britain's Association of University Teachers (AUT), to boycott Bar-Ilan and Haifa universities, may be annulled before it actually takes effect. Members of the association who oppose the boycott are attempting to collect 25 signatures of AUT's council to force a special meeting that will overturn the decision.

One of the teachers behind this move, Dr. David Hirsh, said in a telephone interview from London University's Goldsmith College, that four to five signatures have been collected: "The call went out only on Wednesday. It is still early," he said, adding that he is convinced the remainder will be collected in the coming days. According to AUT rules, if 25 council members sign an official request for a second discussion, the association's president may summon a special meeting of the council.

Hirsh, a sociologist, says he supports a Palestinian state, but opposes an academic boycott. "Israel is not `illegitimate,' as South African apartheid was. Occupation is illegitimate - not Israel itself."

A week has passed since the AUT's annual convention in Eastbourne, where the association voted on the boycott. Bar-Ilan University was targetted due to its support of the College of Judea and Samaria in the settlement of Ariel, and Haifa was boycotted because the university victimized "academic staff and students who seek to research and discuss the history of the founding of the State of Israel." The latter clause refers mainly to Dr. Ilan Pappe, a post-Zionist historian from Haifa University. The decision exempts from the boycott academics and intellectuals who oppose "their state's colonialist and racist policies."

The AUT decision has aroused tremendous opposition, both in Israel and in England. Members of AUT said opponents of the boycott were not permitted to speak at the discussion, and the decision was taken without requesting the universities' response. In addition, doubts were raised about the legality of the decision. The past week was rife with anti-boycott activity: several lecturers resigned from the association in protest; faculty members, rectors, university presidents, and not only from Bar-Ilan and Haifa universities, asked British colleagues not to join the boycott, and to persuade others to reject it; and Jewish organizations in Britain, such as "Academic Friends for Israel," lobbied extensively to have the boycott annulled. In London, a Times editorial harshly condemned the decision, and university intranet and internet - the new arena for political warfare - is overflowing with condemnations and a variety of strategic proposals to counter the decision.

Michael Green of Cambridge University, one of the world's leading physicists, is one of the members who resigned from AUT. "I would condemn many actions of Israel's government," Green told Haaretz, "but (a boycott) contradicts academic freedom." He called the decision "outrageous," saying it exceeded the agenda of a trade union. "Why is such a step taken against Israel, and not applied to many places in the world, such as Russia, for its policy in Chechnya?" Green said three or four other people told him they would resign from AUT as a result of the boycott.

Dr. Jonathan Ginzburg, an Israeli lecturer at London's Kings College, and Prof. Shalom Lapin, a Jewish faculty member at Kings, announced their resignation from AUT earlier this week. Both were active in preventing an academic boycott of Israel that the AUT proposed in 2003. "There is a lot of anger about this decision," Ginzburg told Haaretz. "Many delegates voted without learning what was the position of their local branch members." Lapin and Ginzburg say another five lecturers plan to resign from AUT and others are considering the move.

A key figure behind the boycott is Dr. Sue Blackwell from Birmingham University. As an academic she specializes in language and gender issues, speech development in children and legal language. As an activist she is the local representative of AUT and campaigns against the war in Iraq, against Israel's policies and against racism. ("Whenever the British National Party stands for elections in Birmingham, you will find me campaigning against them on the street and reminding voters of the horrors of the Holocaust", Blackwell says.)

AUT's decision, which was taken last Friday, has been in the pipeline for two years. Blackwell and other teachers had attempted to pass a general academic boycott of Israel, a move that failed. However a series of other decision were taken, including the condemnation of human rights violations in the occupied territories, and the decision that anti-Zionism is not equivalent to Anti-Semitism, as well as a condemnation of "the witch-hunt against colleagues who take part in the academic boycott of Israel."

In December 2004 London University held a conference about boycotting Israel, with the participation of British and Palestinians academics and one Israeli (Dr. Pappe). In the interim some 60 Palestinian cultural, labor, and academic organizations called for an academic boycott of Israel, a step which provided encouragement for the British initiative.

Following the conference, Blackwell told Haaretz this week, "I thought that instead of submitting a general proposal, let's focus on several Israeli academic institutions and specify how they contribute to the occupation."

The Israeli universities said the organizers of the boycott did not ask them for their position or seek clarification about the accusations against them. The rector of Bar-Ilan University. Prof. Yosef Yeshurun, wrote to the AUT explaining his argument against the boycott and asked the association to allow Prof. Mina Teicher, who served as deputy president for research at Bar-Ilan, to present the university's position. AUT sent a polite letter of refusal, saying the meeting was members only , and suggesting that Yeshurun send his position in writing. Yeshurun did not acquiesce to this. However, at the meeting itself, members who wished to voice their opposition to the boycott were not able to, on the grounds that there was no time.

In response to questions from Haaretz, an AUT spokesman said that it was refraining from comment at the moment. The decision raises difficult questions. For example, why could opponents not express their view? Why were the universities themselves not approached for their explanations? The boycott exempts lecturers who oppose Israel's policy - how will this be verified? Will Israelis submitting articles to British journals be asked to sign a declaration? Bar-Ilan's sponsorship of the College of Judea and Samaria is now limited only to 200 students, enrolled in the teacher's training program, and after this year this unit will operate independently, based on a directive by Israel's Council for Higher Education. Will the boycott expire in a few months at the end of the academic year?


Home Jewish World Jewish World News
Academic boycott may be annulled before it takes effect
Members of UK's union of university teachers trying to force meeting to overturn anti-Israel boycott.
By Tamara Traubman	and Haaretz Correspondent	| Apr. 29, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The controversial decision by Britain's Association of University Teachers (AUT), to boycott Bar-Ilan and Haifa universities, may be annulled before it actually takes effect. Members of the association who oppose the boycott are attempting to collect 25 signatures of AUT's council to force a special meeting that will overturn the decision.

One of the teachers behind this move, Dr. David Hirsh, said in a telephone interview from London University's Goldsmith College, that four to five signatures have been collected: "The call went out only on Wednesday. It is still early," he said, adding that he is convinced the remainder will be collected in the coming days. According to AUT rules, if 25 council members sign an official request for a second discussion, the association's president may summon a special meeting of the council.

Hirsh, a sociologist, says he supports a Palestinian state, but opposes an academic boycott. "Israel is not 'illegitimate,' as South African apartheid was. Occupation is illegitimate - not Israel itself."

A week has passed since the AUT's annual convention in Eastbourne, where the association voted on the boycott. Bar-Ilan University was targeted due to its support of the College of Judea and Samaria in the settlement of Ariel, and Haifa was boycotted because the university victimized "academic staff and students who seek to research and discuss the history of the founding of the State of Israel." The latter clause refers mainly to Dr. Ilan Pappe, a post-Zionist historian from Haifa University. The decision exempts from the boycott academics and intellectuals who opposed "their state's colonialist and racist policies."

The AUT decision has aroused tremendous opposition, both in Israel and in England. Members of AUT said opponents of the boycott were not permitted to speak at the discussion, and the decision was taken without requesting the universities' response. In addition, doubts were raised about the legality of the decision. The past week was rife with anti-boycott activity: several lecturers resigned from the association in protest; faculty members, rectors university presidents, and not only from Bar-Ilan and Haifa universities, asked British colleagues not to join the boycott, and to persuade others to reject it; and Jewish organizations in Britain, such as "Academic Friends for Israel," lobbied extensively to have the boycott annulled. A Times of London editorial harshly condemned the decision, and university intranet and internet - the new arena for political warfare - is overflowing with condemnations and a variety of strategic proposals to counter the decision.

Michael Green of Cambridge University, one of the world's leading physicists, is one of the members who resigned from AUT. "I would condemn many actions of Israel's government," Green told Haaretz, "but (a boycott) contradicts academic freedom." He called the decision "outrageous," saying it exceeded the agenda of a trade union. "Why is such a step taken against Israel, and not applied to many places in the world, such as Russia, for its policy in Chechnya?" Green said three or four other people told him they would resign from AUT as a result of the boycott.

Dr. Jonathan Ginzburg, an Israeli lecturer at London's Kings College, and Prof. Shalom Lapin, a Jewish faculty member at Kings, announced their resignation from AUT earlier this week. Both were active in preventing an academic boycott of Israel that the AUT proposed in 2003. "There is a lot of anger about this decision," Ginzburg told Haaretz. "Many delegates voted without learning what was the position of their local branch members." Lapin and Ginzburg say another five lecturers plan to resign from AUT and others are considering the move.

A key figure behind the boycott is Dr. Sue Blackwell from Birmingham University. As an academic she specializes in language and gender issues, speech development in children and legal language. As an activist she is the local representative of AUT and campaigns against the war in Iraq, against Israel's policies and against racism.

"Whenever the British National Party stands for elections in Birmingham, you will find me campaigning against them on the street and reminding voters of the horrors of the Holocaust", Blackwell says.

AUT's decision, which was taken last Friday, has been in the pipeline for two years. Blackwell and other teachers had attempted to pass a general academic boycott of Israel, a move that failed. However a series of other decision were taken, including the condemnation of human rights violations in the occupied territories, and the decision that anti-Zionism is not equivalent to Anti-Semitism, as well as a condemnation of "the witch-hunt against colleagues who take part in the academic boycott of Israel."

In December 2004 London University held a conference about boycotting Israel, with the participation of British and Palestinians academics and one Israeli (Dr. Pappe). In the interim some 60 Palestinian cultural, labor, and academic organizations called for an academic boycott of Israel, a step which provided encouragement for the British initiative.

Following the conference, Blackwell told Haaretz this week, "I thought that instead of submitting a general proposal, let's focus on several Israeli academic institutions and specify how they contribute to the occupation."

The Israeli universities said the organizers of the boycott did not ask them for their position or seek clarification about the accusations against them. The rector of Bar-Ilan University. Prof. Yosef Yeshurun, wrote to the AUT explaining his argument against the boycott and asked the association to allow Prof. Mina Teicher, who served as deputy president for research at Bar-Ilan, to present the university's position. AUT sent a polite letter of refusal, saying the meeting was members only , and suggesting that Yeshurun send his position in writing. Yeshurun did not acquiesce to this. However, at the meeting itself, members who wished to voice their opposition to the boycott were not able to, on the grounds that there was no time.

In response to questions from Haaretz, an AUT spokesman said that it was refraining from comment at the moment. The decision raises difficult questions. For example, why could opponents not express their view? Why were the universities themselves not approached for their explanations? The boycott exempts lecturers who oppose Israel's policy - how will this be verified? Will Israelis submitting articles to British journals be asked to sign a declaration? Bar-Ilan's sponsorship of the College of Judea and Samaria is now limited only to 200 students, enrolled in the teacher's training program, and after this year this unit will operate independently, based on a directive by Israel's Council for Higher Education. Will the boycott expire in a few months at the end of the academic year?


Home News Diplomacy and Defense
`Living' with Levi
This veteran actor describes the complex experience of trying to revive the enigmatic Primo Levi on the stage.
By Eli Shaltiel	| Apr. 29, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Primo Time" by Antony Sher, Nick Hern Books, 180 pages, 9.99 pounds sterling

Actor Antony Sher was a promising newcomer when he was chosen to play Richard III in a Royal Shakespeare Company production in Stratford in June 1984. For those who saw him, Sher's performance was a tremendous and memorable artistic experience. His amazing leaps from one end of the stage to the other, flying on his crutches, gave a new and astonishing interpretation to the timeless figure of the deformed king. For the young South African actor, this was a career-making role, and awards and praise indeed followed.

A few months later, Sher presented his fans and Shakespeare lovers everywhere with a stunning gift that enhanced and immortalized the experience of the play. The journal he wrote from the early phases of production up until opening night was published as a book of rare power and beauty. "Year of the King" (Nick Hern Books) remains to this day a thrilling masterpiece. In his marvelous descriptive prose, Sher managed to pull even the uninitiated reader into the art of theater. Sketches and drawings of his own making further demonstrated the extent and scope of the young actor's gifts.

Since then Sher has had many great successes. He was knighted for his contribution to the theatrical arts of his adopted country, and as Sir Antony he went on to publish several novels and journal pieces. It is not hard to imagine, therefore, how much excitement and anticipation were generated by the imminent publication of the new book in question - a journal chronicling the production of Sher's one-man play, "Primo." The play is an adaptation of "If This is a Man," the first part of Primo Levi's Auschwitz trilogy. It opened on Yom Kippur 2004 at the National Theater in London and was an immediate hit. I personally have not had the good fortune to see it, but the critics were unanimous in their praise, raving unreservedly about the wonderful adaptation of the book and applauding Sher's performance with equal fervor. Sher had never done a one-man show before; as the new book reveals, it was a healing experience that brought him out of a harrowing professional crisis.

The complex experience of "living" with the enigmatic Levi and trying to revive him on the stage is described in a manner that theater lovers are sure to relish. In all honesty, however, anyone expecting the kind of thrilling read offered by "Year of the King" will be disappointed. Sher remains as open, candid and engaging as he was 20 years ago or more, and still "Primo Time" will not be remembered as one of the high points in his writing career.

The difference between the two books is difficult to explain. First, unlike "Year of the King," the "Primo" journal does not feature the author's drawings. This is a shame, especially since Sher reports that he made various sketches for himself as he worked on the stage image of the dead author; it would be interesting to know why he chose to leave them out of the book.

Obtaining permission to adapt Levi's book to the stage was no simple matter, requiring strenuous effort and prolonged negotiations with the executors of his will. Readers of the many biographies written about Levi are familiar with his family's reluctance to have his life examined in public and their particular objection to discussions of his death, which his relatives stubbornly refuse to consider a suicide. Reading Sher's journal, one gets the sense that he knew very little about Levi and his life when he began working on the play. Only after the task was already under way did he seek out Levi biographies, especially the one by Carole Angier. He does not explicitly say what moved him to choose this particular book, but his repeated mention of several issues may help us to speculate.

Clinging to stereotypes

Sher reminds the reader over and over that he is a Jew and a homosexual, and that he comes from South Africa. All three facts are of importance. The book opens with a description of Nelson Mandela making a public appearance in London, and the author is carried away into a comparison between Primo Levi and the celebrated South African president. What is his point, exactly? That Mandela's oppression and persecution by the apartheid regime are the same as the Jews' persecution by the Nazis? Or was it the Jewish issue that drew Sher to Primo Levi? Though he alludes to his Judaism endlessly, he never explains in any depth what it means to him. Instead, he clings to stereotypes, such as the reference to his Jewish mother. He also embraces Levi's claim that after Auschwitz, he can no longer be a Jew who believes in God. Well, Sher reveals, like Primo Levi, I too am not a believing Jew. When Jewish organizations in England tried to protest against the play's scheduled premiere on Yom Kippur Eve and on the holy day itself, Antony Sher tried to explain to the protesters that he, again like Primo Levi, was not a religious Jew, so that performing on Yom Kippur carried no special meaning for him. But Sher is entirely unaware - or perhaps determined to ignore - the nonreligious meaning of being a Jew. He sees Primo Levi and his life, and the story of Auschwitz as a whole, as being primarily a universal story about the human spirit, oppression, human depravity and so on. If so, then why does he keep reminding us that he himself is a Jew?

But even if Sher's book offers no original or intriguing insights into the meaning of the Holocaust or the fate of the Jew in a modern world, it does contain some compelling and fascinating insights into the art of acting and the world of theater. In the two months before his one-man show opened, Sher suffered from what he calls "the Fear" - a profound and relentless stage fright that almost caused him to abandon acting altogether and devote his life to writing and painting. That an actor as great as Sher can be stricken and nearly immobilized by stage fright is astonishing and intriguing. His campaign to overcome this fear is equally fascinating, including not only conversations with his therapist, but an attempt to embrace his commitment to Levi and the show as an act of love and duty that transcends all human obstacles. The effort to bond with the dead author - at the high point of his journal, Sher even writes letters to Levi and almost seems to expect a reply - is, for the terror-struck actor, a kind of therapeutic experience. Primo Levi freed Antony Sher of his fears.

Fascinating workshop

The account of how Levi's stage persona came into existence will be like a fascinating workshop for anyone who loves theater. At first, Sher reveals, he did not intend to play Levi himself. When he tried to interest friends and directors in the play, their reactions persuaded him that the role was meant to be his. He chose his close friend Richard Wilson as director of the one-man show. Their professional differences did not take long to emerge.

Sher, introverted and suffering, has trouble accepting his director's flat pronouncements, and yet he avoids clashing and bickering with him. Wilson is convinced that overacting and excessive emotion should be avoided at all costs. His Primo Levi, the narrator, the actor who steps into his skin, must be completely restrained. After all, this is the author's story, years after his release from Auschwitz. He appears onstage in his dignified, conservative clothes, not in the striped uniform of the camp. Nor will any hint of Auschwitz be visible on the bare, austere stage: There will be no electric fence, no Gestapo officers or watchtowers, no violins wailing in the background. The director's meticulous avoidance of all display of emotion bothers Sher. Gradually he takes on the duty of speaking for the tortured author, and asks himself whether by not showing the suffering, agitated Levi he is doing an injustice to his character.

Although this is a one-man show, Wilson insists on assembling a team of supporting actors, at least for the early stages of work. With them and with Sher he holds a series of varied meetings and exercises, whose only goal is to make palpable the kinds of human situations Levi encountered in the camp. What do guilt, loss, humiliation or profound despair feel like? The director also brings in actors who are themselves Auschwitz survivors, so that they might tell their stories. At the peak of the preparations, Sher and Wilson go to Auschwitz and Turin, Levi's hometown. The visit to the camp in Poland moves Sher to tears, but he fails to convey to his readers any particularly original or interesting comments on the Auschwitz phenomenon.

In Turin he is unable to understand why Levi's family will not meet with him. Defying their explicit refusal, he sneaks into the entryway of the house where Levi lived and stares in wonder and excitement at the stairwell near the elevator shaft, where the author's body was found in 1987.

Antony Sher, like all those who read and love Levi, cannot understand the dynamic that led the optimistic writer to his death. Even though he decides to leave the issue out of the play, he is deeply preoccupied by it. In the end, and after much deliberation, he accepts the compelling conclusion reached by Levi's biographer: that the suicide had nothing to do with Auschwitz, but was rather caused by a tendency toward depression that plagued Levi both before and after the war. He also reminds us, with due amazement, that it was in Auschwitz that author lost his existential despair.

Not everyone who wants to see "Primo" will get to enjoy that much-discussed experience. Disappointed theater-goers who recently tried to buy tickets were told that they had no chance. The only comfort is that a DVD version of the play will soon be released. Before you see it, read the book.

Prof. Eli Shaltiel is the nonfiction editor at Am Oved Publishing.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Opinion / Anti-Semitism with a `caring' face
They're too respectable to daub swastikas on a synagogue - but it sure feels good to band together and bully them Israeli academics!
By Julie Burchill	May 2, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Prejudice is one of those things - like white shoes or Germans - for which there are very few excuses made. If someone is stingy (stinginess being the halitosis of the soul, as I always say), there's always some do-gooding bystander who'll stand up for them and say "Oh, but they're just scared of being poor/they used to be poor!"

If someone's a child abuser, even, some jerk will pop up and pipe "Ooo, it's not their fault - it probably happened to them, too, when they were children! The abused abuse!" Which is patently untrue to anyone with even the flimsiest grasp on mathematics in general and fractions in particular; around three-quarters of child abuse victims are girls, but three-quarters of child abusers aren't women, are they? Duh!

But you won't find many people trying to explain why a person is prejudiced. "Oh, they're just ignorant!" is the best you'll get. And it may well be true. Which is why the sight of "clever" people showing prejudice seems singularly grotesque. What's their excuse?

I'm asking this right now because a couple of weeks ago, on April 22, Britain's Association of University Teachers - an organization representing over 48,000 professional swots - voted to ban all contact with two Israeli universities, and asked its executive committee to consider a boycott against a third, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

Israel was accused of being "a colonial apartheid state" worse than South Africa, a "regime" worthy of "removal," and its universities of repressing academic freedom. Needless to say, this show of spite received rapturous applause; well, Britain is currently playing host to the biggest ever annual number of violent anti-Semitic attacks, both on people and on property, since the 1930s. Who can blame the teachers, so conscious of their uncoolness, for wanting to get "down wiv the kidz"? They're too respectable to daub swastikas on a synagogue - but it sure feels good to band together and bully them Israeli academics!

Just imagine; for once, the swots aren't having their books ripped up in front of them by a gang of thugs - they're the ones doing the ripping. But if we learned nothing else from the Shoah, you'd think we'd have learned that the seductive power of herd-mentality cruelty can suck in the most unlikely people; it sucked in the Germans, for instance, almost all of them, a nation thought by many to be the most cultured and civilized in Northern Europe. And now, 60 years after the rough-necked Brits showed the cultured Krauts the true meaning of civilization, we are going through our own dark night of the anti-Semitic soul.

In one way this turn of events is as unexpected as it is cruel - after all, in this country it tends to be academics who react to anything from mild censorship to book-burning with "That's how Hitler started!" That they are now doing something Hitler would thoroughly approve of, and did - barring contact with Jews - seems to have escaped them. But in another way, it makes logical, horrible sense. It's not so long since English academia saw nothing wrong with having Jewish quotients as a matter of course, lest the "best" universities be overrun by those unnaturally smart Hebes. Far from flying in the face of English academic freedom, maybe the latest haters are simply reverting to type.

I've always loved being English - but more and more these days, living through this latest, almost post-modern plague of anti-Semitism with a "caring" face, I wish it was a club that I could resign from, as opposed to a flag I carry in my blood. Trust me, with all your trials and tribulations, you lot don't know how lucky you are. Because you will never, ever be ashamed of and embarrassed by your country the way I am increasingly ashamed of and embarrassed by mine.

You're too damn good-looking for your own good, you're humorless and you don't know the meaning of "please" and "thank you" - but you're not bullies, and you never will be. It makes me sad to think that just a few years ago, I thought that last thing about my people, too. I don't anymore.

Julie Burchill is a columnist for The Times of London.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
May 3, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Salt in the wounds of the education system

Regarding "4,500 teachers face dismissal this week" and "Cabinet to discuss e

If most of the people who are about to be "axed" by Education Ministry Director General Ronit Tirosh really are "teachers whose contribution to the education system is low, meaning teachers who are worn out, bad and those who `harm the system,'" Tirosh and her boss, Limor Livnat, should make a true contribution to the system by axing themselves. The reason for their dismissal? Total mismanagement. Such teachers should have been laid off long ago, rather than letting them work with our most precious national asset.

It is more likely that this is just a very mean sneer, rubbing salt in the wounds of 4,500 men and (mostly) women who will soon join the ranks of the unemployed. Yet another step has been taken by Tirosh and Livnat in their ongoing battle against the teachers' unions, a battle that is supposed to give Livnat another push in the direction of one day becoming prime minister. Our security, the poor, the elderly, the sick, our children - nothing is too sacred to be sacrificed in this country when it comes to settling political scores and sacrificing the common good for personal or sectorial interests.

Instead of truly investing in education by implementing the Dovrat recommendations as a whole, only those parts of the plan that can be used to make budget cuts are implemented by the Education Ministry, once again proving that short-term thinking is a national sport in Israel. Many of this nation's founders knew the importance of a good education. Now, teachers suffer from low wages and a lack of esteem for teachers for which both the teacher unions and the Education Ministry are to blame - take for instance the low admission requirements for teachers' training colleges. The profession in Israel has turned into a laughingstock. Today if you choose to become a teacher you are either what Israelis call a goody-goody, which meant an idealist when Zionism was still Zionism, or a student who cannot get into university.

Yonathan Dror Bar-On

Nesher

It didn't begin in '67

Regarding "Eliminating a chance for a state" by Danny Rubinstein, May 1

The mistake most folks on the left make is thinking the Middle East started in 1967. Danny Rubinstein continues that in writing "Eliminating a Chance for a State." He talks about the Arab majority in the Old City and how the Arabs couldn't possibly have a state without Jerusalem as its capital.

How interesting that he ignores one simple fact: Surveys from the Ottoman Empire and the British show a clear Jewish majority in the Old City until 1948. At that time, Jordan invaded and ethnically cleansed all Jews from the city.

The Arab majority only exists because of Arab violations of United Nations General Assembly Resolution 181. That Israel did not perpetrate the same ethnic cleansing in 1967 seems to be held against Israel by Mr. Rubinstein, rather than respected.

I support the Gaza disengagement plan. However, unlike too many liberals, I understand the clear difference between the Gaza Strip and Jerusalem. Jerusalem is a Jewish city and should always remain a Jewish city. There is no historic link to Jerusalem as the capital of any Arab or Muslim entity. There's only a wish to cause more problems for Jews.

The Palestinians have Amman and Ramallah, and that's enough.

David Teich

Petah Tikva

Can't take her seriously

Regarding "Anti-Semitism with a caring face" by Julie Burchill, May 2, 2005

It is hard for most Englishmen to take anything Julie Burchill writes seriously, and you will understand that from her sycophantic article, in which she gives the impression that England is a hotbed of anti-Semitism. This is utterly ludicrous, bearing no connection with reality.

I have lived in England for over 60 years and have never seen any but the most trivial sign of anti-Semitism. There are racist incidents, but they are 95 percent directed at those of different skin colors. And such racism is widely condemned. Zionists seem to want to wallow in being a victim to justify their abuse of others.

Ms. Burchill submits no evidence of any kind to justify her claim that the Association of University Teachers (AUT) boycott is motivated by anti-Semitism. Of course, she doesn't. It isn't. Claims like hers, casting questions on the motives of academic boycotts, were widely heard from racists protesting at the actions taken against apartheid in South Africa. I am reluctant to use the word pathetic but it is appropriate, as is desperate.

But I don't want to disguise my sympathy with Ms. Burchill in her antipathy to being English. I feel the same. I used to be proud, but it was a pride based on ignorance. I believed we created an empire to spread justice and the rule of law round the world, not for the racist abuse of defenseless natives. I am ashamed of our failures to demand support for the United Nations and for the rule of law, preferring to kowtow to bullies and thugs.

But unlike Ms. Burchill, I would be more ashamed if I were Israeli (or American). At least the British no longer slaughter "natives" on our own initiative.

Christopher Leadbeater

Kent, England


Home Print Edition Opinion
Does Israel want peace?
Israel must not be a Jewish state that is not democratic. This would mean the failure of Zionism.
By Amos Schocken	| May 6, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon recently expressed his disappointment over the peace between Israel and some of its Arab neighbors: "Let's look at the relations," he said in an interview to Haaretz on the eve of Passover. "The peace that exists today is a peace between leaders. The people are boycotting it. In Egypt, the academic and commercial circles and the trade unions are boycotting Israel ... It's the same in Jordan."

The aspiration for peace with the Arab people is surely desirable, but given the relations between Israel and the Palestinians, there is perhaps an additional Israeli interest in peace between the peoples and not only between the leaders: Such a peace would isolate the Palestinians and make it easier for Israel to shape its relations with them as it pleases.

Perhaps, for this reason, too, the Arab people refuse to conduct peaceful relations with Israel, thus keeping the pressure on the leaders. In so doing, they are providing support to the Palestinians in shaping their relations with Israel. To Israel, which sees itself as guardian of the welfare of Jews everywhere, it should come as no surprise that in Arab countries people also feel committed to the interests of the Palestinians in the territories and in Israel.

The amendment to the Citizenship Law - which prevents an Israeli citizen, and particularly an Arab Israeli, from marrying someone who was born in the occupied territories and from living with that person in Israel - is a source of harsh discrimination and will exacerbate the boycotting of Israel by the Arab public. A similar decree, if imposed on Jews in any country, would have elicited a harsh Israeli reaction, and justifiably so.

Israel must not be a Jewish state that is not democratic. This would mean the failure of Zionism. Israel must make every effort to ensure that it has a Jewish majority, and at the same time it must also ensure that all its citizens enjoy equal rights. Ostensibly, the amendment to the Citizenship Law is egalitarian. It prevents a young man from Haifa from marrying a young woman from Ramallah and living with her in Haifa, be he a Jew or an Arab. But it is clear that it is not egalitarian: Jewish men hardly ever marry Palestinian women, and if such marriages did occur, they would be in very small numbers. The amendment to the law therefore constitutes harsh discrimination and a violation of the civil rights of Israeli Arabs, for whom the natural reservoir of possible marriage partners includes Palestinians in the territories.

When the amendment was first legislated, its supporters argued that it was meant to prevent the infiltration of terrorists into Israel under the cover of marriage. This is a shoddy argument: The responsibility of the Shin Bet security service for preventing the infiltration of terrorists requires specific and not sweeping action, and the Shin Bet should guard civil rights in Israel - not harm them. Moreover, this is a false contention: Hardly any incidents of terror would have been prevented had the law always been in effect.

With the government and the Knesset about to extend the applicability of the law and to formulate it in such a way as to increase its chances of standing up to scrutiny in the High Court of Justice, the cat has been let out of the bag: It is not prevention of terror that serves as the driving force behind the legislation, but rather prevention of the entry of Palestinians into Israel so that the demographic balance between the Jews and the Arabs will not be upset.

The proponents of the law have pointed to legislative amendments that were passed recently in Denmark and Holland. In Denmark, the amendment to the law prevents anyone who does not have a deep connection to Denmark from becoming a citizen of the country or even living there, and this affects mainly, but not only, Muslims. In Holland, the amendment denies naturalization or permanent residency to anyone who is not steeped in the Dutch culture and way of life. There, too, the main aim of the law is the prevention of the naturalization of Muslims in the framework of family reunification, although the legislation applies to others as well. In both cases this new legislation is likely to prevent Danish or Dutch citizens from bringing their spouses who are not Danish or Dutch to live with them in their country.

Israelis like to equate themselves with "the more civilized countries of the world" and to forgo critical examination of their conduct. Which country is more civilized than those two? Of course, if it is good for them, then it is definitely good for us. But there is something completely different that Israel should learn from the citizenship and residency policies of Denmark and Holland. Unlike these two countries, Israel has a mission, and the prime minister defined it well: peace between the peoples, not only between the leaders. This should be the goal in our relations with the Arab countries and with the Palestinians - and no less in our relations with Israeli Arabs.

What greater peace can there be between the peoples than thousands of Egyptian, Jordanian and Palestinian students at universities in Israel, and thousands of Israeli students at universities in the Arab states and in Palestine? And what greater peace can there be between the peoples than what is likely to ensue from this: marriages between young Israelis, both Jewish and Arab, and young people from the neighboring countries and from Palestine?

Embedded in the aspiration for peace is a real interest that the Israeli Arabs become an integral and involved part of Israeli society (and not a "sector"), and that Palestinians, Egyptians and Jordanians live in Israel. This can be within Arab families, but even mixed families (one partner Jewish and one partner Arab) should not be ruled out, and Israelis perhaps could live in a similar way in Palestine, Egypt, Jordan and any Arab country with which we sign a peace agreement.

The preservation of a Jewish majority in Israel will necessitate drawing a distinction between citizenship and residency. However, anyone who truly aspires to peace between the peoples must look at the model of Denmark and Holland within the context of their membership in the European Union. Citizens of the EU countries can live and work in any of the member countries. Spouses from different countries in the EU can marry and live together with their partners in whichever of the member countries they choose. The citizenship of each of the spouses remains, or can remain, that of the country of which he or she was a citizen prior to the marriage.

Anyone who aspires to peace between us and the Palestinians and the Arab people must understand that this, to a large extent, is the meaning of such a peace. The amendment to the Citizenship Law is discriminatory, undemocratic and it turns Israel into an apartheid state. It also undermines the aspiration to establish this kind of peace between Jews and Arabs in Israel, and between us and the Palestinians and the Arab peoples of the region. Above all, it raises the question of whether Israel truly wants the type of peace of which the prime minister has spoken.


Home Print Edition Opinion
What can Israeli Arabs learn at Ariel?
In a state that respects the law, the Judea and Samaria Academic College in Ariel would never have been founded in the first place. Its establishment constitutes a blatant violation of the Geneva Convention, which Israel tries to ignore.
By Gideon Levy	| May 8, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Three important Arab mayors decided to publish prominent advertisements congratulating the Judea and Samaria Academic College in Ariel after the government of Israel, including the Labor Party, made one of its most disgraceful decisions - to upgrade the college, located in the occupied territories, to the status of a university. As public leaders, the mayors of Tira, Kafr Qasem and Jaljulya not only shamed themselves in their public messages of congratulations, but also the Arab citizens they represent.

In a state that respects the law, this college would never have been founded in the first place. Its establishment constitutes a blatant violation of the Geneva Convention, which Israel tries to ignore. Any decent student, Jew or Arab, who studies there should at least feel uncomfortable. On the way to this college, one travels on a road built on lands of Palestinian villagers, which is mostly intended to serve only Jews, though a few of its roadblocks have been opened during the past six months. The Tel Aviv-Ariel highway was built in a way that makes it impossible to see the poor and humiliated people who live below it.

Upon reaching the college, which takes pride in its "supportive learning environment," the student enters a magnificent campus that was almost all constructed on stolen land. Students should remember this as they sit in the air-conditioned halls and listen to lectures on the philosophy of morality. Teachers and students who teach and study on stolen land are accomplices to the crime. An academic institution, which is in fact nothing more than part of a system based on rules of apartheid, whose teachers and students enjoy civil rights and freedom of movement denied to residents living on the land where it is located - cannot be considered an educational institution.

The fact that thousands of Jewish Israeli students chose to study at the college in Ariel, while heartlessly ignoring the injustice inherent in its existence, is already no longer surprising. It is part of the general indifference that characterizes Jewish Israeli society's attitude toward the occupied territories. It is much more difficult to understand why about 320 Arab Israeli students chose to study there. Do they look out the windows during breaks between lectures at the villages around them, where their brethren are confined because of this college and the settlements it is a part of?

It is true that the situation of these students, like that of all Arab Israelis, is not simple. There is no university that teaches in their language, as would be appropriate considering the fact that it is the state's second official language. So, in light of the limited options they face, these students chose to study in Ariel because of the price and the proximity to their homes in the Triangle.

Torn between their people and their state, they chose the more comfortable alternative. There is no reason for them to be proud of themselves. There are indeed Arab figures, such as MK Ahmed Tibi, who have rejected invitations by Arab students to come and lecture in Ariel, but it does not seem that this has decreased the number of Arab students or heightened their feelings of guilt.

And if the decision to study in Ariel means moral bankruptcy, the congratulatory messages the Arab mayors sent to the college already reflect a total loss of shame. The congratulators represent nearly the entire political spectrum: Qasem Khalil, the mayor of Tira, is associated with the Labor Party; Ouda Fayek, head of the Jaljulya council, is close to Meretz, and Sami Isa, the mayor of Kafr Qasem, is affiliated with the southern branch of the Islamic Movement.

They told Haaretz in stuttering language that they did not know their congratulatory messages would be published. But they did not deny them. The mayor of Jaljulya even added that he supports the decision to turn the college into a university because "it will help the young people in Jaljulya to study."

In their battle for equal rights and improvement of their economic situation, many Israeli Arabs have long ago abandoned solidarity with their brethren who live across the Green Line. Feeling like they have a lot to lose, and contrary to what we tend to attribute to them, they preferred allegiance to the state to loyalty to their people.

They could actually learn a lesson in solidarity from us - about the struggle the Jewish people waged for its brethren in the Soviet Union and the solidarity that exists between the Jewish people in the Diaspora and Israel, especially during times of distress. Most Arab Israelis have chosen to act otherwise. However, there is still a great distance between indifference and complacency with what their state is inflicting upon their people, versus actively participating in the occupation.

What exactly will the young people from Jaljulya learn from their mayor and what will they learn at their college, or university? They will learn that there is no limit to opportunism, that there is no place for concepts like solidarity and morality, and that the days of vote contractors in the Arab sector have not passed.


Home Print Edition Features
Let's paint the separation fence!
A fascinating mix of a Japanese director, Palestinian actors, tales of the separation fence and an Internet site make for a unique play showing this month at the Al-Kasaba Theater in Ramallah.
By Zvi Bar'el	| May 10, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Abu Yo" is the nickname given to Japanese director Noboru Tsubaki by members of the Al-Kasaba Theater in Ramallah, after his son Yo, according to common Arab practice. What is uncommon about Tsubaki is the great effort that the well-known Japanese artist made to get to Ramallah.

He came to direct, and especially to build the set for "The Wall - Stories Under Occupation 2" with George Ibrahim, who founded the theater in 1970. The play is about the structure called the "separation fence" or the "security fence" by Israelis, and the "wall," the "racist wall" or the "apartheid wall" by Palestinians.

The play is a reinterpretation of a play previously produced at Al-Kasaba, "Stories under Occupation," although it's essentially a new production.

The first play won awards at the Cairo Theater Festival and toured theaters around the world, including Tokyo. Tsubaki was impressed by the Tokyo production, and obtained funding for the theater group to mount the new play at the Tokyo Festival last March. He decided to come to Ramallah to build a grand, new set for the play.

He came here last year and lived with the actors, who rewrote the script for the new play. Tsubaki created an inspiring new backdrop while observing the ongoing construction of the real separation fence.

The play examines life alongside the separation fence and the suffering of nearby residents.

The actors, all Palestinians, employ various Palestinian accents to represent different segments of the population. They are positioned next to the wall to tell small, personal stories while segments of the wall move and replace one another.

In this production, the actors are primarily storytellers. Their goal is rouse the audience and inspire identification with the story rather than with its narrator. The storyteller (el-hakawati) has always been a fundamental element in classic Arab theater, but this play offers a fresh combination of the traditional story with an original set.

The fence backdrop, designed by Tsubaki, changes to fit the context of each story. The audience hears of the schoolteacher, anxious to show off her new dress, who cannot get to school because of the fence; a young girl named Leila, longs to visit her grandmother, but the path is rife with "wolves" and soldiers; the groom cannot get to the house he toiled to build; and the fashion designer, whose designs were shown everywhere before the fence was built - is now forced to peddle rags to earn a living.

A particularly powerful scene portrays a freed prisoner who tries to return to jail after seeing how everyone on the other side of the fence is no more than a prisoner.

The Japanese director did not rest on his laurels after the play succeeded at the Tokyo Festival. He launched an Internet site to make it possible for audiences to express their opinions about the separation fence. On this unique site, users can download images of the fence, use their computer drawing tool to paint it or write on it, and upload their creation to the site.

A glimpse of the site, called Radikal Dialogue Project (http://anj.or.jp/una/), reveals that most of the new images displayed on the site were produced by young, Japanese who attended the play. The site creates a context for reactions and in conjunction with the play, it transforms the separation fence into an international cultural icon.

This, Tsubaki has used the medium of the Internet, efficiently and successfully, to try to project the significance of the separation fence to a much wider audience than the play ever could reach.


Home Print Edition Opinion
A boycott all the way
The present political regime is doing all it can to weaken the universities and thus erode academic freedom and choices of thought and expression. An external boycott, however well intentioned, only strengthens this trend.
By Baruch Kimmerling	May 17, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The moment I first heard that the British Association of University Teachers (AUT) was planning on boycotting Israeli universities and faculty, I expressed my opposition to the notion in every possible way. I even tried to influence my colleagues in the U.K. and elsewhere - recently the American lecturers' union has been considering a similar idea - to refrain.

In principle, my opposition stems from the understanding that the academic world must work differently than the aggressive political one, and a boycott is a violent step taken by the strong against the weak.

Academe must be based on complete freedom of research, learning and expression. Assessment, advancement, dismissal or acceptance to a position in academe must be done by authorized professional committees. In addition, the tools of the academic environment and of academics are dialogue, persuasion, cooperation among institutions and scholars of all nations, and engaging the public beyond the ivory tower.

The practical reason that prevented me from supporting this type of boycott is the lack of its ability to ease the suffering and exploitation of the Palestinians, not to mention putting an end to the occupation. The opposite might even be the case. Universities - some more and some less - are among the few places left in Israel where individuals are allowed to think freely and raise new ideas, sometimes daring ones. Even if the ideas do not become consensus, they may crystalize slowly as one of the alternatives that Israel should choose in order to become a properly-run democratic state.

The present political regime is doing all it can to weaken the universities and thus erode academic freedom and choices of thought and expression. An external boycott, however well intentioned, only strengthens this trend.

I do understand clearly the frustration and anger of Palestinian academics who initiated the boycott, who hoped it would expand and encompass all the countries of Europe and perhaps even the U.S., and would extend to any cooperation with institutions of higher learning in Israel. They look on longingly at what seems to be business as usual in Israeli universities, which remain almost devoid of individual expressions, not to mention collective ones, against the harsh infringements of Palestinian academic freedom. The access roads to Palestinian schools are blocked most of the time, buildings and infrastructure are ruined, students and lecturers are kept for unknown reasons in administrative detention, and it is almost impossible to pursue regular studies, academic or otherwise.

I also understand the British lecturers. No, they are not anti-Semites - that is too easy a claim, the goal of which is to deflect criticism. They want "to do something" in their field against the evil they see, without being able to understand the complexity of the issues that Israeli academe faces.

Indeed, when I ask them why they do not declare a boycott against the U.S., for example, because of its invasion of Iraq, or on themselves for the involvement of their country in the same foolish action, they are quite embarrassed and admit that such a boycott is not realistic.

Those who approve of a boycott bring as an example the academic boycott of South Africa, which they say contributed greatly to the fall of apartheid. In fact, the academic boycott of South Africa proves the opposite. It resulted in the departure from that country of many of its progressive elements, the weakening of internal opposition to the regime, and perhaps even to the prolonging of its demise.

What did bring down the racist regime in South Africa was the general boycott - economic, political, military and cultural - a boycott of which the academic component was minuscule, and not a separate element.

If we cannot rid ourselves of the affliction of the occupation itself - and by the way, in South Africa an effective white anti-apartheid movement did crystalize, completing the external pressure that brought down the system - it is better to initiate a widespread external form of pressure, not a boycott that will further weaken Israeli civil society.

Ostensibly, a general boycott of the regime in Israel is not possible as long as the (almost) total support of the U.S. in our self-destructive policy is assured.

Nevertheless, there are signs that even this situation might change gradually, especially if the regime continues to commit systematic and systemic acts of stupidity like the upgrading of the Ariel College. If so, there is a real chance for a change in internal public opinion as well, which may make it worthwhile even for Israeli academe to suffer from the boycott until we purify ourselves completely from the impurity of the occupation.

The writer is George S. Wise Professor of Sociology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.


Home News Diplomacy and Defense
From discrimination to the denial of basic freedoms
The amendment to the Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law - which was approved this week in the cabinet - is not only blatantly and radically unconstitutional, it even contradicts basic human morality.
By Hasan Jabarin	May 18, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The amendment to the Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law - which was approved this week in the cabinet - creates three separate ethnic tracks for citizenship in Israel: a track for Jews, a track for Arabs and a track for "foreigners."

The Arab track not only requires a prolonged and graduated process, like that for "the foreigners," but it also forbids, with a very minor exception, the reunification of families when one of the partners is a Palestinian Arab who lives in the occupied territories. The Jewish track, on the other hand, allows every Jew to become an Israeli citizen automatically, according to the Law of Return.

Supporters of the amendment, including prominent members of the academic world, claim that every country is permitted to determine its immigration policy. That is true, but first of all, we are not talking about immigration, but about granting legal status to the partner of a citizen.

Second, there is no democratic country in the world that restricts immigration on the basis of ethnicity. Third, the ethnic component - the "Arab" component in our case - is the identity component of 20 percent of all the citizens of the State of Israel, and therefore, such a step has the power to grant open and official legitimization for discrimination against Arab citizens, in all areas.

Some of the supporters of the law are trying to justify it by comparing it to Danish policy. This is a misleading comparison, first because Danish law is an exception, and second, it is at present undergoing constitutional review, which will probably lead to its invalidation. In addition, the Danish law does not create ethnic citizenship tracks, nor is it as sweeping as the Israeli law, since it leaves room for considering individual cases.

However, the relevant question is whether supporters of the law are willing to adopt the entire citizenship and immigration policy of Denmark. Their reply will certainly be negative, since they oppose turning Israel into a civil state with these modern democratic policies. It seems that some of those same members of academe have adopted a new hobby: They have become hunters who search for mistakes and defects that characterize democracies the world over, in order to adopt them and to turn them into the supreme norm in Israel.

The central and important issue here is that we are not talking about immigration, as the government claims, but about abolishing the personal freedom of Arab citizens, and their right to choose their partner and to conduct a normal family life. This restriction does not affect the Jews or the foreigners in Israel, and it has no parallels in democratic countries today.

However, it does have parallels in the past: In the 1950s, the state of Virginia in the United States forbade miscegenation, mixed marriages of blacks and whites. For that reason, the Lovings were forced to leave Virginia, and they appealed regarding the constitutionality of the law. The U.S. Supreme Court overturned this legislation because it was racist. In 1980, at the height of apartheid, the South African court overturned - out of its recognition of the right to conduct a family life - the order forbidding a black woman to live with a black man who, because of his work, had received a permit to live in a white area.

Supporters of the amendment to the Citizenship Law want to justify it for demographic reasons. They are not satisfied with giving preference to one group because of its ethnic affiliation (the Jewish track), they want to deny basic freedoms to the other group, because of its ethnic affiliation (the Arab track). Therefore, the amendment to the law reflects a transition from a situation of invalid discrimination to a situation of racist oppression.

Supporters of the amendment claim that it is necessary in order to maintain the Jewish majority in the country. However, if this goal allows the government to take such a drastic step, and to undermine basic constitutional rights such as the right to a family life, then why shouldn't the Upper Nazareth municipality, for example, prevent Arab citizens in the future from purchasing apartments in its jurisdiction, claiming that this is essential in order to protest the Jewish character of Upper Nazareth, or alternatively, impose a higher arnona (property tax) on Arab residents, in order to deter them from building a house in its jurisdiction? That is the slippery slope of the demographic argument, behind which lies racism.

Supporters of the law claim that international law permits the undermining of basic rights in a war situation. That is true, to a certain extent, but apparently, an elementary fact has slipped their phenomenal memory: International law excludes from this rule the principle forbidding discrimination, whose violation is absolutely forbidden even in a war situation - article 4 of the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights - in light of the lesson learned from the horrors of the Holocaust and World War II.

The conclusion is clear: The amendment to the Citizenship Law is not only blatantly and radically unconstitutional, it even contradicts basic human morality.

The writer, a lawyer, is director of Adalah, the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Either country or family
Everyone has to see himself as though he wanted to marry a foreign partner, and Israel, his country, were to tell him: either country or family.
By Ilan Saban	May 19, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Supporters of the Law of Citizenship and Entry Into Israel are scattering smoke screens. What have we done, after all? All we're doing is putting some order into immigration. But the Law of Citizenship and Entry Into Israel (Temporary Order) is not an immigration law, but a law for the reunification of families of citizens married to foreigners.

Everyone has to see himself as though he wanted to marry a foreign partner, and Israel, his country, were to tell him: either country or family. You want to get married, do it there - in the land of the checkpoints and the settlements, in a place where bread is scarce and water is not always available. And that's not all. The law also discriminates on an ethnic basis: Practically speaking, it applies only to the reunification of partners of Israel's Arab citizens. Imagine that you are a Jewish woman born in Turkey who wants to marry an Israeli-born Jew, and you both want to live in Turkey, but Turkey tells you: Jews to Palestine.

But now we will hear the security argument: Here in Israel, a dozen or more people who attained citizenship thanks to family reunification were found to be involved in terror. True. And in fact, a state has the right to carry out security filtering on those who want to live within it, and if there is a real suspicion against the foreign partner, the state has the full right to reject the couple's request to be reunited in Israel rather than somewhere else. But the new law and its amendment totally reject the test of personal danger posed by a person. They are comprehensive.

According to the law before it was amended, the danger is posed by each and every Palestinian - with the exception of collaborators with Israel. Now, according to the amendment and in the shadow of the petition to the High Court of Justice, "the serious danger" is posed by each and every Palestinian woman under the age of 25, and by every Palestinian man under the age of 35. Is that convincing? After all, when grease was needed for the wheels of the Israeli economy, hundreds and thousands of Palestinian laborers received work permits for Israel, but when they marry an Israeli - then, when they have a family and children in Israel, they become unbearably dangerous.

The cat is out of the bag - the danger is not related to security but to demographics. But when Israel uses the demographic argument against its own citizens, it stops being Jewish and democratic. The High Court has told us: Israel is a democracy for two reasons: first, it (formally) maintains equality among its citizens when it comes to individual rights, and second, democracy does not guarantee total equality of collective rights.

Therefore, when the majority community in Israel maintains the immigration quotas for itself (the Law of Return), it is not being undemocratic, because it has the justification that Israel is a fulfillment of the self-definition of the Jewish people. But when Israel discriminates not among foreigners (the Law of Return) but among its own citizens, concerning an individual right of the highest degree - the right to start a family without the intervention of the state - it is allowing itself to relinquish a democratic commitment that cannot be relinquished.

Jewish Israelis do not like to be compared to apartheid, and to be boycotted and excommunicated. But in today's world it is difficult to have your cake and eat it. After all, the apartheid laws did not forbid the partnership of blacks and whites outside of South Africa; they forbade it inside South Africa. Can we be blind to the similarity of imposing a de facto ban - for ethnic-national reasons - on partnership of Israeli-Palestinian citizens, and Palestinians who are residents of the territories? Even if we are blind, others won't be.

And here comes the strongest argument: Denmark and Holland. Even the most enlightened of countries do it. Denmark imposes restrictions on its immigrants, who have become its residents, regarding their ability to marry partners from the mother country. The supporters of the Israeli law are not interested in the fact that the European Human Rights commissioner went all out in his criticism of the law, and that the law is under attack in the Danish courts and may soon be under attack in the European Human Rights Court.

The supporters of the law ignore three other issues. First, the Danish law is intended for immigrants to Denmark, whereas here it is directed at a native-born minority. Second, supporters of the law are ignoring the effect of the combination of the Law of Return and the Law of Citizenship and Entry Into Israel. For Jewish citizens in Israel, the reunification of families with foreign partners is carried out mainly with Jews, and these Jews can in any case enter Israel by means of the Law of Return.

Third, the argument based on Denmark ignores the policy of the vast majority of European countries, which operate in an opposite manner, for example, Great Britain and Northern Ireland. There, although the demographic balance between Protestants and Catholics is almost half and half, there has never been talk of the possibility of restricting family reunification.

Therefore, instead of developing a third identity between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River - the identity of Israel's Arab citizens, who are proud of their nation but pleased with their citizenship in a democratic country - we are increasingly weakening the ties that bind us. We have, unfortunately, become a Jewish and demographic state.

The writer is a professor of public law at the University of Haifa Law School.


Home News Diplomacy and Defense
Apartheid misses the point
The careless and tendentious use of the Israel-South Africa comparison blurs the major differences between the two societies and political cultures that make the comparison irrelevant.
By Meron Benvenisti	| May 19, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The use of the term apartheid and the comparison between Israel and South Africa under minority white rule are taking over public discourse.

In the past week alone, the comparison has been made in at least five instances: the separation fence was described as an "apartheid fence"; the amendment to the Citizenship Law limiting Palestinian family unification was described as worse than the apartheid regime; the academic boycott of Israeli universities and faculty members was compared to the boycott of South Africa, which contributed (or not) to the collapse of apartheid; the disengagement plan and establishment of cantons under Palestinian control were referred to as "bantustans," like the homelands that South Africa established in the macro-apartheid era; and an academic discussion on the "demographic threat" was accompanied by loud rallies against "racism and apartheid."

Moreover, for the past 20 years there has been an ongoing stream of learned academic discussions on the similarities and differences between Israel and South Africa (as well as northern Ireland). And of course, much has been made of the South African-Zionist analogy, which nourishes the anti-Zionist and anti-Semitic discourse.

The very use of this terminology has become a mark of leftist radicalism, and the angry denial of the validity of such a comparison now testifies to Zionist patriotism. It's unnecessary to add that an objective comparison or a discussion on the feasibility of comparing two such different phenomena is nearly impossible to find, and if anyone dares go into those issues, he is judged by his conclusions: If he finds points of similarity he will be pegged as an anti-Semite, and if he emphasizes the differences, he will be defined as a fascist.

The radical immorality of the apartheid regime and the injustices of the Israeli occupation serve as easy targets for hostile description and condemnation, and the comparison between them - especially since the end of apartheid - seems to imbue radical criticism of Israel with authenticity, and reinforce the hope that the occupation will be wiped out, just as apartheid was. But those who indiscriminately use this radical term are not interested in analysis or in drawing conclusions, but in ideological mobilization - which inevitably radicalizes the argument, blurs nuances, and makes it easier for the person on the other side of the dispute to avoid dealing with the issue.

The careless and tendentious use of the Israel-South Africa comparison blurs the major differences between the two societies and political cultures that make the comparison irrelevant. For instance, the mutual economic dependence of blacks and whites in South Africa bears no relation to the Palestinians' one-sided dependence on Israel. This interdependence made it impossible to create a true territorial division in South Africa. In addition, the significant black majority in South Africa is not similar to the demographic near-parity that exists west of the Jordan. In South Africa, blacks and whites share the same faith; even if some racist statements were made in the name of religion, there were still common values that allowed for the post-apartheid appeasement process. In Israel, though, the Jewish-Muslim clashes are becoming stronger.

The apartheid regime was completely isolated, considered a pariah by the international community. But Israel receives massive, unshakable support from a unified Diaspora Jewry and American aid, and - as a result of guilt over the Holocaust and anti-Semitism - is not the object of effective sanctions. In South Africa, blacks and whites believed that they shared a homeland, and the black struggle was for civil and political equality. In contrast, the desire for national self-definition and separation dominates the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Newly published research by Heribert Adam and Kogila Moodlay comparing South Africa and Israel points out that the personal connection between blacks and whites in South Africa was much more intimate than the connection between Israelis and Palestinians. Although this relationship was effectively that between a horse and his rider, these connections nonetheless softened people's stances, prevented demonization and allowed for a successful transition to a multiracial nation.

The research also notes that the South African government supported the creation of the bantustan institutions, funded them and subsidized their economy - in contrast to Israel, which destroyed Palestinian Authority institutions, smashed the economy in the territories and put the financial burden on the international community.

The apartheid regime collapsed from within, in large part because the ruling Afrikaaner elite lost its faith in the "righteousness of the path" and couldn't stand up to its own pangs of conscience. In Israel - barring a minority considered to be on the edge of treason - there is no feeling of guilt, and the cracks in the "national consensus" are occasionally plastered over with the "existential threat." This may be the largest difference between the two societies, and those who use the term apartheid to arouse guilt feelings are missing the target, because this feeling will likely only be aroused if the ugly reality is presented, without a threatening and repugnant title.

Why divert the disagreement to the unimportant question of whether or not this is apartheid?


Home News
Interactive museum marred by hesitation to confront apartheid
By Shoshana Kordova	| May 19, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
CAPE TOWN - A hesitation to confront organized Jewry's complicity with apartheid, a pandering political correctness wall and a bizarre exhibit extolling South African Jews' desire to leave the country are some of the more jarring flaws that mar the otherwise informative, attractive and interactive Jewish museum in this city.

The South African Jewish Museum uses short films on the lives of three influential Jewish businessmen to help tell the tale of Jewish immigration from Lithuania - to which most South African Jews can trace their ancestry - and describe the roles that ostrich farming in Oudtshoorn (at one time known as "the Jerusalem of Africa") and the 1860s discovery of diamonds in Kimberly played in the establishment of Jewish communities in different parts of the country. The discovery of gold in the 1880s spurred Jewish immigration to the area around Johannesburg, which is today the South African city with the largest Jewish population.

Interactive features include a touch screen that lets the museumgoer select various "dorps" (Afrikaans for small towns) to find out about the small Jewish communities that at one point were scattered throughout the country, and another screen that lets visitors view famous South African Jews by name or profession. Downstairs is a "discovery center" that provides information on the European background of South African Jews and on Jewish life in Cape Town.

While these media generally add to the quality of the museum, which opened in 2000, in one egregious instance the way in which the technology is used ends up obscuring important information and can mislead visitors.

The section on the relationship between apartheid and the organized Jewish community, as represented by the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, does not live up to its title, "Facing Reality." By relying too heavily on the expectation that visitors will stand under the "sound dome" to hear a recorded narrative, and stay there from beginning to end, the museum ends up failing to address adequately the reality of the Board's de facto tolerance of apartheid.

The recording notes that the Board of Deputies did not take an official stance against apartheid until 1985, opting not to take responsibility for the actions of individual Jews who fought apartheid (the subjects of the neighboring exhibit). But the recording can be heard well by only one person at a time, and the visitor must stand directly under what looks like a small plastic umbrella attached to the ceiling, which can be hard to spot if you're not looking for it.

Indeed, the most obvious element of this exhibit is the visual one, the text on the wall that can be observed with a casual glance, and the visual element makes no mention of the Board's official stance - even going so far as to imply its opposite.

The biblical injunction "Tzedek tzedek tirdof" ("Justice, justice shalt thou pursue") is printed in large letters next to excerpts from speeches, including one that called for the creation of a consensus that "race relations are not exclusively a matter of politics but concern human values." The quotes are attributed to speeches made between 1963 and 1965 by Arthur Suzman, chairman of the Board's public relations committee. There is no indication, however, that the Board as an organization spent 20 more years responding in the negative to what the museum calls "the apartheid dilemma: to 'speak out' or not to 'speak out.'"

Perhaps in an effort to show how Jews are part of the "new South Africa," a term used to refer to the post-1994 era, the museum dedicates nine video screens to the cause of multiculturalism, showing constantly shifting images that include a Jewish wedding, an African tribal ritual, a traditional Indian wedding, a modern black wedding, a brit milah (circumcision) and a baptism. According to the museum, this demonstrates that South African cultures "all celebrate a common cycle of life, as part of the vast human family." This paean to political correctness would appear to indicate a tension between the museum's focus on a single ethnicity and its desire not to be labeled as ethnocentric, but it is ultimately out of place, if not devoid of meaning.

In addition, there is a lack of correlation between the museum's stated theme and its displays. The museum purports to structure its exhibits around the theme of reality ("life in South Africa"), memory ("roots in Baltic Europe") and dreams ("visions of the future"). But this theme is not wholly evident in the exhibits or in their layout, seeming to be more of an afterthought than a blueprint.

The museum does look at immigration from Lithuania, and has even built a mock wooden shtetl meant to evoke the "memory" of how Jews typically lived in the 1800s (a project the museum workers seem particularly keen to make sure their visitors see). The history of South African Jewish "reality" as it used to exist in cities and dorps throughout the country is also presented well. But while the museum shows that about 40,000 Jews immigrated to South Africa between 1881 and 1910, it shies away from the present reality, whereby 50,000 Jews have emigrated from South Africa since 1970, according to the World Jewish Congress. The WJC puts the number of Jews in South Africa today at 92,000.

Instead of discussing emigration head-on, the museum displays several video interviews with South Africans who have left the country, in a section that, inexplicably, is meant to represent the "dreams" introduced in the theme. One of the interviewees says he moved to the United States because he likes adventure and has "always wanted to live in the center." Unless the museum organizers dream of a future South Africa without Jews, it is difficult to understand the purpose of this exhibit or the reason for its name.

One final point may seem incidental, but touches on the museum's intended audience. If it is meant to be accessible to the local Jewish community as well as to visitors from abroad, the museum would do well to consider lowering its 50 rand (NIS 34) entrance fee.

In all, the South African Jewish Museum does a good job of involving its visitors in the history of the country's Jewry. But in only partially addressing modern reality, the museum does not ultimately fulfill the promise of its theme or the potential of the media it utilizes.


Home Life Arts & Leisure
The Hong Kong of the Middle East
Two substantial problems dictate our behavior. One (which is built in) is the definition of the state as "Jewish and democratic," and it contains an underlying logical contradiction; the second (which is acquired) is the ongoing occupation of the territories.
By Roman Bronfman	May 20, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Two substantial problems dictate our behavior. One (which is built in) is the definition of the state as "Jewish and democratic," and it contains an underlying logical contradiction; the second (which is acquired) is the ongoing occupation of the territories. With the conclusion of the Six-Day War in June 1967, senior officials in Israeli intelligence recommended to the prime minister that he establish an independent Palestinian state in the territories of the West Bank as quickly as possible. For the next 38 years, this recommendation was not accepted by the political echelon. Over time, the occupation became a part of us, and of our view of life in the Middle East.

The Israeli worldview ranges between two extreme schools of thought: an apartheid regime in the occupied territories, on the one hand, and the desire of some Israelis for an Israel as "a state of all its citizens," on the other. The policy of apartheid has also infiltrated sovereign Israel, and

discriminates daily against Israeli Arabs and other minorities. The struggle against such a fascist viewpoint is the job of every humanist. However, in the long run, neither the policy of apartheid nor the "state of all its citizens" will be possible in a future Israeli society: The first eliminates the democratic component in the definition of the state, the second eliminates the Jewish component.

The solution to this dilemma lies in the end of the occupation. But that is not sufficient. The solution lies not only in the establishment of a viable Palestinian state alongside Israel, but also in Israel's genuinely becoming a part of the cultural and conceptual milieu of the Middle East, and in the Jewish people's gradually freeing themselves from several components of the ethos that has been with us since the establishment of the state - the victimhood, the sense of persecution and the fear of extermination.

For decades, Israel has been enjoying the status of a military superpower in the Middle East. This fact, combined with the strategic treaty with the United States, should finally convince Israelis that there is no existential danger in store for them and for the state. Only then will Israel be able to take it upon itself to be an inseparable part of the region where it is located, including open borders with its Arab neighbors.

The fulfillment of this vision depends on Israel - on the integrity and the courage of its leaders, on the atmosphere in Israeli society; but it depends just as much on the Arab world. In light of that, we have to regret the fact that, with the exception of President Moshe Katsav, none of Israel's leaders took seriously the Arab world's proposal for an overall peace, the Saudi Initiative. This document presents a simple and fair formula: an end to the occupation and a return to the 1967 borders, in return for complete normalization of relations between Israel and all the Arab countries.

Whereas the Geneva Initiative is a local peace initiative between Israel and the Palestinians, and the road map is the vision of the U.S. administration for resolving the conflict, the Saudi Initiative is an overall initiative for regional normalization and peace. It is another step for solving the conflict between Israel and the Arab world, on condition that all the sides concentrate on a determined struggle against terror.

The Saudi Initiative, which was adopted by the Arab League in its Beirut convention in 2002, marks a sharp departure from the decision of the Khartoum Conference in 1967, a turnaround that symbolizes the basic change that has taken place in the viewpoint of the moderate leadership in the Arab world. The first step has been taken, and now Israel must respond to the proposal with all due seriousness.

Israel can become the Hong Kong of the Middle East, thanks to its financial, technological and scientific strength, as well as its widespread international contacts. It can also contribute to the development of the region - on condition that the occupation is ended, on condition that Israel is recognized by the Arab countries, on condition that there are international guarantees for its security, and above all, on condition that the rhetoric of war, which is dominant in the Middle East, is replaced by the rhetoric of peace.

Without open borders and regional-economic integration, Israel will cease to exist. A continuation of the present socioeconomic order of priorities, which is dictated by the occupation and the creeping accumulation of arms, guarantees the widening of the gaps within society and the weakening of Israel's economy in the international arena. Social solidarity, which is an existential necessity for the survival of society and of the nation, will weaken even further.

Israel's leadership must honestly reread the geopolitical map and say "Yes" to the Saudi Initiative. It must do so in order to erase the stain of occupation and racism, and in order to ensure prosperity for ourselves and for the coming generations.

The writer is the chair of the Democratic Choice faction in the Yahad party.


Home Print Edition News
Rules to be set for Palestinian spouses
By Gideon Alon	| May 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The amendment to the Citizenship Law meant to make it easier for Palestinians married to Israelis to receive citizenship is scheduled to come up for Knesset approval today.

The bill, which has been encountering serious opposition among the left, was initiated by Justice Minister Tzipi Livni (Likud) and approved by the cabinet two weeks ago. It allows Palestinian men over 35 and Palestinian women over 25 who are married to Israeli citizens - usually Israeli Arabs - to request Israeli citizenship on the basis of family unification.

The cabinet preferred Livni's proposal to one from Interior Minister Ophir Pines-Paz (Labor), who suggested allowing Palestinian women to apply for citizenship starting from the age of 20.

Livni acted quickly to bring the bill before the Knesset because a temporary amendment currently in place will expire Tuesday. She told the Knesset this week that the amendment was adopted during the intifada, after Palestinians with Israeli identity cards were involved in terrorism. She said the new bill was meant to help Palestinians who pose a low security risk and allow them to apply for citizenship.

"The current version of the bill strikes an appropriate and measured balance between Israel's security interests protecting citizens, and the desire of someone who is not an Israeli citizen to enter on the basis of marriage to a citizen of the country," Livni said.

Knesset members on the left criticized the bill for imposing limits on citizenship for Palestinians married to Israelis, calling it disgraceful and racist.

"This is one of the blackest bills in the history of the Knesset, an apartheid law that allows a Jew to marry a German woman but prevents Taibeh and Umm al-Fahm residents from marrying someone from Nablus or Tul Karm," said MK Ahmed Tibi (Hadash).


Home News
Knesset limits granting of citizenship to Palestinians married to Israeli Arabs
Limits on those who marry Israeli Arabs extended three months; decision approved by a majority of 38 to nine.
By Haaretz Service,	Mazal Mualem	and Gideon Alon	| May 30, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Knesset on Monday extended by an additional three months limitations on the granting of residency and citizenship status to Palestinians who marry Israeli Arabs.

The decision was approved Monday in second and third readings by a majority of 38 to nine. Two Knesset members abstained from voting on the decision.

Coalition Chairman Gideon Sa'ar said "the solid majority today in the Knesset plenum testifies to the determination to maintain the security of Israel and its character as the state of the Jews."

It was decided, nevertheless, to ease the limitations in response to a ruling by Attorney General Menachem Mazuz that a complete freeze on the granting of citizenship to Palestinians would not stand up in the High Court of Justice.

The bill was initiated by Justice Minister Tzipi Livni (Likud) and approved by the cabinet three weeks ago. It allows Palestinian men over 35 and Palestinian women over 25 who are married to Israeli citizens - usually Israeli Arabs - to request Israeli citizenship on the basis of family unification.

The cabinet preferred Livni's proposal to one from Interior Minister Ophir Pines-Paz (Labor), who suggested allowing Palestinian women to apply for citizenship starting from the age of 20.

Livni told the Knesset last week that the amendment was adopted during the intifada, after Palestinians with Israeli identity cards were involved in terrorism. She said the new bill was meant to help Palestinians who pose a low security risk and allow them to apply for citizenship.

"The current version of the bill strikes an appropriate and measured balance between Israel's security interests protecting citizens, and the desire of someone who is not an Israeli citizen to enter on the basis of marriage to a citizen of the country," Livni said.

Knesset members on the left criticized the bill for imposing limits on citizenship for Palestinians married to Israelis, calling it disgraceful and racist.

"This is one of the blackest bills in the history of the Knesset, an apartheid law that allows a Jew to marry a German woman but prevents Taibeh and Umm al-Fahm residents from marrying someone from Nablus or Tul Karm," MK Ahmed Tibi (Hadash) said last week.


Home Print Edition News
Israel, South Africa to revive defense ties
By Yossi Melman	| May 31, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Israel and South Africa are resuming security cooperation after a hiatus of almost 15 years, with a senior delegation from the South African defense ministry due here next week for the first time since the fall of the apartheid regime.

The two countries had close security relations during the apartheid years, but the ties were severed when white rule in South Africa was replaced by a democratic government.

The delegation, which also includes representatives of South Africa's defense industries, will be hosted by Defense Ministry Director General Amos Yaron. The trip will include visits to Israel's defense industries.

A spokeswoman for Israel's Defense Ministry declined to respond when asked for comment on the visit.

Off the record, however, local officials said the main topic of discussion will be cooperation on civilian projects between defense industries in the two countries. For instance, the delegation will visit Israel Aircraft Industries' (IAI) Bedek division to discuss possible joint ventures in converting civilian passenger planes to cargo planes and then marketing them in Asia, Africa and South America - all regions where South Africa's aviation industry has connections.

However, the sources added, the intention is also to resume cooperation on purely military matters at some stage.

Israel and South Africa had extensive security ties throughout the 1960s, `70s and `80s, with Israel serving as one of the apartheid government's most important suppliers of arms, know-how and technology. Among other things, according to foreign reports, Israel helped South Africa's defense industries manufacture radar systems and Cheetah fighter jets, which were partly based on IAI's Kfir and Nesher planes. Foreign reports also say that the two countries engaged in nuclear cooperation during those years.

Since the apartheid regime fell there have been no formal security ties, though Israel did give an armored car as a personal gift to South Africa's first black president, Nelson Mandela.


Home News
Israel, South Africa revive defense ties after 15-year hiatus
Sources say cooperation between defense industries of the two countries to focus first on civilian projects.
By Yossi Melman	and Haaretz Correspondent	| May 31, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Israel and South Africa are resuming security cooperation after a hiatus of almost 15 years, with a senior delegation from the South African defense ministry due here next week for the first time since the fall of the apartheid regime.

The two countries had close security relations during the apartheid years, but the ties were severed when white rule in South Africa was replaced by a democratic government.

The delegation, which also includes representatives of South Africa's defense industries, will be hosted by Defense Ministry Director General Amos Yaron. The trip will include visits to Israel's defense industries.

A spokeswoman for Israel's Defense Ministry declined to respond when asked for comment on the visit.

Off the record, however, local officials said the main topic of discussion will be cooperation on civilian projects between defense industries in the two countries. For instance, the delegation will visit Israel Aircraft Industries' (IAI) Bedek division to discuss possible joint ventures in converting civilian passenger planes to cargo planes and then marketing them in Asia, Africa and South America - all regions where South Africa's aviation industry has connections.

However, the sources added, the intention is also to resume cooperation on purely military matters at some stage.

Israel and South Africa had extensive security ties throughout the 1960s, `70s and `80s, with Israel serving as one of the apartheid government's most important suppliers of arms, know-how and technology. Among other things, according to foreign reports, Israel helped South Africa's defense industries manufacture radar systems and Cheetah fighter jets, which were partly based on IAI's Kfir and Nesher planes. Foreign reports also say that the two countries engaged in nuclear cooperation during those years.

Since the apartheid regime fell there have been no formal security ties, though Israel did give an armored car as a personal gift to South Africa's first black president, Nelson Mandela.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Improving patient safety
Could such a campaign that urges the public to ask if the doctor has washed his hands be held in Israel? It's hard to believe.
By Ran Reznick	| Jun. 1, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Bacteria spread fast, and there could be 4-6 million of those nasty little things on your hands right now. Get rid of them. Clean your hands."

These words are part of the educational materials in the Clean Your Hands campaign being conducted by Britain's National Patient Safety Agency (NPSA), which was founded four years ago by the U.K. National Health Service. The campaign began in September 2004 among employees at dozens of hospitals in Britain.

The information campaign is designed to encourage medical staff at the hospitals to be more strict about washing their hands, in an attempt to reduce the number of patients who are harmed - and sometimes even killed - by serious infections originating inside the hospitals.

The campaign is based on findings indicating that it is possible to significantly reduce the infection rate in hospitals if the medical staff keep their hands clean and sterile. The campaign's slogan is, "A whole world in your hands."

This unusual campaign is aimed not only at the medical staff, but also at the patients, in order to advise them on how to overcome their inhibitions and dare to ask the medical teams treating them if they have washed their hands.

Contrary to the fears of NPSA executives, the initiative has been received with great understanding among most of the employees, and the information campaign has succeeded in influencing the behavior of the medical personnel.

The hygiene campaign was presented by the heads of the NPSA at the annual Patient Safety Congress of the American National Patient Safety Foundation, held in early May in Orlando, Florida. NPSA representatives did not hesitate to admit that some of the reasons for the campaign stemmed from extensive media coverage (which they deemed "sensational") of the problems of infection in British hospitals, and the fact that patient safety has become a political issue that gained considerable attention in the party platforms and the recent election campaign in Britain. The lectures given at the Orlando congress took place on the day after the elections in Britain, and the speakers proudly mentioned that the NPSA was founded with the encouragement of Prime Minister Tony Blair.

The lectures at the congress showed that many states and organizations in the West are making an intensive national and governmental effort to protect patient safety, to combat medical negligence and to improve the quality of medical care. One particularly surprising and fascinating lecture was given by Dr. Mamphela Ramphele of South Africa, who was among the leaders of the anti-apartheid movement in her country.

As former managing director of the World Bank, Ramphele was responsible for managing its human development activities in the areas of education, health, nutrition and social protection. She made an original comparison between the character of the struggle waged against racism in South Africa and the current struggle for improved patient safety and better quality medical services worldwide.

Ramphele noted that both instances involve groups with tremendous power; in the case of the medical system this refers to the medical establishment, which in most countries is considered the strongest group - which is often unrestrained and unsupervised. These groups are in no hurry to relinquish their power and authority in favor of the challenges posed by the struggle for the improvement of the quality of medical care, challenges that include preventing negligence during medical treatment.

These groups are also not interested in the recruitment of the patients and their families to the important campaign for better-quality health care, which is part of the traditional social struggle for equality for all. Ramphele stressed that such public campaigns demand that the patient's voice be heard and called for a leadership with a strong ethical base and vision.

Could such a campaign that urges the public to ask if the doctor has washed his hands be held in Israel? It's hard to believe. In Israel, there is no significant public campaign for improved medical care and the protection of patient safety, and the Health Ministry, which should lead such a campaign, shirks its governmental obligations and often capitulates to the dictates of the medical organizations, while forgoing better health services.

Apart from scattered activities in a few hospitals and health maintenance organization clinics, the Health Ministry does not make a concerted governmental effort to improve the quality of medicine, and the public suffers the consequences every single day.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Go complain to the police
A teenage boy arrived at the central bus station in Tel Aviv last Friday afternoon, pulled a knife and tried to stick up a kiosk.
By Nehemia Shtrasler	| Jun. 3, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A teenage boy arrived at the central bus station in Tel Aviv last Friday afternoon, pulled a knife and tried to stick up a kiosk. The policemen who arrived on the scene treated him with kid gloves. They didn't investigate, didn't bother checking the levels of alcohol in his blood, didn't call the home for delinquent youth from which he'd come. Instead, they released him within 10 minutes. Why go to the major effort and open a file that wouldn't be dealt with? That night, the boy murdered Ma'ayan Sapir.

The policemen offered this convincing explanation as to why they didn't investigate the case: "The owner of the kiosk didn't want to file a complaint." As if anyone ever dreams of filing a complaint with the Israel Police. The policemen themselves laugh when they write up a complaint. They know that no one will look into most of the complaints, and if not for the demand by the insurance companies for these records, the number of complaints would decline so sharply that it would enable the police to report to the public that it had wiped out crime entirely.

Hundreds of police officers live in Neveh Ilan, a neighborhood in Yavneh. Barely a night goes by that someone doesn't break into one of the cottages there. So the cops, knowing the nature of their police force, decided to set up an independent "neighborhood watch."

This week, Nikolai Bonner confessed to murdering four people in Haifa and burning their bodies. "I was drunk," he said in his defense. Here, too, the state failed to protect its citizens. The Law of Return enables the interior minister to prevent the immigration of people who endanger public well-being or health. Bonner received extensive psychiatric treatment, including hospitalization, in his native Moldova, but no one in the Interior Ministry or the Jewish Agency bothered to check his background. The main thing was that they could report another new immigrant.

Later on in the week, 4-year-old Leah Katayev and her aunt Nadia Galibov were killed while innocently driving their car. On Wednesday, Rinat Roess was brutally murdered, making it the 10th murder in two weeks. The crime is getting closer and closer to us. When these things used to happen, we would say, "Chicago." Today, we can say, "Israel."

The prosecution and judiciary are also abusing their office. Even when a criminal is caught, the mills of justice turn so slowly that the victims are put through hell. The time that elapses between the filing of the complaint with the police and the completion of proceedings is so long that the trial becomes a perversion of justice.

However, it isn't only the government establishments that failed. We, the citizens, have also undergone a negative upheaval in the past few years. Parents have become "too good," or actually, too bad. We've turned into parents who do not enforce discipline and demand hardly anything from the child. He is permitted not to clean up his room, not to pick up after himself, not to do homework, not to read books, but to watch television nonstop, and even to play hooky from school. We've become parents who are scared of our children. We stopped setting boundaries because we want their love and approval so much - even though this unburdening is liable to lead the child to a psychiatrist or into the clutches of crime.

Schoolteachers have also ceased to educate. They are afraid to punish, they are afraid of the parents and the supervisors, and they prefer to swallow their pride in the face of violent and vulgar students. They, too, want to be liked by students and parents, and therefore prefer to give high grades, even in cases when there is no justification. The result of all these processes is a violent society without fear of the law and without respect.

If we add to that the long years of occupation that educated generations of young people about violence against civilians, abuse at roadblocks, patronization and the brutal racism of an apartheid regime - we will see that Professor Yeshayahu Leibovich's dreadful forecast, made immediately after the Six-Day War, is coming true right in front of our eyes.


Home News Israel
Le Monde editor found guilty of defamation against Jews, Israel
Jean-Marie Colombani and three writers authored an opinion piece entitled 'Israel-Palestine: the Cancer'.
By Haaretz Service	| Jun. 4, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A French court has found the editor-in-chief of the influential daily newspaper Le Monde and the authors of an opinion piece in the paper guilty of "racial defamation" against Israel and the Jewish people, the British daily The Guardian reported Saturday.

In a ruling hailed by French Jewish groups, the court ordered Jean-Marie Colombani and the three writers to pay a symbolic one euro in damages to the France-Israel Association and to Lawyers Without Borders, according to The Guardian.

Both organizations alleged that the June 2002 op-ed entitled "Israel-Palestine: the Cancer," contained comments that "targeted a whole nation, or a religious group in its quasi-globality," and constituted racial defamation, The Guardian reported.

The groups argued the article violated anti-defamation laws after the authors committed a "semantic slip," shifting from using the phrase "the Jews of Israel" to "Jews in general." The authors meant to aim their criticism at "certain Israelis" yet made reference to "the Jews."

Among the excerpts which sparked the controversy was: "The Jews of Israel, descendants of an apartheid named the ghetto, ghettoize the Palestinians. The Jews who were humiliated, scorned and persecuted humiliate, scorn and persecute the Palestinians. The Jews who were the victims of a pitiless order impose their pitiless order on the Palestinians. The Jews, scapegoats for every wrong, make scapegoats of Arafat and the Palestinian Authority."

Colombani, who co-wrote the piece with sociologist Edgar Morin, writer-lecturer Daniele Sallenave, and MEP Sami Nair, claimed that portions of the article had been taken out of context, and that the article represents "a lengthy and more balanced piece" that "did not undermine or attack the fundamental values of democratic societies."

Nonetheless, the appeals thus court reversed a lower court ruling, deciding last week that the passages violated French defamation laws, The Guardian reported.

The French umbrella group for Jewish associations, CRIF, said it "noted with satisfaction" the appeal court ruling, adding that the verdict "clearly set limits on a deviation that consists of incriminating 'the Jews' in the name of a criticism of Israel."

"We have always considered that criticism of Israeli policy falls under the category of the free and democratic exchange of ideas, but that debate cannot express itself as a demonization of Israel nor of the Jews," the group said.

Catherine Cohen, the attorney representing Le Monde and Nair, said she would appeal the ruling to France's highest court, saying "we cannot allow jurisprudence like this to stand."

"The article was a critique of a policy, of [Prime Minister Ariel] Sharon's policy, it wasn't a racial criticism," Cohen said. "The remarks were taken out of context; the plaintiffs argued that they were against Jews, but a few paragraphs later, the piece says that all occupiers behave the same way.

"This is a very serious matter for intellectuals, for commentators who express their point of view on a very complex issue," Cohen told The Guardian.

"Of course these authors are not anti-Jewish, nobody believes that," she said. "In reality, this kind of case does not belong in a court of law - the groups should have written their own rebuttal in the paper."


Home News Israel
Yavin discovered the darkness
There was no need for in-depth journalistic investigations to expose the truth unfurling in the territories. It was enough to honestly and courageously set up a camera and present things as they are. But television - and to a great extent the print media, too - kept this from its audience.
By Gideon Levy	| Jun. 5, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Maybe there is something to the settlers' claims? Perhaps Haim Yavin - Israel Prize laureate, "Mr. Television," one of the central figures in the media for a generation, a former director of Israel Television, the head of its news department and one of its architects - abused his position?

Given his lofty status, the settlers are in an uproar. With the diligence, innocence and integrity that characterizes Yavin the documentary filmmaker, he edited his series, "Land of the Settlers," and discovered the darkness of the occupation and the settlements. He exposed the cruel truth to his viewers, a truth that was hidden from him and from them for decades. And now the settlers are demanding that he be fired from "Mabat," Channel 1's flagship news broadcast.

This time, Yavin fulfilled his mission not only to tell the truth, but to tell the whole truth. He deserves every bit of praise for the courageous and penetrating series he prepared, and for the fact that he did not hesitate to jeopardize his statesmanlike status and the widespread popularity he has enjoyed for years. He dared to touch the hottest potato in Israeli society and to present to his viewers, in the twilight of his impressive career, the curse of the settlements, in all its ugliness.

Accordingly, The New York Times compared Yavin's bold move to the 1968 report by American newsman Walter Cronkite from Vietnam, whose famous phrase "We are mired in stalemate" led President Lyndon Johnson to say, "If I've lost Cronkite, I've lost middle America."

Now Yavin is telling Israelis, "We are mired in stalemate." It is doubtful that Ariel Sharon will lose "middle Israel" because of him. It is extremely doubtful that Yavin is powerful enough to bring an end to the settlement enterprise, but the message that emerges from the series has already stirred more public debate than any other television program in a long time. This is primarily due to the identity of its creator. He is a Zionist to the depths of his soul, the paragon of consensus. To hear this from him is much more jarring.

Nonetheless, while watching the emotions aroused in Yavin by what he witnesses in the territories, the question inevitably arises: Where was he until now? Where were he and his colleagues, the television broadcasters, the military reporters and community development correspondents, the defense commentators and diplomatic experts while the outrage was created - the nightmare that Yavin is now discovering. Where were they when the settlements plundered and exploited land, when the settlers abused their neighbors, when apartheid roads were paved for Jews only and when the Palestinians were imprisoned in their communities because of the settlers?

Why didn't they report to us in time about the brutal behavior ("We're storm troopers," Yavin says in the film) of the settlers at the checkpoints and roads, about their punishment raids, about the calamity they have imposed on Israeli society, about the obstacles they have rammed into the chances of peace.

After all, it was always clear to everyone. It only required the desire to see and report. There was no need for in-depth journalistic investigations to expose the truth unfurling in the territories. It was enough to honestly and courageously set up a camera and present things as they are. But television - and to a great extent the print media, too - kept this from its audience.

In recent years, all television viewers in Europe have seen more about what is happening in the territories than their Israeli counterparts. We were intentionally kept in the dark because of an unusual collaboration between journalists and editors who did not wish to show, consumers who did not wish to see, and the government and Israel Defense Forces, who did not want us to see. The role of the media is to open eyes; the Israeli media not only failed to prevent the closing of eyes and blurring of senses, it even encouraged this.

For 38 years, Israeli media, including the channel Yavin was responsible for, broadcast partial and slanted reports on the occupation. It was mobilized and censored. How much have you seen about the occupation on Ilana Dayan's highly praised investigative program? When have you heard something about the occupation on Nissim Mishal's program? On Rino Tzror's program or Amnon Levy's? It takes courage in Israel to broadcast an honest report, and courage is a very rare commodity for television broadcasters, who are thirsty for ratings and sanctify the consensus.

Most Israelis know almost nothing about the occupation. Even a newshound like Yavin was shaken by what he witnessed with his own eyes, for the first time in his life. The average Israeli has no idea what the separation fence looks like and what it is inflicting on the Palestinians.

The average Israeli does not know whom the IDF liquidates and has never really seen how soldiers treat innocent people. The average Israeli does not know about the cruel acts being perpetrated in his name - actions that have long ceased to be exceptions - and why and how much they destroy.

The average Israeli does not know how the lords of the land, the settlers, treat their neighbors while being protected by soldiers. No one bothered to tell this average Israeli and he is not especially interested. He closes his eyes because it is more comfortable that way. Nonetheless, he is entitled to receive honest reports.

Yavin came to the territories with his camera dreadfully late. He should have been there long ago, together with other colleagues. Television stars, with their prestige and status, could have played an important role in exposing the truth. Instead, they chose to abuse their positions and to be responsible for years of blurring, whitewashing, laundering and repressing. But unlike his younger colleagues, Yavin saved his honor in the end. They are the ones who should be denounced and dismissed.


Home Life Culture Poem of the Week
Letters to the Editor
Jun. 17, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Making deeds of words

Regarding "This city is cardinal to him," June 3

Cardinal Carlo Maria Martini's depiction of his way to Jerusalem contains more than biographical data related to one of the most outstanding personalities of the Roman Catholic Church. Most of all, his is not a way of spiritual occupation of Jerusalem by a Christian - other things, but certainly not that. It is the way that involves going home to places from which Christianity has come. And, therefore, it is a way of going back to the very roots of Jesus.

If Christianity really intends to fight against political anti-Semitism, it has to start to fight against its own anti-Jewish elements first. This means it has to discover what it has forgotten for hundreds of years, and what has made the rise of all the movements of political anti-Semitism possible in Europe. Jesus was born of Jews, not of Greeks. He belonged to the Jewish people till his very end. Later he was torn away from his people and taken to Rome, where he almost got lost, but was transformed into a hero. In his name the Jewish people was denounced in horrible ways.

The cardinal went back to Jerusalem. He made deeds of his words. When will official Christianity make words of facts, at the very least?

Prof. Wolfgang Treitler

Vienna

Deporting neo-Nazis

One topic that aligns all parties in Israeli politics is their agreement to remove neo-Nazis who happen to live in Israel, focusing on Russian KGB-supported new immigrants and their neo-Nazi children, some of whom came against their will, or stayed just to receive allotments.

While it's obvious that anyone active in actual activities destructive to the country should be stopped and removed, no mention was made about another flourishing neo-Nazi group that is proliferating "Mein Kampf" and "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion," teaching their children all the classic propaganda of Jewish history from the notorious blood libels to lies of the Inquisition, and not only teaching, but recruiting children as well as adults to go out and bomb, stab and blow up any and all Jews. This other "group" is, of course, Hamas, Fatah, Islamic Jihad, Hezbollah and, basically, most of the Palestinians.

It's obvious that these neo-Nazis should be deported as well.

Robert Harris

Chicago, IL

A wonderful dream

Regarding "The Hong Kong of the Middle East," May 20

Roman Bronfman writes: "The Israeli world view ranges between two extreme schools of thought: an apartheid regime in the occupied territories on the one hand and the desire of some Israelis for an Israel as `a state of its citizens' on the other. "

He states further that "for decades Israel has been enjoying the status of a military superpower in the Middle East. This fact, combined with the strategic treaty with the United States, should finally convince Israelis that there is no existential danger in store for them and for the state."

How do you then account for the fact that Palestinian terrorists have succeeded in driving the mighty Israeli military out of Lebanon and are on the verge of doing the same in Gush Katif and parts of northern Samaria?

Finally, he states that "Israel can become the Hong Kong of the Middle East thanks to its financial, technological and scientific strength." But this is based on certain conditions being fulfilled: 1) Israel must end the occupation; 2) the Arab countries must recognize the State of Israel; 3) there have to be international guarantees for Israel's security; and 4) the Arab countries must change the rhetoric of war to the rhetoric of peace!

Alfred Noodelman

Rehovot

 
Home Life Culture Poem of the Week
Ignoring the 'other'
"Shofet Behevra Demokratit" ("A Judge in a Democratic Society") by Aharon Barak, Nevo Publishing, 551 pages, NIS 128.
By Hassan Jabareen	Jun. 17, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Israeli lawyers took part in an international conference this year on human rights violations in the occupied territories. At the conference, the Israeli embassy distributed a paper with selected quotes from the decisions of the president of the Supreme Court, Aharon Barak. The lawyers were taken aback. They had planned to use these very decisions to accentuate the great discrepancy between the rhetoric and the results.

This is not an isolated case. Israel's defense before the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva rests not on government resolutions, ministerial statements or Knesset legislation, but almost exclusively on the rhetoric of Aharon Barak. In effect, the political establishment has turned Justice Barak into Israel's public defender abroad.

The irony is that this rhetoric creates tension at home between Barak and the political establishment, which also consists of senior jurists from the academic world. Barak's book explores this tension and the issues at the core of the dispute between Barak and those who are at odds with his judicial approach.

The book is written in the first person, which allows Barak to stray from the kind of formal writing typical of judges. As a rule, judges do not debate with those who disagree with them. As authority figures, they do not share their doubts or confess to errors because their decisions seal fates and lay down the law. "Strong rhetoric produces a loud echo," says Barak. This insures that it sinks into the public psyche. The talk about a "constitutional revolution," for example, has made people more aware of the discourse on constitutional rights, Barak argues, and rightly so. On the other hand, he regrets using the phrase "enlightened community," which has been misinterpreted as criticism of the religious sector.

Barak's rich prose style, interspersed with stories and legal anecdotes, turns a dry institutional text into a lively read with a connection to reality. Public trust, he says, is the judiciary's most valuable asset. Aryeh Deri's defense attorney claimed that a reappraisal of his conviction would bolster public trust. Barak says he is not talking about popularity but belief in the professionalism and neutrality of judges. In my opinion, this is problematic. We all know that the public is not "professional" but made up of different cultures to which "neutrality" may mean different things. If trust is so important, how can we assure it? Does popularity really have no bearing? To which public is he referring? Why do judges need trust? Policemen in societies with a liberal tradition, such as the United States, do not enjoy a high degree of public trust, and judges are appointed by the political echelon. And yet, the system operates properly, based on respect for the law - not faith in policemen or judges.

According to Barak, a judge has two primary duties: One is to introduce changes in the law that make it relevant to the new reality, and the other is to protect the constitution by judicial review, with an eye to safeguarding the values of the state as "Jewish and democratic." Among these values are the principle of the sovereignty of the people, the separation of powers, the rule of law, judicial autonomy and human rights. If a law is passed that transfers the power to determine a law's constitutionality from the courts to the Knesset, warns Barak, that law would be unconstitutional. Such a scenario is not hypothetical, he adds. An attempt to breach the principle of separation of powers took place in South Africa in 1952, but was overturned by the Supreme Court. What Barak seems to be saying is that if the court could do this during the rule of apartheid, without a constitution, then the Israeli High Court should be doubly capable.

To do their duty, judges must exercise judicial discretion, i.e., choose between different modes of action, all sanctioned by law. This choice must be objective and based on criteria in light of the values of the state as "Jewish and democratic." But how can the choice be legitimate when the judge is also the one who lays down the law? Are these not personal value judgments? Is there any objective test to establish "objectivity"?

And what about issues that are distinctly political in character? Are they also matters for the court? There is no doubt in Barak's mind: "Even the most political of decisions must be grounded in the law." There are no politics without the law, he argues. Members of the Israeli public who disagree with him say that a society's ethical dilemmas should be resolved by the country's elected leaders. A democratic argument, as it were.

Skewed discourse

Looking closer at this approach, however - Barak does not deal with this in his book - we see that it is not about opposition to judicial interference per se. It is a value judgment based on a rejection of basic individual rights. Barak was not an activist in the Qa'dan case, in which he ruled that an Arab citizen cannot be discriminated against and barred from living in a Jewish settlement. But those who criticized him did so because the ruling clashed with their perception of the Jewish state. When Barak, in a pinnacle of judicial activism, recently ruled on `who is a Jew' according to the Law of Return (recognizing conversions by non-Orthodox streams of Judaism), many of his opponents were silent because the outcome was perceived as corresponding with their Zionist outlook.

The same is true when individual liberties clash with "traditional values." The Danilovitz decision, granting equal rights to gay partners, had its opponents (actually, it was not Barak who was the activist in this case, but the minority judge who demanded that the ruling of the labor court be overturned). But these same people supported Barak's recent judgment upholding the prohibition on working on the Sabbath, which ostensibly restricts individual liberty, because a distinction exists between establishing a national day of rest and imposing sanctions on those who work on that day.

At the same time, Barak ignores the most important justification for his stance on judicial review: safeguarding the rights of the minority from majority rule. While he does dwell briefly on protecting a numerical minority, every democratic decision is taken by a majority, even those of a court. The literature clearly addresses the case of a "distinct minority" - in Israel's case, the Arab minority. This oversight weakens Barak's theoretical arguments, although it may help him politically, among those who care little about democratic rights. In fact, because the High Court of Justice has no criteria for recognizing the Arab minority as a "distinct minority", the law is vague and discrimination against the Arabs falls into a kind of gray area, resulting in the unjustified rejection of some petitions.

The discourse between Barak and his critics on the matter of judicial review is skewed, and unlike the arguments generally heard in connection with the political philosophy of rights. Cultural theorist Homi K. Bhabha would say in this regard that separating oneself from the "other" is not possible. Even when absent, this other seeps into one's consciousness; it is present, but not in a physical sense.

Here we come to the question of where the other fits into the scheme of things in Barak's book - the other being the Palestinians (citizens of Israel and inhabitants of the occupied territories). The historical test of the judiciary is how it treats the other. It is no coincidence that after the 1954 USSupreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education in the United States, which declared racial segregation in public schools illegal, American jurisprudence has never been the same. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa focused its attention on the courts' attitude toward the black population - not the whites - during apartheid.

In this book of 551 pages, 28 pages explore specific categories of human rights. All of two paragraphs are devoted to the Arab minority, plus another three-quarters of a page on "human rights and the Green Line." The occupied territories may "fall outside the realm of this book," but Barak believes that the issue needs to be addressed in the context of international humanitarian law, not Israeli law.

First of all, Barak's approach here is inconsistent with his decisions in the past, according to which "every Israeli soldier carries in his backpack ... the basic laws of Israeli administrative law." Secondly, the literature, here and abroad, shows very clearly that the High Court of Justice does not fully apply the international law. Third, Barak's view of the judge as an agent of change, working to improve the legal system in the era of human rights, has universal significance. Why should this universal approach not be applied to law in the occupied territories?

Barak introduces a non-legalistic argument to demonstrate that the Green Line limits his universal perspective. Does anyone, he asks, seriously expect the Americans in Afghanistan and Iraq to protect human rights as vigorously as they do at home? The answer is a resounding yes. But this is not a fair comparison. Since World War II, no occupation has ever lasted as long as the Israeli occupation. It has been ongoing for two-thirds of Israel's national life. It is part and parcel of Israel's daily existence. As Prof. Baruch Kimmerling put it, the Israeli psyche has a Palestinian component embedded in it.

Barak cannot draw a line between himself and the Palestinians. No Supreme Court justice in the world has heard as many cases connected to the occupation as Barak. Sitting on the bench for over 27 years, he is one of the few Israelis who has heard the personal stories and gut-wrenching problems of Palestinians, day in and day out, in the context of thousands of civil and criminal cases. Family reunification, home demolition, human shields, travel between Gaza and the West Bank, torture, criminal convictions, administrative detentions, deportation, land expropriation, uprooting of trees, victims of the wall, military sieges, curfews, road blocks, property damage, access to medical care, overseas travel, assassinations, and more.

Only two important decisions designed to protect human rights have been handed down since the beginning of the occupation. After hundreds of petitions and appeals, the High Court of Justice issued a prohibition on torture, although the Shin Bet, according to reports of the Public Committee Against Torture in Israel, continues to employ its unacceptable interrogation methods. Of the many petitions regarding the wall, an important ruling was issued on Beit Surik (while allowing construction to deviate substantially from the guidelines established by the International Court of Justice in the Hague). Barak was the driving force behind these two decisions.

If the High Court acceded to the demands of the Palestinians, goes one argument, it would be shaking its own foundations. That is a political argument and should be answered as such. If this is really so, then at least recognize that the High Court offers no protection to the Palestinians and develop a critical discourse in this regard. Ignoring the subject does not make the High Court more democratic; it only detracts from the professionalism of the research. Secondly, in these information revolution days, even leaders of intolerant societies may be hesitant at times to articulate their radical views in support of cruelty and oppression. The decisions on torture have not been seriously criticized because no one wants to say in public: Let us continue to be brutal. The same would hold if the court absolutely prohibited home demolitions.

The third point is that even though the South African Supreme Court continued to function during apartheid in the world's most racist society, it succeeded in some cases to defend the rights of black people. In some cases, the decisions it reached challenged the apartheid government, without its standing as a court being harmed in any way.

Justice Richard Goldstone, white and Jewish, served on the Supreme Court in South Africa during apartheid and was later appointed to the Constitutional Court by Nelson Mandela in the wake of his courageous decisions. In a recent interview, he said that because white society in South Africa had ignored the existence of the other, it believed it was democratic. Separation of powers, commitment to the rule of law, judicial independence, freedom of expression - all of these existed in South Africa.

"It is hard to be a judge," writes Barak, without going into detail. "It is doubly hard to be a good or worthy judge in Israel." Some day, if Barak ever writes his autobiography, he could pique the interest of the international community with his insights on three pivotal topics: the occupied territories, the Arab minority, and the religion and state conundrum. Suggested title: "A Judge in an Intolerant Society."

Hassan Jabareen is an attorney and the general director of Adalah: The Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel. He is an adjunct lecturer in the faculties of law at the Hebrew University and Tel Aviv University.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Will the bulldozer devour forever?
Netanyahu's hatred for the Arabs is so profound that he is incapable of seeing them as human beings who also have dreams and hopes for a normal, quiet life.
By Nehemia Shtrasler	| Jun. 24, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The atmosphere in the meeting between Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian Authority Chairman Abu Mazen (Mahmoud Abbas) was charged and tense, reported Sharon's people. In the context of the endless spin, they are interested in presenting Sharon as a firm leader, who doesn't give breaks to any Arab. "He demanded that [Abbas] dismantle the terror infrastructure," they announced with admiration, and the newspapers quoted them enthusiastically. "We didn't give them anything," they emphasized, and the Israeli public emerged satisfied. Look, we gave it to them again. Although we're withdrawing from Gaza, we proved to them who's the boss here and who gets reprimanded.

Sharon, cynic that he is, continued to maneuver on the matter of home demolitions. He is both for and against. Who is as familiar with the soul of the Likud Central Committee members, whose greatest fear is "to come out looking like suckers versus the Arabs," and, therefore, if we have to withdraw, at least let's destroy everything. Let them suffer.

The Palestinians are also vacillating between yes and no. On one hand, during meetings on the subject, they supported demolishing the buildings, apparently in order to prevent Israel from demanding money for them. But in an interview Abu Mazen gave Israel television's Channel 1 this week, he said explicitly that he would like the houses and public buildings to be left in place, "so that they will be used for the benefit of the Palestinian people." And if Israel demolishes them despite that, he added, he will be willing to clear the ruins and use them as a basis for the construction of the Gaza port. That is actually the agreement reached by Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz and PA Security Minister Mohammed Dahlan: We will demolish, and they will clear. A kind of insane and grotesque agreement.

The demolition festival was led by Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. In a ministerial consultation held by Sharon about a month ago, Netanyahu enthusiastically supported the demolition. In his opinion, "Leaving the buildings will serve as a great moral victory for the Palestinians - equivalent to `Have you murdered and also inherited?' - and we must prevent a situation in which Palestinian murderers inherit the homes of their victims, and dance on the roofs while calling for the destruction of Israel."

Netanyahu (who is not at all disturbed by the negative economic consequences of canceling the disengagement) is enlisting the best of Holocaust rhetoric to his aid. From his point of view, the settlers are victims rather than the representatives of a cruel occupation, who seized lands that didn't belong to them, who made the Palestinians work at starvation wages, who turned the lives of the residents of Gaza into a prolonged hell under an apartheid regime. He doesn't even hesitate to use such false emotional terms as "the destruction of Israel." Everything is permitted in order to prevent the disengagement and to bring down Sharon.

His hatred for the Arabs is so profound that he is incapable of seeing them as human beings who also have dreams and hopes for a normal, quiet life. He is afraid of "a great moral victory" for the Palestinians. But anyone with a brain knows the victory does in fact belong to them. We fled the Gaza Strip because of the terror attacks, the military and economic burden, and the firing on Sderot - because we understand only force. That's why they'll dance with joy in any case, with or without the houses.

After we have demolished thousands of houses in Gaza and on the Philadelphi route, and left families to the mercy of the sun and the rain, Netanyahu and his friends want to strengthen Israel's destructive image in the eyes of every television viewer throughout the world. The hatred that already exists toward Israel and the Jews is not enough for them. They want all the inhabitants of Europe and North America to see the bulldozers turning the houses into piles of ruins, and the Palestinians watching them from their miserable tin shacks. Is there a worse image than that in terms of the Israeli interest? What condemnations will be leveled at Israel for destroying buildings that can serve as vacation villages, hotels, entertainment facilities, universities and conference centers?

We are approaching the 11th hour, but there is still time to turn back the wheel of demolition. Demolishing houses is a barbaric act, it is inhumane, immoral and un-Jewish. Those in favor of demolition want to imprint the withdrawal with the dust of the demolitions, and thus to raise higher the walls of hatred - in order to prevent any possibility of reconciliation between the two nations. They must not be allowed to do so.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Annan appoints Karen AbuZayd new UN Relief Works Agency head
AbuZayd began her humanitarian work in 1981 with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
By The Associated Press	| Jun. 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has appointed Karen AbuZayd, the acting head of the U.N. agency for Palestinian refugees, to the top post in the organization, a senior U.N. official said Friday.

The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the appointment has not yet been announced.

AbuZayd began her humanitarian work in 1981 with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees dealing with refugees from Uganda, Chad and Ethiopia, as well as other African conflict spots.

In 1989, she moved from Sudan to Namibia where she helped coordinate the return of apartheid era refugees. A year later, she moved to Sierra Leone to head the UNHCR office in Freetown where she continued her refugee aid work.

AbuZayd also spent two years during the Bosnian war as chief of mission in Sarajevo.

In August 2000, after 19 years with UNHCR, she was appointed to the post of Deputy Commissioner-General of the United Nations Relief Works Agency.

In April, she became UNRWA's acting commissioner-general, helping oversee from her base in Gaza the education, health, social services and micro-enterprise programs for 4.1 million Palestinian refugees, according to her biography on the organization's Web site.

Before joining UNHCR, AbuZayd lectured in Political Science and Islamic Studies at Kampala, Uganda's Makerere University and at Juba University in southern Sudan.

AbuZayd earned her Bachelor of Science at DePauw University in Indiana and her Master of Arts in Islamic Studies at Canada's McGill University. She is married to a Sudanese professor and has two children.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Flying the wrong ribbons
Anyone who roams the paths of Israel, ambles along its streets or travels its roads receives the impression that his feet have been accorded the privilege of treading the earth of the birthplace of democracy. Masses of people are saying it with ribbons.
By Akiva Eldar	| Jun. 27, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Anyone who roams the paths of Israel, ambles along its streets or travels its roads receives the impression that his feet have been accorded the privilege of treading the earth of the birthplace of democracy. Masses of people are saying it with ribbons. Every antenna has something to say. An orange-ribboned Subaru stands bumper to bumper with a Mazda in blue and white. The former brandishes its opposition to the disengagement, and the latter declares support for it to all and sundry. An exemplar of an active civil society, a paradigm of civilized public debate. What a pity that a handful of extremists, rotten apples, are spoiling the mood (without regard to color) of the drivers they are immobilizing in traffic jams.

Indeed, according to a current survey by the Truman Institute at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, no more than 3 percent of the public intends to participate actively in the opposition to the disengagement. The surveyors found that even among the settlers in the territories, only a small minority (11 percent) are planning to go to the Gaza Strip to hinder the evacuation. However, the sea of orange ribbons - four out of every 10 Israelis identify with them - is further proof that democracy is no guarantee of wisdom. What goes through the mind of an ordinary citizen from Tel Aviv, Hadera or Tiberias as he ties the orange ribbon to his antenna? Does he not engage in any reckoning about what will happen on the morning after the fulfillment of his wish to eliminate the disengagement plan?

True, the plan is no cause for celebration in the peace camp. Yours truly has often enumerated the flaws in it and has warned that it was born in order to destroy the United States' "road map." However, there is something worse than carrying out the plan - and that is not carrying it out. Thwarting it, for the whole world to see, is tantamount to negating any possibility for peace, because a state that is not prepared to bear the pain of giving up the Gaza Strip will most certainly refuse to experience the tortures of partitioning the West Bank and Jerusalem.

The choice of orange is a choice of a national-religious theocracy, the perpetuation of the occupation, the violent conflict, an apartheid regime, defiance of the United States and the nations of the world, the isolation of Israel and economic crisis. In addition to all of these, the choice of orange, after the plan won the government's approval and the Knesset's blessing, is a vote of no-confidence in Israeli democracy.

According to the Truman Institute survey, every second Jewish settler in the territories does not recognize the authority of these elected institutions to make decisions concerning the evacuation of settlements - that is, to determine the borders of the state. The same survey has found nearly 40 percent of Israelis are opposed to the disengagement has also found that 62 percent of that public supports the dismantling of the settlements in the territories in the context of a peace agreement with the Palestinians. You need to be an exceedingly besotted disciple of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to believe that the exit from Netzarim brings the evacuation of Kiryat Arba or the end of the conflict any closer. Even Dov Weissglas, the prime minister's closest adviser, has suggested preserving this dream in formaldehyde.

But the "blue-whites," the majority who support the disengagement, are not concerned about the unilateral nature of the withdrawal. As far as they are concerned, it is enough that we get out of Gaza already and show those "oranges" that they aren't the bosses here. The outposts, the confiscations of land, the demolitions of houses and of course the peace negotiations can wait. Sharon most certainly looks out of his limousine at their ribbons and has a good laugh. With their help, in a month or two, he too will tie a ribbon to his antenna. An orange ribbon.

Meanwhile, the Labor ministers, the natural representatives of the "blue-whites," have fallen asleep on their watch on Sharon. They are not lifting a finger to compel the prime minister to strengthen the standing of the pragmatic partners in the territories, under the leadership of Mahmoud Abbas. None of them dares warn of the plot to turn the evacuation of the settlements in the Gaza Strip into an exemplar of Palestinian failure, a paradigm of an Israeli trauma, a model of withdrawal first, the end of peace.

No one is flying the ribbon that is most suited to the disengagement plan - the black ribbon - as a warning about the transformation of "Gaza first" into the end of peace.



Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Jul. 6, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Their lies exposed

Regarding "They broke the public's heart" July 3

Thank you Gideon Levy for exposing lies, sinister manipulation, corruption and hypocrisy of politicians and public media. This article appeared at a poignant moment when the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories deteriorates, with many areas on the verge of a humanitarian crisis, and as Israel's dissection of Palestinian territories continues unabated through settlement building and the apartheid wall, with increasing contempt and disregard for fundamental human rights and international law.

For a long time I haven't read such a balanced article that exposes the unsavory behavior of settlers while remembering the continued suffering of countless Palestinians who were compelled to endure the keenest suffering.

Munjed Farid Al Qutob

London

Out of tune with the original

Regarding "Respecting architectural legacy - and the audience," June 30

Danny Kaiser's defense of the design for the renovation of the Mann Auditorium goes somewhat overboard when he writes about the "philosophical location" of the structure, and when he gets to his central defense, the question of acoustics, he gets quite simplistic.

Before getting to the central issue, it is worth explaining that the reverberation period is not necessarily related to volume, it is a measure of the anticipated time delay between the moment the direct sound reaches the ears of the listener and when the reflected sound, i.e. indirect sound, ceases to be heard.

There are different recommended ranges for different types of space and sources of sound, and clearly the experience of each member of the audience will be different. There are endless variables, one of them being that the source may be an orchestra, a soloist, a chamber music ensemble, dancers, a choir, speech, etc., which means there should be some way of tuning the acoustics to suit the performance - and this may sometimes even include audience participation.

The most revealing part of Kaiser's presentation (and what provoked this letter), however, is the pair of computer generated simulations of the proposed interior. These reflect a total dissonance and incompatibility with the character of this important building.

As the designer of two public buildings (Beit Abba Chushi in Haifa, while in the office of Al Mansfeld, and the cultural/social center of Tirat Hacarmel) that have been raped and mutilated, I feel most strongly about this. Why is it that the authorities do not go back to the original designers when they feel that modifications or renovations are called for? True, the original designers of the Mann Auditorium have long since left us, but their offices, in the hands of their descendents, continue their practices. Surely they would have been more sympathetic to the spirit of the original.

Ben Kaplan

Haifa


Home Print Edition Opinion
The disengagement as smoke screen
By Jonathan Pollack	Jul. 11, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Exactly one year ago the International Court of Justice in the Hague ruled that the fence that Israel is building in the territories is illegal. However, one hardly needs to mention that the construction has been affected only cosmetically. During the past two years we - Israelis, Palestinians and international activists - have been conducting a joint, popular and nonviolent struggle against what appears to us as one of the most significant moves, with destructive implications in the long term, in the history of the occupation in the territories.

From the very first moment Israel has found no means too repugnant, and has reacted aggressively to quash this struggle by simple people who are losing their lands and their livelihoods. Of course it has been the Palestinians among us who have paid the highest price - nine of them have been killed, many have been wounded and many more have been sent to jail cells or prisons. It seems that the fact that we have chosen a civil struggle and that firearms have played no part in our protest has not influenced the Israel Defense Forces and the government. Both have declared time after time that all of our demonstrations are illegal, and have acted accordingly. The fact that it was indeed their activity that was defined as illegal by one of the highest legal authorities in the world has not influenced their behavior in the territories one whit.

After four straight months of struggle in the village of Bil'in, I find myself once again fleeing from a thick cloud of stinging smoke, as now and then a rubber bullet whizzes past my ears. The familiar pattern is repeating itself. The Israeli policy is determined unilaterally, by the army and the government, and is destroying lives. Every attempt at protest and nonviolent resistance is suppressed with a heavy hand. Beyond the moral wickedness of this behavior, by making debate and civil resistance impossible, Israel is contributing directly to the escalation of the hostility.

Recently there has been a new and strong spirit coming from the direction of the soldiers. This is a spirit of conciliation, we have been told, the spirit of the disengagement. Thus, under cover of the disengagement and with steady American support, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is presiding over the occupation of the West Bank. It appears that Sharon knows that in order to win the West Bank, he must sacrifice Gush Katif on the altar of the disengagement. He also knows that with the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip, the international pressure for progress in the peace process will recede and the Jewish settlement project in the West Bank - his life's project - can be renewed.

Under cover of the disengagement plan the fence continues to creep far beyond the recognized borders of the State of Israel and to butcher the West Bank into cantons. Many housing units are being built at this very moment beyond the Green Line [pre-Six-Day War border]. Most of this building is going on between the fence and the Green Line as part of the attempt to make the 1967 borders disappear and to annex more territory. Apartheid roads, some of them for Jews only and some of them for Palestinians only, continue to be built. The legal system, with its occupiers' laws, is continuing to give lip service to ordaining cosmetic changes in places where a deep-rooted change is needed.

And now, after the court has canceled most of the interim orders that delayed the construction of the separation fence, Sharon has hastened to accelerate its construction ("Defense heads to present PM with timetable for fence completion today," Haaretz, July 6).

A year ago I believed that the ruling by the International Court of Justice in the Hague was a huge success - a major step on the long road to ending the occupation and the regime of Israeli racism. I still think so, but to my regret, until such time as the international community as a whole and the United States in particular apply real pressure to end the occupation and support the popular struggle, as they did when it suited their interests in Lebanon, the meaning of this step will remain symbolic. Anyone who has been blinded by the dazzle of security arguments for the fence and the false peace promises of the disengagement will discover too late that there is neither security nor peace in them.

These are critical days and the remaining time is short. Only the Israelis have the power to cut through the cries of "anti-Semitism" that are heard every time elements in the world dare to criticize Israel and its policy in the territories. The power and the moral obligation.

The writer is an activist in Anarchists Against the Fence.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Hope merits more than an anthem
So why not sing, loud and clear: "As long as deep in the heart / The soul of an Israeli yearns / And toward the East / An eye looks to Jerusalem (Al-Quds, if need be)?
By Michael Handelzalts	| Jul. 12, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Knesset Constitution, Law and Justice Committee was discussing, in the context of the preliminary session dealing with "a constitution by broad consensus," the possibility of changing words, or maybe even entire lines, of Israel's national anthem.

The problem is that the words of "Hatikva" ("Hope") state that "the soul of a Jew yearns," while there are many Israeli Arab citizens, Muslims and Christians, whose eye looks to Jerusalem with no less yearning.

Shahar Ilan reported in Haaretz ("An anthem for all nations," July 7) that chair of the Shinui faction, MK Reshef Chayne, suggested singing "the soul of an Israeli" instead, which will not harm the song.

The committee chair, MK Michael Eitan (one of the hard-core nationalist camp Likud members), while not proposing a practical solution, said "if we add another line, so that even an Arab citizen will be able to say `the Jewish soul,' but will feel that his own soul is also included in the enterprise that belongs to all of us, we have to be proud if we succeed."

The chair of the Likud faction, MK Gideon Saar, was adamant that any change in the anthem's words is a compromise on an issue concerning the state's identity. Arab representatives have not been asked about the subject, as yet.

An anthem (in non-English languages, the word hymn is often used) is usually performed spontaneously by large nonprofessional choirs at the end of solemn or festive occasions, like a mass rally. The words and melodies are communal choices and creations that become widely accepted traditions. Singing them on national holidays became a broadly accepted custom around the mid-19th century, and some nations committed the text and tune to written law.

According to an exhaustively informative essay by Eliahu Hacohen, Naftali Hertz Imber published a book of poems entitled "Habarkai" in 1886. It included a longish poem called "Tikvateinu" ("Our Hope"), which he improvised during public readings over nine years. The poem had nine stanzas, each followed by a recurring refrain opening with the words "our hope is not yet lost," clearly inspired by the Polish national anthem.

Shmuel Cohen, a musician in Rishon Letzion, was the man who in 1887, using the melody of a Romanian-Moldavian folk song, started singing only the first stanza of Imber's poem and the refrain. It spread like wildfire, and was sung spontaneously in Zionist meetings all over Europe.

Imber's original version of the refrain was: "Our hope is not yet lost / The age-old hope / To return to the land of our fathers / To the land where David dwelt." But in 1905 the Hebrew teacher I.L. Matmon Cohen rewrote the refrain, changing it to: "Our hope is not yet lost / The hope of two thousand years / To be a free people in our land / The land of Zion and Jerusalem" - the version we sing today.

By the way, the first English version of "Hatikva" was penned by Israel Zangwill.

In 1933, the 18th Zionist Congress accepted a resolution that the blue-and-white flag is the flag of the Zionist organization, and "Hatikva" is the national anthem of the Jewish people. With the establishment of Israel (not "Zion") as the Jewish state on May 15, 1948, "Hatikva" was sung spontaneously and naturally, as a matter of fact. But the Law of the Flag and Crest of 1949 does not say a word about the national anthem.

Only on November 10, 2004, four years after the October 2000 shooting of 13 Israeli Arabs and the Orr Committee hearings, was the Law of the Flag and Crest amended to include the national anthem, "Hatikva," every word of it spelled out in the book of laws - an arrogant slap on the smarting cheek of a distinct minority, delivered by a self-righteous majority.

Israel is not the first nation that has to address the issue of its national anthem: "Das Lied der Deutschen" with its first line "Deutschland, Deutschland ueber alles" was written in the 19th century by Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben, when there were still 30 different German monarchs, and became the anthem of the Third Reich. Its singing was naturally outlawed by the Allies after World War II. But in 1952, it once again became the national anthem of West Germany - with the same melody, but with only one stanza of the original being sanctioned by law, the third, hailing the unity, justice and freedom of the German fatherland. It is now the national anthem of united Germany. Today there is no law about it.

The Soviets were singing "The International" since the 1917 Revolution. In 1944, Sergei Mikhalkov was ordered to write a new national anthem praising the inspiration of Lenin and the leadership of Stalin, to a tune by Alexandrov - which was originally the anthem of the Bolshevik party. Since 1956, Stalin's fall from grace, the anthem was never sung. Only orchestral performances of it were allowed. In a new version of the words written in 1977, both inspiration and leadership were credited to Lenin only. In 2000, the same Mikhalkov (born in 1913) wrote brand-new communist verses to fit the same old tune.

Since 1997, South Africa's national anthem has included one verse from the anthem of apartheid times, and then, changing keys in mid-anthem, switches to the ANC anthem. The words are in a mix of four of the country's 11 official languages. Apparently, they figured an anthem should not be a problem.

So why not sing, loud and clear: "As long as deep in the heart / The soul of an Israeli yearns / And toward the East / An eye looks to Jerusalem (Al-Quds, if need be) / Our hope is not yet lost / The hope of two thousand years / To be a free people in our land / The state of Israel, Jerusalem."

Some minor musical fixes are needed - to prolong a note here, to add a note there. It was never great poetry, anyway. A hope for public life of equal rights and opportunities to all people, regardless of ethnicity, race, religion, genes and prejudice, merits much more than squabbling over words in an anthem.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Hope merits more than an anthem
So why not sing, loud and clear: "As long as deep in the heart / The soul of an Israeli yearns / And toward the East / An eye looks to Jerusalem (Al-Quds, if need be)?
By Michael Handelzalts	| Jul. 12, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Knesset Constitution, Law and Justice Committee was discussing, in the context of the preliminary session dealing with "a constitution by broad consensus," the possibility of changing words, or maybe even entire lines, of Israel's national anthem.

The problem is that the words of "Hatikva" ("Hope") state that "the soul of a Jew yearns," while there are many Israeli Arab citizens, Muslims and Christians, whose eye looks to Jerusalem with no less yearning.

Shahar Ilan reported in Haaretz ("An anthem for all nations," July 7) that chair of the Shinui faction, MK Reshef Chayne, suggested singing "the soul of an Israeli" instead, which will not harm the song.

The committee chair, MK Michael Eitan (one of the hard-core nationalist camp Likud members), while not proposing a practical solution, said "if we add another line, so that even an Arab citizen will be able to say `the Jewish soul,' but will feel that his own soul is also included in the enterprise that belongs to all of us, we have to be proud if we succeed."

The chair of the Likud faction, MK Gideon Saar, was adamant that any change in the anthem's words is a compromise on an issue concerning the state's identity. Arab representatives have not been asked about the subject, as yet.

An anthem (in non-English languages, the word hymn is often used) is usually performed spontaneously by large nonprofessional choirs at the end of solemn or festive occasions, like a mass rally. The words and melodies are communal choices and creations that become widely accepted traditions. Singing them on national holidays became a broadly accepted custom around the mid-19th century, and some nations committed the text and tune to written law.

According to an exhaustively informative essay by Eliahu Hacohen, Naftali Hertz Imber published a book of poems entitled "Habarkai" in 1886. It included a longish poem called "Tikvateinu" ("Our Hope"), which he improvised during public readings over nine years. The poem had nine stanzas, each followed by a recurring refrain opening with the words "our hope is not yet lost," clearly inspired by the Polish national anthem.

Shmuel Cohen, a musician in Rishon Letzion, was the man who in 1887, using the melody of a Romanian-Moldavian folk song, started singing only the first stanza of Imber's poem and the refrain. It spread like wildfire, and was sung spontaneously in Zionist meetings all over Europe.

Imber's original version of the refrain was: "Our hope is not yet lost / The age-old hope / To return to the land of our fathers / To the land where David dwelt." But in 1905 the Hebrew teacher I.L. Matmon Cohen rewrote the refrain, changing it to: "Our hope is not yet lost / The hope of two thousand years / To be a free people in our land / The land of Zion and Jerusalem" - the version we sing today.

By the way, the first English version of "Hatikva" was penned by Israel Zangwill.

In 1933, the 18th Zionist Congress accepted a resolution that the blue-and-white flag is the flag of the Zionist organization, and "Hatikva" is the national anthem of the Jewish people. With the establishment of Israel (not "Zion") as the Jewish state on May 15, 1948, "Hatikva" was sung spontaneously and naturally, as a matter of fact. But the Law of the Flag and Crest of 1949 does not say a word about the national anthem.

Only on November 10, 2004, four years after the October 2000 shooting of 13 Israeli Arabs and the Orr Committee hearings, was the Law of the Flag and Crest amended to include the national anthem, "Hatikva," every word of it spelled out in the book of laws - an arrogant slap on the smarting cheek of a distinct minority, delivered by a self-righteous majority.

Israel is not the first nation that has to address the issue of its national anthem: "Das Lied der Deutschen" with its first line "Deutschland, Deutschland ueber alles" was written in the 19th century by Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben, when there were still 30 different German monarchs, and became the anthem of the Third Reich. Its singing was naturally outlawed by the Allies after World War II. But in 1952, it once again became the national anthem of West Germany - with the same melody, but with only one stanza of the original being sanctioned by law, the third, hailing the unity, justice and freedom of the German fatherland. It is now the national anthem of united Germany. Today there is no law about it.

The Soviets were singing "The International" since the 1917 Revolution. In 1944, Sergei Mikhalkov was ordered to write a new national anthem praising the inspiration of Lenin and the leadership of Stalin, to a tune by Alexandrov - which was originally the anthem of the Bolshevik party. Since 1956, Stalin's fall from grace, the anthem was never sung. Only orchestral performances of it were allowed. In a new version of the words written in 1977, both inspiration and leadership were credited to Lenin only. In 2000, the same Mikhalkov (born in 1913) wrote brand-new communist verses to fit the same old tune.

Since 1997, South Africa's national anthem has included one verse from the anthem of apartheid times, and then, changing keys in mid-anthem, switches to the ANC anthem. The words are in a mix of four of the country's 11 official languages. Apparently, they figured an anthem should not be a problem.

So why not sing, loud and clear: "As long as deep in the heart / The soul of an Israeli yearns / And toward the East / An eye looks to Jerusalem (Al-Quds, if need be) / Our hope is not yet lost / The hope of two thousand years / To be a free people in our land / The state of Israel, Jerusalem."

Some minor musical fixes are needed - to prolong a note here, to add a note there. It was never great poetry, anyway. A hope for public life of equal rights and opportunities to all people, regardless of ethnicity, race, religion, genes and prejudice, merits much more than squabbling over words in an anthem.


Home Jewish World The Jewish Thinker
Palestinian foreign minister asks UN to act over separation barrier
By Reuters	| Jul. 12, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Palestinian Authority said yesterday that it would ask the United Nations to take punitive measures against international companies whose products are used by Israel in the separation barrier project.

Palestinian Foreign Minister Nasser al-Kidwa named only one firm, Illinois-based Caterpillar Inc., whose earth-moving machinery and bulldozers are among the equipment used to clear ground and sometimes Palestinian homes.

"We want to see some concrete measures," Kidwa said. "We are proposing completely punitive measures against entities, companies and individuals that contribute to the construction of the wall and other illegal activities in the occupied Palestinian territory."

Kidwa said such measures could include undertakings by UN member states not to issue visas or work contracts to companies linked to the barrier project.

There is little chance the United States and others in the UN Security Council would approve such sanctions.

But some Arab envoys hope that recommendations by the world body's 191-member General Assembly might spark boycotts by attrition, similar to those used effectively against South Africa over apartheid.

The World Court has judged the network of razor wire-tipped fences and concrete walls to be illegal. Israel has ignored the court's call to stop the project, saying the barrier is justified because it stops Palestinian suicide bombers.

Caterpillar, responding to criticism by human rights groups, has said sales to Israel comply with U.S. law. At an April 14 meeting, 96 percent of Caterpillar's shareholders backed the company's position that it cannot enforce how its equipment is used.

Kidwa made the comments a day after Israel's cabinet decided to build another segment of the barrier around Jerusalem.

Palestinian officials said about 100,000 Palestinians would be cut off from jobs, schools and hospitals in Jerusalem and surrounding areas. Kidwa said Sunday's decision, which is to be implemented by September, shocked the Palestinian leadership and necessitated quick action.

"You cannot talk peace and at the same time colonize Palestinian land, to construct the wall and continue to build settlements. This will destroy the present and future of the Palestinians," Kidwa added.


Home Print Edition News
News in brief
Jul. 15, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	

Beinisch calls for probes when unarmed Palestinians are killed

High Court Justice Dorit Beinisch attacked yesterday the policy of the military advocate general for not requiring a criminal investigation in all cases of the death of unarmed Palestinians during Israel Defense Forces operations in the territories. In a discussion of petitions by B'Tselem and the Association of Civil Rights in Israel, Beinisch said current procedures require "serious refurbishing." Deputy Military Advocate General Shai Nitzan said in court that since September 2000, the Military Policy began 130 investigations following shooting incidents causing death or injury to Palestinians, some 50 in the past year. The court instructed the state to submit within three months a proposal for an alternative mechanism to military police investigations. (Yuval Yoaz)

Arab League calls for urgent UN meeting to stop fence

The Arab League called yesterday for urgent meetings of the UN Security Council and General Assembly to take action to stop construction of the separation fence. Arrangements must be made "to stop building the apartheid wall which the occupation authorities continue to build, challenging the ruling by the International Court of Justice," said a statement issued following an Arab League meeting called in response to the cabinet's recent approval of the fence's route in Jerusalem. Last year, the ICJ issued an advisory ruling saying that construction of the barrier violated international law. (DPA)

Israeli victim of London blast formally identified by parents

The body of the former Israeli who was killed in last week's London bombings, Anat Rosenberg, has been identified, the Foreign Ministry said yesterday. The London authorities notified the Israeli embassy in London, which will help transfer the body to Israel, if Rosenberg's family so desires. Rosenberg, 39, moved to London some 19 years ago. She was talking on the telephone with her partner, John Falding, when the blast occurred. Falding said that the call was cut off after he heard shouts from people near Rosenberg, and since then, he has been unable to trace her. Rosenberg's parents live in Jerusalem. (Yoav Stern)


Home Opinion
Ending the colonialism
Only a multidimensional dialogue between Zionists and Palestinians, between religious and secular and vis-a-vis the international community can perhaps create a possibility in which the disengagement will lead to a positive dynamic of conciliation, and not to the continuation of the violence and the deepening of the occupation.
By Oren Yiftachel	Jul. 20, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Two of the moderate ideologues in the religious camp, Avi Sagi and Yedidya Stern, describe the struggle over the disengagement as a simple equation, in which there are two "gladiators." The Jewish settlers in the territories and the left are sparring in the arena, facing a supreme referee - the State of Israel - which is responsible for the relations between them ("Disengagement, not separation," Haaretz, July 15).

In the proposed deal, the settlers are asked to give up the refusal to obey orders in the military and violence, while the left is asked to defend the settlers' human rights and strengthen the Jewish character of the state - and salvation will come to Israel.

Does this sound simple and persuasive? Not really. Despite the atmosphere of compromise that arises from their proposal, it sins in a distorted description of the reality and thus continues to fuel the illusions that prevail in the Israeli-Jewish discourse, to the effect that "if only we learn to reconcile among ourselves, between right and left, religious and secular, (nearly) all our problems will be solved."

Similarly, over the years we have been exposed to initiatives for conciliation between religious and secular, like Tsav Piyyus (Conciliation Order), the Kinneret Covenant and Siah Ahim (Dialogue of Brothers), but all of them err in whitewashing the root of the problem - the Jewish colonialism in the territories. These initiatives leave the Palestinians as a kind of silent backdrop or incidental stage setting. There is not only a moral problem here of ignoring the inhabitants of this land for many generations, but also an analytical failure to understand the development of the political geography of Israel/Palestine (in the context of which the disengagement is taking place), as well as the disagreements between religious and secular that touch precisely upon the question of the attitude toward the Palestinians.

Sagi and Stern are not alone, of course. Their article reflects a long-standing Zionist discourse about the conflict, which looks exclusively into Jewish society. Even today, this discourse continues to ignore additional forces that impel the struggle for the land, above all the Palestinians, but with them also the international forces that are growing stronger. Such an attitude allows most Jews to believe to this day the illusion that they have a "Jewish democracy," despite the apartheid reality that is created by Jewish rule before their very eyes.

This approach, which is considerate of the Jewish settlers in the territories, has also led to the building of the separation fence inside the West Bank - a route that contradicts international law and the Palestinians' right to sovereignty. Thus, realizing the legitimate need to protect Jews from terrorism becomes a predatory act that scorns the international community and makes Israel vulnerable to increasing condemnation and the real possibility of the imposition of sanctions.

The exclusively Jewish discourse is also dominant within the Green Line (pre-Six-Day War borders). Recently, for example, the Southern District Planning Commission approved the deposit of a new master plan that ignores tens of thousands of Bedouin citizens who live in the unrecognized villages. It goes without saying that the plan was prepared without the participation of the Bedouin in shaping their own living areas; as such, it is doomed to failure before it is applied.

What is the connection between the plan for the Negev and the disengagement plan? Both reflect the Israeli approach of unilateralism that has been dominant for years - the attempt to impose the Jewish "consensus" on a binational reality, without dialogue or understanding. That is, the Jews will decide the Palestinians' future among themselves.

There is no doubt that entering into a real dialogue with the Palestinians on either side of the Green Line is not easy. It opens up all the pending "cases," confronting Zionism with its refugees, its victims, its foes and its deniers, but it also confronts the Palestinians with the Jewish Israelis as flesh-and-blood human beings, themselves refugees and descendants of refugees. Such a dialogue is not an end in itself, as sometimes happened during the Oslo years, but rather a means to end the colonialism, achieve international legitimacy and obtain security for the two peoples who share a small land.

The unilateral approach has thus far led Israel into a series of failures and a cursed cycle of blood. The only dialogue that exists is between Qassams and assassinations, between Islamic terror and Israeli state terror, between a policy of demolishing houses and wild counter-building. Only a multidimensional dialogue between Zionists and Palestinians, between religious and secular and vis-a-vis the international community can perhaps create a possibility in which the disengagement will lead to a positive dynamic of conciliation, and not to the continuation of the violence and the deepening of the occupation.

The writer is a professor of political geography at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Be'er Sheva.


Home Print Edition News
Defense panel chair says U.S. demands for defense sale oversight may hurt Israel
By Gideon Alon	| Jul. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The U.S. should not be able to extend its oversight of Israeli defense exports to third countries, such as India and Turkey, as it may harm Israel's military industries, the chairman of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, MK Yuval Steinitz (Likud), said yesterday.

In response to a report in yesterday's Haaretz about the mounting crisis between the U.S. and Israel over Israel's sale of replacement parts for attack drones sold to China, Steinitz said it was the worst crisis in American-Israeli relations in the last decade.

"From our discussions in the committee and subcommittee, we had the impression that the crisis was to have ended, first after Passover and then by the beginning of August. In any case, Israel must take upon itself [to meet] the U.S. demands about limitations and oversight of its exports to China, since the U.S. sees China - justifiably or not - as a potential military adversary," he said.

Regarding the U.S. demand that a memorandum of understanding to be signed by Israel and the U.S. be accompanied by an apology, Steinitz said, "If mistakes were made innocently, an apology can be made."

On U.S. demands that Knesset legislation be enacted within 18 months to limit the exports, Steinitz said: "A situation must not be created whereby the U.S. is dictating this or that legislation to Israel, or dictating to Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz appointments to senior positions in the Defense Ministry."

Steinitz also said that without reference to the current crisis, the fact that the government had not managed for an entire year to end the crisis and extricate the Israel Defense Forces and the Military Industries from the ensuing complications "could not be considered an impressive success."

Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee member MK Yossi Sarid (Meretz-Yahad) said that while "there is no need for American interference in our matters, there is a need to tighten oversight of defense exports." Sarid said that he has argued for years that Israel is doing itself serious damage by selling military equipment to pariah states, from South Africa during apartheid to Argentina in the days of the military junta.

Sarid said that in the coming days, he would propose a bill to tighten oversight of military exports, calling for a special parliamentary committee, part of the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, that would be authorized to vet arms sales.

Committee member MK Ephraim Sneh (Labor) said, "Israel's military exports are hanging in the balance. If Israel cannot export $3 billion to $4 billion dollars a year, its military industries will wither, and it will lose its technological edge."

Sneh said American concerns should be taken into consideration, and since the U.S. sees China as a threat, stricter oversight should be maintained. However, he added that he believes present oversight is sufficient, and "under no circumstances must we limit ourselves in marketing and exports."


Home Life Arts & Leisure
Surroundings / Separation seems to have spread everywhere
It is no coincidence that on one side of the huge bank of earth separating Caesarea from Jisr al-Zarka, it is pastoral and green (the Caesarea side) and it is barren on its other, intimidating, side.
By Esther Zandberg	| Jul. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
There is no good fence. The decision to build the separation fence and the walls is always made by those with the power and the means. Those on the other side are always the weak. It is also no coincidence that on one side of the huge bank of earth separating Caesarea from Jisr al-Zarka, it is pastoral and green (the Caesarea side) and it is barren on its other, intimidating, side. This separation is physical, with an ethnic, national or class basis; the separation between Jews and Arabs, between Middle Eastern and European, between the rich and the poor, this is the main logic that currently organizes Israeli expanses. It also does not stop at the separation fence in the West Bank, but finds its way into the very heart of Israel proper.

These profound and uncompromising claims are the focus of the "Hafrada" ("Separation") exhibition, which opens today in the gallery of the Architects Association in Jaffa. The exhibition, curated by Shelley Cohen and Haim Yacobi, consists of pictures of 12 separation sites photographed by Yair Barak, Orit Siman-Tov and Amit Grun at the invitation of the curators. There are the apartheid walls between Caesarea and Jisr al-Zarka and between Nir Zvi and the Arab neighborhood of Pardes Snir in Lod; the architectural monstrosity of the Carmel Beach Towers in Haifa, which stick up like a raised fist opposite the distressed neighborhood of Neveh David; the threatening wall surrounding the luxury residential Holyland neighborhood in Jerusalem; and several other sites.

Separation seems to have spread everywhere. It is as if it builds itself and has become part of Israel's urban and rural landscape, and is even decorated with aesthetic camouflage - whether in Haifa, Arsuf, Jaffa, Modi'in, Lod, Ramle, Be'er Sheva, in the closed and secured residential neighborhoods of the wealthy, in mixed cities, in distressed neighborhoods that are sometimes turned into closed ghettos, or education buildings and other public buildings protecting themselves from strangers.

The separation plague has even attacked the already separate Tel Aviv bubble. Although Tel Aviv is not participating in the exhibition, it is impossible not to wonder at the fences being built around the green stretches along the city's boulevards and the expropriation of another chunk of public space and the semblance of urban normalcy.

In addition to the photographs, there will be screenings of documentary films, televised reports, newspaper articles and texts relating to the sites and their subject material.

This is the eighth exhibition in the "Mekomi" ("My Place"), which Cohen has been curating at the gallery and addressing the Israeli expanse with a critical eye. The series has contributed more than a little to the new architectural discourse and to a change in the sparse architecture exhibition's scene in Israel. Cohen is also constantly trying to put the politics of Israel's space on the agenda of the architecture community, which effectively implements politics on the ground.

The current exhibition seeks to warn against the normalization of separation and to appeal to planners, planning committee members and decision makers in the planning arena to "think twice before voting in favor of a separation wall, even if it is the easiest solution." Although such people counter that wherever there is a fence or a wall, there really is a problem, the tragedy is that they view the separation as a solution.

"Problems are not solved by separation," says Cohen. "They always pop up somewhere else instead."

The contemporary separation debate in the public and cultural discourse in Israel focuses mainly on the separation fence, but "Hafrada" brings the debate of politics in architecture back into Israel and points out the relationship between Israeli spatial design inside and outside the Green Line. Most of the sites photographed for this exhibition are inside the Green Line and were carefully chosen to reinforce the exhibition's all-encompassing, sometimes almost demagogic, thesis, and they sharpen its arguments.

The exhibition is accompanied by a booklet (a real catalog was not produced due to budgetary constraints) containing summaries of articles by sociologists, cultural critics, architects and social activists who relate to the relationship between the planning and the rationale behind the separation, and try to peel back the ostensible necessity, apolitical issues and normalization.

"Beyond the rational facade of the arguments explaining the construction of the separation fences, walls and obstacles," say Cohen and Yacobi, "there is another level that is both elusive and weighty, connected with the fears aroused at the times and places of meetings with the other. Fear is the main component of the political-spatial discourse, and its presence in the space is not a simplified reflection of reality. Fear creates the separation and separation produces fear."

In his article in the booklet, Uri Vaknin writes about Israeli architecture as a tool of oppression and about the housing projects in Jerusalem's Katamon neighborhood that turned their Mizrahi (Jews of Middle Eastern origin) residents into a "human wall" facing the Jordanian border (before 1967); Dan Rabinowitz explains how the Trans-Israel Highway, which promises to connect the center with the periphery and the rich with the poor, cuts off Arab villages along its length from their agricultural lands; Tamar Berger writes about the class separation fence that has sprung up between Reut and Modi'in; and another article speaks of the closed neighborhood of Andromeda Hill in Jaffa as being "implanted like a foreign body in a painful surgical procedure."

The timing of this exhibition - in a period during which events in the unmitigated reality are stronger than any representation - is undoubtedly frustrating. What else can be said about the separation in the format of an exhibition in a gallery in Jaffa (a location that ironically could have been one of the sites in the exhibition) that has not already been said, displayed, screened, broadcast and written recently from many stages?

The curators believe that "now is the time in which the fate of Israeli space is going to be decided for generations, and for this reason it is precisely the time when it is worth struggling and raising our voices, even if a million articles about the earthen bank at Jisr al-Zarka or the Trans-Israel Highway have already been written.


Home News
U.S. Presbyterian Church targets five companies with Israel links
Caterpillar and Motorola among firms which are accused of profiting from Israel's policies in territories.
By News Agencies	and Haaretz Service	| Aug. 6, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
A Presbyterian committee accused five companies of contributing to "ongoing violence that plagues Israel and Palestine" and pledged to use the church's multimillion-dollar stock holdings in the businesses to pressure them to stop.

The move Friday follows a vote last year by leaders of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) to put economic pressure on companies that profit from Israeli policy in the West Bank and Gaza.

The Church said the companies were selected based on its own developed criteria, namely companies which "support and maintain the occupation; establish, expand, or maintain Israeli settlements; support or facilitate violent acts by Israelis or Palestinians against innocent civilians; and support or facilitate the construction of the Separation Barrier."

The group named heavy equipment manufacturer Caterpillar, communications giant Motorola, military contractor United Technologies, and electronics manufacturer ITT Industries - all of which are firms who have been contracted to supply the Israel Defense Forces.

The Church also listed international banking conglomerate Citigroup, which was cited in April by The Wall Street Journal for "having moved substantial funds from charities later seen to be fronts funneling money to terrorist organizations," including "funds [which] ended up as payments to the families of Palestinian suicide bombers."

"We have chosen these companies because we believe that they can make changes that will increase the possibilities for a just peace in the region," said Carol Hylkema, who heads a Church subcommittee spearheading divestiture from companies with links to Israel.

"As shareholders of these companies, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) calls on them to act responsibly," she said.

In a press release, the USPC said it hopes to engage in dialogue and forms of public pressure on shareholders "so that these corporations might change their business practices which inflict harm on the innocent, and delay movement toward a just peace."

"If these dialogues fail, we may conclude that our investments are not being used for activities that support the broad mission of the Church," said church official Bill Somplatsky-Jarman. "At that point, divestment is an option that the General Assembly may consider."

The moves comes months after the World Council of Churches, the main global body uniting non-Catholic Christians, encouraged members to sell off investments in companies profiting from Israeli control of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

The Council's Central Committee, meeting in Geneva in February, praised the U.S. Presbyterian Church for examining the possibility of divestment in Israel similar to the financial boycott it used against the apartheid regime in South Africa two decades ago.

The Presbyterian threat, which echoes divestment debates at some U.S. universities, has set off a wave of dissent in the church and angered American Jewish leaders.

But the Central Committee highlighted the divestment push and encouraged other member churches to consider doing the same. The New York Times reported Friday that the Episcopal Church U.S.A. and the United Church of Christ, among others, have praised the move and are also considering divestment as a means of swaying Israeli policy.

"This action is commendable in both method and manner, uses criteria rooted in faith, and calls on members to do the `things that make for peace'," the Central Committee said of the Presbyterian Church's move, quoting St. Luke's Gospel. "Economic pressure, appropriately and openly applied, is one such means of action."

It was not clear how many of the WCC's 342 Protestant and Orthodox member churches would heed the call.

However, in what appears to be a hardening of some Christian groups' stance on the conflict, the Disciples of Christ passed a resolution in July calling on Israel to take down the separation fence, with other churches considering similar resolutions, the Times said.

"Multinational corporations have been involved in the demolition of Palestinian homes," the WCC statement said, adding that they were also involved in "the construction of settlements and settlement infrastructure on occupied territory, in building a dividing wall which is also largely inside occupied territory, and in other violations of international law."

The Presbyterian Church's General Assembly last July called for a "phased, selective divestment" beginning no earlier than July 2006. A dissident group is asking church leaders to place a moratorium on the project as early as next month.

No companies have been singled out, but a report naming the most likely targets is due in August.

Human rights groups have urged Caterpillar Inc., the world's largest maker of construction machinery, to stop selling bulldozers to the Israel Defense Forces, saying they are used to wreck innocent Palestinians' homes in Gaza and the West Bank.

The occupation "is at the center of the cycle of violence in the region, whether it is suicide bombings or the displacement caused by the occupation... and impedes a peaceful solution to that conflict," the committee now selecting possible divestment targets said recently.

It is unclear how much of the church's $8 billion portfolio - investments covering pensions and other holdings controlled by its leadership - might be at issue.

Jewish groups are clearly upset. The New York Times reported that some of them have accused the Church of anti-Semitism.

"Instead of talking about peace, we're talking about Presbyterians," David Elcott, director of inter-religious affairs for the American Jewish Committee, said this month. "They have deflected conversation in a very negative way."

The move was also condemned by the Anti-Defamation League. "As we have said repeatedly in conversation with Presbyterian Church leaders," National Director Abraham Foxman said in a statement, "divestment policies are counterproductive and a detriment to the newly revived peace initiative between the Israelis and Palestinians, and fundamentally flawed as a mechanism for resolving the conflict. Divestment hurts not only Israel, but has economic impact on Palestinians as well."

The 2.5 million-strong church, the ninth largest in the U.S., represents most U.S. Presbyterians.


Home Print Edition Opinion
A worldly, not a messianic decision
Right-wing leaders must adjust their thinking to reality, instead of clutching talismans and praying for divine intervention that would save the settlements.
By Uzi Benziman	| Aug. 21, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
When the Lubavitcher Rebbe Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson lay on his death bed, his followers launched a vigorous revival campaign under the slogan "Messiah now." When he died, Chabad's leadership was forced to explain to its followers that the rabbi was, after all, flesh and blood. Today, 11 years after his death, some of them still brandish his portrait with the caption "Long live the Messiah king."

Similarly, some of the evacuated settlers of Gush Katif believed until the last moment in divine intervention that would save them from the uprooting disaster. Some of them, even as the Israel Defense Forces troops were knocking on their neighbors' door, continued praying and declaring at the same time to the cameras, that God's salvation was forthcoming.

This is how the right-wing leaders, both religious and secular, see the future of the West Bank. They are clutching talismans and praying for divine intervention that would save the settlements. Effie Eitam is hallucinating about a solution that would annex part of the Sinai Peninsula to the Gaza Strip for setting up a Palestinian state on it (and rid the West Bank at this opportunity of 2.5 million Palestinians). Uzi Landau is not coming up with an answer to the question of how his concept - perpetuating the occupation - fits in with Jabotinsky's theory that ruled out an Israeli apartheid regime. Benjamin Netanyahu is zigzagging and deceiving aimlessly, while the settlers' leaders and rabbis are relying explicitly on prayers and the expectation of a miracle. The only realistic approach they have to offer to justify this hope is the saying "in 1948 too, when we were 600,000 people, nobody believed that after 57 years we would reach six million."

The hallucinators must be reminded that Zionism rose and implemented its vision with earthly, concrete plans and acts, and not by appealing to a superior power. Had Zionism waited for the belief that the Third Temple would descend from heaven to come true, David Ben-Gurion would not have declared the establishment of the state on the fifth of Iyar, 1948.

Israel reached its present place by the power of rational decisions and actions, which were made and carried out by human beings, including realistic religious Jews.

The future of Israel's grip on the West Bank must also be determined by criteria appropriate to any developed state - not by wishful thinking or reliance on the grace of God. The decision to evacuate the Gaza Strip derived from human judgment, and divine intervention could not stop it. So, too, future relations between Israel and the Palestinians in the West Bank will be grounded in secular considerations. Interlocutors from outer space will have no bearing on it.

Right-wing leaders must therefore adjust their thinking to reality. How can the ratio of a quarter of a million Jews to 2.5 million Palestinians allow Israel to remain in the West Bank? How can a society that wants to be moral continue to accept the injustices the occupation imposes on Palestinians? How can any state flourish under the political and economic siege of a world that rejects its rule over them? How can it reconcile its democratic identity with depriving Palestinians of their rights? How can it divide the land so as to both preserve the Zionist ideal and provide a living space for a Palestinian state? Tomorrow, the state will need more than ever to find answers to these questions and others like them. Right-wing leaders have no convincing answers.

The settlers' leaders cannot use the trauma that has allegedly been seared into the public's consciousness by the spectacles of evacuation in Gush Katif as an excuse to put things off. While many were pained to see the settlers' suffering at being uprooted, many others interpreted them as staged shows and as a deliberate, conscious presentation of hysteria. Although it may be delayed, the hour of decision will arrive and it will be totally worldly.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Aug. 23, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
One good thing

There is a famous story of a non-religious paratrooper who cried at the Western Wall when Israel recaptured it in 1967. When asked why he was crying, he responded that he was so sad that he had nothing to cry for. I feel the same way as I watch gripping images that are on the television. The devotion and dedication and tears of the settlers bring tears to my eyes because I don't have the same feeling for the Land of Israel as they do.

I don't think that the disengagement will bring peace or safety to Israel. However, one good thing can come from it: Jews and the rest of the world will see how important and meaningful the land of Israel is to the Jewish people.

Eric J. Distenfeld

Woodcliff Lake, NJ

Politicizing faith

In the name of my husband's mother and brother and all the rest of his family who were murdered in Auschwitz, I denounce the tactics of those leaving the Gaza Strip.

How dare these people, even in their distress, compare their plight to that of people who lost their lives, through no fault of their own, at the hands of the Nazis and others who were "only obeying orders"? Are they at all aware of the fact that nationalist parties in Germany can now claim that even the Jews in Gaza say that the Shoah was not as bad as their government says it was?

They have co-opted our religion to play a cheap, political part to serve their needs. What they are practicing now is a politicization of our faith.

This is comparable to what Israel's leaders did when they sent them there to settle. Instead of looking ahead and trying to foresee the world's reaction to our expansionist tactics at the expense of people just trying to survive somehow, they just opened vast areas to people who encroached on the lands and lives of the Palestinians. What these leaders have created is a Moloch that is going to eat us all.

These are people who will stop at nothing, all in the name of their Judaism. What they are doing to their children borders on the criminal. Who ever heard of parents avidly subjecting their children to such trauma as likening themselves to Jews being sent to Auschwitz?

It is about time that these people and the rest of us woke up to the fact that these tactics are the same cheap demagogy employed by the Nazis and other dictatorial regimes to serve their questionable needs. Heaven help us if this is the education that my grandchildren and great grandchildren will receive in state-run schools. This is surely the end of any moral stance that we could possibly adopt.

Deborah Nothmann

Haifa

`Beyond chutzpah'

There is no way to describe Israel's request that the United Nations establish an "annual international Holocaust memorial day" other than "way beyond chutzpah" since Israel has rarely recognized any UN resolutions. In fact, at last count, the Israeli state has violated approximately 65 resolutions over the course of the last 57 years.

I would suggest that the UN establish an annual reminder to Israel to adhere to all of its UN resolutions, particularly starting with the return of the Palestinian refugees as prescribed by Resolution 194 of 1948 (and reaffirmed thereafter), and by also dismantling its racist apartheid wall in accordance with the ruling by the International Court of Justice, the main principal judicial organ of the UN.

Marlene Newesri

New York, NY


Home Print Edition Opinion
Victory should not look like this
There certainly were theatrical elements in the heartbreaking scenes of evacuation. So what? That's what victory looks like, a journalist said to me as the police were dragging demonstrators down the main street. That is not what victory should look like.
By Meron Rapaport	Aug. 23, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Neveh Dekalim, Tuesday, 8:30 P.M. From the roof of the commercial center, endless columns of police SWAT personnel can be seen marching down both sides of the street. Behind them, an endless column of soldiers. In fewer than 20 minutes, at least 1,000 police officers and soldiers will reach the center of the community almost in total silence. They are not carrying weapons; that is why their march is so quiet. The residents come out of their houses and don't say a word. Even the illegal residents who this morning set fire to garbage and to the mood, have given up shouting and cursing. Total shock. The shock of conquest.

Back in Tel Aviv, it's hard to shake these feelings. The normal reaction of people on the left is that the settlers brought this on themselves. There is even a bit of anger or resentment against journalists who wept with the evacuated.

There certainly were theatrical elements in the heartbreaking scenes of evacuation. Parents can be taken to task for intentionally keeping their little children with them until the very last minute, so they would experience the expulsion from their home, and be taken in the arms of soldiers to the buses. But this cannot wipe out the feelings of many from the outside - reporters and others, leftists and the a-political - engendered by what happened there. So what? That's what victory looks like, a journalist said to me as the police were dragging demonstrators down the main street.

That is not what victory should look like.

The evacuation of Israeli settlements from the Gaza Strip was a brutal act. There is no other way to define a military act against civilians, the removal of residents from their homes and the gardens they have tended for more than 20 years. The destruction of houses only strengthens these feelings. The residents of Gush Katif had every reason in the world to see themselves as citizens living legally in their homes. They went there and lived there within the framework of Israeli law. International law does prohibit the transfer of citizens to occupied territory, but the state was the first to break this law. The settlers only carried out - knowingly and usually with great pleasure - Israel's breaking of the law. But Israel broke international law in many other cases: the continuing occupation, the building of the separation fence, the annexation of Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, even the expropriation of property of the Arab refugees of 1948. All of these acts were illegal according to international law, but are not considered infractions of the law of the land. The difference between the settlers of Gush Katif and all who support these illegal laws is not an essential one.

The settlers had the full civil right to oppose evacuation after the Knesset vote turned them into illegal residents of their own homes. What is more, a powerful scent of the arbitrary wafts from this political move, and from the evasion of putting it to the test of elections or a referendum.

The need to understand the brutality of the evacuation does not stem from an attempt at popularity. The residents of Gush Katif must not be absolved from personal responsibility for their total indifference to the suffering of the Palestinians on whose lands they settled. It must not be forgotten that an apartheid regime prevailed there, or that the Palestinians were employed in conditions of slavery.

The top of the Nahum Guttman-like dune on the edge of the settlement affords a wonderful view of the beach, dotted with rows of palm trees, and the roofs of Neveh Dekalim. A look to the east reveals the gray lump of crowded buildings that is Khan Yunis, 150 meters away from the last house of Neveh Dekalim, imprisoned behind walls of sand and cement. The residents of Neveh Dekalim preferred to look away from this view; for this, they can never be forgiven.

Many compared the evacuation of Gush Katif to the evacuation of the French from Algeria. But the French did not send soldiers to remove the settlers. The French government left Algeria, and those who chose to do so left with it. That is what should have happened in the Gaza Strip. Israel should have left under the terms of an agreement with the Palestinians as the first step in a final peace agreement. If it had to be unilateral, there were other ways: they could have cut off water and electricity, or announced that the Israel Defense Forces was leaving, without bothering to evacuate the settlers. In that case, many say, the Palestinians would have massacred those who remained. But extricating Israelis in danger is completely different than evacuating them by force.

The obligation to recognize the brutality of the evacuation is first and foremost a human one, which must be undertaken by every person infuriated by injustice. But it is also a political and a civil obligation. If we do not protest it now, what will we say when they send the army to break strikes or remove Bedouin from their lands in the Negev? Might is might, even when it is exerted against those not to your liking.

Besides - perhaps this is paramount - this brutality can only harm the peace process. It will intensify the trauma of evacuation, that "burning into consciousness" of which the heads of the Yesha Council speak. In this way, it will serve Sharon's goal of "holding on to the settlement blocs," and will prevent a peace agreement based more or less on the 1967 borders.

And it will not douse the fires of religious and nationalist zealotry that burned at Neveh Dekalim this week. The massacre at Shfaram and Shiloh, and the tossing of a pig's head at a Jaffa mosque, might serve as a sign that such brutality only adds fuel to them.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Reversing the theory of non-reversibility
How do those who recall the Algerian model define Ma'aleh Adumim, Gush Etzion and Ariel, which are part of the consensus - as an annexed colony or as the mother-country?
By Meron Benvenisti	| Aug. 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
There is something touching, albeit expected, in the enthusiastic reactions and the rosy forecasts being voiced by spokesmen of the left-wing camp with regard to the disengagement and the day after. Touching, because the need to celebrate the fall of the right wing and prove that the settlements and occupation are reversible is so great that caution and skepticism are thrown to the winds and in their stead comes infectious optimism. As yesterday's editorial on these pages stated, giving expression to wishful thinking disguised as a realistic forecast: "The cumulative accounting shows that this was only the first evacuation, which will be followed by more."

The congratulations heaped on Ariel Sharon by spokesmen of the left are mere echoes of those heaped by them upon Yitzhak Shamir, who in 1991 went to the Madrid Conference, as if he were being frog-marched. "Do it your way, with your own tactics; the authority is all yours. Just bring peace now," they told him. Indications that the disengagement from Gaza might bring about the expansion of settlements and the institutionalization of the Israeli control over the West Bank are all swept under the carpet as irrelevant.

The belief that the national instinct is activated whenever something appears to be wrong leads to the conclusion that the disengagement plan was conceived to shatter the theory of non-reversibility - that theory which 25 years ago foresaw the durability of the geopolitical status quo in the Land of Israel and the de facto strengthening of a binational apartheid-like entity. A quarter century has elapsed and there are still pronouncements that it will be shattered.

In 1983, it was decided that nothing is irreversible and therefore the settlements are "facts on paper." In 1987, it was decided that non-reversibility had collapsed as soon as a Palestinian youth began throwing stones. In 1991, the peace conference in Madrid served as absolute proof of the theory's bankruptcy since the "historic day of the division of the land" had arrived.

The Oslo accords "totally" refuted the pessimistic non-reversibility that plays into the hands of the right and the Yesha Council of settlements, since the Palestinian state was about to come into being and the future of the settlements had become past tense. When the number of settlers topped a quarter of a million, when more than 100 outposts had been established, when the fence had been built deep in Palestinian territory and when the "border crossings" had been set up near Nablus, Bethlehem and Ramallah, the number of voices finally trying to relate to the quasi-permanent reality created by the settlements and the facts that emerged after the shattering of the occupied territories into besieged and isolated cantons started to grow.

President Bush's letter, which recognizes the new reality "that includes large concentrations of Israeli population," appears to ratify the theory of non-reversibility and proves that facts on the ground become perceived facts. It is no surprise that the evacuation of the settlements in the Gaza Strip and northern Samaria is conceived of as earth-shattering; after all, everything is reversible but not so reversible that it can undermine the facts that have been created in the West Bank. These do not contradict the optimistic feeling that the evacuation process, and the peace process in its wake, are once again proceeding on an inevitable course with Ariel Sharon at the helm, moving along with "his own tactics."

To feel convinced that there is indeed reason for this infectious optimism, the Algerian model is mentioned - Algeria against the mother-country, as if there is a sea that divides the two territories, the Gaza Strip and Israel. Where does the border between the colony and the mother-country run? Has Israel at any time defined the borders of the mother-country? What happens when, in the capital of the mother-country, the seat of its government, namely Jerusalem, part (East Jerusalem) is a colony and part is the mother-country? And how do those who recall the Algerian model define Ma'aleh Adumim, Gush Etzion and Ariel, which are part of the consensus - as an annexed colony or as the mother-country?

The Algierian model cannot serve as an analytical tool but rather as a crutch for those who seek optimistic precedents saying that, just as the French occupation ended there, the occupation will also end here. In fact, there is a consensus that unites most of the Israeli public except for the fringes on the right and left: After 120 years of Zionism, the Israelis have recognized the existence of millions of Palestinians who cannot be ignored or exiled. That is why they decided to mark the borders of their territorial expansion with a fence and to return to the Palestinians those territories that can undermine the demographic balance and to place on their shoulders responsibility for the fate of millions of people.

In return, the Israelis are demanding that the nations of the world appreciate their generosity and approve an arrangement according to which the remaining area of the Land of Israel, which Israel has no desire for, will become a Palestinian state without the power of sustaining itself.

No one is asking the Palestinians; everything, after all, falls under the doctrine of unilateralism, which is also part of the consensus. Gaza is the precedent for this vision and its realization at the expense of destroying the settlements appears to be a good deal. What a shame that, in the not-too-distant future, they will once again have to declare the shattering of the theory of non-reversibility.


Home Print Edition Features
Between Haider and a hard place
Filip Dewinter is a fascinating phenomenon in Belgian and European politics. Under his leadership, the Vlaams Blok party has become a leading political force.
By Adi Schwartz	Aug. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
BRUSSELS - On a hot day in late June, the only way to escape the heat was to jump into the cold water of one of the city's swimming pools. Such was the scene on Sunday, June 26, at the outdoor De Molen pool on the western side of the city, a particularly popular pool in an area that overlooks the river. But then, several Muslim youths began to behave violently. Unable to maintain control, the authorities decided to close the pool and send the swimmers home, much to their chagrin.

Violent incidents involving Muslim youths at swimming pools are nothing new in Antwerp, but this time one of the members of the municipality had an idea about how to solve the problem. In a meeting the next day, Filip Dewinter, chairman of the far-right Vlaams Belang (The Flemish Interest) party in Antwerp and leader of the party, proposed establishing a quota system to limit the entry of young Muslims to public swimming pools. First, he suggested, known lawbreakers should be barred from entering public pools for two years. Second, priority should be given to families - "Flemish, Muslim or Jewish," he said - and only then would Muslim youths be allowed to enter. The expression "Muslim youths" meant Belgian-born citizens who have no criminal record, but whose parents or grandparents immigrated to Belgium from a Muslim country. The Belgian media immediately called this proposal "selection."

"Suddenly a great riot began," Dewinter told Haaretz in an interview several days after the incident. "People started to say that `Dewinter is a racist, he's instituting apartheid methods, he's placing a yellow patch [as used on Jews in the Holocaust] on young Arabs.' All I suggested was to offer free entrance to families, without any ethnic discrimination, in order to decrease the number of young Arabs who try to take over the pools. I say there is a problem and that most of the people at these pools are young Arabs who make problems."

This ostensibly marginal incident, familiar to only a few outside of Antwerp, perhaps reflects the essence of the relationship between the Muslim community in Belgium (and in Europe as a whole) and the non-Muslim population: the lack of integration by some of the Muslims and the criminal activity that stems from this; the inability of the political establishment in many countries to deal with this phenomenon; and the consequent strengthening of far-right movements that offer problematic and sometimes even repugnant solutions. This relationship also touches on the Jewish community, which is often hurt by expressions of anti-Semitism. And, in the specific case of Belgium, this relationship also involves the State of Israel. Indeed, during recent years, Dewinter has made himself into Israel's "No. 1 Belgian friend" and he is now interested in making an official visit.

Leading political force

Filip Dewinter, 43, is a fascinating phenomenon in Belgian and European politics. Under his leadership, the Vlaams Blok party - which was forced to reestablish itself as Vlaams Belang in November 2004 after the state's supreme court declared that it "continually incites toward racial discrimination and segregation" - has transformed itself from an ephemeral party into a leading political force. Dewinter is probably the most successful leader of the far right in Europe today: His party is the second largest in the Flemish (Dutch-speaking) part of Belgium, with about 25 percent support. In reality, it is actually the largest single party because the Christian-Democratic bloc (with about 27 percent support) comprises several parties. Since the beginning of the 1980s, the party has grown steadily; with every election - municipal, regional and federal - the number of the party's supporters increases.

The other parties have adopted a policy toward Vlaams Belang that is defined as a "cordon sanitaire" - and involves an absolute political boycott of the party, with a commitment never to invite it into any coalition. This is because of the party's violent and racist style and content. Thus, it turns out that one in four Flemish voters is not really represented in the political arena and the court has officially declared the party's representatives to be racists. And that is not all. In the heart of an expanding Europe, not far from the headquarters of NATO and the European Union, there is a strong political force whose declared aim is to dismantle Belgium ("within 15 years," Dewinter promises) and whose style is diametrically opposed to the pleasant manner and sweet talk of most European politicians.

Dewinter is now trying to break the boycott imposed on his party, and the municipal elections scheduled for next year in Antwerp (including a mayoral contest) constitute a crucial test for him.

"The year 2006 is critical for him," says Bart Brinckman, the political editor of the De Standaard newspaper, who has followed Dewinter's career for about 15 years. "Dewinter's future and his political career are in jeopardy. After 20 years in politics, Dewinter must show he is advancing."

Cas Mude, a political science professor at the University of Antwerp and a researcher of far-right movements, believes this is the reason for Dewinter's intensive courting of the city's Jewish community and the State of Israel. In order to fulfill his aspiration of gaining control of the city, Dewinter needs the Jewish economic elite that controls one of the leading commercial branches in the city: diamonds. According to Prof. Mude, Dewinter hopes that the State of Israel and the Jews will pave the way to the city's business community and legitimize his image in local popular opinion.

"I'm interested in visiting Israel," Dewinter says in the interview. "First of all, from a geopolitical point of view. We in Western Europe should realize that our allies are not in the Arab or Muslim world, but rather in Israel. This is not just because we have a common civilization and values, but also to balance out the Islamic forces in the Middle East that are getting stronger. The State of Israel is a sort of outpost for our Western society, an outpost of democracy, of freedom of speech, of protecting common values within a hostile environment. You are surrounded by Islamic states, some of them fundamentalist, which are interested in only one thing: to throw the Jews into the sea.

"I also think that Islam is now the No. 1 enemy not only of Europe, but of the entire free world. After communism, the greatest threat to the West is radical fundamentalist Islam. There are already 25-30 million Muslims on Europe's soil and this becomes a threat. It's a real Trojan horse. Thus, I think that an alliance is needed between Western Europe and the State of Israel. I think we in Western Europe are too critical of Israel and we should support Israel in its struggle to survive. I think we should support Israel more than we do because its struggle is also very important for us."

But Dewinter admits that he wants to visit Israel for other reasons. "It's very important to me as leader of a right-wing national party [he rejects defining the party as "far right" - A.S.] to say that we respect the State of Israel and the Jews. To all of those who regard us as neo-Nazis, we say: `No, we want good relations with the Jews.' We should distance ourselves from all of those individuals and groups with anti-Semitic tendencies and from Holocaust deniers. I have no connection with these things. Because I am a leader of a right-wing party, some of the Jewish leaders in Antwerp do not believe that I am sincere. They think that this is a pose, that I am doing this to avoid being regarded as a neo-Nazi and that I am afraid they will call me a fascist. I'm interested in visiting Israel to express my affinity, but also to prove that I'm sincere."

Chilly response

Dewinter hopes to visit Israel during the coming year, but clarifies: "I'll come only if I know I am wanted. Only if there is a consensus about the visit in Israel and in Belgium." He has yet to take any explicit initiative and has not approached any officials about this, but it seems that he would receive quite a chilly response. The Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem has made it clear that Israel would not be the one to violate the cordon sanitaire and that Israel's policy is largely derived from the official Belgian policy. Thus, for example, Israel's embassy in Brussels is not in contact with Dewinter's party, despite its size, and does not provide it with information as it does in the case of other parties in the parliament. According to Jerusalem, its policy represents an ethical stand because Vlaams Belang is a xenophobic party that opposes immigrants and expresses racism. In addition, the party advocates the dismantling of Belgium and the establishment instead of an independent state in the Flemish part. Thus, an Israeli connection would be seen as intervening in the internal affairs of Belgium.

The possibility of Dewinter visiting Israel has also stirred an uproar in the Jewish community in Belgium. Vivian Teitelbaum is a Jewish member of the parliament in Brussels. (In Belgium, in addition to the federal national parliament, there are also parliaments in the Flemish region, the francophone region and the region of Brussels, the capital city.) Teitelbaum says she would feel ashamed if Dewinter visited Israel and adds, "I don't know how I would cope with this." Claude Marinower, the only Jewish member of the federal parliament, is even more vociferous and says he would come to Israel and hold a press conference at every stop on Dewinter's itinerary to warn against him. Both MPs believe that the answer to the central question of whether Dewinter can be trusted is "No."

Members of the Flemish nationalist movement established Vlaams Blok in the late 1970s. Many members of this movement had openly collaborated with the Nazi regime during World War II. "My view of the party has not changed," says Marinower during an interview at his Antwerp office. "The founders of the party were collaborators, anti-Semites and racists." And not much has changed since then, he adds.

Prof. Mude thinks the party is not officially anti-Semitic because there are no anti-Semitic references in its official literature, which he says he studies carefully. However, he notes, there is indeed anti-Semitism among its grass-roots activists. "Dewinter has no problem associating with anti-Semites," he explains. "And you can almost always find someone anti-Semitic around him. The reason is that he is not philo-Semitic; he's philo-Flemish. His goal is to take over Antwerp and act on behalf of the Flemish. The question of whether this is good for the Jews does not interest him."

Brinckman, however, is certain that Dewinter himself "harbors anti-Semitic feelings. He always associates with anti-Semitic circles and it is impossible that he changed his mind. He now needs to maneuver between his voters, many of whom are very extremist, and the public arena, which demands that he demonstrate moderation."

Collaboration issue

"How can I prove it to you?" Dewinter says in the interview when asked whether he is moving closer to Jews and Israel for only tactical reasons. "The proof of the pudding is in the eating," he says with a smile. "I am proving it through my political activity in parliament. I am a politician and this is what I can do."

What about the party's past? Many of the party's founding fathers collaborated with the Nazis. Do you condemn this collaboration?

Dewinter: "Many Flemish nationalists collaborated during the war because they thought - and now it is clear that they were wrong - that this would help them achieve independence for Flanders. This is the whole story. The overwhelming majority were not Nazis. They collaborated in order to attain independence and because the Church called upon them to go out and fight the Communists - something that Western Europe continued to do for 50 years. Now, in 2005, it is easy to say: `The collaboration was a mistake.' The collaboration did not help our country at all; we just became a vassal state of Germany. At the time, it was logical, because of the Church, because of communism. But this has no connection with Nazism."

Gustave "Staf" de Clercq, the Flemish nationalist leader during the war, openly collaborated with the Nazis. After the deportation of Jews began, he was said to have remarked: "Now we can breathe easier." Nevertheless, many members of your party revere his memory and participate in ceremonies to mark the anniversary of his death.

"He is one of the historic leaders of the party. This is part of the history of the Flemish nationalist movement and it is impossible to deny this. We are the descendants of this movement. Some of the members of the party attend these events because they want to honor the heritage of the Flemish movement. This does not mean that they agree with Nazism. Not at all. I understand that this is hard to understand as a Jew. I respect very much that Jews have a problem with this. But Jews must also understand that this is not as simple as it seems. Not all of the [Nazi] collaborators wanted to kill the Jews in Europe. Most of the collaborators had other motives. I think that if they were living today, most of them would be ashamed of what happened to the Jews. The only thing I can do today is to say that I respect very much the suffering of the Jewish people, to express my sympathy and condolences about what happened and to try to move far away from this. But the Jewish people must understand that not every collaborator was necessarily anti-Semitic."

This does not help those whose relatives perished in the Holocaust.

"That is clear. But we are politicians of today. We should be judged by our actions of today, not by the things others did 60 years ago."

Close to Le Pen

Hanging on the wall of Dewinter's office, where the interview takes place, is a large poster from the 1960s that reads: "Europe, free yourself!" The banner is signed by an organization of nationalist parties in Europe, including the Italian Socialist Movement (MSI), the neo-fascist party established by Mussolini's supporters, and the German National Democratic Party (NPD), one of the most extreme far-right movements in Europe, which some say is really neo-Nazi. On the windowsill are several small flags of sister parties of Dewinter's party: the party of Austrian Joerg Haider, the French National Front of Jean-Marie Le Pen and the German Republican Party. Among these parties, Mude explains, Vlaams Belang is very close to Le Pen's party - more extreme than Haider, but more moderate than the German NPD. Mude considers it one of the most extreme, well-organized and successful movements in Europe.

There is also another flag on the windowsill: the flag of Israel. Dewinter's affinity for Israel, on one hand, and these far-right parties, on the other hand, does not seem problematic to him. "You should know, the real enemies of Israel today are not on the right, but rather on the left: the socialists and the Greens," he says.

Dewinter's blunt attitude toward foreigners, in general, and Muslims, in particular, is a source of concern for many Jews. MP Teitelbaum talks about a proposal Dewinter recently put forward to attach a type of electronic handcuff to the wrists or ankles of people seeking refuge in Belgium so police can track their movements. (He says in response: "What, is it more humane to hold them in detention camps for six months like they do in other countries?")

On another occasion, Teitelbaum proposed a bill in parliament condemning the raping of women in Congo by UN soldiers. In response, members of Vlaams Belang asked to add an amendment to the bill to specify a condemnation of rapes of white women in Brussels and Antwerp by foreigners. Says Marinower: "There is no such thing as half racist. If they are racists, then it is not only against Muslims." His fear is clear: Today, Dewinter wants to "deal" with Muslims, tomorrow it will be the Jews.

What bothers you about the Muslim culture?

Dewinter: "Islam cannot be compared to any other European religion. It is a way of life that organizes the entire society, with its own set of laws (shari'a). I think it is an illusion to think that a moderate Islam exists in Europe. It is very dangerous to think this way. Islam should also not be underestimated. The essence of this religion is to rule. Once they are in power, they will not be tolerant of any other culture or religion. What is happening today is that Muslims are not integrating into our society because they are interested in preserving their own way of life. They should become Europeans like us."

He adds, for example, that in schools with a large number of Muslim children, the separation of boys and girls has been proposed; parents are demanding that crosses be removed from the walls of public schools and the eating of pork is prohibited. "They always tell us: `This hurts them. We must be multicultural and tolerant.' I say that we must not do this. They must integrate into our society and not us into their society, and that is what is happening today. If you look at any large city in Europe, it will seem to you more like Casablanca or Marrakesh and less like a European city. I think that in its current situation, Europe is like the Roman Empire - indulged, decadent, flooded with immigrants and unprepared to fight for its culture."

You are opposed to the wearing of Muslim veils in public and argue that all of the Muslims should learn Flemish. Many of the ultra-Orthodox Jews here also do not speak Flemish and they also wear traditional clothing.

"It is clear that the Jews integrate into the surrounding society without any problem. They don't bother anyone. They respect the law. I've never heard about a case of an ultra-Orthodox Jew attacking anyone or making declarations against the West or against the Flemish. The Jews are good citizens. Maybe they have a few habits that seem a bit strange to us, but they do not oppose our way of life. That is the big difference: Radical Islam, which is growing rapidly in Europe, opposes our society. This is a real Trojan horse and we not only let it in, but also feed it. My problem is not with any particular item of clothing. The problem is that it becomes a symbol of hatred toward our society. In this way, they are telling us: `Our culture is better than yours and we want to keep a distance from your way of life.' It is a political symbol of fundamentalism and radicalism, and we must say `No' to it."

Destructive multiculturalism

In this conversation, there are two words that drive Dewinter crazy: multiculturalism and tolerance. "Multiculturalism is destroying the immune system of Europe," he explains. "Multiculturalism and political correctness lead to extreme tolerance for everyone and everything. It destroys our ability to mount a counterattack. Belgium is the most politically correct country in Europe. Even in Germany one can speak about Leitkultur (leading culture) - that is, one main national culture into which all of the others integrate. If you talk about this in Belgium, they say you are a racist."

On this issue, even Dewinter's opponents say there is some truth in his words. A reporter for Flemish public television who covers the far right (and who asked to remain anonymous) calls this a failure of the political elite in Belgium. "For 20 years, they ignored the cultural problems in the state, pretended that everything was fine with us and only told people: `We must not be racists.'" Even Teitelbaum, who speaks very critically against Dewinter, says he "raises the right questions that others fail to raise. The issue is how he raises them."

Dewinter responds by saying that he is proud of these reactions: "This is one step forward. Once, they said other things about me. I think that we also have the correct solutions."

Do you have any Arab or Muslim friends?

"Yes, you'd be surprised. I have several friends - well, what exactly is a friend? People I know and conduct discussions with. If they are prepared to integrate into society, I am happy to accept them."

Would you allow your 17-year-old daughter to date a Jewish boy?

"My daughter, date a Jew? Certainly. It's up to her."

With a Muslim?

"Ahh ..." Dewinter pauses and then responds: "It's up to her. I raised my three daughters in a way that will leave this completely up to them."

And perhaps the worst scenario from your perspective, with a francophone?

"No, no - it's up to them. I don't intend to tell them what to do. I think that intercultural marriages are not easy, but the decision will remain theirs."


Home Print Edition Features
Guardians of the fence
Though there is nothing new in several Christian conferences' accusations against Israel, the entry into the field of economic boycott constitutes a dramatic change in policy.
By Avi Beker	Aug. 28, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Several Christian conferences in Europe and the United States in recent months have been teaching about the anticipated political battle in Israel following the disengagement. In various frameworks of Protestant churches, discussions have been conducted on Israel's policy of repression in the occupied territories and the need to implement an economic boycott, as well as divestment and restrictions on business with Israel.

Declarations and warnings have been approved in conferences of Methodists, Evangelical Lutherans, Episcopalians and others. The top leadership of the Anglican Church decided in June to encourage the use of economic measures against Israel, and a similar decision was approved by the international association of Protestant churches - the Geneva-based World Council of Churches.

During the course of the disengagement in August, an additional effort was made, the first of its type. The Investments Committee of the Presbyterian Church of the U.S. defined the goals of the boycott and singled out four companies that do business with Israel: ITT, United Technologies (which provides equipment for Israel Air Force helicopters), Caterpillar (which produces the bulldozers used to demolish Palestinian homes, the committee noted) and Motorola (criticized for supplying communications equipment to the Israel Defense Forces and investing in cellular companies in Israel that harm the Palestinians' economic interests and means of communication).

Committee representatives explained that these companies assist the Israeli occupation and the construction of the West Bank separation fence (which they refer to as the "wall"). In an ostensible effort at balance, the committee also added Citigroup, which has facilitated money transfers to charitable institutions accused of financing acts of terror.

Though there is nothing new in these accusations, or in the anti-Israel policies of most of these churches, the entry into the field of investments and economic boycott constitutes a dramatic change in policy. The Presbyterian Church has an investment portfolio of $8 billion, including investments in companies cited on the black list. In the past, it defined a framework for an economic boycott on companies investing or earning more than $1 million in business with Israel.

This is an organized battle aimed at mobilizing the "central stream" of Protestants against Israel. But it also has the signs of an internal Christian struggle against the pro-Israel evangelical right, which numbers tens of millions of Protestants and is concentrated in the Bible Belt of the southern United States.

The economic struggle focuses on the separation fence as a source of the occupation's troubles and as a symbol of the racist policy of segregation and apartheid. The comparison to apartheid is a well-known Arab tactic aimed at reinforcing the use of economic sanctions, following the model of the struggle against South Africa during the period of apartheid. Palestinians play a central role in coordinating this struggle, especially via the Sabeel Ecumenical Liberation Theology Center in Jerusalem, led by Reverend Naim Ateek of the city's St. George's (Anglican) Cathedral.

The call for an economic boycott by Christian churches raises many concerns among American Jews - at both the national leadership and community level. Jews are seeking to develop mechanisms of rapprochement and have turned to the media, including advertisements in local newspapers. More aggressive Jewish spokespeople are calling the boycott campaign an anti-Semitic policy aimed at choking Israel via economic means. They note the churches' double standard as reflected in their silence regarding Saudi Arabia's anti-Christian policy and support for terror, for example, and the slaughter of a million Christian Arabs in southern Sudan.

Professor Paul Merkley of Carleton University in Canada, a member of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, recently protested against the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic trend, which does not allow Protestant representatives to meet with Israeli supporters to hear the side of the accused party. He cites anti-Semitic statements by Rev. Ateek comparing the crucifixion of Jesus with the crusade Israel is waging against the Palestinians.

The Sabeel Center is also a center for coordinating the visits of delegations of Christian religious leaders in Jerusalem and the territories; these leaders refuse to meet with Israeli spokespeople or with Christian supporters of Israel. Sabeel representatives appear at Christian conferences in the U.S. and Europe and stand behind the new tactic of struggle against the separation fence. For example, at a conference of the Church of Christ in the U.S. last month, the participants rejected a more moderate resolution that called for moving the separation fence to the Green Line, and instead adopted the extremist resolution calling for economic pressure and the complete dismantling of the fence.

The emphasis on dismantling the fence represents a prevalent attitude among the Palestinian leaders, who claim that Israel should be allowed to annex the territories because the Arabs will ultimately constitute a democratic majority. The vision for the future expressed in the "Jerusalem Sabeel Document: Principles for a Just Peace in Palestine-Israel" clearly explains their opposition to the separation fence: "One state for two nations and three religions."


Home Print Edition Opinion
I want to hear details
The public is entitled to marked boundaries of the arena inside which the national debate takes place, otherwise it is sentenced to confusion that undermines the very ability to choose between world views and candidates. There is something patently undemocratic about the freedom with which politicians competing for the public's heart ignore its desire to know where they intend to lead it.
By Uzi Benziman	| Aug. 31, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
You can agree with everything that those running for prime minister in both major parties are saying about each other, but with that style of disputation they are not enabling citizens to decide in an intelligent manner which candidate to support. Ariel Sharon, Benjamin Netanyahu, Uzi Landau, Ehud Barak, Matan Vilnai and the rest of the Labor candidates are waging an outspoken campaign over what has been, and are not giving the public an opportunity to judge their positions on what may be expected. The argument among them is merely personal, and has nothing to do with the country's needs and the important issues on its agenda.

Ariel Sharon does not let the public in on his intentions toward the Palestinian Authority. We do not know what he intends to do if the Palestinians maintain quiet in the Gaza Strip: Is he prepared to widen the crack that opened upon implementation of the disengagement plan, in the direction of a similar accommodation in the West Bank? We haven't a clue what he will do with the West Bank settlements - augment them? remove some of them?

What, according to his definition, are the settlement blocs that he means to surround by a fence, and how does his conception of the permanent borders jibe with the American expectations, to which he acceded so sweepingly in evacuating the Strip and northern West Bank? Perhaps he has in mind to sentence Israel to an additional period of paralysis in the peace process, and mobilization for a new armed conflict with the Palestinians? If that is his intention, how does it reconcile with his stated awareness of the social and economic needs that were taken into account, he claims, in his withdrawal initiative?

Netanyahu's political thinking also remains a mystery: He was against the disengagement plan but in favor of it, supported it but resigned from the government before it was implemented, on the grounds that he has reservations about the way Sharon conducted himself - but not about his initiative itself. Now he presents a staunch position against the withdrawal itself, and at the very same time announces that he would be prepared to make further concessions to the Palestinians so long as they are mutual. Netanyahu's ideological hodgepodge does not help the public understand where he will lead the country, if elected prime minister.

Uzi Landau is taking a similar tack: ostensibly, his political credo is orderly and solid, but in practice he does not explain how he will steer Israel in its complex situation: Is he thinking of annexing the West Bank? How does his democratic world view fit with the apartheid reality the occupation creates? What will he do with the demographic trends destined to annihilate the Zionist identity of the state, if it continues to hang onto the territories?

These qualifications likewise apply to the Labor Party's candidates: It's hard to distinguish between them as they come to contend with the central problems of the state and it is unclear why they, to a man, can't wait to dismantle the present government: Sharon, after all, is realizing their doctrine effectively, with a courage and determination they never displayed. Sure, the entire Labor Party is proclaiming a political and socioeconomic line that is different from the Likud's, but it remains a center party, not a party of the left. Certainly when it comes to political and security matters, even a sensitive detector would not spot the differences among the five contestants.

This criticism can be quashed mentioning the conduct in practice of Menachem Begin (the withdrawal from Sinai), Yitzhak Rabin (the Oslo Accords) and Ariel Sharon (the disengagement plan). Indeed, experience teaches that the proclaimed positions of candidates become worthless the moment they get hold of the reins.

There is no good response to this claim except, perhaps, for one: The public is entitled to marked boundaries of the arena inside which the national debate takes place, otherwise it is sentenced to confusion that undermines the very ability to choose between world views and candidates. There is something patently undemocratic about the freedom with which politicians competing for the public's heart ignore its desire to know where they intend to lead it.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Wanted: A courageous comptroller
In the latest report issued by the new state comptroller, there is not a word about the worthlessness of the Civil Administration in the territories in general.
By Gideon Levy	| Sep. 4, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
If the new state comptroller, Micha Lindenstrauss, betrays his mission just as the outgoing comptroller did, then we might as well close this irrelevant institution. There is no need to go through all this ritual if it only serves to produce reports that are buried a day later and in any case avoid tackling the core issue. The reports serve to give the Israeli public sector an enlightened image but in reality, they only contribute to the spread of corruption and improper practices.

The report on the defense establishment, composed by outgoing Comptroller Eliezer Goldberg and published last week, demonstrates that these reports cause more harm than good. They only deal with the trees; and when the entire forest is tainted, criticism directed toward a few rotten trees gives the impression that the forest in general is healthy. In this, the comptroller joins another very prestigious body, the Supreme Court, which in most cases refrains from expressing its views on what takes place in the occupied territories and thus becomes a senior partner in the criminal actions carried out there.

Take, for example, the chapter in the latest report dealing with the Civil Administration. This body - which was supposed to look after the welfare and daily needs of the residents living under the Israeli occupation, but in practice harasses them - is only portrayed in a negative light in the report because of several "irregular incidents." The comptroller prefers to focus on two gas stations that senior officials in the Civil Administration's control unit established for themselves, the paving of an access road to the Givat Ze'ev settlement on private Palestinian land and an industrial plant built in one of the settlements, again on private Palestinian land.

There is not a word about the worthlessness of the Civil Administration in general, the severe shortage of water in the territories, the weak electricity system, the shameful state of health services, the suffocating checkpoints, the blatant discrimination between Palestinians and settlers in regard to the granting of building permits and the demolition of homes built without permits, the apartheid roads designated for the use of Jews only, the need to apply for approval for every move and so on.

Apparently, focusing attention on the gas station on the Bethlehem-Hebron road stirs less controversy - as if the Civil Administration would become a proper organization if only the gas station had been located elsewhere. But even if the Administration rectifies all of the problems the comptroller exposes, it would remain fundamentally corrupt, an organization that does not even try to fulfill its mission.

A similar picture arises from the chapter on the separation fence. The comptroller rails against the way the Rafael-produced "System A" is operated, against the process of procuring and deploying observation equipment and command centers, and even against "Observation System B."

But what about the tens of thousands of residents who were promised they would be able to pass through the gates of the fence and reach their fields and schools, yet every day wait in vain for hours in the blistering sun? What about the workers who have been cut off from their sources of livelihood? Even when the comptroller superficially touches upon the injustices the fence engenders, he does so in sanitized and barren language: "The necessary response has not been provided in terms of technological means and the professional personnel to employ them at the standards necessary for security needs and to preserve the `fabric of life' of the Palestinians."

"Fabric of life?" Nothing remains of it. But there are other matters bothering the comptroller, as we see in the chapter dealing with "Protecting the settlements in Judea and Samaria." "In most of the outposts in Judea and Samaria that are not statutorily approved, security components have not been established." But what about the establishment of these illegal outposts in the first place and the way the government perpetuates their existence? Does the fact that these questions are ignored stem from a desire to avoid controversy?

Israel does not need a comptroller who will publish the names of those responsible for the small failures, as Lindenstrauss has vowed to do. Rather, Israel needs a comptroller who will finally break the pattern forged by his predecessors of focusing on marginal phenomena and turning a blind eye to the underlying corruption. But this takes courage.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Wanted: A courageous comptroller
In the latest report issued by the new state comptroller, there is not a word about the worthlessness of the Civil Administration in the territories in general.
By Gideon Levy	| Sep. 4, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
If the new state comptroller, Micha Lindenstrauss, betrays his mission just as the outgoing comptroller did, then we might as well close this irrelevant institution. There is no need to go through all this ritual if it only serves to produce reports that are buried a day later and in any case avoid tackling the core issue. The reports serve to give the Israeli public sector an enlightened image but in reality, they only contribute to the spread of corruption and improper practices.

The report on the defense establishment, composed by outgoing Comptroller Eliezer Goldberg and published last week, demonstrates that these reports cause more harm than good. They only deal with the trees; and when the entire forest is tainted, criticism directed toward a few rotten trees gives the impression that the forest in general is healthy. In this, the comptroller joins another very prestigious body, the Supreme Court, which in most cases refrains from expressing its views on what takes place in the occupied territories and thus becomes a senior partner in the criminal actions carried out there.

Take, for example, the chapter in the latest report dealing with the Civil Administration. This body - which was supposed to look after the welfare and daily needs of the residents living under the Israeli occupation, but in practice harasses them - is only portrayed in a negative light in the report because of several "irregular incidents." The comptroller prefers to focus on two gas stations that senior officials in the Civil Administration's control unit established for themselves, the paving of an access road to the Givat Ze'ev settlement on private Palestinian land and an industrial plant built in one of the settlements, again on private Palestinian land.

There is not a word about the worthlessness of the Civil Administration in general, the severe shortage of water in the territories, the weak electricity system, the shameful state of health services, the suffocating checkpoints, the blatant discrimination between Palestinians and settlers in regard to the granting of building permits and the demolition of homes built without permits, the apartheid roads designated for the use of Jews only, the need to apply for approval for every move and so on.

Apparently, focusing attention on the gas station on the Bethlehem-Hebron road stirs less controversy - as if the Civil Administration would become a proper organization if only the gas station had been located elsewhere. But even if the Administration rectifies all of the problems the comptroller exposes, it would remain fundamentally corrupt, an organization that does not even try to fulfill its mission.

A similar picture arises from the chapter on the separation fence. The comptroller rails against the way the Rafael-produced "System A" is operated, against the process of procuring and deploying observation equipment and command centers, and even against "Observation System B."

But what about the tens of thousands of residents who were promised they would be able to pass through the gates of the fence and reach their fields and schools, yet every day wait in vain for hours in the blistering sun? What about the workers who have been cut off from their sources of livelihood? Even when the comptroller superficially touches upon the injustices the fence engenders, he does so in sanitized and barren language: "The necessary response has not been provided in terms of technological means and the professional personnel to employ them at the standards necessary for security needs and to preserve the `fabric of life' of the Palestinians."

"Fabric of life?" Nothing remains of it. But there are other matters bothering the comptroller, as we see in the chapter dealing with "Protecting the settlements in Judea and Samaria." "In most of the outposts in Judea and Samaria that are not statutorily approved, security components have not been established." But what about the establishment of these illegal outposts in the first place and the way the government perpetuates their existence? Does the fact that these questions are ignored stem from a desire to avoid controversy?

Israel does not need a comptroller who will publish the names of those responsible for the small failures, as Lindenstrauss has vowed to do. Rather, Israel needs a comptroller who will finally break the pattern forged by his predecessors of focusing on marginal phenomena and turning a blind eye to the underlying corruption. But this takes courage.


Home Print Edition News
Former S. African chief rabbi Harris dies
By Charlotte Halle'	Sep. 14, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Former South African chief rabbi Cyril Harris, who led the Jewish community through South Africa's transition to democracy a decade ago, died yesterday evening after a battle with cancer. He was 68.

The Scottish-born Harris, who left the UK in 1988 to take up the post of chief rabbi, helped spearhead the Jewish community's involvement in projects to advance the country's black population.

"As soon as he arrived, he immediately engaged with the wider South African political context, at a time when South Africa had not yet crossed the threshold into democracy," leading South African Jewish historian Prof. Milton Shain said last night. "He managed to maintain contact with all political groupings once South African politics were normalized beginning in February 1990, presenting a very important face of South African Jewry to the country."

Harris, who was involved in many interfaith initiatives, had a particularly close relationship with South Africa's first post-Apartheid president, Nelson Mandela. Harris read a prayer at Mandela's inauguration in 1994, and gave a blessing at a ceremony ahead of Mandela's marriage in 1998 to Graca Machel.

After being diagnosed with cancer a year ago, Harris retired in December after 17 years as chief rabbi. He passed away at his home in the seaside suburb of Hermanus near Cape Town, which he bought ahead of his retirement. Always a staunch and vocal supporter of Israel, Harris will be buried in Jerusalem today. He is survived by his wife, Anne, and two sons.

Bat Sheva Tsur adds:

The Glasgow-born Harris received his rabbinical education at Jews College, London, and also received a Master of Philosophy degree from the University of London. Shortly after graduating, he took over as rabbi of Kenton Synagogue in Metro London, and later served as rabbi of the Hillel university students' organization and in other major London synagogues.

Harris was recently awarded the Jerusalem Prize by President Moshe Katsav at a ceremony at Beit Hanassi.


Home Print Edition Features
The divestment snowball
The Presbyterian Church is threatening to withdraw investments in companies that it says aid the Israeli occupation.
By Amiram Barkat	| Sep. 14, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Reverend William Somplatsky-Jarman combines a career as a senior clergyman with the management of an investment portfolio that comprises more than $7 billion. The portfolio belongs to the Presbyterian Church, one of the major Protestant churches in the United States, with a membership of 2.5 million Americans.

Last August, Somplatsky-Jarman became the adversary of most major Jewish organizations in the U.S. when the U.S. Presbyterian Church's Committee on Social Responsibility Through Investment, which he leads, published a list of four international corporations that, according to the committee, aid the Israeli occupation, and a fifth corporation that facilitates terror directed at Israel.

The committee is demanding the first four corporations withdraw their aid to the Israeli occupation, and is threatening to sell stock valued at $60 million if those companies do not comply.

The companies targeted by the Presbyterian Church include Caterpillar, which manufactures bulldozers used to build the separation fence; ITT Industries, which supplies communications, electrical and night-vision equipment to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and United Technologies, which supplies the IDF with helicopters and other military equipment.

Motorola was included on the list because it won the tender to be the central supplier of wireless communications equipment to the IDF and because it is a major stockholder in the Mirs company. The church claims Mirs operates in the northern West Bank, without a license from the Palestinian Authority, in defiance of 1995 Oslo agreements.

In response to these allegations, a Motorola spokeswoman said, "Mirs operates in accordance to licenses from the Ministry of Communications and the Civil Administration. The unique communications services of Mirs are in use by public institutions in the PA, via a known distributor who has been operating in the PA for years."

The divestment campaign still does not pose a severe threat to these companies, and not a single company on the list has responded to the church's demands to date, but Somplatsky-Jarman is content.

In a telephone conversation with him last week, he said the response of church membership to the July 4, PCUSA decision to initiate a process of phased, selective divestment in multinational corporations operating in Israel was, "generally positive. People see we are not talking about something that has been dreamed up, and that we're doing this very slowly, very deliberately and in a focused way."

Citigroup, too Somplatsky-Jarman's determination is evident in the significance he attaches to the Israeli disengagement from the Gaza Strip and the northern West Bank: "There is some movement within Gaza but, at the same time, we have growth in the number of Israeli settlers in East Jerusalem and the West Bank and continued talk of trying to expand the settlements - basically to incorporate all of Jerusalem into Israel. We want to achieve a just solution of two states within borders agreed upon by both sides. Right now we don't even have negotiations."

The Presbyterian Church decided to expand its divestment campaign to include corporations that comply with terror in response to this criticism.

An announcement last month included Citigroup, one of the largest banking corporations in the U.S., on the "blacklist" of companies alongside those that aid the Israeli occupation.

The decision to include Citigroup was based on an article in the Wall Street Journal which claimed the bank was aware of the transfer of funds within its branches to charitable organizations used as fronts to funnel money to Palestinian terror.

Citigroup called the church's decision "scandalous."

Dozens of names were presented to Somplatsky-Jarman's committee, but only four were finally chosen. According to one Jewish activist central in the campaign against the divestment, the difficulty inherent in identifying corporations that comply with terror, and the Church's desire to appear balanced, dictated the choice of only a few corporations that support the Israeli occupation. "Because they only found one corporation of the first type, they could not include more than four corporations of the second type," the Jewish activist concludes.

Somplatsky-Jarman rejects this claim, "We only have the resources to responsibly engage a few [corporations] at a time. We have made a decision that initially we want to focus on companies we own stock in, but this is a phased effort and it doesn't mean we won't target the others."

The divestment campaign raises additional questions. If the selection criteria is aid to "occupying" Israeli forces, IDF forces in the territories employ a wide variety of products manufactured by international companies.

Consistence would require the initiators of the divestment campaign to boycott not only producers of bulldozers, helicopters and tanks but Intel, which produces microchips, and Microsoft, which produces IDF computers, and even food and beverage producers like McDonald's and Coca-Cola.

Somplatsky-Jarman disagrees, "Soft drinks aren't a strategic or a significant involvement. And the same is true of software like Windows, which is supplied to the IDF just as it is supplied to any other customer. If it becomes clear that a company developed specific software for the IDF, that might be a different thing."

The decision to identify international corporations whose operations aid the occupation was made by the Presbyterian Church in July 2004. Since then, despite the countercampaign by Jewish organizations and the progress made in the disengagement from Gaza and the West Bank, the divestment campaign has gradually gained momentum in the mainline Protestant establishment in the U.S.

In November 2004, the Episcopalian Church made a similar decision, and will soon publish its own list of corporations involved in activities that aid the occupation. That church, too, is threatening to withdraw investment in those corporations. The United Methodist Church took similar steps in June and the United Church of Christ will join these efforts in another month.

Israel fears the campaign will expand to resemble the boycott these churches led in the 1980s against South African apartheid. Anglican Priest Naim Atik, of East Jerusalem, who is considered one of the initiators of the current divestment campaign against Israel, says the campaign has become a snowball that cannot be stopped.

Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, one of the organizations fighting the campaign, prefers to use the term "juggernaut" to describe the slow but certain progress of the divestment campaign.

Cooper fears the campaign will seriously damage the Israeli economy if it goes beyond the boundaries of the church establishment to pressure vigorous investors such as labor unions and state and municipal retirement funds to divest. He cites the additional risk that "socially responsible" mutual and trust fund managers, who are careful to avoid investment in corrupt or violent nations, may add Israel to their "blacklist."

Rabbi Cooper believes the campaign may severely impact tourism in Israel if churches pressure U.S. airlines to avoid flying in and out of Israel, or encourage Christian pilgrims to choose Jordanian or future Palestinian points of entry to the Holy Land instead of Israeli points of entry.

Politically isolated But other leaders of Jewish organizations are less pessimistic.

Ethan Felson, assistant executive director of the Jewish Council for Public Affairs (JCPA), is convinced the campaign will fail. According to him, "Although Americans don't have a great understanding of the conflict in the Middle East, they don't view it as White vs. Black South Africa. Americans know this is complex. American companies will be entirely unmoved, The result is that those who advocate for divestment are easily dismissed."

Rabbi Mordechai Liebling, who sits on the Board of Rabbis for Human Rights in the U.S., is considered an expert on divestment campaigns and, what he calls, the "shareholder activism network." As a result, he has come to know many Protestant Church officials. Liebling shares Felson's opinion. He believes predictions of severe economic fallout based on analogies to the South African boycott are far-fetched.

According to Liebling, "In the case of South Africa, multinational corporations like Ford, GM, Pepsi and Coca-Cola had factories there that were directly benefiting from the exploitation of Black labor. There are no multinational corporations benefiting from the exploitation of Palestinian labor."

Despite that, Liebling believes comparisons to South Africa may prove to be relevant in the diplomatic realm, and that Israel is in danger of becoming politically, rather than economically, isolated. According to him, the fact the campaign comes from influential religious groups raises concern that public opinion will be swayed to consider Israel a pariah state.

In that case, Liebling fears the divestment campaign may achieve an opposite goal of persuading the Israeli and Jewish public to adopt extreme positions in response to church efforts. The Protestants, he says, "will alienate the Israeli center and the Jewish-American center. People get more intransigent when they feel attacked."


Home News
Fenced out
Life in the Palestinian villages trapped by the separation fence in the vicinity of Alfei Menashe has become intolerable. Now the High Court has directed the state to reconsider the route.
By Ada Ushpiz	| Sep. 15, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Is the gate open? Are the police there? Ah, yes, it's open, and there's a soldier," Abdel Manam Abu Nader, a silver-haired man in his fifties asked with obvious nervousness as he approached the man checkpoint of the village of Jayus,through which most of the village's farmer's pass each day to reach their lands on the other - Israeli - side of the separation fence. He couldn't keep his voice from quivering. Up until about three months ago, the gate was only open three times a day for an hour each time.

Lately, as part of the heavily publicized easing of conditions regarding the separation fence, the gate has been open 12 hours a day. Two soldiers who were standing on the road signaled to us to stop the car about two meters before the checkpoint and approach them on foot with the identifying documents.

Abu Nader presented a blue ID card and a valid transit permit. Under the shelter to the right, his cousin had been waiting for hours, though he also had a valid permit. The cousin wanted to get to the family lands with a cart full of bags of sand and cement, in order to repair the water well on the small section of land that is still cultivated.

The soldiers were checking whether the permit he had also allowed him to bring in the cement. He leaned against the stone wall, an exhausted expression on his face, waiting patiently for the results. Abu Nader wanted to help him. The officer at the nearby coordination and liaison headquarters promised, over the phone, to speed up the process.

The dirt road curved along at the foot of bare ridges and rocky ground blooming with wild vegetation. Here and there, a few olive and almond trees were visible, the remnants of uprooted orchards. "That's my brother's Abu Haiman. Look there's nothing. It's empty. Here are the almond trees. That's all that's left. You see what they did to us They uprooted everything. That one there is mine, and that one's mine, and that one is my brother's and that one belongs to another brother," Abu Nader mumbled with increasing feeling, pointing out the plots of each of his seven brothers.

On one of the highest hills, barrels and barbed wire could be seen. "Those barrels belong to Abu Haiman and if you fall from there you'll die," Abu Nader explained. When we arrived at the abandoned quarry behind the ridges, his words become clearer.

Mohammed Salim Abu Haiman, 56 and father of 12, was the only one of the brothers who was able to prove - in a protracted and tiring legal proceeding back in 1991 - ownership over the part of his land that was marked off with the barrels. Fortunately, he said, he managed to videotape his uprooted orchards before the uprooting was completed and so was able to provide proof that the land was cultivated and therefore not legally considered state land. But this land also happened to be located in a place designated to be a quarry, near the settlement of Tzofin and owned by the Lidar company, a firm connected to businessman Lev Leviev.

In order to build the quarry, they carefully dug around Abu Haiman's land to a depth of dozens of meters. Now the land is left isolated in the middle of the quarry and inaccessible. On aerial maps, Abu Haiman's plot appears as a square in the midst of the unauthorized outline plan for Tzofin (no. 149-2).

An insecurity fence The southernmost houses in Jayus, whose inhabitants have lived from farming for generations, come very close to the separation fence, which left it on the Palestinian side and separated it from about two-thirds of its lands (about 9,000 dunams). About 3,500 dunams are still within its territory.

This is a small village of about 3,200 people. The misleading landscape of olive trees on either side of the road leading to thevillage soon gives way to twisting alleyways and densely packed houses whose walls are full of graffiti from all the Palestinian organizations, from Fatah to Islamic Jihad. Here and there one sees the skeletons of houses whose construction was halted due to economic hardship. Before the recent intifada and the construction of the separation fence, the residents made a decent living from growing tomatoes, cucumbers, zucchini, guava, mangoes, kumquats and olives, and were grooming a younger generation of college graduates and professionals.

At its peak, the annual agricultural output was nine million kilos of fruit and vegetables, the villagers say. This year, after the separation fence made it difficult for farmers to reach their lands and closed off Israeli markets, output was down by more than half. Only 72 of about 135 hothouses remain.

The village is situated on a high ridge, at the foot of which winds the separation fence. The route of the fence, which in this case was deliberately shifted away from the Green Line to swallow about 2,000 dunams, is intended, according to official declarations, to protect the settlement of Tzofin, whose built-up area spreads over 200 dunams.

A comprehensive report put together by the B'tselem and Bamakom organizations, which is being published today, examines how the route of the fence was designed to include within it six settlements (Alfei Menashe, Tzofin, Eshkolot, Oranit, Ofarim and Geva Binyamin), and it shows that what happened to Jayus is far from the exception.

In each of the cases dealt with by the report, "security considerations" appear to be of much less import than the desire to annex, within the framework of this imaginary border outlined by the separation fence, as much territory as possible, populated by the fewest possible Arabs, in order to expand existing settlements or build new ones under the heading of "neighborhoods" which are sometimes quite far from the actual settlement.

Two typical "neighborhoods" of the Alfei Menashe settlement, for example Nof Hasharon and Admot Hayehudim are each about 3.5 aerial kilometers away from their mother settlement, and in between are the villages of Ras Atiya and Wadi al-Rasha, which have been left outside the fence.

These "neighborhoods" are unquestionably new settlements that in time will likely become municipally attached to Nirit and the southern Sharon regional council which are within the Green Line.

The report also shows that the route of the fence that annexes Tzofin to "the seam area" curves in odd loops, back and forth, at great distances from the settlement, in order to encompass a good number of zoning plans (with various degrees of approval and validity) intended to expand the settlement beyond its natural expected growth and build new settlements and an industrial zone beside it. According to the report's authors, the plan for "Tzofin Center" allows for an approximately 250 percent increase in the number of housing units in the settlement, while, over the last eight years, the rate of natural growth has been just 40 percent. An addition of this size would provide for the settlement's natural growth over the next 40 years.

But that's not all. The route of the fence also extends about 700 aerial meters north of the built-up area of the settlement, in order to include in it the "Nofei Tzofin" plan in the area of the quarry, for the construction of 1,134 housing units on 40 percent of the area in the plan, in the first stage. To the east and the southeast, the fence rubs up against the slopes of Jayus, in order to designate agricultural land for another 145 housing units, and a little further south, it bypasses the village in order to allow for the construction of a 600-dunam industrial zone.

The difficult topographical conditions, and the costs entailed in building such a convoluted route, evidently did not deter anyone. In order to include the planned industrial zone within the fence, the route plunges to a height of about 170 meters above sea level, right below the houses of Jayus, which are built at a height of 240 meters above sea level. The plan for the industrial zone has not yet been submitted to the supreme planning council.

Most of the lands in the plan have been declared state lands, but residents of Azoun and Nebi Elias claim ownership of them. The immediate price is being paid by the farmers of Jayus, whose lands are caught between the Green Line and the bloc of building plans. The village's water sources are also stranded there. When the plans are carried out, access to the farmland will be nearly impossible and the islands of private Palestinian land left in between will gradually be eroded.

Foreign workers in their own homes With a bitter smile, Abdel Latif, a hydro-engineer in Jayus, pulls out his three permits - each with the same wording, each for a different checkpoint. He is certain that Israel is betting on wearing the farmers of Jayus down with a regime of permits, closures, abuse at checkpoints, closing of markets and sharp decreases in production and prices, and believes that in this way they will eventually be compelled to give up their lands and their agricultural heritage, so that the theft of lands under cover of the fence will be completed.

But right now Israel still needs to call upon every security and legal argument and to make a show of consideration for the Palestinians whose lives have been disrupted by the fence, in order to justify itself not only at the International Court in the Hague but also in the courts in Israel. Using a carrot-and-stick method, Israel periodically eases restrictions and then reinstates them. The struggle to get by gets harder from day to day.

Most of the farmers have a hard time finding workers who are permitted to cross through the fence, so they have to work alone. Palestinian traders have also stopped coming, because they don't always have permits for "security reasons" or other reasons. "They're making the land unprofitable. This is the message to the farmers," Abdel Latif says.

For a long time, the farmers of Jayus refused to try to obtain entry permits to lands within the "seam area." They couldn't stomach the idea that they could only enter their lands with a permit. But after soldiers raided their fields in September 2003, evicted them and locked the checkpoints behind them at the start of the harvest season, they finally gave in.

Since then, they've been issued entry permits good for either three or six months. Recently, Israel also began issuing permits that are good for two years. About 20 farmers, including five families with children, built tin huts for themselves and currently live right on their lands so as to spare themselves the arduous daily trip to work and back and to gain more work hours after the checkpoints are locked.

Some stay out in the orchards for weeks at a time; others visit their families in Jayus once or twice a week. They live like foreign workers, just 10 minutes from their real homes.

"Everybody here has his own portion of suffering," signs Salah Taher, a 35-year-old landowner on a quick visit back to see his two young children. "We've forgotten our families."

Closed military area In Ras al-Tira, which is trapped inside the fence, in the heart of the "seam area," and cut off from Qalqilyah, life revolves almost exclusively around the checkpoints and all the permit requirements, which are reaching incredible proportions. "It's impossible to go on living like this," Muhsin Mar'aba, 50 and a father of eight, says angrily. For years, he worked in construction in Kfar Sava. Now he's unemployed.

He cannot go into Israel, but he does have one of those coveted permits that allows him to reach the village lands that are outside the fence. "It's impossible to understand," he continues. "They gave a permit to a 10-year-old girl to go to the family's fields, but not to her father. Who knows why? He finally got fed up. He said to me: 'Take the land, pick the olives and we'll split it 50-50.' Once he came on a horse and said to me: 'Open the door.' His land is right next to the door.

"I went and I saw that there were no soldiers around and that he hadn't closed it well, so I let him in and then I put the chain back in place just so he could help me with his land. What do I care? I'm not afraid of the soldiers. We've had it. They don't get it. They give us trouble every day come, go, wait, bring a permit, bring an ID card. In my ID it says that I live in Ras al-Tira, so why do I need a permit to get to my house?"

According the report from B'tselem and Bamakom, Ras al-Tira and four other villages were included within the fence not so much in order to "protect" Alfei Menashe, as to protect the building plans (which have yet to be submitted for ultimate approval) for the two new "neighborhoods" Ilanit and Kaniel, which are slated to be built at a distance of about 1,500 aerial meters to the south of the built-up area of Alfei Menashe. The plan doesn't even overlap the jurisdiction of Alfei Menashe, as defined by an order issued by the Central Command.

Another outlined plan that closes in Ras al-Tira and Al-Dab'a to the northeast, clearly dictating the route of the fence, is called Givat Tal. It alone will enable the number of housing units of Alfei Menashe to be doubled, while the report estimates the natural growth rate there to be about 35 percent. The fence that encompasses the new settlements of Ilanit and Kaniel bypasses the villages of Ras Atiya and Habla and creates a veritable bubble that leaves them outside the fence, with just a narrow bottleneck connecting them with the Palestinian area.

The villages trapped by the convoluted route of the fence in the vicinity of Alfei Menashe are paying an intolerable price. They have become a "closed military area." Their residents can stay in their houses only with a valid permit. Any Israeli or Jew ("whoever the Law of Return applies to," in the words of the permit) is entitled to enter their villages without a permit, but they must obtain a permit for every move in their daily lives. Three main checkpoints regulate their lives one in the north, to Qalqilyah, and two in the south, to the Habla district.

They need permits to go to the grocery store, to go to the doctor in Qalqilyah, to visit family in the Habla area and to attend weddings or funerals in the nearby villages on the other side of the fence. Most of their lands and grazing pastures remained outside the fence and they have come to depend more and more on the mixture of sheep feed that they bring from Qalqilyah. They spend hours at the checkpoints. They don't belong here or there.

Anyone caught working in Israel, as he used to do before the fence existed, has his permit confiscated. Many residents have lost their permits because they violated the conditions in one way or another, or just because of the arbitrary decision of a soldier at a checkpoint. Others have had their permits taken away as a form of punishment for disobedience or "insolence" and were sent to Qalqilyah for days or weeks, without being able to return to their homes in their village. Without the right permits, it's impossible to function.

All the residents of the villages trapped within the Alfei Menashe area jointly petitioned the High Court to remove their villages from within the fence, even though many there are not happy about the prospect of being cut off from Israel. Yesterday, the High Court granted their wish.

The old Israeli obsession with taking bites out of the territories and establishing "facts on the ground" as the B'tselem and Bamakom report shows hasn't eased even when the purported objective is to build a security fence. This fence does not legally determine a set border, yet continues to sow hatred and to keep Israel shackled in the bonds of the occupation.

One case at a time Yesterday, in a precedent-setting decision, a nine-member panel of the High Court of Justice, headed by Supreme Court President Aharon Barak, instructed the state to reconsider all the alternatives for the fence route in Alfei Menashe, in order to find one that provides for security while infringing less on the lives of the local residents.

According to the Court's recommendation, the most preferable alternative is the one in which the enclave will include only Alfei Menashe and a connecting road to Israel even if this means moving the existing road that connects Alfei Menashe with Israel. If the state takes the High Court ruling seriously, the five villages in the Alfei Menashe enclave will be removed from within the fence and the personal hardships caused by that will end.

The court treated the matter of the Alfei Menashe enclave as a specific case that did not comply with the principle of proportionality, i.e., it did not strike the correct balance between Israel's security needs and the adverse impact on the Palestinians' quality of life.

In this ruling, the High Court of Justice for the first time addressed the decision of the International Court of Justice in the Hague, which referred to the fence as an "apartheid wall" and ruled that its construction and the regime dictated by that contravened international law. Barak's ruling essentially rejected the ruling from the Hague and preserved the Israeli court's right to discuss each case on its own, based on the criterion of proportional harm.

The case is significant in that it compelled the state to address the Hague ruling, contrary to its official policy of ignoring it, arguing that "we are not living on a desert island." In effect, it strengthened the legal standing of the fence more than ever before.

With all the noise surrounding the decision, which orders the state to alter the route of a portion of the fence that is already built, it's no wonder that the State Prosecutor's Office is keeping a low profile and opting to see the glass as half-full.

Attorney Anar Helman, representing the state, reminded all who would listen that "the High Court ruled that the fence must be examined one section at a time and that communities in the territoriesmay be left on the Israeli side of the fence.


Home News
EU powers start work on Iran nuclear resolution
U.S., Europe agree to press for nuke program to be reported to the UN Security Council, struggle to win Russian support.
By Reuters	| Sep. 19, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
UNITED NATIONS - The United States and European Union agreed on Sunday to press for Iran's nuclear program to be reported to the UN Security Council, but struggled to win backing from Russia and developing nations.

Britain, France and Germany were drafting a resolution asking the UN nuclear watchdog to act after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told the General Assembly on Saturday that Tehran was determined to press ahead with making nuclear fuel and branded Western efforts to restrict the program "nuclear apartheid."

The West suspects Tehran is working covertly to develop nuclear weapons.

The standoff will come to a head in Vienna on Monday when the 35-member governing board of the International Atomic Energy Agency begins a crucial week-long meeting.

"We will be putting forward a resolution that calls for taking Iran to the Security Council," a senior diplomat from one of the three EU countries, known as the EU3, told reporters.

Political directors of the EU3 and United States differed on tactics when they met at the United Nations. Diplomats said Washington sought a quick IAEA vote, while the Europeans wanted time to build a broader consensus.

U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told the BBC that Ahmadinejad's speech had left little room for compromise.

Asked if there would be a vote this week, Burns said: "It's hard to say. I think ultimately there will be a referral."

Another European official said the dilemma was whether to risk a vote that could highlight the international community's divisions and undermine any prospect of the Security Council condemning Iran, let alone imposing sanctions.

"Do we think we have a majority? Yes, we probably have. Do we think that a majority of, say, 20 out of 35 with some big countries voting against or abstaining would be enough to pressure Iran? That is the question," he said.

IAEA board divided A senior Bush administration official said that while Washington was laboring to broaden the consensus for referral, "We have been willing to consider a simple majority as opposed to a consensus."

The Iran issue had divided the IAEA board roughly into two camps -- developed Western countries including the EU, United States, Japan and Australia versus politically powerful emerging-market states such as India, China, Brazil, South Africa and Russia.

Pressure on Iran has increased since it broke UN seals and resumed work at a uranium conversion plant at Isfahan last month. Work there had been suspended under a November deal with the three EU countries.

The West says Iran forfeited the right to fuel cycle technology that can be used for bombs by concealing its uranium enrichment program from the IAEA for 18 years.

Many developing states share Iran's belief that the West wants to keep poor nations from having independent atomic programs.

Joseph Cirincione, a nuclear expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said Ahmadinejad had played effectively to that audience with his UN speech.

"It has leveled the playing field. There is not a clear right side in this crisis for many nations, and that's why we see so many people hesitating before referring Iran to the Security Council," he told reporters.

Iran, which has yet to resume enrichment work at its mothballed underground plant at Natanz, hinted that it might do so soon if the IAEA board reported it to the Security Council.

"We haven't started enrichment yet but everything depends on the result of tomorrow's meeting," Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi told a weekly news conference.

While European ministers called Ahmadinejad's speech disappointing, he declared his New York trip a success.

"We think we have opened the way for a good outcome with the IAEA, so now anyone who wants to make trouble will just be using excuses as a pretext for doing so," he told reporters upon his return to Tehran.

Chief nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani said the threat of Security Council referral would only worsen the situation.

"We think that negotiations do not mean anything if they are conducted under pressure," he said. "We cannot negotiate and be threatened at the same time."

IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei, fearing a permanent split of his agency's board, has urged the EU3 and United States to give Iran another chance to comply with demands that it refrain from all sensitive nuclear activities.

Of the 14 IAEA board members belonging to the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), only Singapore and Peru have said they would back a UN referral.

EU diplomats said NAM countries were considering abstaining as a bloc, which would enable nations like India, Pakistan and South Africa to avoid angering Washington and the EU by voting against them.


Home News
Analysis / Iran won't cave in
By Yossi Melman	| Sep. 20, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
North Korea's surprising pledge yesterday to drop its nuclear weapons program could not have come at a better time for the United States and the West. See full story in the IHT.

Yesterday, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) board of governors started addressing the Iran nuclear issue.

The breakthrough in the talks with North Korea strengthens the international demand that nuclear arm production cease. But there is a big difference between the North Korean case and the Iranian one.

It was clear to all the parties concerned in the negotiations with North Korea that Pyongyang did not see nuclear arms as an end in itself but as a means of achieving political and economic goals. North Korea wants the United States to recognize its sovereignty and independence. This would perpetuate the division of the Korean peninsula and secure the country international aid to improve its economic distress.

If North Korea keeps its commitments, as drafted in the declaration of intentions in the six-nation talks in Beijing, it will have achieved its goals. Under this agreement, the U.S. will not invade or attack North Korea, and will establish diplomatic ties with it. North Korea is expected to receive economic aid from Japan and South Korea, and in exchange for abandoning its nuclear program, internationally sponsored nuclear reactors will be built there to produce energy.

The agreement is a great accomplishment, especially for China's diplomatic patience. But the agreement is also an achievement for the U.S., which conditioned all diplomatic recognition and economic aid on North Korea abandoning its nuclear program.

Unlike North Korea, Iran wants nuclear capabilities in order to build military power and deterrence. The U.S. and European Union want to impose sanctions on Iran but are afraid to do so. If the IAEA decides to transfer the issue to the UN Security Council, Iran may carry out its threats to raise oil prices, thus worsening the world's economic crisis.

The West's fear of a Security Council debate increased after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad hinted of his intention to proceed with uranium enrichment. This would render Iran capable of producing fissile materials required for making nuclear arms.

The North Korean announcement is also important because it continues the trend of states abandoning their nuclear programs voluntarily. It began in South Africa, which dropped its nuclear arms at the end of the apartheid regime in 1998-1990, through Ukraine in 1991, to Lybia.

This trend increases the international pressure on Iran to follow suit. But Iran is not North Korea and will not succumb to pressure.

The international atmosphere could have an indirect effect on Israel's policy of strategic nuclear ambiguity. It weakens Israel's position vis-a-vis its own nuclear program, although there is no international pressure at present and none is seen on the horizon. Israel can therefore stick to its ambiguity policy as long as it has the support of the U.S. and the EU.


Home Print Edition Features
No dearth of Islamic dilemmas
Will Iran relinquish its desire to develop nuclear weapons? Will Saddam ever be totally expunged from Iraqi textbooks? Was Afghanistan's election really democratic?
By Zvi Bar'el	| Sep. 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is a person with a lot of experience in public relations, who in some of his previous positions was in charge of contacts with the media. In the recent elections in Iran, too, he knew how to transform his underdog status - and even his neat haircut and the worker's clothing he wears that is too big for him - into an advantage. Similarly, he also knew how to enlist Hurricane Katrina in order to garner a bit of support in his tough speech at the United Nations last week, when he expressed condolences to the families of the victims. Ahmadinejad is far from Mohammad Khatami, the intellectual president who ran Iran lethargically during the past eight years. Khatami spoke about dialogue between cultures; Ahmadinejad speaks Persian with a limited vocabulary.

This week, in the cacophony of interviews and reactions to his speech at the UN, Ahmadinejad mustered more proof of why Iran is not seeking to develop nuclear weapons, declaring: "Our religion prohibits us from using atomic weapons." This is an interesting argument coming from a president who is not a cleric, an expert in religious law or even very educated, but represents a regime based on religion. And here is a dilemma: If Iran is perceived as an extremist religious state, because of whose extremism it is necessary to be extra careful with respect to the atom, then one must believe that its president will act in accordance with the religion's principles - that is, he will not seek nuclear arms. But if Ahmadinejad's statements indeed arouse ridicule, then perhaps Iran is not exactly the extremist religious state that should be feared.

An unsystematic examination of important religious rulings, like those made by Al-Azhar canon law specialists in Egypt and Muslim legal experts in the West, shows that there is a basis to what Ahmadinejad says. The prevailing religious-legal interpretation of the president's remarks says that a Muslim state is forbidden to use nuclear weaponry because it is liable to harm innocent people. Such a nation must lead the world to a situation in which there will be no weapons of mass destruction, say clerical legal authorities.

Apparently this piety will not impress the board of governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), nor should it impress anyone, as everyone knows that another conservative Islamic state, Pakistan, has not adopted this ruling at all. But no one is talking any more about the atom in Pakistan, the state that tried to sell Iran nuclear materials and transferred nuclear technologies to other countries.

Even the commendations that Iran received in the report submitted by IAEA head Mohammed ElBaradei won't help, because his report on Iran is read with different eyes than his data on other countries. Thus, for example, ElBaradei has written that Iran has shown good progress in the implementation of inspection measures since 2003 (Section 43) and that all of the nuclear materials Iran has declared to have in its possession have indeed been found (Section 12). The report also praises Iran for the transparency it is evincing during inspections of installations and for doing more than is required concerning the Additional Protocol to the Nonproliferation Treaty (Section 37).

But apparently despite this report - which has captured the heart of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who this week said that "Iran is showing good cooperation" and implied that he would not lend his hand to implementing sanctions - America would prefer a different report, the one prepared by the British International Institute for Strategic Studies, which predicts that Iran will have a nuclear weapon in the near future. It is, however, worth remembering that this is the same institute that said exactly three years ago that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction, which have not been found to this day.

`Long live Islam!'

In many Arab schools it is customary for the student monitor to call out "Rise!" when the teacher enters, and it is the teacher who permits the students to be seated. In Iraq, it was the custom that when the monitor called out "Rise!" the students would add "Long live Commander Saddam!" With the fall of Saddam, this cry was replaced with "Long live Islam!" and when the students were permitted to sit back down, they were told to say in a chorus "May Saddam fall!" Now they don't shout out anything.

Saddam's pictures have been removed from textbooks and when about 6 million students began the school year this month, they only hoped that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi would not stand in their way. But the disappearance of Saddam and his regime from Iraqi books is far from complete. Although under the new law, books published before 2004 must not be distributed in schools, there is also no budget for printing new ones. Less than half of the books have been replaced and in most schools the students use some texts that praise Saddam's regime and others that excoriate it. In some of the books Iran is the most hated enemy and in some Iran is a friend; in some of the books the Kurds are not mentioned, and in others the Kurds are the lifeblood of the Iraqi nation.

Iraqi teachers and parents are complaining that the new textbooks issued by education minister Abdel Falah Hassan al-Sudani are boring and uninspired, the English books are meager, and educating children to do good deeds and adopt proper manners and customs is done via long Koranic verses that a child cannot understand. There are no answers to any of this from the ministry, which has to deal with the challenge of pleasing both the Shi'ites and the Sunnis, both the Kurds and the tribal chiefs, and above all to decide whether Haroun al-Rashid, the man who fought the Shi'ites, is a hero or an enemy.

At least there are elections

"The fatal provision" is the most original contribution of the elections held on Sunday in Afghanistan. Under this provision, anyone who was elected to Parliament but has passed away bequeaths his place to the candidate who received the next-largest number of votes after him. This, ostensibly, is an ordinary provision that exists everywhere in the world. That's how it is in a democracy. But in Afghanistan, where the democracy is funded by drugs and maintained by American and international forces, this provision has enormous "filtering power."

The reason for this is that in these elections, several thousand people competed for 249 seats in Parliament, with the race mainly between independent candidates, not between political lists. The gap between a winning candidate and a losing candidate can thus be measured in fractions of a percent, and there is a risk of death for the winners. This is because the independence of these candidates is just a hollow concept: Each represents a tribe, clan or militia with a long history of rivalries that are liable to come to a bloody solution now.

Ostensibly, these parliamentary elections symbolize a major achievement for both the American administration and Hamid Karzai, president of Afghanistan, as for more than 30 years there were no elections in the country and, after the presidential elections, they could symbolize yet another step in the direction of building a Muslim democracy. If that is the case, why did Western diplomats and even heads of state advise Karzai not to hold these elections and to make do with a few parties with which he would form a coalition and thus make a sufficient contribution to "democracy"? The answer is that these Western diplomats understand the dangers the elections are liable to create: the murder of representatives who were elected to make way for other candidates, the crushing of the political agreement with Karzai, the outbreak of a new civil war following the election results, and tremendous difficulty in forming a political coalition capable of making decisions.

Karzai thought otherwise and embarked on the elections, risking not only himself but also the possibility that Afghanistan would continue to receive aid from the donor countries, which are already tired of making contributions. Without political stability there will be no money, and as former United States president Bill Clinton said this week: Afghanistan is a graver danger than Iraq with respect to the development and rehabilitation of international terror.

What sanctions?

A company from South Africa, Mobile Telephone Network, has won the tender to operate the second mobile telephone network in Iran after Turkey was eliminated from the bidding. This involves an expected income of hundreds of millions of dollars for the South African company. Supposing the UN Security Council decides to impose sanctions on Iran - will South Africa participate, in light of this contract? Will the country that freed itself of apartheid as a result of sanctions kick a regime of sanctions in the teeth?


Home Print Edition Opinion
Ahmadinejad's smile
The good news is that despite the chaos in Iraq and the destruction in New Orleans, America has not retreated into its shell.
By Aluf Benn	| Sep. 27, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The news conference with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was one of the fascinating events that took place during the trip with the prime minister to the UN General Assembly. Only rarely does an Israeli journalist get a chance to see the enemy at an arm's length and listen to him (in simultaneous translation from Persian), without the mediation of intelligence officers and commentators on Arab/Muslim affairs.

Ahmadinejad is not a big man. He has a timid smile and tends to wave his hands. He enjoyed the attention and the meetings with world leaders, and tried to soften the harsh image of his regime. The diplomat who ran the news conference said that the new president, aged 49, has a Ph.D. in Transportation from Tehran's University of Science and Technology. As a transportation expert and former mayor of a major city, he apologized to New Yorkers for the traffic jams the summit meeting caused.

In his speech to the General Assembly he presented a consistent world view, based on objection to American dominance. He sees Iran as the true democracy in the Middle East, which is fighting the "nuclear apartheid" directed against it in the name of equality. In other circumstances, the anti-American European left could have grown fond of Ahmadinejad for his statements against the belligerence of the "few who rule the media." But he was not trying to make friends in the West at all, but to attack and to demonstrate that he could come all the way to New York to curse America and even poke fun at the hurricane disaster.

He totally rejects Israel's right to exist. He refused to answer Israelis' questions and presented his narrative of the conflict. The Jews came from afar, disinherited the Palestinians and banished them from their land. There will only be peace when all the refugees return and "a democratic Palestinian state" is established with al-Quds as its capital, in place of the "Zionist occupation regime."

Ahmadinejad's callousness reflects Iran's growing power as a result of the Iraq war, which wiped out its biggest enemy - Saddam Hussein. Soaring oil prices have boosted Iran's economy and the nearby U.S. army is embroiled in a war of attrition. In these circumstances, Iran is waging a diplomatic campaign to save its nuclear program, in the name of its "inalienable right" to produce enriched uranium.

Ahmadinejad came to the UN to examine the limits of his power versus America and its European partners. Ariel Sharon and Silvan Shalom were conducting a counter lobbying campaign. So was Mossad head Meir Dagan, coordinator of Israel's effort to thwart Iran's nuclear program, who left for secret talks in Washington.

The result was not in Ahmadinejad's favor. The Europeans kept their promise to Israel, and last Saturday achieved a small majority for a resolution against Iran in the International Atomic Energy Agency. The resolution said that Iran has violated its undertakings and the issue should be taken up by the UN Security Council. No schedule was set, nor was there any threat of sanctions, but the direction is clear.

Israel commended the "step in the right direction" and senior officials predicted that in the next round in November, the decisions will have teeth. The Iranian response sounded, how embarrassing, like Israel's responses to the resolutions against it in the UN and the International Court of Justice.

The nuclear confrontation is not over and it is not clear whether Iran will get the bomb before it caves in to the pressures. Russia and China are supporting it and the world oil market will have difficulty coping with another price rise because of sanctions on Iran. Meanwhile, Ahmadinejad can smile.

The good news is that despite the chaos in Iraq and the destruction in New Orleans, America has not retreated into its shell but is still dictating the international and regional agenda. This raises the hope that the West will succeed in stopping the threatening Iranian project after all.



Home News
Needed: Reconciliation
A process of reconciliation will not cause the Israelis and Palestinians to become friends, but it will, perhaps, enable them to turn over a new leaf and concentrate on building a better future.
By Uzi Benziman	| Oct. 12, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Desmond Tutu says in his book "No Future Without Forgiveness" that blacks and white in South Africa succeeded in overcoming the built-up resentments of the past without a bloodbath thanks to the internal reconciliation mechanism that was set up. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established by a joint decision of majority and minority leaders in order to enable those who perpetrated injustices to confess their crimes, and to enable the victims to forgive them.

This lengthy process captured the attention of everyone in South Africa, and created an atmosphere of internal purification: Whites beat their breasts over concrete acts of cruelty that they perpetrated against blacks, and blacks testified about their suffering, as well as about shocking acts of reprisal that they perpetrated against their white oppressors. Tutu believes that this process enabled the atrocities of the apartheid regime to be exposed while also creating a dynamic of reconciliation, because it entailed both recognition by the perpetrators of the injustices that they caused and a willingness on the part of the victims to accept the perpetrators' confessions of their sins and forgive them.

The professional political science literature agrees that a ceremony of asking forgiveness, or a structured process of reconciliation, is an essential component of conflict resolution: Without it, the embers of the conflict continue to burn and are liable to reignite.

There are different degrees of relaxation in violent conflicts: a cease-fire declaration, an agreement on a state of nonbelligerency, a transition to cold war and so forth. But true resolution is impossible without a reconciliation phase.

The problem is that the warring parties usually have trouble getting to this stage.Reconciliation requires an ability to identify with the enemy's view of the meaning and causes of the conflict, an acknowledgment of guilt for injustices committed by one party against the other and abandoning the desire for revenge. Nevertheless, reconciliation is essential, because it puts both parties on an equal footing, declares that both sides are both victim and perpetrator, and enables them to agree on a common denominator and leave the bitter conflict behind, together with the reciprocal atrocities that it spawned.

Tonight, the day when Jews confess their sins, pray "forgive us, pardon us, grant us atonement" and ask forgiveness of their fellow men, is an appropriate moment to think about whether the time has not come to begin an organized process of reconciliation with the Palestinian people.

The emotional dimension influences Israel's relationship with the Palestinians far more than it does Israel's conflict with the Arab world as a whole, and particularly with the Arab states that border it. The quarrel with the Palestinians is not just about land and borders, but also about national existence itself. Both nations are intertwined with each other on a single piece of land that lacks clear boundaries. The dispute between them is of the nature of "to be or not to be," and it impacts on both sides' ability to preserve their national identities. One hundred years of mutual blood-letting weighs on both sides' consciousness, and their close proximity augments their fears, but also exposes them to the distress of the other side and undermines their fundamental beliefs.

It would be difficult to quiet this emotional maelstrom with diplomatic agreements alone, and especially not if they are imposed or unilateral. What is needed is therapeutic intervention, which could be supplied by launching a process of reconciliation.

Israelis and Palestinians continue to recoil from one another. In the best case, they relate to each other as strangers; usually with suspicion; and sometimes through glasses that attribute satanic characteristics to the other side. A process of reconciliation will not cause the two peoples to become friends, but it will, perhaps, enable them to turn over a new leaf and concentrate on building a better future. The goal of the process would not exactly be to seek forgiveness; rather, it would aspire to a recognition of injustices and willingness to atone for them in deeds.


Home News Diplomacy and Defense
Religious MKs blast court decision not to fund meals in Haredi schools
High Court of Justice rejects petition by Betar Ilit requesting government provide funding for meals in all its schools.
By Ruth Sinai	and Yuval Yoaz, Haaretz Correspondent	| Oct. 16, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Ultra-Orthodox MKs on Sunday lambasted the High Court of Justice's decision to reject a petition by the Betar Illit municipality requesting the Education Ministry provide funding for hot meals in all of the town's 32 elementary schools, including independent ultra-Orthodox schools.

Justices Mishael Cheshin, Miriam Naor and Salim Joubran ruled Sunday that the law providing daily meals for students applies only in schools operating under the law mandating a long school day. Only state schools and state-religious schools, not ultra-Orthodox ones, are included in this category.

Deputy Social Welfare Minister Avraham Ravitz (United Torah Judaism) sharply attacked the decision, calling it an inappropriate racist move.

He said that when petitioners originally consulted with him whether to bring forth their complaints, he had told them the racism seemed so apparent in the situation that he was certain the court would vote in favor of the petitioners.

"Today I was proven wrong, The court again proved itself to be the conduit of racism in the state of Israel... and then they're surprised that the Haredi community has no faith in the system of law?"

"This ruling strengthens our struggle in the Supreme Court, which sometimes steps out of line and isolates observant Jews from the rest of Israel, turning them into citizens unworthy of rights," Ravitz added.

Shas chairman MK Eli Yishai also slammed the ruling and said "the court has turned ultra-Orthodox students into second-class students and has paved the way toward a policy of disgrace and neglect."

"The High Court is carrying on to create unnecessary cracks in the Jewish people, and has sanctioned a decision discriminating student over their beliefs. This decision creates anti-Jewish apartheid," Yishai said.

In support of the ruling, Shinui MK Ronnie Brizon said that "whoever wants to receive meals must also agree to take on the rest of the reform. The ultra-Orthodox decided, in their typical arrogance, they are not ready to accept the Dovrat reforms - except for the meals. The High Court rightfully rejected this approach."

During the 2003-2004 school year, the Education Ministry conducted an experimental meal service in all Betar Illit's schools. Last year the ministry provided meals only in schools that fall under the "long school day" law and canceled funds for meals in 23 ultra-Orthodox schools, which fall outside ministry supervision.

The ministry now funds meals in nine of the municipality's schools - two state schools and seven from the Shas Ma'ayan Hachinuch Hatorani state-religious school network.

The Betar Illit municipality demanded that the Education Ministry continue operating the meal service in all the municipality's schools, saying that to do otherwise was to discriminate against ultra-Orthodox students. The municipality also argued that the daily meal law is independent from the "long school day" law.

However, the High Court rejected the municipality's arguments, saying that the daily meal law was intended to serve schools that are obligated to have a long school day.

Cheshin said parents who decide not to accept free national schooling services and prefer private education "have no right to ask the state to fund their children's school fees. The bodies running the schools that are not official carry the responsibility for maintaining the schools, including expenses required to provide daily meals for students."

The Betar Illit municipality has announced it will request a second hearing on the petition.


Home Print Edition News
No free lunch, High Court tells Betar Illit
By Yuval Yoaz	Oct. 17, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The state is not obliged to fund a hot meal for school pupils in the independent school stream, the High Court of Justice ruled yesterday in a precedent-setting decision about providing meals for pupils who spend a long day at school.

The court thus rejected a petition from the Betar Illit Municipality, which had demanded that the Education Ministry pay for meals in all 32 of its elementary schools.

Justice Mishael Cheshin wrote that the bodies that operate the schools must be responsible for paying for their expenses, including those of providing a hot meal daily for their pupils.

The court decision led to an uproar in right-wing and religious party circles. Deputy Social Affairs Minister Avraham Ravitz (United Torah Judaism) said that "the court once again finds itself at the head of the campaign for racism in the State of Israel. Justice Cheshin is the leader of the campaign."

Shas leader Eli Yishai said that "the High Court of Justice has turned the Haredi pupils into second-class citizens and given its approval to discrimination on the basis of belief, which creates anti-Jewish apartheid."

Even Labor MK Yuli Tamir expressed opposition to the ruling. "It is inconceivable that the state should recognize the existence of the independent school stream on the one hand, but on the other, prevent its pupils from getting a meal," she said. "Children do not have to go hungry because of decisions by their parents or politicians."

National Religious Party leader Zevulun Orlev called on the education minister to ignore the ruling.

On the other hand, Shinui MK Ronnie Brizon welcomed the decision, saying that whoever wanted to get lunch also had to accept the rest of the reform in education.

The Education Ministry announced that it would uphold the court ruling.

Two years ago, the ministry paid for the meals in all 32 schools in the municipality, but last year, after the law was passed about granting a hot meal to school pupils studying a long day, the ministry agreed only to fund meals in the two state elementary schools and the seven schools associated with the Shas party in Betar Illit, all of which get state subsidies for their education systems.

The law about school meals was passed in January 2005. The court ruled that it could not be separated from the Long School Day law and therefore applied only to schools that abided by the Long School Day law. The justices who sat on the bench in the case were Cheshin, Miriam Naor and Salim Jubran.

The court rejected claims of discrimination, saying that the state was fulfilling its duty to provide free education in the frameworks of the state and state-religious schools. Parents who turned down the free education and opted instead for private education, which was not state-funded, could not expect the state to provide the children with meals, the court said.

The Betar Illit Municipality said that it plans to demand another High Court of Justice hearing with an expanded panel of justices.

Yulie Khromchenko contributed to this report.


Home Print Edition News
Analysis / W. Bank roadblocks come and go
By Amira Hass	| Oct. 20, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The restrictions on Palestinian traffic in the West Bank, which were removed during the disengagement talks, were reinstated once the pullout was carried out.

More than a year ago the defense establishment formulated a proposal for two separate transportation systems in the West Bank - main, new thoroughfares for Israelis and old back roads for the Palestinians.

With dozens of barricades and permanent roadblocks, the Israel Defense Forces had diverted Palestinian traffic to side roads since the intifada broke out. The IDF also blocked Palestinian traffic occasionally with mobile roadblocks.

Israel asked the donor states to finance the separate transportation plan by building and upgrading some 500 kilometers of roads and 16 intersections. The plan was presented as a solution to the closure problem in the West Bank, which the World Bank found to be the main cause for its economic deterioration. Israel presented the plan as creating "traffic contiguity" for the Palestinians.

The Palestinian Planning Ministry and donor states estimated the plan's cost at some $200 million. But the donor states said they would carry out no project against the Palestinians' will. In October 2004 the Palestinian cabinet adopted a resolution against the Israeli proposal, which it saw as a means to strengthen the settlements and legitimize "an apartheid regime."

The donor states indirectly conditioned their cooperation with the disengagement plan on alleviating the closure in the West Bank.

Consequently, certain roadblocks were removed, and Palestinian traffic was allowed on Road 60 from Hebron to Bethlehem and from Tul Karm to Jenin and Ramallah, albeit on winding, bad roads.

On the other hand, the IDF increased the traffic restrictions in southern Hebron and is preventing passage between the towns and villages of the southern West Bank to Hebron by means of roadblocks, iron gates and blockades.

Many roads near settlements are closed to Palestinians, and the IDF frequently blocks the roads they may use with mobile roadblocks, causing long delays.

In addition, traffic in the western West Bank is restricted mainly by the separation fence. The Modi'in-Givat Ze'ev road is prohibited to Palestinians, cutting off the villages on the south from those on the north of the road, and various restrictions keep Palestinians from accessing the Jordan Valley.


Home Print Edition News
Enough Palestinian cars
A terrorist wishing to enter Israel will find a way to do so. The fact that the trip from Hebron to Bethlehem takes hours does not prevent terrorism; it encourages it.
By Gideon Levy	| Oct. 23, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
We must stop this luxury immediately: The Palestinians should be prohibited from traveling in cars on all the roads of the West Bank and not only intercity roads, as was decided following the drive-by shooting attack at the Gush Etzion junction last week.

Any other solution, more "humane," will not prevent terror attacks. In any case, most Palestinians have become used to living without cars, without movement, without freedom. Therefore, let us stop playing with highfalutin words and partial solutions: no more Palestinian cars on our country's roads, including its occupied territories.

Toward the end of the week, people here were frightened a bit by the American criticism about the closing of main roads in the West Bank to private cars. A source in Jerusalem hurried to tell Haaretz, "There is no new plan to separate traffic on the roads of the West Bank." And the defense minister promised from London that it was only a temporary measure. Thus, it was proved again that our last moral barrier is not to be found in Jerusalem, but rather in Washington. The thought that people like George W. Bush and Condoleezza Rice are the guardians of our morality should make us shudder, but that is the fact.

Nonetheless, the government source admitted that there is a contingency plan for separating traffic that would only be implemented if the Palestinian Authority collapses. It is difficult to understand what the relation is between the collapse of the PA and the complete collapse of what remains of our human values, as expressed in the imposition of chilling collective punishments.

In the meantime, the Israel Defense Forces has already implemented "parts of the plan as an immediate response to terrorism," the source explained. However, the prohibition of travel by private cars on intercity roads is part of a regime of ethnic-based separation that has been in practice for some time and which is most acutely expressed on the roads. For nearly five years, the basic freedom of movement has been denied to 2.5 million residents in the West Bank. Israel occasionally loosens the reins, as was the case during recent months, and sometimes tightens them, as is happening now. But the differences are minuscule: The ultimate fact is that the residents of the West Bank are imprisoned. The decisions to tighten the grip now and then, which are only intended to please the settlers, no longer make much difference.

There are only few Israelis who can fathom the implications of the defense establishment's arbitrary decisions. How many days would we be able to live without private vehicles? Who among us has any idea what someone experiences when he or she must go through the Hawara checkpoint on days when it is ostensibly open, and crowd into the endless line at the Qalandiyah checkpoint? Or how long a dialysis patient must spend on the roads to travel from Tul Karm to a hospital in East Jerusalem? Every journey in the West Bank has become a continuous nightmare of humiliation and physical anxiety.

Therefore, these things must be brought to the attention of the concerned Americans: The apartheid on the roads has existed for some time here, with or without the contingency plan. Most of the roads in the West Bank are desolate, with no people or cars. On days (Shabbat) and hours when the settlers are not traveling on them, they become ghost roads. Travel on the road leading from the J'bara checkpoint near Taibeh to Tul Karm and Nablus, and you will not understand where the hundreds of thousands of residents living in the area have disappeared. Have they vanished into thin air? Have they decided to sit forever under their grapevines and fig trees? When you travel on Road 443 leading from Modi'in to Jerusalem, which has become a superhighway to the capital, ask yourselves, where are the tens of thousands of residents of the villages scattered along the side of the road. For your information, their route is blocked. The road is for Jews only.

If you strain your eyes, you will notice at the sides of the road the traffic lanes assigned to the Palestinians: pathways through the terraces winding up the hills, goat paths on which cars are sputtering, including those carrying the sick, women in labor, pupils, and ordinary citizens who decide to place their life in their hands in order to travel for two to three hours to reach the neighboring village.

During these days of Ramadan, Israel - a keen proponent of freedom of worship - is allowing Muslims to make the pilgrimage to Al-Aqsa mosque. And some of these pilgrims are plodding through the hills to make this pilgrimage, as the Hebrew word for pilgrim (oleh regel) literally suggests. The buses now departing daily from Jenin, for example, with believers over the age of 45, as stipulated by Israel, leave at five in the morning and return around eight in the evening, with the full menu of humiliations and waiting along the way.

All of this has nothing to do with security. A terrorist wishing to enter Israel will find a way to do so, as evident in the large number of Palestinians who manage to do this without a permit. The fact that the trip from Hebron to Bethlehem takes hours does not prevent terrorism; it encourages it. And if the goal is to "respond to" and "punish" every attack, why weren't the residents of Tapuah denied the freedom of movement after the terrorist Eden Natan-Zada set out for Shfaram to kill its residents?

The truth should be spoken, not only in Washington, but first of all here: There is a system of apartheid on the roads of the West Bank that has no connection to the war on terror, and the decision to pull out this or that "contingency plan" is meaningless. For hundreds of years, the Palestinians lived in this country without cars, and there is no reason they cannot return to those days, especially when Jews-only roads have been paved on their lands. But, unlike the days of old, travel on donkey or by foot is also very difficult today.


Home Print Edition Opinion
It's no wonder envoy is frustrated
The two texts of the American representative of the Quartet left no room for doubt: The blame for the almost total paralysis of the movement of people and goods (from and to Gaza) was cast on the government of Israel.
By Amira Hass	| Oct. 26, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Will James Wolfensohn succeed where others have failed and cause Israel to release its grip on Palestinian freedom of movement?

The Quartet's special envoy on disengagement affairs didn't mince words last week when he expressed his frustration and disappointment with the stalling of the talks on the matter of the crossing points and Palestinian movement.

"While the Palestinians were eager to reach an agreement, the government of Israel preferred to leave difficult questions to committees that will not meet until after the Jewish holidays," Wolfensohn wrote in a letter and periodic report submitted last week to the United Nations secretary-general and the foreign ministers of the Quartet countries.

It can be understood from the letter that Wolfensohn did not expect that the Gaza Strip would become an even more tightly closed detention camp than it had been before the evacuation was completed on September 12.

"We do not have the luxury of adopting such a leisurely approach," wrote Wolfensohn of the Israeli foot-dragging in the talks on the link between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

He left no room for doubt that he would be glad if the Israelis, who had "promised a greater sense of urgency" after the holidays and before the end of October, were to do this before then and not muddle, for example, the proposal put forth by him and the World Bank to maintain, until a permanent solution is found, a continuous and orderly link between the West Bank and Gaza by means of regular convoys of buses.

The letter and the report were spiced with the necessary clarifications of Israel's need for security. "We must also recognize that security remains a major issue for Israel and that costly incidents involving human life will be a difficult impediment to progress," Wolfensohn noted. He did not relate to the Palestinians' need for protection against the Israeli occupation forces, although it is to be hoped that he remembers that not only Jews get killed, but also Palestinian civilians.

But the two texts of the American representative of the Quartet left no room for doubt: The blame for the almost total paralysis of the movement of people and goods (from and to Gaza) was cast on the government of Israel. Wolfensohn, the former president of the World Bank, repeatedly stressed that economic recovery is the basis for security and diplomatic progress (the aim of which, he wrote, is two states), and that economic recovery will not be possible unless the movement of people and goods is ensured: to the Gaza Strip and from it, between Gaza and the West Bank, and within the West Bank.

Similar and blunter formulations can be found in the thousands of letters and reports that have been written since 1994 by most of the envoys and representatives who have come to advance the negotiation process. Thus far, they have not been translated into any forceful international diplomatic action that would compel Israel to put an end to its sophisticated and harsher version of the Pass System from the time of the apartheid regime in South Africa.

During the past year, the disgust of some of the Western countries with the Israeli system of separation within the occupied Palestinian territory has sufficed for them to reject Israel's request to fund the paving and upgrading of a separate system of roads. But they did not change the reality of separate roads, which developed after Israel began building bypass roads on Palestinian lands with the aim of bringing the Jewish settlements closer to it.

The Israeli policy of preventing freedom of movement for all the Palestinians and granting it, as a privilege, to a few began in 1991 (long before the suicide terror attacks). Israel has always known how to present this policy as a security "response." However, this policy combines well with the Israeli plan to dismember the Palestinian territory that international resolutions have intended for a Palestinian state, i.e., the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, on the borders of June 4, 1967. The Israeli plan as it has been implemented since 1994 is effectively to cut off Gaza from the West Bank and allow the Palestinians in the West Bank to live in between the expanding Jewish settlement blocs, in a few enclaves, between which the transportation connection is subject to Israel's mercies.

The delays Israel is causing in the talks, about which Wolfensohn complained, are part of the method that proved its "efficacy" during the Oslo years: We'll stretch the status quo, we'll freeze the situation and the movement, and we'll wreak havoc on their economy until they agree to the political "solution" we are offering them.

The closure policy and the accelerated colonization policy mesh perfectly. The one is not possible without the other. Perhaps Wolfensohn's frustration will advance the talks on the Rafah crossing point, increase the number of trucks that leave Gaza, and remove a number of dirt barriers in the West Bank. However, the logic of Jewish superiority, which is implicit in the very fact of the ever-expanding Jewish settlements, is what has engendered the extreme restrictions on movement against which Wolfensohn warned. True, economic recovery will help the diplomatic process. But a diplomatic process under international auspices that will not force Israel to dismantle all of the settlements will blow up in our faces again and again.


Home News
Students protest what they say is sports center's racist policy
Ch. 10 report: Hebrew U. center allows Jews, but not non-student Arabs, to become members.
By Tamara Traubman	and Haaretz Correspondent	| Nov. 3, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Dozens of students demonstrated at Hebrew University in Jerusalem on Thursday to protest the Lerner Sports Center's refusal to allow non-student Arabs to obtain memberships.

The sports center is intended to serve students and staff at Hebrew University.

However, a Channel 10 TV news footage revealed that Jews who were not affiliated with the university were allowed to obtain memberships while Arabs not affiliated with the university were turned away.

Some 30 Hebrew University students took part in the protest, which was organized by Meretz-Yahad Youth. Students from Tel Aviv also traveled up to Jerusalem took part in the protest.

"This is an apartheid pool," Meretz-Yahad Youth Chairman Uri Zaki said. He said the protesters were boycotting the pool and called on those arriving at the center not to swim in a "racist pool." They also organized a petition calling for a boycott of the pool.

The sports center is managed by a foundation affiliated with the university.

"The Lerner Sports Center is meant to serve - first and foremost - the university community: students, staff and alumni," the university spokeswoman said Thursday.

The university said discrimination against Arabs at the sports center in neither a written nor official policy.

"The sports center does not have a discriminatory policy when it comes to new memberships of students or outside individuals. Many people have sports center memberships - Jews and Arabs together," the university said.

Hebrew University said it was looking into the Channel 10 investigative report.

But in an interview broadcasted Thursday on Channel 10 a former employee at the center said the discriminatory policy came at the instruction of the center's management.

According to the woman, employees were told to politely reject membership applications of Arabs by telling them the membership quota had been filled or that only university students and staff can become members.

The Abraham Fund condemned the apparent discrimination at the sports center and said "the source of this racist policy must be examined."


Home Print Edition News
Dozens protest ban on Arab students at Hebrew U.'s Lerner Sports Center
By Tamara Traubman	| Nov. 4, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Dozens of students demonstrated at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem yesterday to protest the refusal by the Lerner Sports Center to allow Arabs to obtain memberships.

The sports center is intended to serve students and staff at the university, and is managed by an affiliated organization.

However, the TV station Channel 10 revealed that Jews who were not affiliated with the university were allowed to obtain memberships while Arabs not affiliated with the university were turned away.

Some 30 Hebrew University students took part in the protest, which was organized by Meretz-Yahad Youth. Students from Tel Aviv also came to Jerusalem to take part in the protest.

"This is an apartheid pool," Meretz-Yahad Youth Chairman Uri Zaki said. He said the protesters were boycotting the pool and called on those arriving at the center not to swim in a "racist pool." They also organized a petition calling for a boycott of the pool.

"The Lerner Sports Center is meant to serve - first and foremost - the university community: students, staff and alumni," the university spokeswoman said yesterday in response.

The university said discrimination against Arabs at the sports center is neither a written nor official policy.

"The sports center does not have a discriminatory policy when it comes to new memberships for students or outside individuals. Many people have sports center memberships - Jews and Arabs," the university said.

Hebrew University said it was looking into the Channel 10 investigative report.


Home Life Arts & Leisure
A conscience still not quiet
Asked about her identity as a Jew, Nadine Gordimer says she felt close to her Jewish identity, that both her parents were Jewish, but that she has not lived a religious Jewish life and she is first and foremost a South African.
By Shiri Lev-Ari	| Nov. 14, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
People from overseas sometimes ask Nadine Gordimer what she will do now, ten years after the end of the apartheid regime in her country. What will she write about now? But Gordimer doesn't even understand the question.

I never wrote about apartheid, says the South African writer in a telephone interview from her home in Johannesburg. She wrote, she says, about people who lived under apartheid and about how it influenced their actions and personalities. Now that apartheid no longer exists, she says - expressing thanks to "all the gods that may or may not exist" - and people live differently, they interact with each other in new ways.

These changes have affected Gordimer's own outlook on life and penetrated her writing. There's no need, she says, to suddenly adjust to a new lifestyle. On the contrary - you simply live the change, as if it were the air you breathe.

In love with the desert

Gordimer, 81, won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1991. For many years, she has been living in two spheres - the literary and the political. Since the 1940s, she has written books about the burning political issues of South Africa. She fought for equal rights for blacks and the abolition of the apartheid regime. She became a one-woman literary power and a symbol of the white conscience in South Africa. Gordimer has written more than 20 books, including novels, novellas and collections of short stories and essays.

Now in her ninth decade, she continues to write. Her latest novel, published in 2001, "The Pickup," has now been released in Hebrew translation (Babel Books). It concerns the relationship between Julie, a young white woman from a wealthy Johannesburg family, and Abdu (whose name, we later learn, is actually Ibrahim), a young man who is illegally employed in an automotive garage in the city.

They meet by chance when Julie's car breaks down. They fall in love; their relationship progresses through all the obligatory stages, including the meetings between Abdu and Julie's parents and with her friends, who are together known as "The Table" at the local coffee shop: the poet, the anarchist, the Buddhist and all the other leftist bohemian types who receive Abdu with open arms.

All fine and good, except the authorities begin hounding Abdu for illegal residency and threaten to banish him. He has no passport, documents or money. No Western state is prepared to accept him. Julie doesn't give up, and goes with him back to his country of origin - a poor, unnamed Muslim country, one of many others like it.

The book describes how Abdu-Ibrahim reacts to the culture from which he came and how he wants to escape from it to the West, and how at the same time Julie falls in love with this place, with the traditional family, with a culture that is the complete opposite of the one from which she comes. In the book, Gordimer quotes from the Koran: "The Merciful has let loose the two seas that meet together, and placed a barrier between them, so that they cannot pass" (Sura 55).

Fleeing materialism

In this superbly and precisely written novel (although the Hebrew translation falls short), Gordimer does not bring together a white woman and a black man, as in her previous books - but a white woman and a foreign migrant man. Gordimer seems to have internalized the changes now taking place throughout the world. The book therefore deals with the victims of globalization, the strengthening of already developed and wealthy states, and the weakening of Third World countries.

Where, in your opinion, will the globalization process lead the world?

"People of my generation believed indeed. I was never myself communist but I was certainly a leftist - when we saw what happened to the dream of one world, which was the noble dream of communism, when we saw how it collapsed into total tyranny - this was a great disillusion. That kind of a try to make one world was proved as failure. I suppose globalization is some kind of that idea again to make one world, but at the moment I'm very critical of it and I'm not alone in this. It seems just to be a high party trade-exchange organization for the big powers and it has not done anything in its existence to close the terrible gap between the rich and the poor in our world, indeed over the last 10 years that gap has increased. Somehow when people get into the top, they become just like the others and forget why they were indeed there to help to close the gap.

"The world is more full than ever of people seeking political asylum, either because of poverty, or because of wars or conflict of one kind or another. And everywhere in the world they go looking to see where would they be accepted, looking for normal life. In my country we have a lot of illegal immigrants. [In] most countries you have to follow some certain conditions to be let in. But we have a very long border and many people coming in - not only from the surrounding countries in Africa, but from much farther away countries, from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, you name it. They come and live underground, like the young man in my novel."

Gordimer describes Abdu's Muslim homeland in an especially tender and sensitive manner, in an almost neutral, nonjudgmental tone, but also one that is devoid of any signs of cultural relativism. Her protagonist, Julie, also observes this culture in a nonjudgmental way, accepting things as they are.

"Julie is one of the generation that is looking for a refuge from the prevalent materialism which marks our present days society," explains Gordimer. "She's a white South African from a Christian background and she comes from a materialistic family, who expect that she would marry someone from the countryside like her, and she's in a confused rebellion against this. It seems to her that this young man is the answer to something that she's looking for, some kind of solidity and belief in life."

At times it seems - and the title of the book, "The Pickup," seems to confirm this - that the protagonists use each other to realize their aspirations and to exchange cultures with one another.

"Yes, it's true, he does fall in love with her, but at the beginning he exploits the attraction she feels toward him because she has everything, she can go wherever she wants in the world, she has a passport, she has money, she's white, she's totally accepted anywhere, she seems to be the answer for him to a better life in South Africa. So they have an unspoken desire to exploit one another. From her point of view, she is seeking for real values to escape the materialistic life she's living."

Being Jewish is like being black

Gordimer was born in 1923 in Springs, a small mining city in the Transvaal near Johannesburg, to petit-bourgeois Jewish parents. Her father had a small jewelry shop and her mother set up a day-care service for black children. As a girl, she saw the racist, patronizing attitude of the Whites toward Blacks. And she began to express interest in her own identity. She read a great deal and began to write by the time she was 9. At 15, Gordimer published her first novella. Her first anthology of novellas, "Face to Face," was published ten years later.

In the years after World War II, Gordimer moved to Johannesburg, where she met writers, journalists and artists. Like them, she was drawn to the ideas of the Communist Party. Many years later, in 1990, following the release from prison of Nelson Mandela, she joined the African National Congress, a political party.

She began to publish in the 1940s. First came "Face to Face" (1949), which was followed by the collection, "The Soft Voices of the Serpent" (1952), and the novels "The Lying Days" (1953), "A World of Strangers" (1958), "A Guest of Honour" (1970), "Some Monday For Sure" (1976), "Burger's Daughter" (1979) and "July's People" (1981).

Gordimer recently completed a new novel, "Get a Life," to be published soon (in Hebrew, as well). Gordimer does not like to talk about the plots of her books. If an author has to start telling what the book is about, then there's something wrong with the book, she says - because all the answers are supposed to be inside.

She was married twice and has four children. Her second husband, Reinhold Cassirer, a Jewish art dealer, died four years ago. A year ago, a biographer was set to issue a book about her life and her literary compositions, but Gordimer fought the publication due to a dispute over statements she made about colleagues that were supposed to appear in the book. Her actions prompted the publishers in the United States and Britain to drop the book. The Guardian newspaper accused the fighter for freedom of expression of having adopted censorship.

Asked about her identity as a Jew, she replied that she felt close to her Jewish identity, that both her parents were Jewish, but that she has not lived a religious Jewish life and was an atheist. Gordimer said she had not converted, that she was a Jew forever and would never dream of denying this identity. Yet, she attests, she is first and foremost a South African.

It is wonderful to be a religious Jew, says Gordimer, or religious in general. It offers an extraordinary comfort for all the things that happen to a person in his or her lifetime. But unfortunately, she says, she cannot make that leap of faith. In her opinion, being Jewish is like being black - "It's something inside you, in your blood and in your bones."

Throughout her life, Gordimer has combined literary and political activity. Now she seeks to downplay her political contribution. During the interview, she spoke about having done a few things on behalf of the struggle, as did her husband Reinhold, a refugee from the Nazi regime who had experienced racial discrimination.

One may grant asylum to refugees fleeing the police, someone else can help them escape, she says, but her help was as a writer, not of novels but of op-ed columns. She strongly opposed the regime. Three of her books were banned due to their content.

She and her husband had friends who were in and out of prison all the time. Gordimer experienced things that people like her, from her bourgeois background, could never imagine. For example, she once asked for permission to visit a political prisoner. She lied and said she was his sister, and offered a made-up name. You learn how to do these things and take a risk, she says. Inviting black friends to a party and risking arrest because blacks were not allowed to drink alcohol. They took this risk, she says, but other people she knew really devoted their lives to the struggle against apartheid. To Gordimer, they were the real freedom fighters.

Asked if the political mobilization of writers might not be the number one enemy of artistic freedom, Gordimer responds that this was never an issue for her. If you live in a certain place, she says, your entire personality and existence are shaped by the surrounding society. How could you not be influenced by it? When political pressures affect people's lives, as they did in South Africa and as they did in Nazi Germany, she asks, how could this not be reflected in your work? It naturally seeps into the characters you create. Otherwise you end up writing tall tales that do not happen anywhere.

All writing that is sincere and comes from real talent is committed to reality, says Gordimer. It is committed to the attempt to tell the truth about what you know about the human race. Goethe once said that everywhere the author finds himself, he shuts his eyes and stretches his hand deep into the society around him, and what he catches in his hand will be part of the truth. This, says Gordimer, is all an author can hope for. She cannot imagine writing a historical novel located in any other time or place. I have to feel and touch and smell and taste and hear the world in which I live, she says.

You need more than 10 years

It has been nearly 15 years since Nelson Mandela was released from prison. Gordimer is very optimistic about the establishment of democracy in South Africa and the improvement of the standard of living for the country's citizens. Give us a chance, she says. Ten years is not a lot of time.

"I call myself a realistic optimist. I think we have achieved something absolutely remarkable. If you look at what happens in the rest of the world in states of conflict - we managed it without a civil war, a tremendous tribute to the vast black population, the majority. They could have risen up any time and murdered the 10 percent of the population, the whites. It wasn't done. Of course the blacks had the wonderful leadership of Mandela. This is truly unique in the modern world.

"Once that happens, it doesn't mean that you can shift the disadvantages of the past, which were great. Blacks received an inferior education for generations, they were shut out of the positions, and they were treated as inferior in any level of life. We even had the terrible rebirth of Nazis laws - for instance the issue of sexual relationships across the colors - even a love affair between black and white was a crime, people went to prison.

"We've got rid of all of that when we defeated the apartheid government and we began a government of national unity. I was right from the beginning an optimist, I thought we're going to succeed, but I'm also a realist - we had to reform education, residence, technology - ten years is a very short time for that."

Gordimer decries the fact that schools in rural areas are inadequately equipped, that decent housing has yet to be provided to all of the country's 46 million citizens, many of whom are still not hooked up to water and electricity infrastructures. It will cost a lot of money, and will take more than ten years to change all of this. Look at the developed countries, Gordimer says - it has been hundreds of years since they were founded, but she hasn't yet seen any perfect democracies. "They have their poor, too," she points out.


Home News
Window on a black hole
Einat's book emphasizes what should be obvious, but is often forgotten: that prisoners are human beings with dreams, passions, fears and frustrations.
By Yoav Sapir	| Nov. 17, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
"Safa asura: hachayim vehamilim bein kotley hakele "("Jailed Language: Life and Words Behind the Prison Walls") by Tomer Einat, Schocken Publishing, 189 pages, NIS 79

Prison is a cursed place. It is the leper colony of modern society, where its marginal members are exiled, to be kept there under lock and key. Once dispatched beyond the pale, they cease to be ordinary people who broke the law and become "criminals" a character trait, an essential part of their definition as subjects. Their labeling as criminals and as prisoners will remain a significant part of their identity, affecting them and their ability to return to a normal life even after their release.

Prisons as we know them did not always exist. In fact, as Michel Foucault has shown, only toward the late 18th century did incarceration replace public and corporal punishment as the primary punitive method. Modern punishment means more than a denial of physical liberty. It is also the strict monitoring of time and space, as well as the creation of hierarchies and classifications through the "human sciences" or "disciplines," transforming human beings into the objects of knowledge. It manifests itself in complex mechanisms of control, surveillance and supervision, which in turn cause the individual to internalize the power exerted upon him.

The change in common punitive practices involves more than a transition from the use of brute force to the operation of "micro powers." It is also the replacement of public punishment, inflicted in the town square, with ongoing punishment carried out behind closed doors, far from the public eye.

Few of us know, for example, what goes on behind the walls and watchtowers of the Damon Prison as we drive by it, along the scenic road that climbs up Mount Carmel to the University of Haifa. In fact, few people want to know. Prison is a black hole: We are aware of its location, but know nothing about what happens inside. Courtroom dramas often attract a great deal of media attention. Once they are over and the sentence begins, however, the public loses interest. Even law schools barely deal with what occurs after sentencing. Representations of prisons and inmates in television dramas and movies are usually shallow and stereotypical.

Within this reality, Dr. Tomer Einat's book is of enormous importance. The author, a criminologist, declares that he wishes "to open a window onto a world about which there is very little information: the subculture of prison inmates in Israel. This [is accomplished] by describing the reality of prison life and the prisoners' behavioral codes and language, or argot [slang], as well as by analyzing how this language affects their world view and their patterns of behavior and survival."

The book indeed manages to open such a window onto the world of prisoners, and does so in a sensitive, intelligent manner. It is based on a study comprised of interviews with 79 prisoners in two facilities, as well as on relevant research literature published abroad. All of the inmates interviewed were Jewish ? a highly significant fact, especially because Jews account for only 38 percent of the inmates at Israeli prisons, according to the Israel Prison Service ?(IPS?). This reality seems to call for a separate study of the language among Arabic-speaking prisoners in Israel. It is also important to understand the reasons for the disproportional representation of Arabs within the prisons ?(52 percent of the population, compared to only 20 percent of the overall Israeli population?). These, however, are subjects for other studies to tackle.

Anecdotal evidence The first part of Einat's book discusses the importance of language for culture, the role of slang and the subject of argot. Although this discussion is interesting and important, the writing occasionally slips into banalities. Thus, for example, in the opening of the third chapter: "Language has a central place in creating man's world. As long as the world's different components remain unnamed, their creation has not been completed, and man is assigned the task of defining them." The weakness of the theoretical section seems to be rooted in a desire to speak to two audiences at the same time: an academic audience and the general public. Few writers have managed to produce books that abide by strict academic standards and at the same time manage to address a wide readership without boring it to death. This book is not boring, and fortunately it indeed addresses a broad audience.

The next part of the book deals with different issues related to prison life, such as drugs, violence, sex and prisoners' attitudes toward the staff. Each chapter features excerpts from the interviews Einat held with inmates, with the slang terms explained in square brackets. The goal of these quotations is apparently to show prison life as it is perceived by the prisoners and reflected in their language. The quotes provide an important human dimension, but the principle of their selection is not clear. Nor is it possible to discern whether they offer a statistical reflection of prevalent sentiments among the prison population. From a scientific point of view, this seems to be anecdotal evidence at best.

Here another problem arises: At times the author appears to be treating the prison population as a single whole, basing sweeping claims on interviews with a limited number of prisoners. Thus, for example, he writes that: "The beatings ... to which [the inmate] treats those who clashed with him might cost him a few weeks in solitary confinement or other punishments imposed by the IPS, but it wins him sympathetic and respectful treatment and high status among the other prisoners. At the same time, he must watch out for the prisoner he attacked, who will always be seeking opportunities for revenge." Always? Is this really true of all 13,000 prisoners in Israel?

Einat's tendency to generalize about the prisoners strains against his humane approach, which calls for a recognition of their diversity. Other studies have tried to draw distinctions between different groups of prisoners. Thus, for example, Bernard Harcourt of the University of Chicago interviewed boys in prison about their attitude toward weapons.

He found that their language reflected 19 different symbolic meanings attributed to weapons ?(for example: protection, danger, death, attraction, respect, goods, power and pleasure?). Based on statistical analysis, he drew conclusions about certain fixed "clusters" of meanings that manifested themselves frequently in the boys' speech, and also about the link between the symbolic meanings and the boys' gang affiliation, history of carrying arms and so on. Einat does make certain distinctions between different groups of prisoners ? for example, "rats" and informants ?(who collaborate with the prison staff for their own gain?), as opposed to inmates perceived as "cool" or trustworthy. But these distinctions are usually less than satisfactory and are not followed by an in-depth discussion of their meanings.

Real violence One of the book's most important chapters explores the "pains of incarceration." In this chapter the author surveys the serious afflictions caused by imprisonment: the denial of freedom, material goods, services, heterosexual intercourse, autonomy and security; the abuse of privacy; overpopulation ?(which causes mental and physical illness, violence and a high incidence of suicide and recidivism?); confusion; boredom; fear of assault and more. The heart of the chapter is a comprehensive survey of the classic research literature on the subject. Providing a broad Hebrew-speaking readership with information about the various kinds of distress caused by incarceration is in itself a commendable task.

The author might have elaborated further on the particular pains caused by Israel's harsh prison conditions. He rightly notes that in Israel every inmate is given an average living space of 2.6 square meters, compared to the 8 square meters which the United Nations has declared to be the necessary minimum. According to the commission overseeing the implementation of the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the standard amount of living space allocated to each prisoner should be between 9 and 10 square meters.

Recently we learned that the tender for the construction of a private prison in this country ? which, according to its proponents, was supposed to solve the overpopulation problem ? sets a minimal standard of 4.1 square meters per prisoner. Moreover, a report prepared by the Public Defender's Office, based on visits to detention and prison facilities in 2004, revealed severe prisoners' rights violations such as forcing inmates to sleep on the floor, poor sanitary conditions, filth, lack of air and food, and insufficient separation between lavatories and showers. Many prisoners complained of denigrating treatment by the staff and even of real violence.

The last part of the book is a glossary of prisoner slang, which seems to me less important than the other sections: Learning the meaning of the more colorful terms is of limited interest, while other words included in the glossary are familiar enough to need no explanation at all.

Einat's book is important because it emphasizes what should be obvious, but is often forgotten: that prisoners are human beings with dreams, passions, fears and frustrations. It also helps to understand that prison is not necessarily a good solution, either for the people kept in it or for society as a whole. The book is primarily interested in the question of how inmates deal with the enormous difficulties they face. There are other questions worth asking: for example, why does incarceration remain such a common form of punishment? Whose interests does its continued use serve? Are there alternative methods we might adopt? There is also room to wonder whether imprisoning ever-larger portions of the populace is a good solution, or whether we might instead address the deep causes of crime, such as poverty, neglect, poor education and the dearth of rehabilitation options and drug-treatment programs.

In this sense, the timing of the book's appearance is significant. More and more studies are showing that prisons have failed: They do not necessarily work as a deterrent, they preclude rehabilitation, they break up families and destroy communities (especially those that are weak to begin with), and they cost a great deal of money. And still the number of people incarcerated in this country has grown by some 30 percent over the last four years. During those same years, according to the National Council for the Child, the number of children growing up in a home where one of the parents is a prisoner has risen by some 70 percent.

We seem to be becoming more and more similar to the United States, which holds the dubious world record for incarceration rates: Almost 1 percent of the U.S. population is living behind bars - more than in Soviet Russia or in apartheid-era South Africa. Before we rush to adopt America's quick fixes for crime, we should first ask ourselves what kind of society we want to have.

Dr. Yoav Sapir is Israel's Deputy Chief Public Defender.


Home News
Tel Aviv court releases on bail nuclear whistleblower Mordechai Vanunu
Vanunu was arrested Friday on suspicion of violating the terms of his parole by leaving Jerusalem, entering Palestinian territories.
By Jonathan Lis	and Nir Hasson Haaretz Service	| Nov. 19, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Tel Aviv Magistrate's Court on Saturday released on bail nuclear whistleblower Mordechai Vanunu, who was arrested Friday by border policeman during an inspection of a bus at the A-Ram checkpoint north of Jerusalem.

Vanunu, who was a passenger on a Palestinian bus en route to Jerusalem, was arrested on suspicion of violating the terms of his parole by being outside of Jerusalem city limits.

Jerusalem Police said that in addition to leaving the zone limits imposed on him as part of his parole, Vanunu also was guilty of entering Palestinian territory illegal to Israeli citizens.

Vanunu testified during his hearing that he did not leave Jerusalem limits. He also said the court had previously ruled that the Interior Minister does not have the jurisdiction to prevent him from entering the occupied territories.

Vanunu was released after paying his own bail.

Jerusalem police officials had transferred Vanunu - who had pledged to notify law enforcement anytime he plans on leaving the city - to the International Crimes Unit upon his arrest.

At the beginning of his interrogation, Vanunu said "they don't want me to enjoy my freedom."

Vaninu said he had entered Palestinian territory in order to "see the apartheid wall and the Palestinian ghettos."

This is not the first time Vanunu has attempted to enter Palestinian territories without permission from Israel. He was arrested last December trying to enter Bethlehem for Christmas. Vanunu arrived at the checkpoint in a car with the word "TV" on it. During his interrogation then, Vanunu said he had come to pray in Bethlehem, and had requested permission. According to police sources, Vanunu admitted then that he knew it was illegal for him to enter the territories as part of his parole.

Vanunu was released from prison last year after serving an 18-year sentence for divulging classified information about Israel's nuclear reactor in Dimona, where he worked as a technician, to a British newspaper.

The Sunday Times of London published Vanunu's account of Israel's having manufactured as many as 200 atomic bombs in 1986. His revelations, as well as photographs of installations at the site, confirmed to experts that Israel had nuclear weapons.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Mofaz's compassion
The Palestinians have never been pampered by Israel, but no previous defense minister has aroused so much anger and enmity.
By Gideon Levy	| Nov. 27, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Even when it seems that all the records for cynicism and chutzpah have been broken, another politician emerges to set a new one: Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz talks about compassion.

It is a little difficult to believe, but after donning his new socially oriented minister attire, Mofaz attacked Benjamin Netanyahu, claiming, "The matter of compassion is far from his heart."

Mofaz is close to compassion? There is no quality he lacked more, as chief of staff and as defense minister, than this essential one. If only he had been endowed with a bit of compassion, our relations with the Palestinians would already look different.

But this is not only a question of his attitude toward the Palestinians, but also his attitude toward the indirect victims of the defense and settlement budgets, which could have been channeled in part to purposes that stir much more compassion than another tank or apartheid road.

In the occupied territories, Mofaz has won a reputation as a particularly cruel minister. The Palestinians have never been pampered by Israel, but no previous defense minister has aroused so much anger and enmity. Perhaps in his view this is something to be proud of, and perhaps the Likud Central Committee will consider it a success, but Mofaz symbolizes the inhumane Israeli for the Palestinians.

An examination of his statements reveals that they contain no humane reference to the Palestinians and their suffering. He has almost always opposed proposals to ease the conditions of their lives, and the fate of the population under occupation has never been a consideration for him. While his predecessors paid lip service against collective punishment and the harming of innocent people, Mofaz also refrained from this little bit.

Some 1,705 Palestinians have been killed during the three years in which he has served as defense minister, six times more than the number of Israelis killed during the same period. Of these Palestinian fatalities, 372 were teenagers and children; Mofaz did not express sorrow over their killing, thus signaling to the army that there was nothing wrong with the killing, not even of children. He was one of the fathers of the system of targeted killings, and Israel has liquidated 191 Palestinians during his watch; 117 of them were the targets and the rest were passersby.

Mofaz has never been held accountable for these alarming numbers - we do not count Palestinians who are killed. But it is impossible to ignore these numbers when he comes to submit his candidacy for prime minister.

Mofaz tends to keep quiet. Not that he doesn't speak: He just says very little. He recites hollow slogans - "We'll strike at them" and "We'll break the terror." Several members of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee once emerged from a meeting with him and claimed that his presentation was "an insult to one's intelligence."

Indeed, it is difficult to find even a hint of a new idea among his statements. He was dragged into the disengagement because of his dependence on Ariel Sharon, and one of the only original ideas he ever proposed was to leave the Israel Defense Forces deployed in Gaza after the disengagement. Mofaz wanted Gaza as a "bargaining chip," an idea that now sounds particularly ridiculous. If we had heeded his advice, more Israeli soldiers would continue to be killed every day for no reason.

Faithful to his outlook, which he only expressed recently, according to which there is no chance of an accord "in the current generation," he has almost completely abstained from meetings with Palestinians. He also did not explain what would change in the next generation to enable an accord.

Mofaz wanted to assassinate Arafat, or at least to expel him, but fortunately he did not fight for his stance, just as he has not fought for any other stance. Mofaz, as IDF chief of staff, regarded the unilateral withdrawal from Lebanon as a disaster. Here, also, if we had listened to him, dozens of soldiers would continue to be killed in Lebanon. Someone should remember this. As one of the most political chief of staffs ever, he was even reprimanded by defense minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, who himself is no moderate statesman or particularly enlightened. But Mofaz's shortsighted political doctrine, which is derived from the narrow world of an officer, is nothing compared to the cruel measures he has implemented.

For people like Mofaz, all means are justified in the battle against the Palestinians. Morality is a foreign term in his worldview. Under his leadership, the IDF parted with the last remnants of the moral countenance it still wore.

His attempt to now portray himself as a protector of the weak is no less infuriating. He supported almost all of the economic edicts and fought for the huge and bloated budgets of the defense establishment, including settlements, at the expense of subsidized medicine and welfare benefits. There is no minister who harms the weaker population more than a defense minister who is not prepared to make broad cutbacks in his budget. Thus, there has never been a minister as anti-societal as Mofaz.

It is difficult to know how this record will influence the Likud Central Committee. Perhaps they will love a minister who is cruel to the Palestinians, kills them without mercy, incarcerates them and turns their lives into hell. But even there they should at least ask: Mofaz and compassion? Is there a more ridiculous combination of words than this?


Home Print Edition Opinion
Beyond Yachimovich's view
On Channel 2, Yachimovich could criticize the economy, but it is doubtful whether she could have criticized with equal fervor the occupation.
By Gideon Levy	| Dec. 4, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Shelly Yachimovich is "sick and tired of hearing about what is happening in the Muqata." She wants to be "where the real social and economic tragedy is occurring." Thus, the strong-minded and ideological journalist, one of the best we have known, explains the gist of what impelled her to take the welcome step of moving from journalism to politics. With these words, Yachimovich expressed the widespread public sentiment of everyone who is tired of the endless focus on the "Palestinian problem," terrorism and the demarcation of the state's future borders. She defines the discussion on all of these issues as "barren." Yes, she is in favor of ending the occupation, but this is not the main thing in her view.

This is a bit of a troubling start for the new politician, who, together with the refreshing "social" breeze generated by her ideological hero, Amir Peretz, is likely to attract many supporters. And, in truth, who is not sick and tired of hearing about the injustices of the occupation? How long can we continue discussing the separation fence and the apartheid roads? It is better for us to turn our attention inward, many think, to the real ills of society, and to focus on them instead. This is a dangerous mirage precisely for those like Peretz and Yachimovich, who want so much to reform the society "from within."

In days that are almost free of terror, the heart is tempted to believe the time has indeed come to deal with the "social" problems and to leave the "barren issue" aside. No terror attacks, no Arabs: We are again liable to send the message to the Palestinians that without terror, their issues will be put on the back burner, as was the case during all of the long and relatively quiet years of occupation prior to the eruption of the first intifada. We should not be confused into thinking that we are exempt from dealing with this issue because both candidates for prime minister, Peretz and Ariel Sharon, are already talking about a Palestinian state in any case - never mind when, in which format and in what borders - and that the majority of Israelis already support its establishment.

But above all, the idea that our internal and social problems can be separated from "what is happening in the Muqata" is distorted. The most burning social issue under our feet is the occupation. It is impossible to be a social activist in Israel and ignore the harm we are doing to another society that is under our oppressive control, just as it is impossible to be a true labor leader without being concerned about the tens of thousands of unemployed and exploited laborers in the territories under our control. Peretz's great weakness is that he has not given enough thought to the social policy of Israel in the territories. Indeed, the policy of occupation is also a social policy and a society that acts in this way cannot be healthy and function well even if it reforms its other inequities.

A short history lesson for Peretz and Yachimovich: Discrimination against workers in Israel began with the exploitation of tens of thousands of laborers from the territories. Next came the foreign workers and temp agency workers, until Israel workers also became downtrodden. The "piggish capitalism" began, therefore, with the occupation, and will not end until the occupation is over. Even if there is no longer a single unemployed and deprived worker in Israel, we will remain an unjust society as long as we continue to be an occupying society.

As long as we do not resolve the Palestinian problem, we will also not solve the "Jewish problem." There is no way to achieve social justice in an occupying society. "The real tragedy" of Israeli society is the occupation. Without getting rid of this curse, it will be impossible to fundamentally solve any other problem; and, on the other hand, getting rid of this malignancy will greatly assist in solving all of the other problems. Therefore, the agenda should be based on the severity of the illness: First of all, deal with the primary growth, the most threatening of all, the occupation; and only then can we really be free to tackle its secondary effects, which have reached all segments of the society.

Yachimovich is accused of having been a journalist "with an agenda." This is how we relate to journalists whose agenda differs from the consensus and uniform chorus. All of those who justify the occupation, the military and political correspondents, the commentators and columnists, the Middle East experts and Arabists, are not accused of having an agenda. "Agenda" is a pejorative term we use to disparage an alternative and oppositionist outlook. To accept the policy of targeted killings is not an agenda, but to oppose them is. This works to the advantage of journalists like Yachimovich, whose subversion focuses on social and economic issues. On these subjects, it is permissible to say almost anything, even on television and radio. But when it comes to the question of the occupation, the truly critical question, our system does not condone a view that opposes the accepted order. On Channel 2, Yachimovich could strongly criticize the ills of the economy, but it is doubtful whether she could have criticized with equal fervor the moral distortions and war crimes of the occupation - as if they could be separated from the economic ills.

Now, as Yachimovich embarks on a new path, we should wish her good luck. But she should also remember that a moral worldview must be a comprehensive one, which cannot be divided. Sick and tired of hearing about the Muqata? Let's get up and out of there.


Home News
IDF completes evacuation of Bil'in 'outpost'
Some 150 troops break into caravan built near West Bank village to protest construction of separation fence.
By Meron Rapoport, Haaretz Correspondent	Dec. 21, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
The Israel Defense Forces on Thursday evening evacuated some 50 left-wing activists who had barricaded themselves inside a caravan "outspost" built near the West Bank village of Bil'in on land cut off from the village by the separation fence.

According to activists at the scene, the IDF force numbered some 150 troops, who broke into the caravan using sledge hammers and chains. The caravan was later lifted in the air by a crane to prevent people from returning.

Several activists were also detained for questioning. The activists inside the caravan included 30 Palestinians and 20 left-wing Israeli activists.

The caravan was situated on land adjacent to the Matityahu East neighborhood of Upper Modi'in, where hundreds of illegal Jewish housing units have recently been constructed.

"Private Palestinian land is in question here, not state land. The village council approved setting up a caravan and thus this is a legal structure," Attorney Michael Sfard, who represents the Bil'in residents, said.

"This will be blatant proof of the fact that there is selective law enforcement if they deal with the poor caravan before the hundreds of housing units built illegally in Upper Modi'in," he added.

Sfard submitted a letter in the name of Peace Now to the Civil Administration demanding a halt to the construction within a week. At the end of this time, Sfard wrote in the letter, he will turn to the Supreme Court.

"After what happened today in Bil'in, there is no reason that the state should defend its decision to continue the construction" in Matitiyahu, Sfard said.

"Now the truth is out, and the truth is that Jews are allowed to break the law and Palestinians are not.

"This," Sfard continued, "is called apartheid."

Security sources said that it was clear to them that immediately after the evacuation, they would need to explain to the court why they are hurrying to act against Palestinian illegal construction and tarrying on curbing illegal construction in the settlements.

According to one of the sources, the Palestinian outpost "turned into a security problem the moment there was no fence separating the caravan dwellers from Israeli territory."

Mohammed Khateb, a member of Bil'in's Popular Committee Against the Wall, said that the container had been placed on land belonging to a village resident and comes with a building permit from Bil'in village council.

The fence cuts village residents off from approximately half of their lands.

Khateb also said that the committee intends to establish a "center for the joint struggle for peace," where the caravan stands.

MK Roman Bronfman (Meretz), who has recently visited Bil'in, said that the evacuation of the caravan proved the Israeli government's double standards when it comes to the separation fence, which aims at robbing Palestinian lands for the benefit of the nearby settlement.

Peace Now activist Dror Ateks said that "it's interesting how thousand of houses were illegally built in settlements, and the army still can't find them, but in Bil'in it was found within 48 hours."

Earlier, the IDF informed Palestinians who set up the "outpost" that they would soon be removed, and used tear gas to disperse more residents who were heading for the site.

But despite army efforts, some 30 Palestinians carrying sacks of cement managed to reach the site, and announced their intention to construct what they called "Bil'in's western neighborhood" there on Friday.

Bil'in has become the symbol of the struggle against the separation fence, serving as the site of dozens of joint Palestinian-Israeli demonstrations in the past year. Some of the demonstrations have ended in violent altercations with security forces.

Dealing with the caravan is liable to be an embarrassment for the IDF and the Civil Administration.

Akiva Eldar of Haaretz recently exposed the Civil Administration's admission that 750 housing units had been built illegally with no permits whatsoever. The caravan, which arrived Wednesday from inside Israel, is standing approximately 100 meters away from the Matityahu East construction site.

According to the law, the Civil Administration can take down the container within a month of its placement without legal proceedings. But the IDF is well aware that if this is done, the Palestinians will formally accuse the Civil Administration of discrimination in hurrying to dismantle a lone Palestinian caravan while ignoring hundreds of illegal units in an adjacent Jewish neighborhood.

Civil Administration sources said that the construction in Upper Modi'in is indeed illegal and "the head of the Administration is examining its options to address the situation."

The same sources say that they are aware that as soon as the caravan is dismantled, they will need to explain to the court why they are rushing to act against illegal Palestinian construction while taking their time in dealing with unlawful building by settlers.


Home News
Palestinians, left-wing activists rebuild 'outpost' in village of Bil'in
Move comes two days after IDF troops evacuated the site; Container was placed west of separation fence route.
By Jonathan Lis	and Meron Rappaport, Haaretz Correspondents	| Dec. 25, 2005 | 12:00 AM
		 submit to reddit	
Palestinian residents of the West Bank town of Bil'in, along with left-wing activists, have rebuilt an "outpost" Sunday two days after the Israel Defense Forces removed the container from the identical spot west of the separation fence route near the settlement of Upper Modi'in.

The caravan was situated on land adjacent to the Matityahu East neighborhood of Upper Modi'in, where 750 housing units have been built illegally. The mobile home, which arrived yesterday from inside Israel, is standing approximately 100 meters away from the Matityahu East construction site.

Last week, the Palestinians erected the outpost as part of their plan to establish a "center for the joint struggle for peace." They even brought cement to the site, adding that they intend to build "the western neighborhood of Bil'in."

The separation fence cuts off village residents from approximately half of their lands. The placement of the caravan is meant to serve as a protest against the fence and against illegal settlement construction.

Bil'in has become the symbol of the struggle against the separation fence, serving as the site of dozens of joint Palestinian-Israeli demonstrations in the past year. Some of the demonstrations have ended in violent clashes with security forces.

An IDF spokesperson that the army evacuated the container because it was placed in a closed military zone and that "it is forbidden to transport caravans" in the territories.

"Private Palestinian land is in question here, not state land. The village council approved setting up a caravan and thus this is a legal structure," Attorney Michael Sfard, who represents the Bil'in residents, said last week.

"This will be blatant proof of the fact that there is selective law enforcement if they deal with the poor caravan before the hundreds of housing units built illegally in Upper Modi'in," he added.

Sfard submitted a letter in the name of Peace Now to the Civil Administration demanding a halt to the construction within a week. At the end of this time, Sfard wrote in the letter, he will turn to the Supreme Court.

"After what happened today in Bil'in, there is no reason that the state should defend its decision to continue the construction" in Matitiyahu, Sfard said.

"Now the truth is out, and the truth is that Jews are allowed to break the law and Palestinians are not.

"This," Sfard continued, "is called apartheid."
