<article>
<title>South African government woos voters living in Israel</title>
<date>Thu Jan 30 20:13:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
The South African government is encouraging South African-born Israelis to take advantage of an amendment to the country’s electoral law that allows them to vote from abroad in the upcoming national election, but some immigrants have expressed doubts about the prospects of the campaign's success.
Under the terms of a law passed in November, all South African citizens who live overseas and register at their local South African embassy or consulate by February 7 will be eligible to vote. This marks a change from the last election, in 2009, when only those South Africans who had already registered in South Africa or were traveling abroad on business could cast overseas ballots.
The South African Embassy in Israel opened on two consecutive Saturdays this month to process applications, in addition to its regular weekday hours. The umbrella organization representing South African Jewry has also jumped on the bandwagon, with the South African Jewish Board of Deputies targeting South African-born Israelis through social media as part of its “Make Us Count” voter awareness campaign.
“I’m really surprised at how much the government has invested to promote registration overseas,” said Dave Bloom, the director of Telfed, Israel's South African Zionist Federation. “I’ve spoken to a number of South Africans who find it strange that they think there’s a significant number of people here who would vote.”
Yesterday morning, Telfed announced on its website that a delegation of officials from the ANC would visit Israel next week to meet with South African-born Israelis and drum up support for the party. But by the afternoon, Wendy Kahn, the national director of the Jewish Board of Deputies and one of the trip’s organizers, told Haaretz that the ANC delegation had backed out of the trip for unspecified reasons.
However, a member of the ANC who was involved in planning the trip said there is still “a good chance” that the delegation will come. “We are just working through the logistics,” said the member, who was not authorized to speak publicly.
The visit would come at a time of heightened tension between the Israeli government and the ANC, South Africa’s ruling party since the end of apartheid in 1994. At the last ANC National Congress in 2012, the party passed a resolution calling on South Africans to support the boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign against Israel. In the past two years, the country’s deputy minister of international relations announced that South Africans should avoid visiting Israel because of its treatment of the Palestinians, and the minister of trade pressured importers to label all products produced in the West Bank. Meanwhile, in what many perceived to be a politically motivated snub, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu canceled his plans to attend last month’s memorial service for the late South African president and ANC leader Nelson Mandela, citing the high cost of the trip.
Darryl Egnal, a native of Johannesburg who has lived in Israel for four and a half years, said she was surprised to hear the ANC may be sending a delegation to the country she says it has consistently demonized.
“I think South Africans will have a lot of really pertinent questions to ask them because the community is very upset about the one–sided stance that South Africa is taking on Israel,” Egnal said.
Earlier this month, Byron Gerber registered to vote at the embassy in Ramat Gan. Gerber, who immigrated to Israel five years ago, said he planned to vote (“not for the ANC”) because most of his family still lives in South Africa.
“The future of South Africa is quite important for me,” he said. “I just feel that there’s too much chaos happening in the country and it can do much better.”
But Gerber may be in the minority. Several of his South African-born friends told him that they were not interested in taking part in the election. “They feel that whatever happens in South Africa, we should just let it be,” Gerber said.
There are approximately 25,000 South Africans living in Israel, according to the South African Embassy, yet the number of prospective voters is thought to be small. Community members said in interviews that many of the immigrants left South Africa during the apartheid era and do not have the necessary documentation to register, or are no longer tied emotionally or politically to their native country.
According to a report issued by the country’s electoral commission, 9,857 South Africans voted from abroad in the 2009 election. The committee did not release the number of votes cast from Israel, but indicated it was fewer than the 374 cast from the Netherlands.
The only other election in which South African expatriates could vote was in 1994, when turnout was relatively high in Israel due to the excitement surrounding the country’s first democratic election. Several people recalled standing in long lines at the Tel Aviv Fairgrounds to cast their ballots.
The date of the upcoming election has yet to be declared by South African President Jacob Zuma, but is expected to be some time in the spring. The leading candidates for president are Zuma, of the African National Congress, and anti-apartheid activist Mamphela Ramphele of the Democratic Alliance, which has led the opposition since 1999.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel is losing its grip on evangelical Christians </title>
<date>Tue Mar 11 16:40:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Support for Israel is weakening among evangelical Christians, prompting a new struggle for the hearts and minds of younger members of America’s largest pro-Israel demographic group.
While hard numbers are not available, evangelical leaders on both sides of the divide on Israel agree that members of the millennial generation do not share their parents’ passion for the Jewish state; many are seeking some form of evenhandedness when approaching the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
“What is happening is that the hard line of Christian Zionists was not successfully passed forward to the next generation, because it was based on theological themes that are now being questioned by younger evangelicals,” said David Gushee, professor of Christian ethics and director of the Center for Theology and Public Life at Mercer University in Atlanta.
The grip of Christian Zionists over young evangelicals has been loosening for several years, according to observers within the community. But in recent weeks, the leading evangelical pro-Israel organization, Christians United for Israel, has set off alarm bells in articles and interviews decrying the inroads made by pro-Palestinian activists into the evangelical community. CUFI’s leaders are calling for a new strategy to block them.
“The only way of solving a problem is when people know about it,” said CUFI’s executive director, David Brog, who has been leading the effort to win back millennial evangelicals. “This is the best way to rally our troops.”
Brog penned a lengthy article, published in the spring edition of Middle East Quarterly, in which he detailed what he views as a growing phenomenon and the reasons behind it. Titled “The End of Evangelical Support for Israel?” the article laments that “questioning Christian support for the Jewish state is fast becoming a key way for millennials to demonstrate Christian compassion and bona fides.” Brog argues that younger evangelicals are now “in play” and their support for Israel can no longer be taken for granted.
This conclusion is based primarily on gut feelings and anecdotal data. In June 2011, the Pew Research Center conducted a survey among evangelical leaders convened in Cape Town, South Africa, for the third Lausanne Congress of World Evangelization. The findings indicated lower support for Israel than previously believed. A majority of American evangelical leaders (49%) expressed neutrality when asked if they sympathize more with Israelis or with Palestinians. Thirty percent expressed support for Israelis, 13% for the Palestinians.
The survey polled only leaders who participated in this international conference and did not offer insight into the views of rank-and-file evangelicals. But it highlighted the fact that only a minority within the evangelical leadership today hold strong pro-Israel views when it comes to Israel’s occupation of the West Bank and attendant conflict with the Palestinians.
Still, Christian Zionism is by far the largest organized voice on Middle East issues among evangelicals. CUFI, led by the Rev. John Hagee, founder of Cornerstone Church, in San Antonio, has 1.6 million registered supporters and a staff of 25 full-time employees. With an operating budget of more than $7 million, CUFI organizes dozens of pro-Israel events throughout the country and an annual Washington conference that brings together evangelical activists and politicians.
CUFI’s leaders are now trying to mobilize funders and supporters to confront the shift among younger members of their community. The challenge they face is made up of individuals, campus activists and professors, small organizations and even documentary films that depict Israel as encroaching on Christian freedom of faith in the Holy Land.
On university campuses, pro-Palestinian Christians have seen some success in the face of CUFI’s more established 120-chapter campus operation. Activists in Illinois’s Wheaton College, a leading Christian school, protested a planned CUFI event on campus in 2009; in Tulsa, Okla., Oral Roberts University has appointed a harsh critic of Israel to its board of trustees, and at Bethel University, in Minnesota, President Jay Barnes visited Israel and the Palestinian territories on a trip that changed participants’ views on the conflict. Barnes’s wife, Barbara Barnes, published a poem after the trip, in which she wrote: “Apartheid has become a way of life. I believe God mourns.”
American evangelicals sympathetic to the Palestinians are also bringing co-religionists to Israel and the West Bank for tours and conferences. This week, Bethlehem Bible College and the Bethlehem-based Holy Land Trust are hosting their third “Christ at the Checkpoint” conference. Speakers at the gathering, which presents a Palestinian perspective on Israel’s occupation of the West Bank for Christians, include Dr. Izzeldin Abuelaish, the Gaza physician who worked closely with both Arabs and Israeli Jews until his three daughters were killed in their home by Israeli tank fire during the 2008 Gaza military campaign; William Wilson, the president of Oral Roberts University; and Gary Burge, a theology professor at Wheaton College and author of the book, “Whose Promise? What Christians Are Not Being Told About Israel and the Palestinians.”
The conference’s 12-point “manifesto” strongly condemns “all forms of violence” and warns against the “stereotyping of all faith forms that betray God’s commandment to love our neighbors and enemies.” It also rejects “any exclusive claim to the land of the Bible in the name of God” and states that “racial ethnicity alone does not guarantee the benefits of the Abrahamic Covenant.”
For some on Christian college campuses, the appeal of pro-Palestinian views may be part of a general trend among young evangelicals to question the conservative ways of their parents’ generation. Some students are pursuing a theological understanding of their religion that is more progressive on social issues. Polls conducted in recent years indicate that young white evangelicals are less conservative on issues of same-sex marriage, abortion and contraception. They are also less aligned with the Republican Party. This same trend of political diversification may be taking place on international issues.
CUFI’s concern, as voiced by Brog in his article, is about the younger generation of evangelical leaders; unlike such figures as Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, they are not vocal about the issue of Israel. He describes the new generation of evangelical opinion makers as a “largely well-coiffed and fashionably dressed bunch dedicated to marketing Christianity to a skeptical generation by making it cool, compassionate, and less overtly political.”
One of the organizations gaining the most attention on this issue is the Telos Group, a Washington-based not-for-profit set up five years ago that describes itself as “pro-Israeli, pro-Palestinian, pro-American, and pro-peace.” In an interview on Glenn Beck’s “TheBlaze TV,” Brog singled out Telos, saying: “This is not your parents’ anti-Israel group. These guys are savvy, these guys are smart.”
Telos, which focuses a significant part of its work on faith communities, has to date taken 43 groups on tours of Israel and the Palestinian territories. President and co-founder Gregory Khalil said the group intentionally engages with a variety of Israelis and Palestinians on their trips. “I actually think David Brog could learn a lot about Israel if he would join one of our trips,” Khalil said, arguing that Brog mischaracterized the work of Telos.
But while the budding debate in the evangelical world over Israel is real, its proportions may be overstated. “We’re a tiny organization,” Khalil said of his group, which has only two staff members. Other publications and groups cited by CUFI as pro-Palestinian are also much smaller than CUFI’s own pro-Israel operation.
CUFI is not waiting for them to grow larger. In January, at a Jewish fundraising event, the group presented its plan to take two groups a year of young evangelical opinion leaders to Israel. “We need to use the same tool to fight back,” CUFI declared in its pitch for Jewish donor support. The group is also launching speaking tours on campuses, and intends to invest in videos and social media activity that will monitor Christian influencers and “confront them when they cross the line.”
The glaring precedent that pro-Israel evangelicals cite to justify their approach is the path taken by the mainline Protestant churches. In the past, many were sympathetic to Israel, or at worst neutral. But some have since become a stronghold of pro-Palestinian views in the American Christian world. A few groups, such as the Presbyterians, have been leading the way in calls for divestment and boycott against Israel.
But Gushee argued that evangelicals are unlikely to take this path. The mainline Protestant churches today may be aggressively anti-Israel, he said, but the shift among evangelicals “is not from pro-Israel to anti-Israel, but from pro-Israel to a more balanced approach.”
For more stories, go to www.forward.com. Sign up for the Forward’s daily newsletter at http://forward.com/newsletter/signup/

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel leaving U.S. Jews bitterly divided</title>
<date>Mon Jun 09 21:41:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Once a unifying cause for generations of American Jews, Israel is now bitterly dividing Jewish communities.
Jewish organizations are withdrawing invitations to Jewish speakers or performers considered too critical of Israel, in what opponents have denounced as an ideological litmus test meant to squelch debate. Some Jewish activists have formed watchdog groups, such as Citizens Opposed to Propaganda Masquerading as Art, or COPMA, and JCC Watch, to monitor programming for perceived anti-Israel bias. They argue Jewish groups that take donations for strengthening the community shouldn't be giving a platform to Israel's critics.
American campuses have become ideological battle zones over Israeli policy in the Palestinian territories, with national Jewish groups sometimes caught up on opposing sides of the internal debate among Jewish students. The "Open Hillel" movement of Jewish students is challenging speaker guidelines developed by Hillel, the major Jewish campus group, which bars speakers who "delegitimize" or "demonize" Israel. Open Hillel is planning its first national conference in October.
And in a vote testing the parameters of Jewish debate over Israel, the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations, a national coalition that for decades has represented the American Jewish community, denied membership in April to J Street, the 6-year-old lobby group that describes itself as pro-Israel and pro-peace and has sometimes criticized the Israeli government. Opponents of J Street have been showing a documentary called "The J Street Challenge," in synagogues and at Jewish gatherings around the country, characterizing the group as a threat from within.
"I believe this has reached a level of absurdity now," said Rabbi Sharon Brous, founder of the IKAR-LA Jewish community in California, which is considered a national model for reinvigorating religious life. "Even where people are acting from a place of love and deep commitment that Israel remains a vital and vibrant state, they are considered outside the realm. It's seen as incredibly threatening and not aligned with the script the American Jewish community expects."
In 2012, when Israel carried out an offensive in Gaza after an upsurge in rocket fire, Brous wrote an email to IKAR members that was published in The Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles. She supported Israel's right to defend itself, while also urging recognition of Palestinian suffering.
The result? She was overwhelmed with hate mail, and inspired competing op-eds and letters in the Journal from Jewish clergy and others until a prominent rabbi called for an end to the recriminations and name-calling.
American Jews have always vigorously debated Israeli policy, but mostly within the community and with an understanding that differences would be set aside if the Jewish state faced an existential threat. But the discussion within the U.S. has become more reflective of the very broad debate within Israel.
"It's a very old issue that many countries face and now Israel faces: to what extent should domestic debate carry over when you're abroad?" said Jonathan Sarna, a Brandeis University scholar of American Jewish history. "The critics of J Street and the like say, 'Of course, it's fine in Israel because the minute they call up the reserves, all politics disappear. Moreover, they have to live with the results of their decision.' Their argument is that there should be a great difference between what you can do and say in Israel and what you can do or say in America. There are all sorts of enemies who make use of the words in America differently than they do in Israel."
Internal American Jewish conflict has worsened as many Israel advocates have come to feel under siege in the U.S. The international boycott movement against Israel over its treatment of the Palestinians has gained some momentum in the U.S., and critics increasingly draw analogies between Israeli policies and South African apartheid.
The clashes among American Jews are partly colored by the sharp tone of overall left-right debate within the U.S. Earlier this year, the Brandeis chapter of J Street and one of its most vocal antagonists on campus, Daniel Mael, accused each other of harassment and made complaints to campus police. Mael, a 21-year-old Orthodox Jew, wrote a series of posts for the conservative site truthrevolt.org accusing J Street of bringing "Israel bashers" on campus.
J Street has said its opponents often distort the group's statements. The liberal lobby created a "Myths & Facts" page on its website challenging the claims.
Many leaders of the older, more-established organizations say the divisions are not as broad or deep as some claim. Defenders of the presidents' conference argue their 50-member association includes liberal organizations with similar views to J Street, and they blame the lobby group for whipping up a backlash to the vote.
The presidents' conference was formed in the 1950s in response to what was considered a failure of U.S. Jewish leaders during World War II to speak to American policy makers with one voice. Members were expected to keep internal discussion and voting private.
Among the 17 conference members who voted for J Street in April were the Anti-Defamation League, the Jewish Council for Public Affairs, and the Conservative and Reform Jewish movements. Twenty-two conference members voted no and three others abstained. The remaining member groups did not send a representative to vote.
Farley Weiss, president of the National Council of Young Israel, an association for Orthodox synagogues, dismissed J Street's members as students with a skewed understanding of Mideast history because of the "one-sided, left view" on U.S. college campuses. Weiss was among the few members of the Conference of Presidents who campaigned publicly to block J Street's admission to the group.
"Their views are not part of what I consider the mainstream of the Jewish community," Weiss said.
"I wouldn't characterize them as enemies of Israel," Weiss said. "I would characterize it that their self-avowed statement that they are pro-Israel is not accurate."
The split among U.S. Jews has its roots in the Jewish settlement building in the occupied territories after the 1967 Six Day War, which sparked debate in the U.S. and in Israel over whether the settlements helped or hurt Israeli security.
At the same time, American Judaism was splintering. The strictly traditional Orthodox population grew, but so did the number of Jews who left organized religious life. Jews were marrying outside the faith at a high rate, and their families were generally less involved in the Jewish community and less tied to Israel.
"We now have more people who care deeply about Israel and more people who care very little about Israel," said Steven M. Cohen, a professor at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute on Religion who specializes in research on the American Jewish community.
Meanwhile, liberal Reform Judaism, which has worked for years to underscore its deep commitment to the Jewish state, grew to become the largest movement in American Judaism. The result: a pro-Israel American Jewish community largely split between conservatives and liberals, both emotionally attached to Israel but with conflicting outlooks on many Israeli policies.
At Temple Sharey Tefilo-Israel, a Reform Jewish synagogue in South Orange, New Jersey, Rabbi Daniel Cohen struggles to hold the ever-shrinking common ground among his congregants over Israel. Before Cohen delivers a sermon on the subject, he re-reads what he wrote and asks himself, "How are they going to hear it?"
From the pulpit, he tries to weave together the views of doves and hawks among the 850 families in his congregation, comparing Israel to a flawed friend who nonetheless should be defended against slander. Still, he hears complaints — about his personal involvement with the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the long-established lobbying group, and his simultaneous support for congregants active in J Street.
"I'm very, very careful to focus on the importance of Israel and the American Jewish community and being involved in activism. I'm not proscriptive about how people should get involved," said Cohen, the temple's senior rabbi for 16 years.
A Pew Research Center survey conducted last year found more than two-thirds of American Jews feel somewhat or very attached to Israel, but only 38 percent believe the Israeli government is sincerely pursuing peace with the Palestinians and 44 percent said settlement construction hurts Israeli national security. (In the same poll, just 12 percent of U.S. Jews said Palestinian leaders were making a sincere effort to resolve the conflict.)
Many Jewish leaders worry the infighting could not only undermine U.S. support for Israel, but also drive away the younger American Jews who are pressing for a broader definition of what it means to be pro-Israel.
"The attacks are stronger and more vicious sometimes ...," said Cohen. "If you're not hearing other perspectives, I don't know how you can have an honest, open debate."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Queers Against Israeli Apartheid to march in Toronto's Pride parade: this time, unopposed</title>
<date>Wed Jun 25 17:51:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Queers Against Israeli Apartheid will march in Toronto's Pride parade unhindered this year, as its opponents decided their campaigns against the group have only given it free publicity.
“This year, we decided that we were not going to provide [QuAIA] with the gift of free publicity,” Howard English, a spokesperson for Toronto's Center for Israel and Jewish Affairs, told the Canadian National Post.
Queers Against Israeli Apartheid, formed "in solidarity with queers in Palestine" (according to its website), has marched in Toronto's parade since 2010, despite opposition from some members of the city council and Mayor Rob Ford, who threatened to cut the parade's funding unless the group was booted out.
However, a 2012 municipal report concluded that despite their opponents' claims, the phrase "Israeli Apartheid" does not violate Toronto's anti-discrimination policy, and a further committee ruled the group's participation in the parade does not constitute discrimination against Jews, either.
“Their message needs to be opposed because it’s clearly a lie,” English told the Post. However, he said that the efforts against QuAIA have only aided it to get its message out. English said that though they are opposed to the group, they no longer want to be "upset by it."
"We want to demonstrate to all those who are participating in Pride and who are watching Pride that Israeli society is totally unlike any portrait provided by [QuAIA],” he told the Post.
His approach was echoed by Justine Apple, executive director of Jewish LGBT group Kulanu Toronto, who said they will focus on promoting Israel as a champion of LGBT rights.
“We’re not allowing ourselves to be distracted and consumed by QuAIA. Just like Kulanu Toronto, Pride has always stood for respect, tolerance and integrity,” she told the Post.
But James Pasternak, a member of the city council and an opponent of QuAIA, said he was surprised with the group's lack of opposition this year, and expressed his belief that that it had less to do with a conscious strategy on the opponents' part and more to do with exhaustion with the issue.
"In past years, there were hours of deputations at executive committee in which both sides of the debate would come and argue their case,” he told the Post. “That didn’t occur this year. I think there may be some fatigue on the issue. Some of the players felt, I would assume, that we’ll try a year of ignoring it and see if it goes away.”
On its part, QuAIA welcomed the notion of an unopposed march on June 29's Pride parade, though its spokesperson admitted the public debate in previous years has raised interest in the group.
“Criticism we can take because this is a debate," spokesperson Tim McCaskell told the Post. "The problem has been the attempt to actually ban us, to stop that debate. The fact that these attempts to ban us have finally sort of run out of steam means that we can focus on our real message."
According to McCaskell, QuAIA aims to expose what he termed as "Israel's pinkwashing campaign," defined on the group's website as the cultivation of an image of Israel "as an oasis of gay tolerance in the Middle East" in attempt to distract the critics of its human rights violations.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Stones hurled at home of Netherlands chief rabbi</title>
<date>Thu Jul 17 19:57:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
A chief rabbi of the Netherlands said unidentified individuals hurled stones at his home in what he described as the second anti-Semitic attack on him in a week.
Rabbi Binyomin Jacobs said the latest attack took place at 5:00 A.M. Thursday, when two stones were hurled through a window of his home in Amersfoort.
An earlier incident outside his home on July 10 ended without damage, he said. Jacobs’ home has been targeted five times in recent years, he told JTA.
“The fact that these attacks are recurrent shows the depth of hatred that exists against Jews,” he added.
On Thursday, the pro-Israel organization CIDI prepared for a support rally to express solidarity with Israel for its military operation against Hamas and other terrorists in Gaza. Israel launched the operation last week amid ongoing rocket fire on Israeli cities and towns.
One Israeli and more than 200 Palestinians have been killed in the fighting, which triggered a wave of anti-Semitic incidents across Western Europe and especially France.
Anti-Israel protesters said they would hold a counterdemonstration opposite the CIDI rally at Amsterdam’s Dam Square.
Khalid Sinouh, a goalkeeper for Rotterdam’s Sparta soccer team, called CIDI “a criminal organization” and a “pro-apartheid organization” on Twitter on Thursday, the Telegraaf daily reported.
A wave of anti-Semitic attacks in Western Europe has coincided with Israel's operation in Gaza, including calls to slaughter Jews at a protest in Antwerp on Saturday. On Sunday in Paris, approximately 200 Jews were besieged inside a Paris synagogue by dozens of young men who confronted police and Jewish guards outside in what turned into a street brawl before police reinforcements dispersed the crowd.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli ship unloads cargo in California despite pro-Palestinian protest</title>
<date>Thu Aug 21 11:39:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Officials say an Israeli-owned commercial ship has unloaded its cargo at a port in Northern California after being delayed for days by a group of pro-Palestinian protesters.
International Longshore and Warehouse Union spokeswoman Jennifer Sargent said about 30 workers unloaded cargo from the Piraeus, a ship from Zim Integrated Shipping Services, Israel’s international maritime cargo company, at the Port of Oakland starting Tuesday night, despite the presence of a small number of protesters.
"All the work was completed" before the ship set out from the port at 8:45 A.M. for Vostochnyy, Russia, the San Francisco Chronicle cited Craig Merrilees, a spokesman for the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, as saying.
According to Sargent, workers had refused to unload the ship after it arrived on Saturday because of safety concerns raised by the presence of protesters and police. The protesters were demonstrating in response to recent Israel's military operation in the Gaza Strip.
The protesters gathered Sunday at the port to stop the ship from docking and unloading, but it docked at the port Sunday evening The demonstration was under the auspices of the Block the Boat coalition organized by the San Francisco-based Arab Resource and Organizing Center.
Unionized dockworkers at the port on Sunday honored the picket line and refused to unload the ship.
“Workers honored our picket and stood on the side of justice, as they historically have,” the center said in a statement on its website. “Oakland said no to Zionism and blocked the boat for an entire weekend. This is the first time in history that this has happened. Israeli apartheid is falling one port at a time.”
"Zim has undoubtedly suffered significant economic losses, and we have set a powerful precedent for what international solidarity with Palestine, through boycott, divestment and sanctions, can look like," Reem Assil of the Arab Resource and Organizing Center, said.
Similar actions are expected to take place at ports in Seattle and Tacoma, Wash., this week and later in Vancouver.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mining mogul who warned Israel may become apartheid state named U.K.'s no. 1 Jew</title>
<date>Thu Sep 11 11:55:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
A mining magnate who has warned that Israel may be treading down the path to apartheid has been chosen as Britain's most influential Jew out of a list of 100 (mostly) Jewish figures.
Mick "The Miner" Davis, the 56-year-old chairman of the trustees of the Jewish Leadership Council, made his fortune after he built up the Xstrata mining company from a firm valued at a mere $500 million into a $44 billion giant. He has appeared "almost everywhere" on the donor lists of Jewish charities, the Jewish Chronicle noted in its "Power 100" list.
Davis, an ardent Tory, has also made considerable donations to the British Conservative Party. In 2012, Prime Minister David Cameron appointed him the chairman of the Holocaust Memorial Commission, a position reflecting "his unrivaled access and influence," the Jewish Chronicle wrote.
But his position in the crème of British Jewish society did not deter him from slamming the Israeli government, a course of action rarely if ever taken by Jewish Diaspora leaders.
In a panel discussion in London in 2010 with Peter Beinart, Davis caused an uproar in the Jewish Diaspora when he broke the taboo by publicly criticizing Benjamin Netanyahu for "lacking the courage" to pursue the peace process.
According to him, his concern that without the two-state solution Israel will become an apartheid regime was shared by many Jewish leaders, though he admitted that he was "out of step with the majority in this country that have the view that what you do and say should be done quietly, behind closed doors," the Jewish Chronicle reported at the time.
His statements put him at loggerheads with major Diaspora figures, including from Abe Foxman, then national director of the Anti-Defamation League, who accused him of "intellectual arrogance." But Davis did not keep mum. In a 2013 opinion piece for Haaretz titled "Defending Israel with one hand tied behind our back," Davis argued that Netanyahu's lack of vision over the peace process is aiding movements seeking to delegitimize Israel, among them the Boycott, Divestment and Sanction Movement. Indeed, Davis said, even the younger generation of British Jews is "increasingly disenchanted" with Israel, and drifts, "wittingly or unwittingly, into the fringes of the BDS space."
Despite his criticism, Davis has voiced unqualified support for Israel during the last clash with Hamas, and has been a committed campaigner for the antiboycott movement.
Occupying the eighth position on the Jewish Chronicle's list is Labor leader Ed Miliband, who, the judges noted, could either top the list a year from now or disappear from it altogether, depending on his success next May in becoming Britain's first Jewish prime minister since Disraeli.
According to the judges, Miliband's relationship with his religion, as well as with his community, has been "somewhat tortuous," and noted that his criticism of Israel over the Gaza war has threatened to alienate him and his party from British Jews "for years to come."
Also on the list, Harry Styles - the decidedly non-Jewish star of Brit boy band One Direction - claims 73rd place. Despite not being a member of the tribe, the judges noted 20-year-old Styles' affinity to the Jewish lifestyle, including his frequent tweets on Jewish life, his love of kosher food and his picture wearing a silver Star of David at the Teen Choice awards.
Read the full list here.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jewish candidates to watch in U.S. midterm elections</title>
<date>Wed Oct 15 15:35:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
	With midterm elections just around the corner, four races for the House of Representatives in particular are catching our Jewish eyes.
 1. In California, succeeding Waxman: Ted Lieu vs. Elan Carr
	California’s 33rd Congressional District, stretching along the Pacific Coast and extending into the west side of Los Angeles, is one of the wealthiest districts in Congress and encompasses some of the most glamorous real estate in the country: Malibu, Beverly Hills, Bel Air. When incumbent liberal stalwart Rep. Henry Waxman announced his retirement, the 18-candidate primary for the seat turned into a national punchline, attracting a Kardashian-endorsed spiritual guru, an NPR host and a hard-partying former NBC executive.
	But as befits the successor to Waxman, a legislative workhorse, the two candidates who emerged — State Sen. Ted Lieu, a 45-year-old Democrat, and Los Angeles deputy district attorney Elan Carr, a 46-year-old Republican — are decidedly low-key figures who share a number of similarities. Both are serving members of the military’s JAG corps (Lieu for the Air Force, Carr for the Army), both belonged to Jewish-founded fraternities (Lieu to Sigma Alpha Mu, Carr to Alpha Epsilon Pi), and both are pitching themselves as relative moderates – socially liberal, pro-Israel and business friendly.
	Carr’s mother emigrated as a child from Iraq to Israel and subsequently to the United States. Carr himself grew up in New York speaking Hebrew and Arabic with his family, and he put the latter skill to use when he served in an anti-terrorism unit in Iraq. He argues that his Iraq experiences will serve him well as a “shaper of opinion” on foreign policy, and particularly on Iran and Israel – key issues in the seventh-most Jewish district in the country.
	Carr’s interest in Israel, in particular, is something he shares with supporter Sheldon Adelson, whom the candidate describes as a “close personal friend.” Adelson has donated to the Carr campaign and hosted a fundraiser for him.
 
 Elan Carr (Credit: JTA Photo Archive)
	Lieu is an immigrant himself, having arrived in the United States from Taiwan at age 3 with his parents. He has authored bills on everything from greenhouse gas reductions to indoor tanning salons, and he touts his legislative experience as one of his strengths.
	Voters, Lieu says, are “very aware that they’re losing a phenomenal legislator” in Waxman, who has endorsed Lieu. “With me, you have a track record.”
	Registered Democrats in the district substantially outnumber Republicans, 43.4 percent to 26.8 percent. Raphael Sonenshein, the executive director of California State University, Los Angeles’ Pat Brown Institute — a nonpartisan public policy institute — says that Carr has the right profile for a Republican to be successful here, but given the partisan tilt of the district, he is “a substantial underdog.”	— Anthony Weiss
 2. In NY, eyeing a new Republican Jew in Congress: Lee Zeldin vs. Tim Bishop
	State Sen. Lee Zeldin is adding a new pitch in his second bid to unseat Democratic Rep. Tim Bishop in New York’s 1st Congressional District: Congress needs a Jewish Republican. Zeldin’s religion, and its scarcity among Republican politicos, is by no means his main focus. Local bread-and-butter issues and the economy have dominated the campaign of this 34-year-old Iraq War vet who has served in the state Senate for four years.
	But replacing former Rep. Eric Cantor, the former House majority leader, as the only Republican Jewish lawmaker in the Congress has been part of Zeldin’s outreach both in his eastern Long Island district and in making his case to donors nationally.
	Zeldin, who met with Cantor after Cantor resigned following his primary loss in Virginia in June, called the former majority leader an “important voice in reaching out to the Jewish community here in the United States to encourage them to be more open-minded toward supporting Republican candidates.”
 
 Lee Zeldin (Credit: JTA Photo Archive)
	Top conservative Jewish figures, including National Review publisher Bill Kristol, former George W. Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer and Republican Jewish Coalition executive director Matt Brooks, have traveled to New York to help make Zeldin’s case.
	Bishop, who acknowledges facing a tough challenge from Zeldin, told JTA that he did not think Zeldin’s religion would be a factor in the vote. “My understanding is now that Eric Cantor has left the Congress, he is telling others he will fill that void,” Bishop said in an interview. “This is not a race about electing someone Jewish.”
	Bishop noted that both he and his opponent have strong pro-Israel voting records. “One thing we are almost unanimous on is the importance of a strong U.S.-Israel relationship and that our posture towards Israel will be protective,” Bishop said. This is the fourth time Bishop has faced a Jewish challenger. He defeated Zeldin in 2008, and in 2010 and 2012 he edged Randy Altschuler, an investment banker. Bishop says he is a more natural fit for Jewish voters, who tend to vote Democratic and hold liberal positions on such issues as immigration, health care and education reform.
	On each of those issues, Zeldin and Bishop stake out opposing views. Bishop favors a path to citizenship for undocumented migrants; Zeldin says securing the borders must be a primary priority. Zeldin wants to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, while preserving elements like mandating coverage for people with pre-existing conditions; Bishop wants to keep it but tweak it. Zeldin wants to toss out the federal Common Core standards for schools; Bishop wants to reform them.
	Bishop says he backs continued congressional oversight of any Iran deal. Zeldin says Congress needs more aggressive oversight of the nuclear talks.
	“We need to be much stronger and more consistent with our messaging to actually stop Iran’s efforts to obtain a nuclear weapon,” Zeldin told JTA, calling for increased sanctions. 
	Ben Chouake, the president of NORPAC, the pre-eminent pro-Israel political action committee in the Northeast, said pro-Israel donors are not focusing on the Zeldin-Bishop race because they are not so impressed with Bishop and Zeldin has been slipping in the polls.
	“It’s OK to have a good voting record on our issues if you’re from Anchorage, but if you’re from Long Island, people expect more of you than a voting record,” Chouake said. “They expect leadership.” — Ron Kampeas
 3. In Colorado, tight race in a changing state: Mike Coffman vs. Andrew Romanoff
	Colorado has spent the past two years in political upheaval, and perhaps no district embodies its contradictions better than the 6th Congressional District. The site of the 2012 Aurora movie theater shooting, the 6th wraps around the east side of Denver, encompassing upscale suburbs, multiracial working-class communities and old-line conservative Colorado natives.
	The two candidates — Rep. Mike Coffman, a 59-year-old Republican, and former Colorado House Speaker Andrew Romanoff, a 48-year-old Democrat — embody that split nature perfectly.
	Coffman is a Coloradan since childhood and a former Marine who has represented the district since 2008. His maternal grandfather was an Iraqi Jew who moved to the French concession in Shanghai, where his mother grew up until she met his father, a U.S. soldier doing demilitarization in the area at the end of World War II.
	Long a conservative, Coffman has been forced to moderate his rhetoric since redistricting turned the 6th from a conservative redoubt into a swing district.	Coffman has worked to paint the Washington-born, Ohio-raised Romanoff as a snooty outsider, sneering in a September debate, “You went to a private prep school, Harvard, Yale.” A former Wexner fellow, Romanoff presents his career in public service and education — ranging from teaching at the Community College of Aurora to working at the Southern Poverty Law Center to serving in the statehouse — as springing from his Jewish upbringing.
	“I think it’s shaped who I am in almost every way,” he told JTA. “I take seriously the obligation we call tikkun olam.”
	Romanoff and Coffman have focused heavily on domestic issues, particularly economic. Romanoff has also played up his refusal to take money from political action committees, or PACs, as freeing him from special interests. It certainly hasn’t prevented Romanoff from bringing in the big money, as both candidates had raised well over $3 million by the end of the second quarter. However, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee announced recently that it was cutting off its television advertising in the district — a move that some analysts took as a sign that Romanoff’s chances might be slipping. Nonetheless, the result will likely remain in doubt to the very end.
		 
		“It’s obviously a very close race,” said Seth Masket, an associate professor of political science at the University of Denver. “Coffman probably maintains a very slight lead, but both are very strong candidates.”
		Masket says Romanoff may be saved, ironically, by the difficulties of his fellow Colorado Democrats running for re-election as senator and governor. Their close races have caused the state and national parties to pour millions into voter turnout efforts across the state, which might mitigate the greater tendency of Democratic voters to ignore non-presidential elections.
		That could be a godsend for Romanoff. Asked what would make the ultimate difference in the election, Romanoff bluntly responded, “Turnout.”		– Anthony Weiss
 4. In Illinois, who’s the favorite in Chicago? Brad Schneider vs. Robert Dold
		Brad Schneider and Robert Dold, locked in a neck-and-neck race for a Chicago-area congressional seat, present a dilemma for some Jewish voters.
		Dold, 45, is a Republican social moderate in the tradition of now-Sen. Mark Kirk, his predecessor in the 10th Congressional District. Dold, who held the seat for one two-year term before losing narrowly to Schneider in 2012, represents what many Jewish community leaders have said they long to see: a pro-Israel hawk who strives to keep a national party that has tilted rightward since 2010 on a more even keel.
		Schneider, the 53-year-old incumbent, represents a prototype Jewish Democrats want to preserve: a young, liberal Jewish lawmaker who makes Israel a central focus and casts it as a natural issue for Democrats.
		Jewish voters “are looking for a fiscal conservative and social moderate, someone who can be in the tradition of Mark Kirk,” Dold said in an interview. “People are tired of excuses and they want Washington to work. I have a track record of working with the other side.”
		Schneider, almost echoing Dold, pitched himself in an interview as a “fiscally moderate, socially progressive” candidate, and in making his case slips into the Hebrew he learned on multiple visits to Israel. “Two things I talk about is tikkun olam,” he said, using the phrase for repairing the world, and “l’dor v’dor,” from generation to generation. “We can’t leave an environment beyond repair.”
		On issues like the Affordable Care Act and Israel, the candidates sound similar notes: Each favors tweaks to Obamacare but not repeal, and each says he will stand up to the administration if it gives too much away in nuclear talks between Iran and the major powers. The candidates, digging deep into their opponent’s record, score each other on these issues.
		Dold says “there’s no question” that Schneider is pro-Israel, but chides him for not speaking out more against the administration — for instance, when Secretary of State John Kerry warned earlier this year that Israel one day could become an apartheid state.
		Schneider notes that this year he initiated a bipartisan letter pressing the administration to increase Iran sanctions at a time when it was resisting such calls. He also points out that Dold voted to repeal Obamacare during his term in Congress; Dold says he now favors bipartisan fixes for Obamacare.
		Jewish officials say Schneider has the edge in part because, with a background as an activist with the American Jewish Committee and with the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, he is so steeped in the community.
		“You couldn’t ask for a better friend to Israel,” said Marcia Balonick, the director of JACPAC, a political action committee with a focus on Israel, abortion rights and church-state separation. “In his former life he was an active member of the Jewish community, he speaks fluent Hebrew, he’s already taken several missions to Israel.”
		JACPAC in the past has sought out moderate Republicans to endorse, including Kirk, in part to help preserve that wing of the party. Dold has told the group that he would resist attempts to overturn Roe v. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court ruling enshrining a woman’s right to an abortion, but will not vote for funding for abortions for poor women, which is a non-starter.
		NORPAC, a leading New Jersey-based pro-Israel political action committee, endorsed Schneider under the “friendly incumbent” rule for pro-Israel givers: Do not alienate the lawmaker in office. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pig's head among kosher food in South African anti-Israel protest</title>
<date>Sat Oct 25 16:30:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
	South Africa's Jewish community is up in arms after anti-Israel students placed a pig's head in the kosher food section of a Cape Town supermarket on Friday, according to local media. 	The incident, at on outlet of the national Woolworths chain, was intended as a protest against Woolworths for stocking Israeli products, according to the Congress of South African Students (Cosas), which organized the protest. 	Cosas "will not allow people who will not eat pork to pretend that they are eating clean meat, when it is sold by hands dripping with the blood of Palestinian children," COSAS Western Cape chairperson Siphakamise Ngxowa declared in a statement. 	The South African Jewish Board of Deputies, the representative body of South African Jewry, described the action as "disregarding all standards of basic decency." 	"We have seen 'Shoot the Jew' being chanted at public gatherings and explicit threats made to carry out revenge attacks against the Jewish community for events taking place in Israel and Palestine," the board said in a statement. "Now we have been presented with yet another case of anti-Israel activism crossing over into blatant anti-Semitism." 	Woolworths said it was appalled by the action. "Placing a pig’s head in our store is unacceptable and offensive to our employees and customers, including Jewish and Muslim employees and customers,” Paula Disberry, Woolworths group director of retail operations said in a statement. 	“We are investigating this incident and we will consider our options to prevent such distasteful protests in our stores." 	Even the local branch of BDS (the international boycott movement), which has been boycotting Woolworths since the summer war in Gaza due to its stocking of Israeli products, condemned the Cosas action. 	In a statement released Friday, BDS South Africa said it had not “supported, endorsed or encouraged” the action, which it described as “very controversial … form of militant human rights action” that “may not have been properly thought through.”
	“We do not believe that taking pigs heads to Woolworths is correct; we also do not believe that Woolworths supporting Israeli Apartheid is correct. We will try our best to discourage both,” it said.
	BDS South Africa said it hoped the incident would not be used as a distraction from its 
BoycottWoolworths campaign.
	The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement has held more than 40 protests at Woolworths stores throughout the country in recent weeks. Earlier this month, the retailer said it may take the BDS lobby to court for threatening its staff and customers.  	 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>WATCH: Cape Town, home to sub-Saharan Africa's oldest Jewish community</title>
<date>Tue Nov 04 13:49:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
		On the to-do list for the visitor to Cape Town: Two oceans converging at the Cape Point, spectacular sunsets at Chapman’s Peak, imaginative culinary experiences in the nearby wineries in French Hook and Stellenbosch. Add to your checklist a visit to the Jewish Center of Cape Town.
		There, nestled under iconic Table Mountain, you will have an engaging day exploring South Africa’s Jewish heritage.  The campus, named after the late philanthropist Mendel Kaplan, contains a museum, showcasing the history of South Africa’s Jews, the Great Synagogue, affectionately known as “The Gardens Shul,” alongside the country’s first synagogue, and a Holocaust museum.
		The South African Jewish Museum tells the story of an immigrant community, almost entirely from Lithuania, who arrived as peddlers working the mining towns, and grew into a prosperous, vibrant, and strongly Zionist, population.  The museum also addresses the moral and political issues faced by South African Jews during the apartheid era.
		The Gardens Shul is an architectural gem, with its vaulted ceilings and stained glass windows.  The services, as with most South African synagogues, are Orthodox, although it seems that most of the community, now about 15, 000 people, are not so observant.
		“We are a completely self-sustaining community”, says Michael Bagraim, a former President of the South Africa Jewish Board of Deputies. “Small though we are, we take pride in seeing that our children receive a Jewish education, and the elderly are taken care of”.
		Nearby the campus is the Herzlia Jewish School, with over 2000 students K-12.  Not far away are Coffee Time, a kosher dairy restaurant and gift shop that are staffed by, and provide funding for people with mental illnesses and special needs.
 Chapman's Peak, Cape province      Photo by Harry D. Wall
		For the nostalgic, there is Muizenberg beach, once the social meeting point for Jews from throughout South Africa, particularly from Johannesburg during the South African winter.   No longer. There remain the colorful bungalows and the Muizenberg Shul, and a few diehards who come for the bathing. But the scene, such as it is for South African Jews, has moved on.
		Sea Point, a coastal enclave, has the largest concentration of Cape Jews. Mostly living in Miami-beach style condominiums, there is a kosher deli, synagogue, and multiple social clubs, bringing together locals with Jews who emigrated but often return for family and holidays.
		Something of an urban revival is taking place, spurred by the World Cup 2010, with boutique hotels, restaurants, galleries and shops. While the apartheid system has long been dismantled, there remain huge social and economic gaps between the black and white populations, most evident in the poverty-riddled townships on the city’s outskirts.
 South Africa Jewish Museum     Photo by Harry D. Wall
 Muizenberg synagogue Capetown, South Africa    Photo by Harry D. Wall
		There is an unmistakable sense of a diminished Jewish community, resulting from emigration during and after the apartheid era. The Jewish population is about half its population some 30 years ago. But for those who take the time, they will find the experience well worthwhile. “We are a warm, inviting community, “ says Michael Bagraim, “We have achieved quite a lot, in culture, science, medicine, and business.  And above all, we have a strong commitment to our heritage, Israel and the Jewish people. We encourage visitors to Cape Time to take time to learn about our experience. ” It’s well worth taking him up on the invitation.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mervyn Smith, South African Jewish community leader, dies at 77</title>
<date>Sun Nov 16 10:29:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	Mervyn Smith, president of the South African Jewish Congress, died on Saturday, at the age of 77.
	Smith's passing after a prolonged illness "is a loss not only to his family, but to our whole community since he was such a driving force in so many communal organizations," announced Ann Harris, the Congress's vice president. "Mervyn’s passion and commitment for the communities of Southern Africa was beyond the call of duty and kept our interests firmly on the agenda of the World Jewish Congress. We will all miss his wisdom and leadership.”
	According to J-Wire, Smith had an innate knowledge of the Jewish community, Jewish history and Israel that few could match. J-Wire credited Smith, an attorney, with playing a pivotal role in getting the Board to condemn apartheid at its 1985 national conference, describing him as a "visionary, orator and intellectual." He was considered an expert on anti-Semitism and active in Holocaust studies.
	Over his lifetime he held several communal leadership positions, often simultaneously. Besides being president of the African Jewish Congress, he served as vice president of the World Jewish Congress and was an honorary life vice president of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies. He was also chairman of the Board of Trustees of the South Africa Holocaust Foundation, president of the Law Societies of South Africa and chairman of both the Performing Arts Council of South Africa as well as the Cape Performing Arts Board.
	“I have always been skilled in time management, so I manage,” he liked to say, according to J-Wire.
	Mervyn Smith was born the town of Vereeninging, near the Vaal River, to a firmly Zionist family, J-Wire reported. He grew up in Vosburg, in the Karoo, before his family moved to Bellville, Cape Town, where he would later practice law. He was active in Habonim and later in the Students Jewish Association when he studied at the University of Cape Town, eventually serving as chairman of the Cape Town branch.
	He was first elected to the Cape Board of Deputies in the 1970s. He served two terms as chairman of the Cape Council of the Board between 1983 and 1987 while serving as the Board's senior national vice chairman.
	Smith, who played cricket for 25 years, was also life president of the Bellville Cricket Club.
	Smith was predeceased by his wife Tamar, a teacher who headed the Board's Religious Instruction Department, and his daughter Rinah, who died as a young child. He is survived by his children Paul, Deborah, Raphael and Abigail as well as grandchildren and a brother.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pittsburgh pro-Israelis answer 'one-sided' Conflict Kitchen</title>
<date>Sun Nov 16 16:19:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
A group of Pennsylvania students are planning to counter what they describe as "one-sided dialogue" at a local kitchen with a food project of their own to promote dialogue on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, The Jewish Chronicle reported on Wednesday.
In response to Conflict Kitchen, an initiative by a Carnegie Mellon University professor and a student of his, the new project, "CoExistence Kitchen," is set to appear at Carnegie Mellon on November 19 and at Pittsburgh University on November 20, according to Naomi Sternstein, who is president of student group Tartans4Israel. The Carnegie Mellon-based group is co-sponsoring the restaurant together with Panthers for Israel at Pitt, according to the report.
The kitchen offers complementary Middle Eastern food, which is both kosher and halal, and provides diners with trivia questions about the Middle East, according to organizers, who say they are trying to "give context for how people are coexisting every day throughout the Middle East" in even-handed fashion, the Chronicle Reported. The Hillel Jewish University Center is to fund CoExistence Kitchen.
“Part of the reason for CoExistence Kitchen is to start up a dialogue,” Sternstein said. “We want to spark a conversation.”
Conflict Kitchen was founded by Jon Rubin, a Carnegie Mellon art professor, and Dawn Weleski, one of his former students. The kitchen serves food from countries that are in conflict with the United States, one at a time, along with information about those nations, such as North Korea and Iran. The kitchen began serving Palestinian-related food at the end of September, but closed down temporarily in early November in the wake of death threats, according to the project's Facebook page.
Conflict Kitchen announced on its Facebook Page last week that it will serve a Palestinian potluck on Tuesday.
The Chronicle quoted Pitt senior Lauren Barney, who said she felt "unsafe" at the first panel discussion sponsored by Conflict Kitchen, in which Professor Ken Boas, one of the speakers, equated Israel with South African apartheid, called for an academic and economic boycott of Israel and failed to condemn Palestinian terror attacks.
“I thought it was really biased and one-sided,” said Barney, a Pittsburgh native. “They were applying double standards and were delegitimizing Israel and the Jewish community here as well. I didn’t feel it was OK for me to ask my questions.”
Boas countered that “balance” was unnecessary in the context of a discussion on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Chronicle reported.
“You’re having trouble hearing one side to the story, but for a lifetime we’ve been hearing one side, from The Jewish Chronicle to The New York Times,” Boas said. “Why do we continually have to have balance and get into debates and have discussions?”
Haley Chizever, another Pitt senior at Pitt, also described the first Conflict Kitchen event as “one-sided.” She said that other events sponsored by Conflict Kitchen, such as one on Venezuela, had been more balanced, leaving her "disappointed" with the Palestine-themed discussion.
“At the other ones, the issues were presented as being very complex,” she said. “But [the Palestinian iteration] is being presented as there are no other sides to the story.”
Chizever said she went to another Conflict Kitchen event featuring Chicago rapper Jasiri X, who equated recent riots in Ferguson, Missouri, with the situation in Gaza. Students for Justice in Palestine and the Pittsburgh Palestine Solidarity Committee co-sponsored the event, distributing flyers that supported boycotting Israel and called to "abolish apartheid," according to the Chronicle.
Conflict Kitchen has also reportedly distributed pamphlets called "wrappers" that are covered with quotes from Palestinians. They have come under fire for being inflammatory, the Chronicle reported, such as: "Palestinians are not going to just let you in and drop their arms. No, they're going to kill and they are going to die."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Australian parliament debates recognition of Palestine</title>
<date>Wed Dec 03 22:54:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	SYDNEY – A bipartisan motion calling for the recognition of Palestine was tabled in Australia’s federal parliament this week, sparking criticism from Jewish leaders who described it as “an exercise in empty symbolism.”
	Labor MP Maria Vamvakinou, a co-convener of the Parliamentary Friends of Palestine group, tabled the private members’ bill in Canberra on Monday calling on the Liberal government of Tony Abbott, one of Israel’s staunchest allies, to recognize a Palestinian state.
	“I want to remind the House that it has been 67 years since the partition of Palestine and the occupation, which continues until today — an occupation that is devastating, demoralizing and damaging for all involved,” Vamvakinou said.
	“The time has now come for this to end. Australia, and indeed this parliament, must now recognize the state of Palestine. Australia must vote yes at the UN for Palestinian statehood. Fifty six per cent of Australians are in favor of this and 135 countries have already done so.”
	The debate, timed to coincide with the UN’s international day of solidarity with the Palestinian people,was adjourned; no resolution was passed.
	It came as France this week joined a growing number of countries to recognize a Palestinian state, including Sweden. Spain, Britain and Ireland have backed non-binding resolutions in favor of recognizing Palestine. And the European Parliament will vote in the next couple of weeks on the recognition of a Palestinian state, after a vote was postponed last week.
	Liberal MP Craig Laundy, the co-convener of the Parliamentary Friends of Palestine group, seconded the motion. “The people of Palestine, for the last almost 60 years, haven’t had a fair go,” he said. “Imagine if you will, coming home this afternoon to your home, going to put your key in the door and it didn’t fit.
	“You knock on the door. Someone you don’t know opens the door and they’re in your home. That’s what happened here, that’s what happened all those years ago. And a people have been displaced and fighting for an identity ever since.”
	Laundy also accused lobbyists of hijacking the debate. “The things we discuss in this chamber should not be influenced by the lobby,” he said. “They should be influenced by what’s right.”
	Robert Goot, the president of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, told Haaretz the motion was “an exercise in empty symbolism.”
	He added: “Until the Palestinians actually have a functioning state with a government that is capable of enforcing its authority over the West Bank and Gaza, and delivering on its obligations under signed agreements, then there is no ‘state’ capable of being recognized.
	“The only way that the Palestinians will ever have a real state and government is via a negotiated peace agreement with Israel which will end the conflict on the basis of the UN-endorsed principle of two states for two peoples, a principle their leaders still refuse to accept after 67 years.”
	Dr Colin Rubenstein, executive director of the Australia/Israel & Jewish Affairs Council, described it as “an annual ritual for the usual suspects, part of a small minority of MPs to use the UN’s international day of solidarity with the Palestinian people to make one-sided speeches demonizing Israel.”
	Kelly O’Dwyer, one of many pro-Israel MPs in the governing Liberal Party, told the chamber: “I am very concerned about the way in which Israel and the Jewish people are portrayed in Palestinian schools and on television shows — an education which encourages continued hatred and denial of Israel’s very right to exist. It is my view that the continued hatred of Israel, encouraged by the Palestinian leadership, is one of the real obstacles to the ongoing peace process.”
	Michael Danby, a staunch pro-Israel MP and one of two Jews in the Labor Party, said the proponents of the motion were “individuals who do not speak for either party.”
	“No one has paid attention to this private members’ motion which was ostensibly about the international year of solidarity with the Palestinians and not about the Palestinian state.”
	The motion comes a month after Bob Carr, the foreign minister in the previous Labor government, revealed he was accepting the post of patron of the Labor Friends of Palestine group.
	Carr, a co-founder of the Labor Friends of Israel group several decades ago, incensed Jewish leaders, citing as a trigger for his backflip the “takeover of Zionism by the fanatics” and its lurch toward an “apartheid” state.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>ADL: Pro-Palestinian Facebook group is 'an affront to humanity'</title>
<date>Thu Dec 04 12:18:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	The Anti-Defamation League has called a pro-Palestinian Facebook group "an affront to humanity" for posting Photoshopped images of Nazi concentration camp prisoners holding anti-Israel signs.
	The Facebook page "I Acknowledge Apartheid Exists" was founded in March 2013 to "promote the narrative that Palestinians deserve the same rights and liberties that Israeli's enjoy."
	It says that, "Membership of this group constitutes an awareness that Israel's occupation of and actions in Palestine constitute Apartheid; It's recognition that Palestinians are subject to different laws and standards than Israelis."
	A recent image shows concentration camp prisoners behind barbed wire with the words "I can't breathe…" Photoshopped onto it and the hashtag "From Palestine to Ferguson." It was posted on the group's Facebook page with the status "The Jewish people understand 'I can't breathe.' From Palestine to Auschwitz."
	A previous image posted on the page shows emaciated survivors of Austria’s Ebensee concentration camp, according to the Anti-Defamation League. The photo was altered to show survivors holding signs that read “Break the Silence on Gaza,” “Stop the Holocaust in Gaza,” “Israel Assassins,” and “Stop US Aid to Israel.” Also imposed on the photo was “Whatever happened to ‘Never again'?”
	“Anti-Israel activists have shown the true depth of their malice by sharing this horrific image on social media,” said Abraham H. Foxman, outgoing national director of the ADL and a Holocaust survivor, on Tuesday. “Whatever their perspective is about the conflict in the Middle East or the experience of the Palestinian people, taking an image of Holocaust survivors and defacing it in this way is sick and an affront to humanity.”
	“While it is reassuring that the majority of Facebook users who have commented on the image expressed disgust and outrage, the silence from the vast majority of organizations that sympathize with the Palestinian people have effectively sanctioned this tactic," Foxman continued. "We call upon these organizations to condemn the use of this offensive imagery, and urge Facebook to remove this photo under their community standards prohibiting use of their platform for malicious purposes.”	 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In Johannesburg, the end of a Jewish community?</title>
<date>Sun Dec 07 04:15:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	On a sunny November afternoon in downtown Johannesburg, Samuel Radebe, a pastor and self-proclaimed prophet, sat on a chair draped in a leopard skin and exorcised demons.
	One man, rail thin in a tattered yellow shirt, writhed violently in front of Radebe on the floor as his wife shakily explained into a microphone that he had been possessed by a snake. A few minutes later, assistants carried forward a convulsing woman, eyes rolled back and head lolling as she began to yell in a raspy bass voice.
	“They say that Jesus performed miracles in the Bible, so why can’t we perform miracles here and now?” Radebe boomed as he walked through the crowd of thousands that packed the building and spilled into the surrounding courtyards and streets.
	As Radebe lay his hands on the sick and led the congregation in spirited hymns, there were few signs that the church was once Johannesburg’s largest and most powerful synagogue: Yet there is a Star of David atop the building’s rusted dome, and the house across the street, which is filled with fast food restaurants and cell phone repair shops, still has “Hebrew High School” etched into the stone of its entranceway.
	Indeed, for eight decades, from 1914 to 1994, the Great Park Synagogue was the crown jewel of Orthodox Judaism in South Africa, and its physical witness to Johannesburg’s breathless evolution across the course of the 20th century.
	The synagogue — and others scattered across the inner city — were founded in the early 20th century just as Johannesburg was morphing from a scrappy gold mining boomtown on the fringes of the British empire to what is today Africa’s richest city.
	“Johannesburg is quite unique from other major world cities in that Jews were here from the beginning,” says David Sacks, the associate director of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, an advocacy organization that promotes the social and political interests of the Jewish community. “Most other places they were newcomers, but here we were co-pioneers.”
	The synagogues built by those early pioneers stood witness to the rise — and then to the slow and violent unraveling — of South Africa’s infamous system of segregation, apartheid. And in the first two decades of democracy, these buildings have watched the neighborhoods around them shift once again. Throughout the apartheid era, which began in 1948, the inner city, which encompasses the central business district and its surrounds, was legally segregated and mostly white. The advent of democracy in 1994 transformed it into a bustling meeting point for newly arrived black migrants from across the country and the continent.
	Johannesburg’s Jews, meanwhile, have mostly moved on — to new neighborhoods, new congregations and, for many, since the end of apartheid, new countries. Great Park, for instance, has moved to a synagogue four miles north of its original location. And for most of the 50,000 Jews who remain in Johannesburg (after a steady decline since the 1970s, which was stabilized in the early 2000s), the working class inner city is today a no-go zone, a world away from the gated northern suburbs they now call home. In this sprawling city of seven million, segregation has reassembled itself along class lines, and they are rarely crossed.
	But the inner city synagogue buildings that once defined the prominent Jewish community here have found a variety of ways to survive. Some, like Great Park, are now churches. Others are storefronts or bars. But at least two — Temple Israel in the Hillbrow area, just north of the city center, and the Lions Shul, in Doornfontein, east of downtown — still open every Friday and Saturday to Jewish worshippers, calling a dwindling band of the faithful back to the places that once defined them.
	On an icily blue Rosh Hashanah morning, yellow police tape is strung along the sidewalk in front of Temple Israel, its perimeter patrolled by a couple of bored looking cops with folded arms. But this isn’t a crime scene.
	“We’ve brought police here today so our congregants feel safe coming to worship,” says Reeva Forman, a businesswoman who has been the synagogue’s chairperson for the past two decades.
	While levels of violent crime are high across Johannesburg, however, the police patrol is largely symbolic, meant to offset how conspicuous the synagogue appears here, as though cut and pasted from some distant suburb.
	All around the building, vendors chat loudly in Zulu while selling socks and bags of neon orange cheese puffs to passersby. House music pumps from muffled speakers in the apartment blocks above.
	On the side of the synagogue, someone has plastered a row of identical fliers advertising the services of one Prophet Sithole. “Bring back lost lover,” it blares in bright red lettering. “See your enemy on mirror. Remove bad luck & etc, FREE FREE FREE.” Two taxi drivers are rinsing suds from their cars and listening to a soccer game on the radio.
	These weren’t always the textures of the neighborhood around South Africa’s first Reform synagogue. When the temple opened its doors in 1936, it was huddled in what was then the northern corner of Johannesburg, where many of the better-off Jewish immigrants to the city had recently begun to settle in leafy hillside suburbs. The area, Hillbrow, became the inner city in the 1960s and ’70s as the city sprawled northward. A building boom crowded the streets around the temple with concrete high-rise apartment buildings. Drawn by cheap rents and proximity to the city center, Hillbrow turned into a transit point for white urban newcomers — young families, university students, and European immigrants.
	The neighborhood quickly became a thorn in the side of the segregationist government, a bohemian enclave known for its late night cafes, European bakeries and alternative bookstores. And many of those who rented its apartments and frequented its bars and record shops were Jewish.
	“When I moved here, restaurants stayed open until 1 a.m. and we would walk about all night long,” said Bill Hoffman, a shoe cobbler who has lived in the neighborhood for 35 years, and has been a congregant at Temple Israel since the 1950s, during which “you had to battle to get a seat,” he said.
	But at some point, he says, the ground beneath him began to shift.
	Fed up with the conditions in the overcrowded black neighborhoods on Johannesburg’s fringes, small numbers of Africans, Indians and mixed race South Africans began illegally settling in flats near Hoffman’s, which were zoned for white occupation only, in the 1980s.
	Many landlords proved all too willing to turn a blind eye to the breaking of segregation laws, which confined black South Africans to townships miles from the city center, provided tenants didn’t complain about issues like rent gouging or poor maintenance. The result was a slow decay of building conditions, followed by a white exodus. By the time segregation was formally lifted in the early 1990s, the neighborhood around Temple Israel was mostly black.
	“We thought when blacks moved in it was going to be uplifted, but instead they’ve brought it down to their level,” Hoffman said, referring to the area’s decaying infrastructure.
	The wave of white emigration in the 1980s and ’90s took with it most of the inner city’s Jews, and forced many of the area’s synagogues — like Great Park — to shut their doors. In the early ’90s, Temple Israel nearly met the same fate, until Forman stepped in to block the sale of the building.
	“As long as there are Jews who come to us, we need to stay open,” she says. “That’s the true purpose of Judaism — to live out our values by reaching out to those in need.”
	But the going is difficult. The synagogue can’t afford to hire a full-time rabbi, for instance, and its location makes the temple a hard sell for Jews in the suburbs.
	The 40 congregants gathered for this Rosh Hashanah hold a mirror to the inner city’s changing demographics. Aging white inhabitants of the neighborhood, like Hoffman, stand shoulder-to-shoulder with suburban Jews with family or community ties to the synagogue, and a spattering of black African Jews. One is Uwem Ekpo, a Nigerian immigrant who came to Temple Israel after being turned away from an Orthodox synagogue elsewhere in the city.
	“They said I was not properly Jewish, that I couldn’t worship there,” he said, adjusting his yarmulke. But Temple Israel welcomed him, he explained.
	On a typical Saturday, the temple has less than half the number of worshippers that come for High Holiday celebrations. And Friday night prayers routinely draw just one or two people, Forman said.
	Meanwhile, two miles away in the gritty industrial neighborhood of Doornfontein, the energetic young rabbi Ilan Herman has developed his own simple pitch for luring worshippers to his aging synagogue.
	“Our services are very early in the morning, and some people prefer that, it’s better for their schedule,” he said with a shrug. Known informally as Lions Shul for the two feline busts flanking its entrance, Herman’s synagogue is the oldest in Johannesburg, completed in 1905.
	Walking along the cracked sidewalks near Herman’s shul, past sour-smelling taverns and men turning over chicken feet on tiny grills, it is difficult to imagine that until the 1950s this neighborhood was packed with kosher butcheries and Yiddish cultural societies.
	The march of prosperity took Jews from Doornfontein northward even faster than those in Hillbrow, and over the years, the rabbi says, the synagogue has repeatedly been elbowed to close its doors or move its congregation north.
	“But there’s something about being here, where it started, that you just can’t replicate,” Herman said. “It wouldn’t be Lions Shul anymore.”
	Today not a single one of his congregants — or the rabbi himself — lives in the neighborhood around the synagogue, where services are held on Wednesday evening and Saturday morning. On Shabbat he sleeps in a tiny room tucked above the worship space, and his congregants, though Orthodox, drive in from the suburbs.
	There is little sentimentality to the architecture in Johannesburg. A young and wealthy city that seems to be in a process of perpetual reinvention, its buildings go up, come down, and change purpose with brusque pragmatism. Today even the loudest advocates of the inner city’s synagogues, like Ilan Herman, admit the buildings are unlikely to stay open indefinitely.
	But in many ways, the changes over the past century are only surface deep. The basic character of the inner city and its buildings remains largely unchanged.
	At Radebe’s church in the old Great Park Synagogue, most of the congregation members have come to Johannesburg from far-flung corners of the country and the continent harboring a dream to build a better life for themselves and their families. Working as shopkeepers and clerks, domestic workers and taxi drivers, they live modest lives. Their demons are those of South Africa’s young democracy writ large: unemployment, xenophobia and poor social services.
	A century ago, many of those facing the same struggles were immigrants from Western Europe, Lithuania and other parts of Tsarist Russia. The synagogues the Jews who came to Johannesburg built were their paperweights, holding steady the pieces of their new lives at the tip of the African continent.
 Ryan Lenora Brown is a freelance reporter living in Johannesburg. Follow her on Twitter @ryanlenorabrown
 For more stories, go to www.forward.com. Sign up for the Forward’s daily newsletter at http://forward.com/newsletter/signup/	 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ad in New York Times sparks debate over Israeli 'pinkwashing' - Jewish World News</title>
<date>Thu Dec 25 01:00:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	Should the rights Israel affords its gay citizens be a reason to speak up for the country or "to love the only democracy in the Middle East"?
                
	That's what a full-page ad running this week in The New York Times is arguing.
                
	"Hamas, ISIS and Iran kill gays like me," the advertisement proclaims in bold type beneath a photograph of Rennick Remley, who describes himself in the ad as "a gay American" who supports Israel.
                
	"If I lived in Gaza or Israel's neighboring states, I would be thrown in jail, mutilated or killed," Remley says in the ad, which is sponsored by Israel advocacy group Stand With Us and celebrity rabbi Shmuley Boteach's This World: The Values Network.
                
	"Though I am not Jewish, Israel is the only country in the Middle East where I can live without fear," the ad continues. "I am free to adopt children, serve openly in the military, advocate for my community's rights and be accepted as a human being."
                
	It ends: "In Israel, I am free."
                
	Some commenters on Boteach's Facebook page, where he posted an image of the ad, objected to his use of gay rights as a way to promote support for Israel – a practice some have called "pinkwashing," referring to an emphasis on the country's friendliness to gays in contrast to many Muslim countries, while downplaying Israel's treatment of Palestinians.
                
	"
Pinkwashing israeli apartheid," commenter Cindy Newman wrote on Boteach's Facebook page. "What kind of 'man of god' uses other peoples struggles to promote ethnic cleansing and apartheid?"
                
	Leslie Strickland, whose Facebook page describes her as a family medicine  physician in Philadelphia, wrote: "This is called pinkwashing. Trying to paint over the blood on Israel's hands with pink paint. Using the LGBT community in this way is patronizing and despicable. And by the way Israel, it's not working, I can still seethe blood."
                
	A Tel Aviv resident from Poughkeepsie, New York, used sarcasm to object to the term "pinkwashing." "I love when progressives have to create terms like 'pink washing' to cover up their hypocritical lack of support for oppressed people who don't fit their narrative," wrote Aaron Scheer.
                

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Amid bitter debate, MLA academics condemn Israel's entry policies</title>
<date>Sun Jan 12 20:20:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
By a vote of 60-53, the Modern Language Association delegate assembly has approved the contentious Resolution 2014-1, which censures Israel for “ denials of entry to the West Bank by U.S. academics who have been invited to teach, confer, or do research at Palestinian universities.”
This measure presents a watershed moment for the humanities organization, which has long debated whether to enter the political arena.
The controversial resolution, proposed by Richard Ohmann, Professor Emertius of English of Wesleyan University and English Professor Bruce Robbins of Columbia University, brings increased academic attention to the Israeli Palestinian conflict, and remains especially divisive. It also demonstrates the extent to which humanities professors are willing to risk controversy to debate the political problems Israel faces in the occupation.
Although Robbins and Ohmann had no plans to time the resolution with discussions of the Israel boycott and the ASA vote, the coincidence made for provocative discussions of Israel, the occupation and the fate of the Palestinians, and media attention.
Remarking on the intense media interest, veteran delegate assembly member Lutz Koepnick, Professor of German and Film Studies at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, could not think of a comparable event in recent MLA history. “As a delegate assembly member, I’ve never seen anything like this, the barrage of emails, news media queries, and anger from all sides was overwhelming.”
Resolution 2014-1, according to Omar Barghouti, a founding committee member of the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel and a graduate student from Tel-Aviv University, merely brings to the fore a “long overdue” conversation about the “regime of occupation, colonialism and apartheid,” which has prevented the mobility of Palestinians as well as anyone hoping to teach at Palestinian institutions.
University of California, Riverside English Professor David Lloyd spoke in favor of the resolution, read from the State Department advisory pamphlet and criticized such official recommendations as “based on ethnic discrimination. It's racial profiling.”
Those against the resolution objected that it “mischaracterizes freedom of movement for academics entering Palestinians territories, overlooks key facts and contexts” and lacks clear reasoning why travel problems to Israel and Palestine were any worse than entry into many countries on the globe. Telospress published a list of detailed objections to the data here: http://www.telospress.com/academicfreedom/
Beyond the contested data, Ilan Troen, director of Israel Studies at Brandeis University and professor at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel, expressed his incredulity of the need for such a resolution in the first place “The chance of an Israeli being refused by the American authorities for getting a visa is 200 times greater than that of an American trying to enter Israel.”
Most outspoken against the resolution was Cary Nelson, Professor of English at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and most recent president of the American Association of University Professors, an American organization that defends academic freedom and tenure, advocates collegial governance, and develops policies ensuring due process. Nelson decried the vote on Israel’s travel policy was “false, insulting, damaging to our professional reputations” because it was so allegedly “poorly researched, emotionally motivated and biased.”
Richard Ohmann defended the resolution, claiming supporters agreed it was a “no-brainer” and “narrow in scope,” demanded an apology from Nelson for his words. The latter responded, “not in this life.”
Clearly indignant, Nelson took it upon himself not only to oppose the resolution most vociferously, and also to provide the most colorful language of the afternoon, as he attacked the chair of the meeting, calling the chair’s struggles to keep the procedure organized “ludicrous.”
Such bitter exchanges characterize academic debates on Israel and Palestine, which proved remarkable above and beyond the usual factious fighting. In fact, the MLA parliamentary protocols are organized to reduce tensions and cushion the impact any too extreme measure. On January 11, partisans for and against the resolutions fidgeted in their seats while, as per official procedure, the delegate assembly lumbered through a slew of comparatively uncontroversial and quotidian, but in fact important questions for humanities professors: How to address issues of pedagogy, student learning, the much discussed “decline of the humanities” and the problems of contingent faculty. Many observers in the room maintained these questions were in fact the “real” business of the MLA.
In hushed tones the newly initiated observers wondered whether this lengthy procedure was some sort of “filibuster” designed to lower the likelihood of the required quorum of 10% to conduct a vote.
As the debate dragged on, David Pan, professor of German at the University of California, Irvine proposed a substitute resolution he hoped would be more “inclusive and less partisan.” This resolution resembled the earlier MLA resolution 2002-1 that more globally rejected “deplorable acts of bigotry at North American colleges and universities” and condemned “boycotts and blacklists against scholars or students on the basis of nationality, ethnic origins, and religious background as unfair, divisive, and inconsistent with academic freedom.”
This surprise attempt to replace the resolution altogether, however, was ultimately ruled out of order, on the grounds that it was too similar to past MLA resolutions.
Audience attention came roaring back when the voting started and ended with close vote.
But another controversial resolution remained. 2013-3, the emergency resolution introduced by the Radical Caucus to condemn the “attacks on the ASA and supports the right of academic organization and individuals, free of intimidation to take positions in solidarity with the Palestinian struggle against racism.”
As exhausted delegates and observers fled the room, members called for a quorum count. At this point in the afternoon, even the announcer had grown giddy from the proceedings and remarked cheekily during the head count: “If you are here press 1 for yes, if you have ontological doubts and press 2 for no, you will still be counted as here."
The count came back: 85 yes--present. 6 no--not present.
Whether or not delegate assembly members felt unsure of their mental presence by that time in the afternoon, they voted 59-41 against considering resolution 2014-3. Such interest in the emergency resolution, even so late in an exhausting debate, attests to the keen investment American academic have in the Israeli/Palestinian conflict.
This interest proved fascinating for a new delegate assembly member like Derrick Miller of University of North Carolina Wilmington, who remained undecided whether the MLA was “the appropriate forum to decide whether Israel ought to be censored or not.” Reminded that the MLA has long had an interest in politics since the Vietnam War, Miller nevertheless wondered whether the volatility of the conflict “requires more neutral and inclusive measures.”
Meanwhile, resolution co-author Bruce Robbins demurred and affirmed his duty to speak up against injustice “as an American because we're paying for it and as a Jew because it's being done in my name.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'Don't issue visas to Israeli dance troupe,' BDS supporters urge New Zealand</title>
<date>Fri Jan 31 17:41:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Pro-Palestinian activists in New Zealand have called on the government there not to issue visas to members of Israel's Batsheva Dance Company, which is scheduled to perform at next month's New Zealand Festival of the Arts.
In letters to New Zealand's immigration and foreign ministers, activists from several different pro-Palestinian and pro-Israel boycott groups expressed their "concern" about the scheduled Batsheva performance, according to J-Wire, a Jewish news source from Australia and New Zealand.
The letters claim that the Israeli troupe is "largely funded by the Israeli Ministry of Culture & Sport, the City of Tel Aviv and the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs who praise the troupe as “ambassadors of Israeli culture."
In an effort to provide "practical solidarity to the Palestinian struggle" the activists have asked that their government "refuse visas to this dance group to enter New Zealand."
The letter goes on to detail what the activists call Israel's "unashamedly racist treatment of its Arab-Israeli citizens" and other offenses for which it is being targeted by the international boycott, divestment and sanctions movement.
The activists said that New Zealand should take step toward fulfilling its "obligations" to the Palestinians under international law.
"For the same reasons New Zealanders called for the end to rugby links with apartheid South Africa we are calling for the cutting of ties with apartheid Israel," their letter reads.
"Such a decision would be welcomed by Palestinians as part of the international pressure to bring change to the policies of the Israeli apartheid state as well as by those countries thinking of supporting New Zealand’s bid for a UN Security Council seat," the letter continues.
It ends by quoting the late Nelson Mandela, who said, “We know too well that our freedom is incomplete without the freedom of the Palestinians.”
As of Thursday, the activists had not received a reply from New Zealand government officials.
In response, the dance troupe's artistic director Ohad Naharin said he was disappointed "to see a group of intelligent people wasting their money and their energy on something that won't result in anything. I have experienced this impotent activity for years."  
"The situation in the West Bank is tragic and indeed every effort must be made to change it. If I believed that boycotting our performances could bring any progress in ending the occupation, I would boycott myself," Naharin said.     

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Habayit Hayehudi MK proposes one state with full Palestinian equality</title>
<date>Wed Feb 12 22:43:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
MK Zvulun Kalfa (Habayit Hayehudi) believes in a one-state solution in which Palestinians would have full citizenship, according to Israel Hayom newspaper.Habayit Hayehudi Chairman Naftali Bennett is the only coalition party leader who opposes a two-state solution, but he proposes limited autonomy, rather than full integration, for Palestinians.Kalfa's proposal goes a lot further: "We should grant Palestinians full citizenship, equality, invest in their local infrastructure and [give them] voting rights in the Knesset," the MK said in an interview.He believes that the state should draft a law claiming all the land from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea as an undivided Israel, and making all residents within its borders Israeli.Such a move will put an end to claims of Israeli apartheid or maltreatment of its Arab residents, Kalfa believes."It is obvious that we cannot go the way of a two-state solution," Kalfa said. "I am in favor of one country for everyone. Palestinians? There has never been and there currently is no [Palestinian] nation."Kalfa, who was once a resident of the Gaza settlement of Atzmona, rejected the claim that Israel would no longer be a Jewish state if his proposal was implemented. "One way or another, the Jews will remain the majority in the state," he said.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Protesters in New Zealand face off over BDS outside Batsheva show</title>
<date>Sun Feb 23 16:44:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli protesters reportedly faced off outside Wellington's St James theater over the weekend, where the Israeli dance company Batsheva performed as part of an arts festival.
On the pro-Palestinian side, according to a report by APNZ News Service, was a 40-strong group led by veteran left-wing activist John Minto, who sought to dissuade the public from attending the Friday night show.
Minto had previously called on the government of New Zealand to deny the Israeli dancers visas, as part of a campaign to boycott Israeli individuals, groups and products. The government did not heed this call, telling Haaretz that “The New Zealand government has long pursued a balanced and constructive approach to the Israel-Palestinian issue.”
David Zwartz, a former honorary Israeli consul in Wellington and member of the capital's Jewish community, led a counter-protest in favor of Israel, APNZ said, adding that his group comprised some 40 Israel supporters.
"Police asked us to stand on one side, and the Minto crowd stood on the other side of the entranceway,'' he said, according to APNZ.
According to Minto, the protest prompted five people – a family of three and two others – to avoid the show, APNZ reported.
Minto has deplored what he calls Israel’s “unashamedly racist treatment” of its Arab citizens, its “brutal military occupation” of the West Bank and its “vicious blockade” of the Gaza Strip.
Zwartz, the chairman of the Wellington Regional Jewish Council, has told Haaretz that “The BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) movement, fronted by Mr. Minto, is hiding its real agenda, which is the destruction of the State of Israel.”
“Playing on Mr Minto’s anti-apartheid past, they make dishonest comparisons with the former South African regime to defame Israel,” said Zwartz. “Wellington and New Zealand dance lovers deserve to have the opportunity to see one of the world’s leading dance companies regardless of where they come from.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>New Zealand activists claim Israel 'pinkwashes'</title>
<date>Mon Feb 24 19:10:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Several anti-Israel activists were removed by police in New Zealand after they broke through barricades to protest Israel’s entry in the gay pride parade.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN rights envoy denounces Israeli 'apartheid' in Palestinian areas</title>
<date>Mon Feb 24 18:50:01 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Israel's policies in the West Bank and Gaza Strip appear to amount to apartheid due to its systematic oppression of the Palestinian people and de facto expropriation of their land, a United Nations investigator said in a report.
Richard Falk, U.N. special rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian territories, said that Palestinian rights are being violated by Israel's prolonged occupation of Palestinian territory and "ethnic cleansing" of East Jerusalem.
Gaza, despite the disengagement of Israel in 2005, remains "occupied" under an unlawful Israeli blockade that controls borders, airspace and coastal waters, and especially hurts farmers and fishermen, he said. The humanitarian situation in the Hamas-ruled enclave is dire amid fuel shortages, he added.
U.N. member states should consider imposing a ban on imports of produce from Jewish settlements in the West Bank, Falk said in his final report to the U.N. Human Rights Council after serving six years in the independent post.
In a section entitled "acts potentially amounting to segregation and apartheid", he analysed Israeli policies, including "continuing excessive use of force by Israeli security forces" and unlawful killings that he said are "part of acts carried out in order to maintain dominance over Palestinians".
Palestinians in the West Bank are subject to military laws, while Jewish settlers face a civil law system, he said. Israel also violates their rights to work and education, freedoms of movement and residence, and of expression and assembly, he said.
Ten years ago the U.N.'s International Court of Justice ruled that Israel's separation wall inside the West Bank is illegal, he noted. Israel says it is a security barrier.
"It seems incontestable that Israeli measures do divide the population of the Occupied Palestinian Territory along racial lines, create separate reserves for Palestinians and expropriate their land," Falk wrote in his 22-page report.
"The combined effect of the measures designed to ensure security for Israeli citizens, to facilitate and expand settlements, and, it would appear, to annex land is hafrada (the Hebrew word for separation), discrimination and systematic oppression of, and domination over, the Palestinian people."
There was no immediate reaction from Israel, which boycotted the council it accuses of bias for 19 months, returning in October 2013. Israel left after accusing the forum of bias when it set up a fact-finding mission on the settlements.
Controversy
Falk, a Jewish American law professor, has long been a controversial figure. After taking up the post in May 2008, he compared Israeli forces' actions in the Gaza Strip to those of the Nazis in wartime Europe.
Months later, he was detained at Ben Gurion airport and deported by Israeli authorities after being barred from crossing into Palestinian areas to carry out his investigation.
Last June he said he would not resign and accused critics of calling him anti-Semitic to divert attention from his scrutiny of Israeli policies. U.N. Watch, an activist group that Falk labels as a 'pro-Israel lobbying organisation', and the United States had called for him to quit.
Falk said in his latest report that businesses and countries should examine who profits from the "settlements of Israel and other unlawful Israeli activities" and take appropriate steps.
"Considering the fact that the European Union remains one of the most important trading partners for the settlements, with annual exports worth $300 million, a ban on settlement produce would have a significant impact," he said.
His previous appeals for divestment have brought results and have encouraged governments to be more vigilant, he said.
Royal HaskoningDHV, a Dutch company, ended a contract with Jerusalem's municipality to build a wastewater treatment plant in East Jerusalem and a Swedish-Norwegian bank Nordea excluded Cemex from its investment portfolio due to its extraction of non-renewable natural resources from Palestine, according to Falk.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Canadian university students launch Sabra hummus boycott</title>
<date>Sun Mar 09 23:45:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Pro-Palestinian student groups at the University of Ottawa have launched a campaign to ban Sabra hummus from campus.
Sabra is partly owned by the Strauss Group, a foods manufacturer that the students allege financially supports the Golani Brigade of the Israel Defense Forces, according to The New York Times. The students say the Golani Brigade has been accused of human rights violations by numerous organizations.
Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights and the Palestinian Student Association are among the student groups involved in the campaign, according to the university newspaper, The Fulcrum, along with the community group Young Jews for Social Justice.
“We will be raising awareness amongst the student population, collecting signatures for a petition and encouraging students to individually boycott the product,” Assma Basmalah, a representative of Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights, told the paper.
The campaign coincided with the 10th annual Israeli Apartheid Week, which ended earlier this month.
Caroline Milliard, manager of media relations for the university in east-central Canada, told The Fulcrum that the main objective of the institution’s food services department is to provide healthy options at fair and competitive prices.
“The purchasing policy of our service provider is apolitical,” she said.
In an email to The Fulcrum, Susan Spronk, an associate professor at the university’s School of International Development and Global Studies, said she supports the campaign because “the struggle to liberate Palestine is this generation’s struggle against apartheid.”
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Tutu: Israel's humiliation of Palestinians 'familiar to black South Africans'</title>
<date>Mon Mar 10 10:38:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu said Sunday that Israel's treatment of Palestinians reminds him of South African apartheid, and reiterated his support of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement.
"I have witnessed the systemic humiliation of Palestinian men, women and children by members of the Israeli security forces," he said in a statement. "Their humiliation is familiar to all black South Africans who were corralled and harassed and insulted and assaulted by the security forces of the apartheid government."
The former Anglican archbishop of Cape Town made the statement as the 10th annual Israel Apartheid Week opened Sunday in South Africa. The initiative, part of the international boycott, divestment and sanctions movement’s campaign against Israel, is being marked in 87 cities this year. Tutu visited Israel in 1989.
International pressure similar to the BDS movement led to the end of apartheid in South Africa, the statement said.
"In South Africa, we could not have achieved our democracy without the help of people around the world, who through the use of non-violent means, such as boycotts and divestment, encouraged their governments and other corporate actors to reverse decades-long support for the apartheid regime.
The same issues of inequality and injustice today motivate the divestment movement trying to end Israel's decades long occupation of Palestinian territory and the unfair and prejudicial treatment of the Palestinian people by the Israeli government ruling over them."
Tutu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984 for standing up against white-minority rule in South Africa, added that people who don't act against injustice are complicit in it.
''Those who turn a blind eye to injustice actually perpetuate injustice. If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor," he said. "It doesn't matter where we worship or live. We are members of one family, the human family, God's family."
Last May, the retired archbishop joined calls for UEFA to move the Under-21 European soccer championship from Israel because of the state's treatment of Palestinian sport.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN rights investigator accuses Israel of 'ethnic cleansing'</title>
<date>Fri Mar 21 19:35:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
A UN human rights investigator accused Israel on Friday of "ethnic cleansing" in pushing Palestinians out of East Jerusalem and cast doubt that the Israeli government could accept a Palestinian state in the current climate.
He spoke against a backdrop of deadlocked peace talks and accelerating Israeli settlement expansion in the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem which Palestinians say is dimming their hope of establishing a viable state on contiguous territory.
Israel says Palestinian refusal to recognize it as a Jewish state is the main obstacle. U.S. President Barack Obama this week pressed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to help break the impasse, saying both sides must take political risks before the April 29 deadline for a framework deal.
Richard Falk, United Nations special rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian territories, told a news conference that Israeli policies bore "unacceptable characteristics of colonialism, apartheid and ethnic cleansing".
"Every increment of enlarging the settlements or every incident of house demolition is a way of worsening the situation confronting the Palestinian people and reducing what prospects they might have as the outcome of supposed peace negotiations."
Asked about his accusation of ethnic cleansing, Falk said that more than 11,000 Palestinians had lost their right to live in Jerusalem since 1996 due to Israel imposing residency laws favoring Jews and revoking Palestinian residence permits.
"The 11,000 is just the tip of the iceberg because many more are faced with possible challenges to their residency rights."
This compounded the "ordeal of this extended, prolonged occupation", according to Falk, an international law expert and professor emeritus at Princeton University in the United States.
Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed the latter, declaring it part of its eternal, indivisible capital, a move never recognized internationally.
Palestinians seek a state in the West Bank and Gaza with East Jerusalem as their capital. In 2005 Israel quit Gaza, now run by Hamas Islamists opposed to Abbas' peace efforts, but settlement growth continues in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.
Falk said that Israel had made a systematic effort to "change the ethnic composition" of East Jerusalem by making it more difficult for Palestinians to reside there while encouraging the spread of settlements, which are considered illegal under international law.
In a report last month, Falk said Israeli policies in the West Bank appeared to amount to "apartheid and segregation" with a de facto annexation of parts of the territory, denying the Palestinian right to self-determination.
There was no immediate Israeli response to his remarks on Friday. Israel has not responded officially to Falk's February report via the president of the UN Human Rights Council, the usual channel, U.N. officials in Geneva said.
In the past Israel has strongly denied accusations of persecuting Palestinians, accusing them of inciting anti-Israeli violence and being unwilling to make permanent peace with the Jewish state.
"Drift to the right"
Direct peace negotiations usually coincide with intensified Israeli settlement activity, he told reporters.
The U.S.-brokered peace process seemed to be primarily a project of Secretary of State John Kerry who had received only "minimal support from Obama himself", Falk said.
"There are other reasons for encouraging the idea that it's still possible to negotiate a settlement based on the two-state model, even though most informed observers regard it as highly implausible given the changes that have taken place during the period of occupation and given the outlook of the Netanyahu government," he said, making clear he was among the sceptics.
Even entering negotiations, he said, is seen as a "betrayal" by Israeli political factions and parties that are to the right of the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
"A few years ago it would be hard to imagine that there was something to the right of Netanyahu. But gradually this drift to the right has created a whole new sense of the political debate within Israel," Falk said. "And there is a strong internal Israeli opposition to any sense that the Palestinian people in any diminished way deserve a state of their own."
Falk, an American law professor who is Jewish, has come to the end of a six-year term in the independent post and the U.N. Human Rights Council is expected to name a successor soon.
He has long drawn controversy in Israel, in 2008 comparing Israeli military strikes against Hamas in Gaza - during which 1,400 Palestinians were killed and there was widespread destruction in densely populated areas - to those of the Nazis.
Last June he said critics who called him anti-Semitic sought to divert attention from his scrutiny of Israeli policies.
He is to address the UN Human Rights Council on Monday, but it was not clear whether Israeli delegates would attend due to an ongoing strike by Israeli foreign ministry staff. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli architects face suspension by international body</title>
<date>Sun Mar 23 14:56:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) is the latest professional organization to boycott Israel, the Guardian reports.
The RIBA council decided last week to call for the suspension of its Israeli counterpart, the Israeli Association of United Architects, by the global architectural body – the International Union of Architects.
The motion was passed by 23 votes to 16, with 10 abstentions.
Addressing council members before the vote, former RIBA head Angela Brady said that failure to back the motion “would send a clear message to the world that we as an institution turn a blind eye or by inaction support what’s going on – land grabs, forced removals, killing the state and human rights, and reinforcement of apartheid.”
But other council members pointed to human rights violations in other parts of the world, such as North Korea, which is a member of RIBA. "Don't you think architects are designing prison camps and torture chambers there?" asked one council member, Francesca Weal.
Prof Baruch Baruch of the IAUA said the decision was "astonishing." He added "I don't think architects can be blamed for government policies. I don't think boycotts will help to solve any of the problems in the Middle East."
His organization, which includes Israeli-Arab architects, was not complicit in settlement construction. "A lot of members are against settlements and building in the West Bank. They won't be helped by a boycott."
The vote follows a similar motion earlier in the week by the Royal Incorporation of Architects in Scotland.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. welcomes departure of 'noxious' UN Palestine envoy Falk</title>
<date>Tue Mar 25 13:53:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
The United States on Monday welcomed the imminent departure of Richard Falk, a UN human rights investigator for the Palestinian territories whom Washington accused of being biased against Israel and spreading conspiracy theories about the September 11, 2001 attacks.
Falk, the outgoing United Nations special rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian territories, told a news conference as recently as last week that Israeli policies bore "unacceptable characteristics of colonialism, apartheid and ethnic cleansing.
In a statement to Reuters, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power condemned what she described as "Falk's relentless anti-Israeli bias, his noxious and outrageous perpetuation of 9/11 conspiracy theories."
"His publication of bizarre and insulting material has tarnished the UN's reputation and undermined the effectiveness of the Human Rights Council," she said. "The United States welcomes Mr. Falk's departure, which is long overdue."
Falk has long been a controversial figure. In 2011, he wrote on his blog that there had been an "apparent cover-up" by U.S. authorities over the September 11 attacks. Last year he suggested the Boston Marathon bombings were a response to U.S. foreign policy.
Falk, an American law professor who is Jewish, has come to the end of a six-year term in the independent post and the Human Rights Council in Geneva is expected to name a successor soon.
A UN official in Geneva, Kiyohiko Hasegawa, said Falk's successor, who has not been named, would be expected to take over the post on May 1.
During his tenure, Falk was criticized by Power's predecessor Susan Rice, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and UN Watch, an activist group that Falk has branded a "pro-Israel lobbying organization."
Falk could not be reached for comment on a UN email address that UN officials said he should be receiving messages on.
Despite the intense criticism of Falk, he repeatedly refused to step down. "I don't intend to resign and there doesn't seem to be any formal initiative that is seeking my dismissal," he told reporters last year.
"My role of trying to speak honestly about the situation that Palestinians are facing under this condition of prolonged occupation generates this sort of reaction that tries to paint anti-Israeli criticism as a form of anti-Semitism," he said.
Power broadened her criticism of Falk to include the 47-nation Human Rights Council as a whole, which she said unfairly singled out Israel - a criticism the U.S. government has made repeatedly.
"It is beyond absurd that the only country that has a standing place on the Human Rights Council's agenda is not Syria, not North Korea, and not Iran, but Israel," she said.
The administration of former U.S. President George W. Bush boycotted the Human Rights Council, but his successor Barack Obama decided it would be better to join the council in an attempt to reform it from within. The United States has been elected twice to the council since Obama took office in 2009.
A U.S. official said Washington's presence on the rights council has been beneficial. "U.S. engagement has helped the council become more credible, but we have a long way to go," a U.S. official told Reuters on condition of anonymity.
The official cited U.S. work in helping to create UN commissions of inquiry on Syria and North Korea and its work to keep a focus on "particularly egregious human rights situations in Syria, Sri Lanka, Belarus, Iran, and Burma (Myanmar)."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS campaigners call on Rolling Stones to cancel Israel concert </title>
<date>Wed Mar 26 21:19:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
A day after producers officially announced that the Rolling Stones will be performing in Israel for the first time ever on June 4, Palestinian campaigners have launched an appeal urging the British rock group to cancel the event.
"We are writing to urge you to refrain from playing in apartheid Israel and not to condone Israel’s violations of international law and human rights against the Palestinian people," the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) said in a statement. "We wrote you previously, in 2007, after hearing of similar plans, and back then you did not play in Israel.  We hope you will heed our call once again."
"Why would you accept to perform in a country that is so deeply involved in war crimes and human rights violations?" the campaigners ask. "Performing in Israel at this time is morally equivalent to performing in South Africa during the apartheid era."
Tickets for the Tel Aviv concert officially go on sale at 9 A.M. on March 30, but customers of the cell phone company Pelephone can get in early during a presale that starts March 27 at 9 A.M.
The legendary rock group fronted by Mick Jagger kicked off its tour in Abu Dhabi on February 21. The Stones then set off across Asia and Australia, before postponing some scheduled Australian and New Zealand shows following the death of Jagger's longtime girlfriend, fashion designer L'Wren Scott. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians submit official bid to join 15 international conventions</title>
<date>Wed Apr 02 17:10:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The Palestinian Authority officially asked Wednesday that the state of Palestine become a signatory to 15 international conventions.
The request was made by Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad Maliki, who met with Robert Serry, the United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, and Swiss and Dutch envoys to the Palestinian Authority.
Maliki told the diplomats that the Palestinian requests came in response to Israel's failure to free the fourth batch of prisoners it said it would free if peace talks progressed. The Palestinian Authority said it now considers itself released from its commitment not to seek recognition from international institutions.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas signed the requests on Tuesday, in a meeting of the Palestine Liberation Organization's Executive Committee, which was broadcast live on television.
A senior Palestinian official said the Palestinians realize that this isn't an effective step in the short term, but said the ultimate goal is to become a member state of the International Criminal Court at The Hague.
"We hope that by then Israel will gain its composure and won't ignore its responsibility to release prisoners," the official said.
Maliki told the three diplomats to who he submitted the request that the Palestinian move was a response to Israel's failure to carry out the fourth stage of a prisoner release to which it committed as the negotiations opened in July 2013. Israel's decision not to follow through with its end of the deal has prompted the Palestinians to feel freed from their own promise not to appeal to international institutions, Maliki said.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Wednesday that none of the conventions are connected to the United Nations, but the list released by the Palestinians indicates that nine are UN conventions, including international treaties against torture, corruption and genocide.
The Palestinians were also seeking to become signatories to the international conventions on the elimination of racial discrimination and discrimination against women, both of which were approved by the UN General Assembly.
They have also asked Switzerland for permission to join the Fourth Geneva Convention, which governs the protection of civilians in wartime, and asked the Netherlands for permission to join the Hague II treaty on the laws of war.
Below is the full list of conventions the Palestinians want to sign:
■ Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1979
■ International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1966
■ International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1966
■ Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2006
■ International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1965
■ United Nations Convention Against Torture, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1984
■ United Nations Convention Against Corruption, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2003
■ UN Genocide Convention, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948
■ Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1974
■ Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1989
■ Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War (Fourth Geneva Convention)
■ Convention with Respect to the Laws and Customs of War on Land (Hague II)
■ Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties
■ Vienna Convention on Consular Relations
■ Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli websites attacked by pro-Palestinian 'hacktivist' collective</title>
<date>Mon Apr 07 12:11:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Exactly one year after its last major cyber attack, AnonymousOpIsrael hacked Israeli websites on Monday.
The pro-Palestinian "hacktivist' collective broke into the Education Ministry's website, as well as the websites of the Israel Postal Service and the Central Bureau of Statistics, Ynet reported.
Anonymous struck first in November 2012 after Israel's Operation Pillar of Defense assault on Gaza, and again on April 7, 2013. It issued a warning message on Sunday that stated:
"This is a message from Anonymous Operation Israel, Anonymous Special Operations, Pillars of Anonymous, the Anonymous Collective of the cyber warriors from across the planet: on April 7, 2014, we call upon our brothers and sisters to hack, deface, hijack, database leak, admin takeover, and DNS terminate the Israeli Cyberspace by any means necessary," read a robotic-sounding narrator on a YouTube video the group posted on Sunday.
The cyberattack a year ago took down scores of Israeli websites, as Anonymous claimed to have hacked into the websites of the Prime Minister's Office, Defense Ministry, Shin Bet and other state agencies. The group also published a long list of Israeli email addresses and credit card numbers reportedly taken from the site of a business that sells equipment to the Israel Defense Forces.
However, Israeli authorities said at the time that Anonymous had not caused significant damage to state or civilian Internet operations.
The YouTube video said the group was acting in retaliation for Israel's "crimes against humanity" visited on the Palestinians.
"You can NOT hide a demolished home. You can NOT hide the barrage of bullets you use to kill and maim Palestinians. You can NOT hide apartheid roads. The further assault on the people of Gaza, who have been flooded by your sewage, terrorized by your military apparatus, and left to die at the border while waiting for medical attention will NOT be tolerated anymore. Your vicious campaigns to attack Palestinian solidarity groups worldwide through censorship and legal wrangling has also NOT gone unnoticed."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa Muslim leader accuses rival party of paid-for pro-Israel stance</title>
<date>Thu Apr 17 14:36:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
A month ahead of national elections, a question is being asked: Does the Democratic Alliance, South Africa's second largest political party, smile on Israel because it's funded by pro-Israel sources?
That's the question asked by the leader of a rival party, Al Jama-ah, a shopkeeper named Imraahn Ismail-Mukaddam, according to Independant Online, which aggregates the websites of the country's largest media group.
The DA for its part said it doesn't have to answer his questions, and didn't comment on his allegations.
Ismail-Mukaddam wrote an open letter to James Selfe, chairman of the DA's federal executive, asking directly whether the party's pro-Israel position was based on donations, and saying it was "within my rights" to assume that to be the case.
He qualified that the letter was personal, not written in his capacity as party representative, and threw down the legal gauntlet: if he was wrong, let the DA sue, he wrote.
Selfe said the DA does not disclose its donors, who are free to do so if they wish.
It cannot be said that the parties coexist in blissful peace. Last month, the DA also fielded lawyers, urging Al Jama-ah to stop disseminating leaflets prohibiting Muslims from voting for the DA. Ismail-Mukaddam said the party yanked the leaflets but also sent questions to the DA that it never answered, iol reports.
Those questions, said Ismail-Mukaddam, include whether the DA intended to include a Star of David in the new Cape Town logo, and clarifications on its positions regarding Israel and the Palestinians.
He also specifically asked whether the DA receives money "from people who support Israel’s occupation of Palestine" - or from a specific person, the property magnate Nathan Kirsh.
Among Kirsh's holdings are a stake in the Israeli defense systems maker Magal Security Systems, which has had quite the wild ride on Wall Street over years, becoming the flavor of the month around 2004. The stock spiked to more than $20 on huge volume before declining and settling back to its present level, around $4.
Selfe rebutted that the DA didn't have to answer Al Jama-Ah's questions.The Democratic Alliance has been the official opposition since 1999 and the  governing party of the Western Cape province since 2009. Once overwhelmingly white, though less so today, It is considered centrist.
Al Jama-ah was founded in 2007, with the explicit agenda of supporting Muslim interests and in getting South Africa to uphold Muslim (sharia) law.
Never mind relations with specific political parties: Relations between South Africa and Israel had known their ups and downs. Jerusalem and Johannesburg maintained close ties as the world grouped against apartheid South Africa, but after the ANC took power following the end of apartheid, a chill set in.
At an ANC National Congress in 2012, the party passed a resolution calling on South Africans to support the boycott against Israel because of its treatment of Palestinians. While the ANC waxed frosty, the Democratic Alliance formally advocated a two-state solution recognizing both the Palestinian right to self-determination and the Israeli right to exist within safe borders.
That said, in February, DA reps voted in favor of decisions unfavorable to Israel and condemned Israel's conduct.
Among the resolutions the DA representatives supported was the establishment in South Africa of a war-crimes court that would address Israel’s conduct and South Africans serving in the Israeli army.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Kerry: Israel risks turning into an 'apartheid state'</title>
<date>Mon Apr 28 05:54:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
If a two-state solution isn't agreed upon soon, Israel will risk becoming "an apartheid state," U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Friday while speaking before a closed forum.
Kerry used the term while speaking at the Trilateral Commission before senior officials from the United States, Europe, Russia and Japan, The Daily Beast reported.
It is the first time a U.S. official of Kerry's importance has used the contentious term "apartheid" in the context of Israel, even if only as a warning for the future. 
“A two-state solution," Kerry said, "will be clearly underscored as the only real alternative. Because a unitary state winds up either being an apartheid state with second class citizens—or it ends up being a state that destroys the capacity of Israel to be a Jewish state.
“Once you put that frame in your mind, that reality, which is the bottom line, you understand how imperative it is to get to the two-state solution, which both leaders, even yesterday, said they remain deeply committed to.”
Kerry also warned that a freeze in the peace talks could bring about a violent conflagration in the West Bank. "People grow so frustrated with their lot in life that they begin to take other choices and go to dark places they’ve been before, which forces confrontation,” he said.
During his talk, a recording of which was procured by The Daily Beast, Kerry also suggested that a change in the leadership of either Israel or the Palestinians could make a breakthrough more feasable. He also reiterated his conviction that both sides share the blame for the negotiations' dead end.
Kerry harshly criticized Israel for plans to build 14 thousand new housing units in the settlements advanced during the past nine months of negotiations.
Kerry also said that at some point he might unveil his own peace proposal, and tell both sides to either “take it or leave it.”
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in response to the tape that Kerry was simply expressing his position, which is shared by many others, and that the two-state solution is the only way Israel could remain a Jewish state that lives in peace with the Palestinians. She added that similar positions have been expressed by Israeli leaders such as Ehud Barak, Ehud Olmert and Tzipi Livni. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>ADL 'startled and disappointed' over Kerry's 'apartheid' comment</title>
<date>Mon Apr 28 17:45:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The Anti-Defamation League said on Monday it was "disappointed" by remarks made by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, who cautioned that Israel risks becoming an apartheid state if a two-state solution isn’t agreed upon in the near future.
"It is startling and deeply disappointing that a diplomat so knowledgeable and experienced about democratic Israel chose to use such an inaccurate and incendiary term," wrote ADL National Director Abe Foxman in a statement.
According to Foxman, while the ADL appreciates Kerry's commitment to a peaceful solution in the Middle East, his comments "used the repugnant language of Israel's adversaries and accusers" and were "undiplomatic, unwise and unfair."
"Such references," wrote Foxman, "are not seen as expressions of friendship and support."
On Monday, the Daily Beast reported on Kerry's statements, which he made last Friday at a closed meeting in Washington before senior officials from the U.S., Europe, Russia and Japan.
“A two-state solution," Kerry said, "will be clearly underscored as the only real alternative. Because a unitary state winds up either being an apartheid state with second class citizens—or it ends up being a state that destroys the capacity of Israel to be a Jewish state.
“Once you put that frame in your mind, that reality, which is the bottom line, you understand how imperative it is to get to the two-state solution, which both leaders, even yesterday, said they remain deeply committed to.”
It was the first time a U.S. official of Kerry's importance has used the contentious term "apartheid" in the context of Israel, even if only as a warning for the future.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S., Jewish groups slam Kerry over 'apartheid' comment</title>
<date>Tue Apr 29 02:59:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Jewish groups slammed Secretary of State John Kerry on Monday over his warning that without a two-state solution, Israel risks becoming an apartheid state.The pro-Israel lobby AIPAC released a statement saying it was "deeply troubled" by Kerry's comments. "Any suggestion that Israel is, or is at risk of becoming, an apartheid state is offensive and inappropriate. The Jewish state is a shining light for freedom and opportunity in a region plagued by terror, hate and oppression," the statement read.Earlier on Monday, the Daily Beast reported on Kerry's statements, which he made last Friday at a closed meeting in Washington before senior officials from the U.S., Europe, Russia and Japan.AIPAC also said that is "shares President Obama’s perspective that while there is a political conflict between Israel and the Palestinians that needs to be resolved, the use of the term “apartheid” to characterize Israel is inaccurate and unhelpful."State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters that Kerry was simply expressing his position, which is shared by many others, and that the two-state solution is the only way Israel could remain a Jewish state that lives in peace with the Palestinians. She added that similar positions have been expressed by Israeli leaders such as Ehud Barak, Ehud Olmert and Tzipi Livni. Kerry believes Israel "is a vibrant democracy with equal right to all it citizens," she said.  
House majority leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., called on Kerry to apologize for his statements. "The use of the word apartheid has routinely been dismissed as both offensive and inaccurate, and Secretary Kerry's use of it makes peace even harder to achieve," said Cantor, who is Jewish, according to Fox News.
Senator Ted Cruz (Texas,) a leading Republican, called on Kerry to resign, saying that "there is no place for [the word Apartheid] in the context of the State of Israel.
"Every member of this body has expressed our commitment for the United States to stand resolutely with our friend and ally the nation of Israel," Cruz said. "It was therefore with great sadness that I read this morning about [Kerry's] comments."Also on Monday, the Anti-Defamation League said it was "disappointed" by Kerry's remarks. "It is startling and deeply disappointing that a diplomat so knowledgeable and experienced about democratic Israel chose to use such an inaccurate and incendiary term," wrote ADL National Director Abe Foxman in a statement.AIPAC's liberal counterpart, J Street, defended Kerry's comments, saying his critics were attacking the wrong target. "Instead of putting energy into attacking Secretary Kerry, those who are upset with the Secretary’s use of the term should put their energy into opposing and changing the policies that are leading Israel down this road,” said J Street President Jeremy Ben Ami, according to BuzzFeed Politics.“Israel today is not an apartheid state, and that’s not what John Kerry is saying,” said Ben Ami. “For over a year now, Kerry has argued that, without a two-state solution, Israel is risking its future and its values as it moves toward permanent rule over millions of Palestinians without equal rights. Former Prime Ministers Ehud Barak and Ehud Olmert have used the ‘apartheid’ term as well to describe this possible future." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN envoy: Israel and Palestinians must choose, one-state reality or two-state solution</title>
<date>Wed Apr 30 07:53:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The United Nation's top Mideast envoy said Tuesday that Israel and the Palestinians must decide whether to entrench the current "one-state reality" or find a way to salvage the two-state solution following their failure to reach a peace agreement during a nine-month negotiating period.
Robert Serry, the coordinator for the Middle East peace process, told the UN Security Council on Tuesday that Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon firmly believes there is a window for a two-state solution.
But he said the parties must reflect whether they want to live up to their stated commitment to the two-state solution, or whether they will let it slip further away by default.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry had envisioned brokering a final peace agreement when he brought the sides together last July with an April 29 deadline for restarting official talks, but the negotiations made no progress. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli official: Kerry's apartheid comment calls U.S. role as honest broker into question</title>
<date>Wed Apr 30 12:51:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
John Kerry's statement that Israel will risk becoming an apartheid state if a two-state solution isn't reached soon is one of a series of statements that call into question the Obama administration's "ability to act as an honest broker," Deputy Defense Minister Danny Danon wrote in an opinion piece for Politico.
"Time and again, Secretary Kerry’s erroneous declarations have come dangerously close to suggesting moral equivalency between Israel and its adversaries," wrote Danon. "They call into question his administration’s ability to act as an honest broker in our region."
Danon said Kerry's apartheid comment, which he made while speaking at the Trilateral Commission before senior officials from the United States, Europe, Russia and Japan, was just the latest in a series of destructive statements.
Kerry, who has since clarified that he in no way considers Israel to be an apartheid state, responded to a question in July about why the peace talks were so important by asking whether Israel wants a third intifada. "By insinuating that if we do not give in to every Palestinian demand to ensure a successful end to the talks, we would return to the era of suicide bombers murdering hundreds of civilians in Israeli city centers, the secretary basically asked the state of Israel to negotiate with a loaded gun to our heads," wrote Danon.
Kerry's remark in February that the risks of failed peace talks were high for Israel because "people are talking about boycott" was "another veiled threat at Israel" that "attempted to scare the Israeli public into capitulation," wrote Danon.
The suggestion that "the Jewish people would ever establish an apartheid regime" was "particularly hurtful," wrote Danon, because it was made public on Holocaust Remembrance Day, "the solemn day when we remember the more than six million victims of our people murdered in the Holocaust last century in Europe." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Netanyahu pushing Basic Law defining Israel as Jewish state</title>
<date>Thu May 01 19:00:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Thursday during a visit to Independence Hall in Tel Aviv that he planned to push forward a new Basic Law to "legally anchor" Israel's status as "the nation-state of the Jewish people."
Netanyahu said he believed that the most "basic ingredient in our national lives will win legal status just as other central ingredients that constitute our fundamental core that have already been ruled into the Basic Law of Knesset."
"Unfortunately, as we have seen recently, there are those who do not recognize this natural right and who seek to appeal the historical, legal and moral justification for the existence of the state of Israel as the nation-state of our people," he added. "I see it as one of my basic missions as prime minister to fortify the state of Israel as the nation-state of our people."
Justice Minister Tzipi Livni came out verhemently against Netanyahu's plan, with her office saying she "will not allow the damaging, weakening or subjugating of [Israel's] democratic values to its Jewish values – this is the substance of the Declaration of Independence and the basis of our existence."
Livni has opposed such legislation before and will do so "even if its author is the prime minister," her office added.
Netanyahu continued: "Israel will always preserve full equal rights, both personal and civil, of all citizens of the state of Israel, Jews and non-Jews as one, in the Jewish and democratic state," Netanyahu said. "Indeed, in Israel, individual rights and civil rights are guaranteed to all – something which makes us unique in the Middle East and beyond it."
"It is hard for me to understand that among those calling on Israel to make concessions in Judea and Samaria due to their understandable desire to avoid a bi-national state are those who oppose defining Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish people," he added.
"It is impossible to speak out in favor of a Palestinian nation-state just to preserve the Jewish character of the State of Israel, and at the same time, to oppose recognizing that the State of Israel is the nation-state of Jewish people,  Supporting the creation of a Palestinian nation-state and opposing the recognition of a Jewish nation-state undermines in the long run the principle of the State of Israel's right to exist," he said.
In lieu of a formal constitution, a series of Basic Laws adopted by parliament since Israel's founding in 1948 define governmental, legislative and judicial powers, protect civil rights and codify Jerusalem's internationally disputed status as the country's capital.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinian protesters disrupt women's football match in Malta </title>
<date>Wed May 07 21:44:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
A women’s football match between Malta and Israel was disrupted on Wednesday by Palestinian protestors carrying a banner that read "Stop Israeli Apartheid," Malta Today newspaper reported.The match continued after police dispersed the protestors and arrested one person. The man, an Italian photographer, was later released after police confirmed that he had Maltese residency.The match was a football World Cup Tournament qualifier.
The protest was organized by the Network for Palestinian Solidarity and supported by Moviment Graffitti, a Maltese NGO which describes itself as being "active against oppression and exploitation of people, environment and animals; with a vision of freedom and radical democracy."The NGO said in a statement that "the Palestine Solidarity Network felt compelled to hold such action as it believes that the current situation of systematic terror, segregation and ethnic cleansing being pursued by the Israeli state merits global denunciation."The NGO said that sport was "one of those areas exposing the condition of systematic oppression" under which Israel was keeping the Palestinians.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Leno: Anyone who's not Kerry is welcome in Israel right now</title>
<date>Fri May 09 20:18:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Late night legend Jay Leno, set to host an awards ceremony in Jerusalem later this month, took a jab at the faltering U.S.-Israel relations in an interview with Fox News on Friday, saying "I guess any American that's not John Kerry is more than welcome there right now."
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry recently said Israel could become an "apartheid regime" in a closed meeting. Kerry later apologized for the faux-pas, but it nevertheless put additional strain on the already tense atmosphere between Washington and Jerusalem following the collapse of the peace talks with the Palestinians.
Leno, who will take his first trip to Israel to host the Genesis Prize awards in Jerusalem on May 22, told Fox News he has no problem with visiting the country despite calls by pro-Palestinian groups to boycott Israel.
Leno, who isn't Jewish, said he sees both sides of the conflict, but that he is "very pro-Jewish, very pro-Israeli."
"At some point in your life, you have to sort of take sides. I tend to side with the Jewish point of view on many things, especially issues like this one. I realize how important Israel is," he said.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will be among the 400 dignitaries to attend the ceremony, and Leno said the PM can definitely expect to be the target of some jokes.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Trying to be apolitical, Israeli architects wall themselves into boycott</title>
<date>Mon May 12 17:29:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
South Africa during the apartheid era was the only country to be thrown out of the International Union of Architects. Will Israel be the second? This issue is now on the union’s agenda.
Last month, the Royal Institute of British Architects resolved to ask the IUA to expel the Israel Association of United Architects from its ranks until the latter organization expressed opposition to illegal construction in the occupied territories, and took action against those Israeli professionals involved in construction and planning there. RIBA called upon the IAUA to abide by the international union's resolutions from 2005 and 2009, which condemn any act that violates the Fourth Geneva Convention (which protects civilian populations in occupied lands), including construction or development involving ethnic discrimination in illegally conquered territories.
The UIA’s upcoming congress will take place in August in Durban, South Africa, which in itself is quite symbolic. While the UIA’s agencies considered bringing up for a vote at that international event the RIBA demand to ban the Israeli architect's association – the UIA has now decided not to do so. But even if the vote is not taking place, the damage to the IAUA – and perhaps to Israeli architects in general, regardless of their individual political leanings – has been done. The mere threat of expulsion from the UIA, an organization that's more respected than important, constitutes yet another link in the chain of efforts to isolate Israeli society from the community of nations.
Since the call was issued by the British group to ban the Israelis – at the initiative of an organization called Architects and Planners for Justice in Palestine, whose members are active in RIBA – the IAUA's leadership had been working feverishly to thwart the vote, which would have had negative consequences. But, the Israeli association came by this situation honestly: Its insistence on claiming that it is an exclusively professional organization with no political agenda has led it to this point. Its statement that it does not concern itself with political issues, including the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and that each of its members behaves according to his own world view, sounds hollow in the international arena.
The mantra “I personally do not build in the territories” is no longer a solid defense. After all, being apolitical does not mean being neutral; rather, it is tantamount to taking a stance supporting the status quo. Since architecture is a tool through which political policy is implemented, even if not all the members of the IAUA are involved in planning and construction in the territories, the local organization representing them is now being asked to take a moral stance and use the profession as a tool for implementing it – with or without a decision by RIBA or other agencies.
The RIBA’s call to expel the IAUA from the international club sparked a lively debate in the professional and public international arenas, but no such discussion took place in Israel. The subject stayed in the corridors of the IAUA, which has adopted the stance of the innocent, apolitical victim against the political, scheming, anti-Israel world. The view is that "the whole world is against us."
From that point of departure, the IAUA has been waging a public relations campaign, lobbying and calling upon its members to mobilize “for a mission on Israel’s behalf” instead of looking in the mirror, as they ought to be doing. Among other things, IAUA officials sent a letter to British Prime Minister David Cameron, reminding him that he promised to fight anti-Israel boycotts in the United Kingdom during his visit to the Knesset several months ago. Did anyone mention politics?
Itzhak Lipovetzky-Lir, a past president of the IAUA and its coordinator of international relations, had asked Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman to work against the possible boycott. In a supposedly apolitical context, Lir’s request is ironic in itself: Lir, who accompanied the foreign minister during an official trip to Bulgaria in March, asked for his intervention while they were together. Lieberman said that “because of the many boycotts, Israel’s trade relations and foreign relations are only getting better.” But during a formal event in Sofia, he promised that his office would assist in the matter. If that is not political, what is?
The only local, public response relating to this issue came from Israeli Arab architect Abed Badran, a member of the IAUA’s national board, who is completing his doctorate in architecture in the United Kingdom. In a letter to the IAUA and in a conversation, Badran said that while he saw the proposed ban as unfair collective punishment, he was utterly opposed to asking for the intervention of the Foreign Ministry and Lieberman “because of whom we are dealing with injustice,” and being “linked up to aggressive politics.”
The way to deal with such a situation, Badran suggested, was “direct dialogue with RIBA.” He added that he has now announced his resignation from the IAUA board and had expressed his disappointment that he was “unable to lead [the association members] anywhere.”
Advocates of different views have spoken out about the proposed international boycott. Architects Richard Meier and Daniel Libeskind, both of whom work in Israel, condemned the call by RIBA. “Until now, I had thought that it was a highly respectable organization,” Meier said.
For his part, Libeskind said he was “disappointed” with the British group's call for a ban on the Israelis, adding that it was an “attempt to simplify an extremely complex situation.” The British education minister, Michael Gove, condemned RIBA’s “selective outrage,” asking why it was harassing Israel, of all countries, while it had not taken a similar stance against architects from countries such as Syria or China.
The comparison to countries with worse human-rights records is quite persuasive, but definitely leads to a dead end.
Paul Finch, the editorial director of Architects Journal and a respected left-wing architectural critic, wrote that while he did not support Israeli construction in the territories, he found himself agreeing with Gove for the first time, agreeing that Israel was being judged more harshly than other countries in the region and adding that he had never heard anyone complain to architects such as Rem Koolhaas, Zaha Hadid or others who worked with repressive regimes.
“As for those few professionals engaged in the occupied territories, when signing a contract they should have been asking themselves not whether they had professional sanction to do so, but what involvement in the program said about them as citizens of the world,” Finch wrote.
On the other side of the barricade are dozens of British architects, artists and intellectuals, Jewish and non-Jews alike, who see the decision as a courageous act that draws a red line. Prominent among them is the reasoned response of Eyal Weizman, an Israeli architect who lives in the UK. He pointed out the injustices that Israeli architecture perpetrates in the service of the occupation policy, and says they must be stopped. He added that from a professional perspective, it would be appropriate for architects in Israel to be pained by the damage to the beautiful and fragile landscape of the West Bank, which was destroyed by architecture that was both negligent and criminal. In this context, he said, nonintervention is a political position that has supported violence as a default choice.
Weizman is something of a red flag for the IAUA. In 2002, he and architect Rafi Segal (who also expressed support for RIBA’s decision) curated the exhibition catalog entitled "A Civilian Occupation: The Politics of Israeli Architecture." The IAUA, which had commissioned the exhibition, chose to silence this critical voice regarding local architecture throughout the country’s history. The exhibition was supposed to have been sent to a conference of the UIA, the same organization that was asked to expel the IAUA, but it was cancelled.
In light of the IAUA’s response to the threat of a boycott, and regarding its claim that RIBA’s intention was to “embarrass the State of Israel and cause it harm” – it would appear that the denial and silencing are continuing.
It is doubtful whether IAUA’s officials will relax now that the RIBA’s proposal was rejected. The affair has already opened a door to turmoil even if, as Lir said, “We cannot issue a statement because tomorrow morning there will be no association.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Netanyahu seeks alternative diplomatic plan in light of failed peace talks</title>
<date>Thu May 15 03:30:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
After he returns from Japan on Thursday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants to explore with government and security officials alternative diplomatic options in the wake of the breakdown in negotiations with the Palestinians. This, according to a senior figure in Jerusalem who asked to remain anonymous.
Netanyahu said at a cabinet meeting two weeks ago that he wanted ideas from ministers on what steps Israel might take in the new situation created by the end of negotiations and by the recent reconciliation between Fatah and Hamas.
During his visit in Japan Netanyahu told the newspaper Mainichi Shimbun that he was troubled by the standstill in the talks with the Palestinians and its repercussions on Israel.
“I don’t think the status quo is desirable, I don’t want it and I’m engaging in consultations with my own coalition partners and with others, to see if we have other alternatives, because I think the status quo is not a good idea, because I don’t want a binational state,” Netanyahu is cited in an interview to the newspaper.
But a number of Israeli officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, suggested that Netanyahu may be more interested in placating coalition partners Justice Minister Tzipi Livni and Finance Minister Yair Lapid than in genuine movement on the conflict with the Palestinians.
Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas met in London on Wednesday, their first meeting since the peace talks ended and the announcement of the Fatah-Hamas reconciliation. Kerry told the Associated Press he was only talking informally with Abbas before other meetings he’s having today on Syria and Ukraine.
Abbas was expected to tell Kerry he is willing to continue the talks in keeping with the principles agreed on before the end of the nine-month term: Israel’s release of the fourth and final group of Palestinian prisoners and allocating three months to discussing the border issues, while freezing construction in the settlements.
Livni will also be in London in the next few days, but it was not clear yet whether she will meet with Kerry.
In the days immediately following the cabinet resolution to suspend the peace talks, some ministers said alternative strategies must be considered. Livni, in an interview she gave to Israel Channel 2 television on the night of the cabinet resolution, hinted that Israel must consider unilateral measures vis-a-vis the Palestinians.
A few days later Livni had a long talk with leaders of the movement Atid Kahol-Lavan (A Blue and White Future), Gilead Sher and Orni Petrushka, who call for unilateral steps to relax the occupation in the West Bank. They propose suspending construction outside the main settlement blocs in the West Bank and passing laws mandating compensation for settlers who voluntarily agree to move to Israel proper or from outlying settlements to the large settlement blocs.
Over the past two weeks, in closed forums Lapid has also spoken of the need for Israel to consider its options, without elaborating. Economy Minister Naftali Bennett also spoke of an alternative plan, from the right-wing perspective. He believes the state must annex the large settlement blocs – Ariel, Ma’aleh Adumim, Gush Etzion and Alfei Menashe – applying Israeli law to them and grant Israeli citizenship to the Palestinians living in them.
Abbas said Wednesday that the Israeli government is still running on an “old mentality” and blocking the two-state solution that the world and international community have adopted.
Israel is opening the road to one of two options – a binational state or an apartheid state, Abbas said in a recorded speech for Nakba Day, marked annually on May 15.
“It’s time for Israeli leaders to internalize and understand that it’s time to end the longest occupation in history and that the Palestinians have no other homeland but Palestine,” he said.
Abbas reiterated the Palestinian principles that there will be no state and no peace agreement without East Jerusalem and a just solution to the refugees problem in keeping with the Arab peace initiative.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Q&A with Chemi Shalev</title>
<date>Tue May 20 17:00:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Chemi Shalev, Haaretz's U.S. correspondent and senior editor answered readers' questions – on everything from U.S.-Israeli relations to the North American Jewish community.
In his most recent columns, Shalev has written about the ADL's global anti-Semitism survey, how the settlements are ruining any chance of implementing the two-state solution and the role of J Street in American-Jewish life.
Click here to read Chemi Shalev's blog, 'West of Eden.'
------------------------------
Since the "Arab-Jewish conflict" had its name changed to the "Palestinian-Israeli conflict," Israelis being citizens of Israel in spite of religion or place of origin, why is it that only Jews are called settlers instead of any Israelis? Isn't that anti-Semitism practiced by anti-Israel organizations and Haaretz since it is a fact that Arab Jews are not Israeli of origin just like Saudi Arabs are not Israeli of origin?
‫Fred KorrOakland, CA
I’ve never heard the term “Arab-Jewish” conflict used since Israel was established. It’s always been the Arab-Israeli conflict. After Jordan and Egypt signed peace agreements with Israel, I assume it seemed more logical to use the term Israeli-Palestinian conflict or vice versa.
In any case, describing Haaretz as “anti-Semitic” is no way to conduct a dialogue. And I assure you that it isn’t.
--------------------------------------------
If Israel could elect the next U.S. president, who would it pick?
U.S. voter
That’s a tough one. Given that no one knows who the candidates are going to be, it’s also unanswerable. In a very general sense it’s probably true to say that as in recent years, Israelis would probably prefer a Republican candidate. If Jeb Bush runs, I assume his brother’s reputation as a trusted supporter of Israel will work in his favor. But if it is, say, Hillary Clinton against Rand Paul, I would take a wild guess and say that Israelis might tilt the other way, and that might be true even if her opponent is a more mainstream Republican, because many of the potential rivals are unknown to most Israelis.
So? We have to wait, like everyone else, before trying to make an intelligent guess.
---------------------------------
What's your take on the recent killings of Palestinians on Nakba Day? 
Don’t have a take yet. Film is very disturbing, but one must wait to see how it bears up under criticism. And while I am not blind to possibility that Palestinians may inflate Israeli “atrocities” at times, I am also quite certain that many Israeli denials of misdeeds would not withstand the eye of a camera. Heroes and villains live on both sides of the fence.
---------------------------------
Do you think Israel will ever be at peace with its Arab neighbors?
N.J. Jew
Israel is at peace with two of its Arab neighbors – Egypt and Jordan – and is cultivating extraordinarily close ties with Saudi Arabia and Gulf countries because of shared concerns about Iran.
But Israel won’t truly be at peace with the Arab world unless and until the Palestinian problem is solved. 
---------------------------------
Why today's Zionism totally disconnected from the founders main principles and values?
Zeru Tige
That’s a question worthy of a doctoral thesis, but the answer, in any case, is in the eye of the beholder. Also, I don’t know in what why you feel that “today’s Zionism is disconnected from the founders' main principles and values.” The Jewish settlers, for example, seem to view themselves as the direct heirs to the Zionism of yesteryear, while their critics view them as anything but.
---------------------------------
Can you envision a one-state solution where constitutional guarantees allow for freedom of worship in all places; where a safe haven for Jews worldwide is guaranteed; where Palestinian refugees are guaranteed the right of return or compensated? 
Does the Israeli public understand the momentum in the BDS Movement and that the denial that apartheid exits in Israel is a fate well known in South Africa?
Fadi Zanayed
I can certainly “envision” a one-state solution and I know that it is picking up momentum. Nonetheless, I continue to believe that a two-state solution is preferable. I think that the thought that Israelis and Palestinians, given their temperament and history, can get along in one state is a pipe dream.
Do Israelis understand the lurking dangers of BDS and the apartheid label: they are aware of its existence for sure, and many are apprehensive. Nonetheless, a popular Israeli saying is “we survived Pharaoh, we’ll survive this as well” and I suspect that this is the prevailing sentiment regarding BDS as well.
---------------------------------
What happened to the Haaretz apostrophe?
Grammar Nazi
It went the way of the Dodo.
------------------------------
How do you think Jewish candidates will do in the upcoming U.S. midterms? Who are the major Jewish candidates?
Ha! Caught me flat footed on that one. Haven't looked closely at "Jewish candidates" yet.
I think most interesting right now is to follow Eric Cantor's primary race in Virginia: he's expected to win, of course, but he's having a harder time than people expected. If elected, Cantor could become the first ever Jewish Speaker of the House of Representatives. And of course all 21 Jewish Democrats in the House will be competing (except for those like Henry Waxman of California) who have announced their retirement. Senator Al Franken is expected to be easily reelected in Minnesota.
And there are several new Jewish candidates, who I'm sure will get a lot of scrutiny from Jewish media outlets. But other than pride in successful Jews, by the way, the fact that a candidate is Jewish doesn't say much about his views on issues pertaining to Israel and the Palestinians.
------------------------------
What do you think of Foreign Policy's David Rothkopf's statement that the religious garrison state has passed its sell by date? In the face of current resistance to two states by the Israeli settlers, what do you think will be the fate of Palestinians living in the occupied territories?
Sam Siddiqui
I was very much disturbed by Rothkopf’s statement in the sense that I think it reflected the growing disillusionment of American elites, Jewish and otherwise, with Israel and its policies. I think there will be no reversal to this trend unless a two-state solution is somehow resuscitated and achieved. It is now less fashionable than ever before to cling to a belief that such a solution is possible, but nonetheless, I personally can see no other solution. All the other scenarios, to my mind, will end in tragedy for both sides and, on the way, will also cause a complete disconnect with the same American elites.
------------------------------
Don't you think Obama's Mideast policy is a failure? I mean, by now, after Egypt, Syria, and the peace process its clear that he isn't exactly on the same page with his allies, why should Israel trust him on Iran?
Do I think Obama's Middle East policy is a failure? That's too general.
Remember, Obama was elected in 2008 based on his pledge to withdraw American troops from Iraq and Afghanistan - by that measure, his policy is a a success, even if situation in both countries is far from ideal.
On other fronts, it's a mixed bag: Syria is a failure in my books, despite chemical weapons deal, because Obama lost a lot of credibility there and did very little to prevent the horrific killings; in Egypt it is neither here nor there - at least from Israel's point of view - Egyptian regime is still peace partner and now in conflict with Hamas.
In the Gulf, no doubt U.S. lost prestige.
As for Iran, I think that: 1) Even if he has failed to inspire trust and confidence among Israelis, Obama has proven that he is genuinely committed to Israel's security. 2) Not sure there is any other option - that is, not sure Israel can decide that it doesn't trust Obama and go on its own. 3) Don't forget that an overwhelming majority of the U.S. public supports diplomacy with Iran and opposes armed conflict. And Obama, first and foremost, is the president of the Americans, not the Middle Easterners.
------------------------------
How would you compare the state of press freedom in Israel of 2014 with that of the U.S. and Canada?
In "The J Street Confrontation" (8 May 2014) you wrote: 
"Finally it should be noted that the J-Street brouhaha hardly caused a stir in Israel and was largely ignored by its media, either as a reflection of the distance between the two communities or of a lack of interest in what may have seemed like yet another squabble between Jewish askanim (functionaries). But the debate could have long-term consequences for the unity of the American Jewish community and for the clarity of its support for Israel. This danger is amplified, of course, in the absence of a viable peace process that both sides can support, albeit with hesitation and reservations."
So it appears that while American Jews are furiously debating whether it is appropriate to "criticize Israel" — a core issue concerning J Street — the Israelis seemingly could care less. Is that so? If not, then why the lack of media coverage? If so, then perhaps someone should inform the diaspora.
Jonathan BlankAtlanta, Georgia
Though perhaps it has changed in recent years, I think there was, is and possibly will be a great emotional and psychological gap between Israeli and American Jews. In certain ways, the relationship has always been one-sided: many American Jews take a great interest in Israel, but the other way round? Not so much.
Israelis are grappling with same questions of who can say what and where and unfortunately, I believe, are growing less tolerant of dissent as time goes by. But even if the J-Street issue mirrors that in some way, it has not caused any great stir among Israeli, who, like most nations, are mostly interested in themselves. Being largely uniformed, many Israelis I think do not grasp how critical American Jews are to their welfare.
------------------------------
If all the Jews leave America and go live in Israel – which is what Zionists want – who will be left to look out for Israel in Washington?
Yaakov
I don’t think we need to lose any sleep at this point. I don’t see more than a trickle of American Jews coming to Israel any time in the near future. The real issue is distance of younger Jews from Israel, diminishment of drawing power of Holocaust, establishment of state and Six-Day War. And the occupation that is gnawing away at the attachment of many liberal minded American Jews.
That’s something that Israelis should worry about, though I’m not sure they do.
------------------------------
Thanks for your excellent articles, which combine wit and humor with great insight and analysis. Do you ever get discouraged writing about Israel and the Middle East (not to mention U.S. politics), and want to write angry and despairing columns?
Jon Katz
Thank you for that (sure we're not related?).
I often want to write angry and despairing columns (and sometimes do) but I don't always assume that I have anything to contribute to the reader with my anger and despair, which is my main criteria for writing an article or not. Also, anger and despair are quite common these days, no?
Definitely more prevalent than optimism and hope (which I admit are getting harder to justify) both in relation to Israel and the Middle East and internal strife in the American Jewish community. I must admit that I was moved by the scene I witnessed this Sunday, which I wrote about, in which actor Sean Penn received a warm welcome from a decidedly right wing audience in a fundraiser in Manhattan. Don't think it will last or that it is necessarily meaningful for other circumstances, but it at least showed that moments of reconciliation and goodwill have not perished altogether.
------------------------------
Do you believe that cooperation and friendship among Jewish and Arab citizens of Israel is an important aspect of resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict? Have the trends been favorable in recent years for increasing cooperation and connectedness among Jewish and Arab communities within the Green Line? Of course there have been terrible price tag attacks, but I am wondering if day-to-day connectedness has been improving among the majority of citizens despite the terrible actions of a small number of extremists.
Ronald Wilkins
Very good and complex question.
Of course, relations between Israel and its Arab citizens (or Palestinian, as they prefer) can and should be a critical element in relations between Israel and Palestinians. Unfortunately, not all Israeli politicians understand or agree with this and have succeeded in alienating Arab Israelis and signaling that they are not welcome (re Lieberman's offer to "secede" Arab populations inside Green Line to future Palestinian state).
I also think that Netanyahu's emphasis on Israel being a Jewish state has alienated many Israeli Arabs. I often think that the political leadership of Israeli Arabs could be much more constructive if it tried to serve as a bridge between Israelis and Palestinians, but they seem to be gravitating more and more to complete identification with Palestinian positions (and not necessarily moderate ones).
On the other hand (there always is in our area) life goes on, Arabs are integrating more and more in the Israeli economy. Just this week polls were released showing that the attachment of Israeli Arabs to their Israeli citizenship is growing, as is their wish for this to stay in place. One can well understand that despite the conflict and the fact that they are often the victims of discrimination, when they look around at neighboring Lebanon, Syria, Egypt or Gaza, Israeli Arabs can confidently tell themselves that things could be much worse.
------------------------------
Thanks for all your great coverage of news both from Israel and the North American Jewish community.
We know that the West Bank settlement activities are hindering the confidence of the Palestinians in negotiating a two-state resolution, especially with the younger settlers radicalism making reconciliation a more difficult challenge. But let's say the Israeli government has a handle on these radical groups and would retain the major settlement blocs in a peace agreement with the PA. However, is not the continued Hamas negation of the Quartet's conditions, holding everything up with an impasse in negotiations? How can Israel be confident that these Palestinian radical groups of Hamas and Islamic Jihad give up their modus operandi? Israel wants to make peace with a democratic Palestinian nation, not a theocracy which wants to eliminate its existence.
Smadar
Of course you are right and the concerns that you raise are shared, I believe, by most Israelis. I think that in the current context of the government that may be set up, President Abbas seeks to finesse the issue of Hamas non-recognition by establishing a so-called “technocratic” cabinet that would have no declared members of Hamas and that could thus accept the Quartet conditions. This is a position that seems to be acceptable for the U.S. government. Israel, on the other hand, has rejected such a government, even if it technically abides by the conditions, claiming that it is but a façade.
More importantly, there is the age old question of the chicken and the egg: Is there any chance of moderating Palestinian public opinion as long as the conflict continues and the occupation ensues? Some people seem to believe so. I personally don’t. Therefore, even though one cannot dismiss your concerns, the alternative is worse because it promises that the conflict will continue to nurture extremists who won’t recognize Israel. And so on.
------------------------------
Do you see BDS as a legitimate form of non-violent protest?
SamanthaBerkley
That one is a minefield for people like me who consider themselves to be: 1. Israeli patriots; 2. Committed to a two-state solution; 3. Opposed to settlements – especially beyond settlement blocs, and; 4. Despairing of leadership and public opinion that doesn't realize that time is running out.
So if you want my personal position, it is that I do not support BDS but I also do not automatically condemn BDS supporters as anti-Semitic or opponents of Israel's existence (though there are many BDS leaders who are at least one of those). I will say that I think that Israelis are far too complacent about the danger that, absent a peace process, BDS will reach a tipping point one day and suddenly catch on like wildfire.
------------------------------
Who do you regard as Israel's finest leader Israel and who would you like to see lead the country over the coming years?
HannahBerkley
My personal favorites among Israeli leaders are (in chronological order)
1. Ben Gurion (of course)2. Levi Eshkol (a sign of age, I think, but also as symbol of how one can be a good leader despite an appalling lack of charisma)3. Yitzhak Shamir (I detested his politics but admired his commitment and ideology and iron will)4. Yitzhak Rabin (for his authenticity and quintessential Israeli-ness)
As for whom would I like to see, I'll have to get back to you, as soon as I locate a potential candidate....
------------------------------
What do you think are the biggest misapprehensions between Israelis and American Jews?
Rochelle,London
That is worthy of a book. I think both sides have distorted images of each other, based mainly on stereotypes, but I have to say that I think that Israelis are much more ignorant about American Jews than vice versa, by the very nature of their relationship. Israel a focal point for many if not most American Jews, while Israelis barely take an interest in American Jews (see recent flap with acceptance of J-Street into Conference of Presidents, which was barely mentioned in Israeli media). I think there is slightly more awareness now in Israel that we need to listen more to American Jews, but I don't want to exaggerate the importance of this.
------------------------------
Why the hell should I pay for Haaretz when I can get the same news for free elsewhere???
Non-subscriber
I’m not sure news should be free. It’s a service provided by many hardworking people who expect to be paid for doing their job. It’s true that the internet has burst the former business model of providing news and that there is an enormous output of free news, but I think that pattern is changing as more and more quality news outlets begin to put up paywalls.
I would agree with you if it was true that Haaretz provides the same news that you can get for free elsewhere. But I don’t think that is the case: I think (I’m biased, of course) that the news and views provided by Haaretz are better, deeper, more interesting, more accurate, more pertinent etc. We’re not perfect, of course, but if you really want to know what there is to know about Israel and the Middle East, I think that a subscription to Haaretz is essential – whatever your point of view.
------------------------------
Why is the U.S. pointing the finger to Israel on the Peace process collapse when it is clear that Abbas is the Rejectionist?
Jane McDowell
I'm not sure that "it's clear that Abbas is the rejectionist", as you say, but I can cite a few reasons why the Obama Administration might be emphasizing Israel's role in the breakdown of Kerry's efforts:
1. This Administration has viewed settlements from the outset as main obstacle to peace, as seen in first term insistence on freezing them.
2. Lingering ill will between two governments and two leaders.
3. View of Abbas as weaker party who needs more support.
4. Wish to avoid repetition of Clinton pinning the blame exclusively on Palestinians, move which some view as having escalated violence and Second intifada.
5. Reaction to Israeli efforts to pin blame exclusively on other side.
6. Effort to ostracize settler leaders and proponents who have been singled out for blame by Administration officials in order to weaken their position in Israeli public opinion.
------------------------------
Will Israel ever qualify for another World Cup – and is it worth making peace with the Arabs just to get back into the much easier Asian qualifying groups?Geordie
First of all, as a nation that believes in miracles, we should never say never (and I say this as someone who is old enough to remember the thrill of 1970, the last time we played). Secondly, yes, that's a very good reason for making peace with the Arabs. And third, the only way to ensure that we will get into World Cup is to demand that qualifiers be held on religious basis. We'll take on any other Jewish team in the world (and hopefully stand a fighting chance(!
------------------------------
When is Israel going to admit what it did to the Palestinians in 1948 and publicly apologize for its ethnic cleansing of Palestine?
I think the word “ethnic cleansing” is used out of the context that existed in 1948. I think there is growing public scrutiny of the events in the 1948 war but I think most Israelis are light years away from thinking of apologizing. It is a very complex psychological question (see how long it took for Australians to apologize for their treatment of Aborigines, and I think Native Americans are still waiting for their apology and I believe that both those cases were far more severe than what happened in Palestine).
Also: 1. I believe that Israelis should be made aware of what happened and should accept that the creation of Israel entailed a great tragedy for the Palestinians for which Israelis were partially responsible 2) I don’t think the Palestinians are more advanced in scrutinizing their own past and coming to terms with their own failures, omissions and sins in this century old conflict. 3) I think that if there will ever be a two-state solution, it would be good for both sides to acknowledge the others’ most basic core beliefs (Jewish claim on Palestine vs recognition of Nakba, for example(.
------------------------------
The ADL survey was a worthless effort because it avoided key questions and doesn't target those who influence opinion. 500 randoms for Australia (example) doesn't prove squat. The questions to ask need to be centered around how opinion is cemented. As I read it this survey was only a measure of anti-Semitism and a shallow one at that. Without detailed demographics it is difficult to interpret. Indeed to be useful one needs the dataset and not a document. So, my questions are...
1. How does Jewish behavior and Israel impact on anti-Semitism? Clearly anti-Semitism, unlike this report which seems to claim some total disconnect, is generated by JEWISH BEHAVIOURS. Indeed if my Jewish friends were surveyed using those questions, their anti-Semitism would be off the scale. Reason—They lived in Israel and know how foul it can be.
2. Will the Jewish community stand up and deal with those in its ranks that create anti-Semitism?Yani
I apologize but I’m not sure I’m following you completely. If you’re saying that anti-Semitism is the fault of the Jews themselves, than give me a break and leave me alone. If you’re saying that the situation in Israel and the Middle East may be a contributing factor to anti-Jewish sentiments, then that is a more formidable claim which probably has some merit, especially in countries in which there are no Jews and which see themselves as being in a state of conflict with Israel.
The ADL survey has come under a lot of criticism, but they did not claim that it is unconnected to views on Israel. They just said there not enough conclusive date one way or another.
And by the way, as far as I know, the surveys were carried out in scientific manner: a sample of 500 is considered representative in many polls.
------------------------------
Before I ask the question I'll explain my connection to Israel. In 2004 I started a year of volunteering service in AKIM Ashdod working as an art-teacher for disabled kids and adults. After 10 years, I defended MA thesis on Israeli cinema and started publishing short stories and articles about contemporary Israel, all based on my personal experience. So far I found it hard to be made to explain the Europeans that Israel in neither a "racists state" nor a paradise and that there is no obvious way to make judgments once You lived there.
I know it might be a wish rather than a question, but I dare to address it as a Polish journalist to an Israeli journalist: Here's my question: How can I, as a journalist and a writer, help Israelis achieve peace?Jakub Wydrzynski
If I could give you a hint how to make peace, I would have done so long ago. I think it is important however not to give up hope and to believe that peace is possible. I’m assuming that this is your point of view, so expressing would of course be helpful.
And if you happen to come upon the secret formula, don’t be a stranger…
------------------------------
What is your input on all the recent Newsweek espionage reports: who's in charge of this anti-Israel briefing?
I have no real information. Some of the stories I find incredible (women and drugs for visitors to Israel? give me a break), others I think define legitimate information gathering for business reasons as espionage. There's a clash of mentalities, with Israelis' cut to the chase improvisation probably grating on nerves of many strait-laced American officials. I also think that Israelis would be nuts to pursue out and out spying activities in light of Pollard fallout. But to tell you that despite the smoke there is absolutely no fire? Can't do that either.
------------------------------
Why were so many reports on the ADL survey so quick to conclude that 25 percent of the people in the world "hate" Jews? Hate is a very strong, inciteful, word and in the absence of any opportunity to quantify the degree to which one agreed with the ADL's "Jewish stereotypes", how could anyone objectively conclude that these people harbor hatred of Jews?Lou Arpino
Actually, ADL did not use the word “hate”. Their survey says 26 percent of surveyed population “harbor anti-Semitic views”. And even that statement, as you probably know, has been the subject of heated discussion in recent weeks. If, for one, am not sure that attitude towards Jews in Arab countries, especially Palestinian territories, that view themselves as being in a conflict with Israel, are comparable to attitudes in other parts of the world. And in other parts, as survey shows, there is a big difference between countries that have sizeable Jewish populations and in which anti-Semitism is relatively low, and those that don’t, where it is higher.
Which can lead one to the [optimistic] conclusion that the less people know about Jews, the less they like them – and vice versa.
------------------------------
From reading Haaretz, it's fair to assume that there are no significant Jewish-Palestinian groups that work jointly towards a two state solution. There does not appear to be any cooperation on a common, mutually respectful and honest historical narrative. There is little said about Israeli-Palestinian joint business ventures. There's little press about joint cultural groups, medical facilities, or educational institutions (outside of the "Seeds of Peace" type articles here and there). There is no coordination between Jews and Palestinians concerning Palestinian refugees who flee Syria or Iraq and end up in weird places like Bangkok. Do Jews within the Green Line really live in a different universe than Palestinians in Ramallah? Is the distance between Tel Aviv and Nablus really about the same as between Earth and Mars, or is this primarily a reporting biasCharles Rich
There are several groups devoted to fostering Israeli-Palestinian collaboration (One Voice comes to mind) but the answer is yes, the psychological and emotional gaps between Israelis and Palestinians are enormous, despite their physical proximity.
I think this is true of all nations that have endured such a long conflict (Think of French and Germans till end of war).  Nonetheless, consider this: If you were to take 100 people, each from a different country, and put them in the same room, I have no doubt that Israelis and Palestinians would have more in common, and feel more comfortable with each other, than with anyone else. They will like the same food, enjoy the same scenery, understand each other’s gestures and allusions and – don’t tell anyone – probably see that, in many ways, they are more alike than different.
------------------------------
I have two questions:
Question 1: Why is Bernard Lewis's opinion that for the Iranian mullahs "mutually assured destruction (MAD) is not a deterrent, it's an inducement" completely ignored by the U.S. media and Haaretz?
Question 2:On April 27, Pres. Obama said: “On this Yom HaShoah, let us recommit ourselves to the task of remembrance, and to always oppose anti-Semitism wherever it takes root. Together, we must give enduring meaning to the words 'Never Again'." Yet President Obama continues to support the Muslim Brotherhood, the virulently anti-Semitic organization. How do American Jews resolve this dichotomy?
I don’t think the view that Iranian leadership is guided by apocalyptic beliefs is being completely ignored in Israel, though I admit it is submerged in the day to day reporting on negotiations with Iran. I think Israelis are well aware of this line of thought. However you must also take into account that a great many people in the know, including those in the highest echelons of Israeli and U.S. intelligence, believe that the Iranian regime is completely rational and is focused mainly on its own survival. And I pray that they are right.
And I doubt whether Obama “supports the Muslim Brotherhood.” He supported the Morsi regime in Egypt for a while, as did many other governments in the world, as a matter of realpolitik.
------------------------------
How would you rate the present level of relations between the U.S. and Israel?JI
Hmmm, name sounds familiar. Very complex question: public support for Israel is as high as ever, security collaboration is deep and wide and Congress is solidly pro-Israel. BUT: Unrepairable levels of distrust and actual dislike between leaderships of both countries (though they are able to pretend otherwise) and growing disaffection with Israel in liberal circles, both Jewish and otherwise, especially academia. At this point, Israel is not a burning issue in American mindset so I don't see any change in immediate future (note how few articles there were in American op-ed pages about breakdown of Kerry initiative). But future has ominous warning signs, especially if Palestinian arena flares up or if agreement is reached with Iran. If I were running things, I would not take American support for granted and I would be very concerned about potential split in Jewish support.
------------------------------

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Q&A with Haaretz diplomatic correspondent Barak Ravid</title>
<date>Tue May 27 17:28:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Haaretz's diplomatic correspondent, Barak Ravid, answered your questions on Tuesday - on everything from the Israeli-Palestinian peace process to Jerusalem's often fraught relations with its allies.
In his most recent articles, Ravid has reported on the Obama Administration's plans for Mideast peace, the Ministry of Diaspora Affairs ' involvement in Israel's campaign against Iran's nuclear program and the mysterious guest list from the seder meal hosted by Israel's Ambassador in Washington, Ron Dermer.
Click here to read Ravid's blog, Diplomania, and click here to follow him on Twitter.
----------
Q: Since everyone knows how peace is supposed to look like why won't Israel agree to withdraw to the '67 lines? Isn't it obvious by their settlement expansion literally all over the West Bank and Jordan Valley believe their BS about desiring two states? The US is really the only country that believes Israel. Stephanie Jaber
A: The answer to this question is simple – the current Israeli government is completely dominated by the settler lobby in the Knesset. The ministry of housing that is in charge of many of the building tenders in the settlements is being held by the Jewish Home party that opposes the 2 state solution and support further expansion of settlements. As long as they are part of the coalition there will be no possibility for any real movement towards a peace agreement.
----------
Q: As hard as it is to predict Israeli politics, as well as near-future events, how do you imagine the geopolitical picture one year from now (status-quo, changes on the ground)? And what about the Israeli political scene – do you see Netanyahu completing his current term in office? Simon Luling
A: It is not only hard to predict that – it is impossible. At the end of the day it is Israel we are talking about. A country in which one day's news cycle is equivalent to the news cycle of one month in almost any other western country. What I think we will see in the next few months is a vector of deterioration in the relations between Israel and the Palestinians and a more confrontational reality – whether diplomatically or on the ground. If things start to escalate it will be very hard to stop it and the risk of violence will grow.
---------
Q: Prime Minister Netanyahu recently told Jeffrey Goldberg that Israel is considering unilateral steps in the wake of the collapse of the Kerry effort. Do you believe he would risk the composition of the current coalition to implement a unilateral withdrawal plan? Abe Silberstein
A: Netanyahu still does not have a "Plan B". He knows he will have to find an alternative to the "peace talks" that were taking place in the last 9 months and to the US led process – now that President Obama announced a "pause" in US engagement on the Israeli-Palestinian issue. Netanyahu knows that without such an alternative – even if it's just for show – the international pressure on Israel will rise immensely. So Netanyahu is looking for something to fill the vacuum that was created in order to prevent it from being filled by international initiatives that will be hard for him to swallow. For now I don’t see Netanyahu going for a unilateral withdrawal from the West Bank or from parts of it, but the fact he started hinting at such a possibility need not be written off right away.
----------
Q:When I read various Israeli media a picture of fragmentation emerges. Around Israel countries are instable. Within Israel a broad coalition is needed to govern the nation. This gives a coalition with large gaps in ideology and political aim. Various bills in Knesset aim at restricting future governments to act at important dossiers. Various groups within Israeli society are resisting change (like enlistment, secular civil procedures etc..) Any Palestinian state might end up like Syria.
Given all these observations, are we looking from abroad in an over simplifying attitude? What should improve to really co-operate with Israel and its neighbors?
Writsaert van den Born, The Netherlands
A: I think that Israel and many of its neighbors have a huge interest to cooperate and work together these days. The Syria crisis, terrorism in Sinai, the Iranian nuclear crisis – those are all issues that are important for Israel and for countries like Egypt, Jordan. Saudi Arabia. The UAE and many others. Behind the scenes – especially in intelligence channels – there are contacts between Israel and those countries, but Israel is still being perceived as "the mistress" that should be kept discreetly. Like it or not – but the key for taking this relationship to the next level and put it out in the open is progress towards an independent Palestinian state. The best tool for that is the Arab peace initiative. Unfortunately until today no Israeli government really used the Arab peace initiative as a basis for greater engagement with the Arab world.
----------
Q: Israel has a great future. What should be done to protect it? Bob, US
A: Israel's future is first and foremost connected to its international legitimacy. Therefore two things are critical for Israel – having final and internationally recognized borders and strengthening Israel's democratic institutions.
----------
Q: Is the relationship between Obama and Netanyahu the worst in U.S.-Israeli history?
A: I don’t know if you can determine it is the worst in history. What is obvious us that the Obama-Netanyahu relationship is very bad. The two are coming from a very different political background. Obama is a liberal Democrat and Netanyahu is a conservative Republican. Although they did manage to work together on certain issues, they couldn’t develop the intimacy which is required for such a sensitive relationship. Most of their meetings were full of disagreements and confrontations. Both of them would like to see the other guy out of office. I don’t see that changing in the next 2.5 years.
----------
Q: Will Livni ever be prime minister?
A: I will make this answer short: No
----------
Q: Do you agree with John Kerry that Israel is on its way to becoming an apartheid state?
A: I think that we are already at the beginning of this process in the West Bank. The situation in the West Bank has some elements of apartheid. Jewish settlers have far more rights than the Palestinian citizens of the West Bank that are living under occupation. But I think the right comparison is not South African Apartheid but French occupation of Algeria, especially when it comes to the political power the settlers have over the government decision making.
----------
Q: What do you think will be the Israeli reaction if an agreement is reached in the P5+1 talks with Iran and what are the chances of an Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear facilities occurring before or after such an agreement?
A: I think there is a good chance we will see a comprehensive agreement between Iran and the six world powers – if not by July 20th, then in the next 3-6 months. The Iranians have a huge interest in getting such an agreement – much more than the P5+1. In a case of an agreement Israel would have to 'swallow the frog'. I don’t see any possibility of an Israeli military strike in Iran as long as talks are ongoing or after an agreement is reached. The question will be what might happen if there is no agreement and if the nuclear talks collapse. In this case, it is a whole new ball game and the Israeli threat of bombing the Iranian nuclear facilities will come back to table – front and center.
----------
Q: Reading many of your articles in the past, is your responsibility the PM's office? I frequently feel your reporting is spouting Netanyahu's hasbara verbatim. I'm interested in the truth and not his version of it.
A: As part of my job I need to cover the PM's office and report its version of things. This does not mean it is all I do. If you read my articles you must know that very well. You use the term "the truth" – it is a very complex term – who decides what the "truth" is. Many times I encountered people who claim my articles are correct when they liked the content and claimed they were a bunch of lies when they didn’t like it.
----------
Q: Peres said he reached agreement w/Abbas but Bibi nixed it. Now he's going to Rome. Has the president's office gained prestige? @theyoshasit 
Q: Do you support the BDS movement?
A: In general I am against boycotting people and I do not see myself as a supporter of the BDS movement. I support ending the Israeli occupation of the West Bank, stopping settlement activity, ending all Israeli government investment and spending on the settlements and forming an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel. Unfortunately I think that many supporters of the BDS movement are not supporters of the two-state solution like I am. 
----------
Q: Would you ever report something that was said to you 'off the record' if you thought it would help save Israel from another war?
A: It is a very theoretical question. I can't imagine a scenario that this dilemma will be really relevant. I think that if such a dilemma arises I will find a way to get conformation from other sources in order to publish the information. 
----------
Q: As someone who is due to be drafted into the Israeli army in a few months, how can I balance my desire to respect the laws of this country and defend its people, when at the same time knowing that the IDF is an occupation force, which day and day out ruins the lives of Palestinian men, women and children?
A: I served in the IDF for 6 years as an officer. I had the same dilemmas. I think it is important that the IDF has soldiers who have such dilemmas and not just robots that don't think or trigger-happy soldiers that only want to release their frustration on Palestinian citizens. If you say 'I don’t want to be part of this' – you're just giving up and letting other, more negative people take your place. And remember – the IDF does not choose its missions; the government does. Actually, many army commanders are far more moderate than politicians when it comes to the Palestinian issue. In order for the IDF to stop being an occupying army there needs to be a change of government.
----------
Q: Do you have any interest in our God?
A: If the question is whether I see myself as a religious person or as an observant Jew – than the answer is no. In general I am not a big fan of any religion. 
----------
Q: Is Netanyahu turning vegan?
A: I don’t think Netanyahu is turning vegan, but he is raising public awareness to animal rights more than any other prime minister. One of his sons is vegetarian and his wife also had influence on him regarding animal rights.
----------
Q: Who do you think could replace Netanyahu as PM?
A: For now Netanyahu's biggest asset is the fact that there is no natural alternative candidate for the Prime Minister's post. On the other hand – many people in Israel are tired of Netanyahu and the Likud party and fed up with many of their policies – mainly on social economic issues. I remind you that the political system in Israel is a parliamentary one and to be Prime Minister you need to form a coalition. Bibi and the Likud might not get enough seats in the Knesset in the next elections to form a coalition. In this case someone else – like labor party leader Isaac Hertzog might get a chance to form a coalition. But this is all speculation and it is impossible to know how the political map might look like when elections are announced.
----------
Q: How come Netanyahu is giving interviews to foreign media and not so much to Israeli news outlets?
A: Very good question! I wonder about this myself. I think Netanyahu doesn’t respect the role of the press in the Israeli democracy and feels he can just ignore it. it is a big mistake on Netanyahu's part and he is only further alienating the Israeli press. Regarding his interview to the international press – they are usually much easier for him. Most of them are on TV and he just spits out his regular talking points without being challenged to much by the interviewer that usually does not have enough information and knowledge of the issues.
----------
Q: Israel is, as we all know, a country that is fiercely being criticized as regards its abidance of human rights. Reading Haaretz and its frequent (justly) criticism of the Israeli government, it seems to me that one thing, the freedom of press (especially compared to its neighbors), is being guaranteed well in Israel. Is this a correct observation, or is freedom of press limited and at stake in your country? P.J. van der Meij, The Netherlands 
A: I think you are right. Freedom of the press is very strong in Israel. For sure if you compare it to Israel's neighbors. That does not mean everything is perfect. When it comes to national security issues there are still some limitations that need to be scaled down if not totally canceled. But the bigger problem is the way Israeli politicians treat the press, the way they refuse to answer question and the way government ministries lack transparency. 
----------
Q: Many people reckon the pope's 'sudden' decision to stop by the Apartheid wall in Bethlehem and pray is of great importance and reflects the shift in world's views regarding Israel as an Apartheid state as a result to the growing BDS campaign. Do you agree or do you think it is just another media stunt?
A: I think that his prayer next to the separation wall was symbolically important, but not more than that. So was his visit to the terror victims' memorial site in Israel. I wouldn’t read too much into either of them.
----------
Q: At Herzl's tomb ceremony with the pope, the two children holding the wreath were one Filipino child and one black child. Who chose them? The pope or some Israeli official? Who are these children (not their names but are they Israeli?) Nicole Cohen-Addad
A: Sorry, I really don’t know!
----------
Q: Is Sarah Netanyahu really as some influential as people claim she is?
A: Sarah Netanyahu is very influential on Netanyahu's decision making – and this is an understatement. It would not be an exaggeration to say she is much more influential over her husband than Michele Obama is over hers. It is enough to see how much effort Netanyahu put into trying to prevent MK Reuven Rivlin from running for President. A big part of Netanyahu's motivation to do that came from his wife.
----------
Q: Does it concern you that a large part of the Israeli public believes that you do not report objectively but rather filter every article (and even your choice of articles to write) to reflect your own subjective political agenda and beliefs? Jacob Weiss. 
A: I don’t think that the term objectivity is relevant or that such a thing even exists – at least not in people that have a pulse. The only objective things I know are stones, trees and other inanimate objects. Every person in every field of life has an agenda – and rightly so. A journalist need not be "objective". He has to be honest, professional and give his readers as much new information as possible. The question is not for whom I voted in the last elections but if my articles are correct, well-founded and are written with ethical standards. I hope this description fits my work in Haaretz. 
----------
Q: Even if you want to accept that at least on some level, Abbas alone is committed to a peace agreement, how can Israel hope to successfully find peace with someone who partners up with an organization sworn to Israel's destruction (Hamas)? Lior Trink
A: first I want to make clear that I think Netanyahu and Abbas are both not really committed to making the needed compromises and the tough decision necessary for a peace agreement. But on your question regarding Hamas: the PLO also wanted to destroy Israel for 25 years but finally recognized it and decided it wants a Palestinian state alongside Israel and not instead of Israel. I don’t know if Hamas will ever get there but I know that if the only policy towards them will be boycott they will only harden their positions. 
----------
Q: What's the best scoop you've ever had?
A: I think the biggest scoop was when I published the new EU guidelines that ban any funding to West Bank settlements or to entities that are connected to the settlements. You can read about it here and here. This story was so important because it influenced not only Netanyahu's decision making regarding peace talks with the Palestinians but mostly because it had a huge effect on public opinion in Israel and on the Israeli discourse regarding the settlements. This story keeps on resonating in different angles since then and I think it made clear to many Israelis that the occupation has a price. 
----------

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa's De Klerk: Without peace, Israel heading toward apartheid</title>
<date>Wed May 28 18:05:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
South Africa's last president under white rule has suggested that Israel risks heading toward apartheid if it does not reach a peace deal with the Palestinians.
The comments by F.W. de Klerk echo warnings made by Palestinian, American and dovish Israeli officials. But his words carry special meaning, given his role in South Africa's painful history of race relations.
De Klerk was the last president under apartheid and along with the late Nelson Mandela, brought about the end to decades of systematic racial discrimination against blacks, jointly winning the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize.
Comparisons to South Africa's racist rule have increased in public discourse about Israel and its treatment of Palestinians. In April, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry — who had been mediating negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians — set off an uproar when he made a similar warning.
In an interview aired Tuesday on Israeli Channel 2 TV, de Klerk said calling Israel an apartheid state now was "unfair." But he said that without the establishment of a Palestinian state, Israel may have to contend with the consequences of one state for both peoples.
"The test will be (does) everybody living then in such a unitary state, will everybody have full political rights?" de Klerk said. "Will everybody enjoy their full human rights? If they will, it's not an apartheid state."
He added: "There will come in Israel a turning point where if the main obstacles at the moment which exist to a successful two-state solution are not removed, the two-state solution will become impossible."
De Klerk was in Israel receiving an honorary doctorate from the University of Haifa.
Israeli backers of the creation of a Palestinian state say relinquishing control of the Palestinian territories and its roughly residents is the only way to ensure Israel's future as a democracy with a Jewish majority. Following the collapse of the most recent round of peace talks, fears that the sides could be headed toward a single "binational" state are growing. The Palestinians want the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem — territories captured by Israel in 1967 — for their hoped-for independent state.
Israel is a democracy whose Arab minority holds citizenship rights. Israeli Arabs often complain of discrimination but have reached senior positions in government, the judiciary, the foreign service and other fields including the military.
But it is the situation in the West Bank that sparks comparisons to apartheid. The territory is home to two populations — a Palestinian majority of some 2.4 million people and a Jewish settler minority of 350,000 — that are subject to two vastly different legal and political systems. Israeli West Bank settlers, for instance, can vote in Israeli elections, while Palestinians cannot.
Israel captured the West Bank from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war.
Israel vehemently rejects any comparison to apartheid-era South Africa. While South Africa's was a system rooted in race, Israel says the differences in the West Bank stem from legal issues and security needs.
Most of its leaders, including hard-line Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, have endorsed the idea of establishing a Palestinian state to protect Israel's Jewish majority.
"The two-state solution might be the best one," de Klerk said. "You'll have to move fast. See the window of opportunity. Jump through it. It might close."
A number of prominent centrist Israelis, including former prime ministers Ehud Olmert and Ehud Barak, and the current chief peace negotiator, Tzipi Livni, have invoked the apartheid analogy in their calls for a peace agreement and change in the status quo.
Paul Hirschson, a South African-born spokesman for Israel's Foreign Ministry, brushed off de Klerk's remarks, saying Israel would not accept a one-state solution.
"It's not a warning. It's a comment by people who misunderstand Israel, the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Middle East," he said.
Mohammed Madani, a senior Palestinian official in charge of outreach to Israeli society said Israel should take note of de Klerk's words.
"When the leader of the former apartheid regime in South Africa warns Israel of going down the road to this style, it should listen to him carefully because he knows what he is talking about," he said.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Justin Timberlake angers Palestinians with Western Wall Instagram pic</title>
<date>Thu May 29 21:04:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Pop star Justin Timberlake, who performed in front of over 40,000 Israelis Wednesday night in Tel Aviv as part of his 20/20 Experience World Tour, is getting virtually slammed by Palestinians for posting a photo of himself on Instagram praying at the Western Wall with the hashtag 
Israel.
The caption on the photo said: "The Holy Land... What an experience. I will never forget this day," adding the hashtag 
Israel. The photo has already received nearly a quarter of a million likes.
But there have also been many disgruntled comments left by Palestinians: "There was never an Israel, this was always Palestine," one Instagram user wrote. Another left the comment; "FYI , it's called 
PALESTINE" and "Theres no land called israel be sure of that , its palestine and forever."
On Haaretz's Facebook page reporting on his arrival and photo-op, several users left similar comments: "I lost all respect for Timberlake because he is performing in Israel when there is a Boycott movement against Israel for its apartheid practices."
Another user wrote "Go visit Palestine."
However, there were also many comments of support on Timberlake's Instagram photo, as well as on Haaretz's Facebook page. For example:
"Thank you for coming to Tel Aviv!! By coming to Israel, the only democracy in the mid east where full citizenship and equal rights exist for all who live thereyou and others like the Rolling Stones, Lady Gaga stand up against BDS supporters and hatred. Would Timberlake be able to pray openly and perform on stage without risk of censorship in any of Israel's neighbours?"
His concert coincided with Jerusalem Day, marking 47 years since the capture of East Jerusalem by Israel.
Pope Francis, who was just in Israel, also visited the Western Wall, but what made headlines was his visit to a  different wall: The separation barrier in the West Bank city of Bethlehem.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Boycott Israel posters featured at L.A. exhibit vandalized</title>
<date>Sat May 31 15:11:06 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
An art exhibit in Los Angeles featuring posters promoting the Palestinian boycott of Israeli goods was vandalized, the Los Angeles Times reported.
According to the curator of the exhibit, entitled "Boycott! The Art of Economic Activism," six posters were thrown in the trash and three were stolen. The exhibit, organized by the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization, displays a variety of replicas of posters featuring boycott movements throughout history, among them the bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama and South Africa's anti-apartheid divestment campaign.
The exhibit is partly funded by the City of Los Angeles Department of Cultural Affairs and the Los Angeles County Arts Commission.
Eight out of the nine posters vandalized featured the boycott of goods made in Israel or in Israeli settlements in the West Bank. The organization is considering turning to the police, but hasn't yet.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Q&A with Haaretz editor-in-chief Aluf Benn</title>
<date>Tue Jun 10 19:02:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Haaretz's editor-in-chief, Aluf Benn, answered readers' questions.
Benn was appointed editor-in-chief in 2011, before which he served in a variety of roles, including investigative reporter, head of the news division and as the paper's diplomatic correspondent.
His articles have been published in a variety of international newspapers, including The New York Times, The Guardian, Foreign Affairs and Newsweek.
In his most recent columns, Benn has written about Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's handling of the defense budget, Israel's arms export business and how South Africa's apartheid regime saved Israel's defense industry. 
----------
Q: Are young Israelis today more right-wing than older generations? And if so, why?
A: It depends on the definition of "right." Does it mean supporting the annexation of the West Bank to Israel? Or deepening the discrimination of Israel's non-Jewish citizens? Or strengthening the role of religion in public life and national institutions?
The answer is mixed. Electorally, the right-wing-Haredi block barely won last year's election, and there was no discernible shift of voters from the center-left to right-wing parties. Having said that, the current government is promoting a nationalist agenda, which puts Israel's Jewish identity over and above its democracy, egalitarianism and protecting minorities.
----------
Q: How do you see the newspaper's English version different than the Hebrew edition? Who do you see as your audience abroad?
A: Different audiences have different priorities and interests. For example, our readers outside Israel are less interested in local stories than the locals, but care more about Jewish world stories than our Hebrew audience.
Our audience abroad includes readers interested in news from the Middle East and particularly about Israel, people who care about the well-being and future of Israel and want to take part in the conversation, and others who simply find our copy relevant, meaningful and exciting.
----------
Q: Who really represents American Jews: AIPAC or J Street?
A: You must ask American Jews, not a second-generation Sabra like me.
----------
Q: Is the so-called military option vis-à-vis Iran finally off the table – or is there still a chance that Bibi will attack? Dave, Toronto
A: Nothing is ever "final" in politics, but currently it appears that the attack option has been shelved in favor of a stronger nuclear deterrent.
----------
Q: Why would Haaretz publish texts such as the one by Carolina Landsmann, on June 6th? I have no issue with her criticism of Israel's policies, but what is the purpose of her prejudiced and essentialist generalizations about "the Jews" and "the Jewish people"? And was Israel really founded on the "myth of the chosen people"? I have read such claims in anti-Semitic literature, but never in serious works of history. There is indeed a world outside of Israel, but it seems Ms. Landsmann is as unaware of this as those she criticizes. Stéphane Bruchfeld
A: Carolina Landsmann criticized the Netanyahu government's PR line, which implies that merely by its Jewish character, Israel has some inherent moral superiority and its critics – particularly European governments, whose predecessors persecuted Jews – are by definition anti-Semitic. 
----------
Q: Haaretz was labeled as the enemy of state; does this mean the democracy is so weak in Israel that a newspaper of center left becomes the enemy of state? Why do you think Israel is abandoning the idea of a real democracy altogether?
A: I beg to differ here. In non-democratic countries, newspapers can't be described as "enemies of the state." Critical press simply doesn't exist there.
----------
Q: Netanyahu was once quoted as saying that Israel has two main enemies: Haaretz and The New York Times. Do you see this as a badge of honor or dishonor?
A: Neither. I see it as a political cheap shot, aimed at pleasing Netanyahu's audience – the staff of The Jerusalem Post.
----------
Q: How do you respond to charges that Haaretz English edition censors its translations to make them more palatable to foreign readers?
A: We don't "censor our translations."
----------
Q: Who did more damage to Israel: Yigal Amir or Mordechai Vanunu?
A: Amir. What damage did Vanunu cause? If anything, he gave credibility to Israel's nuclear deterrent.
----------
Q: Do you think that Israel is heading towards the one-state solution, the two-state solution or no solution? Hussein
A: Let's talk about "reality" or "formula" rather than "solution." For almost a century, since the Balfour Declaration, the models of Jewish-Arab coexistence in Palestine/Eretz Israel have tilted between a unitary state with no internal borders (the British Mandate, the 1939 White Paper, the occupation regime between 1967 and 1987) and some form of partition (the Peel Commission report, UN Resolution 181, the 1949 Armistice, Oslo and its sequels, the Gaza Disengagement and the closure/separation barrier). What we see now is a mixture of annexation and partition, which will probably go on for quite a while. The calls for annexation – in its right-wing apartheid mode, or left-wing one-person-one-vote mode are still too weak to break the status quo.
----------
Q: Taking into account demographic, environmental and technological factors, how do you see the future of Israel in 25 years, regardless of the peace process. What influences your ideas? For example did you serve in the Army, in what capacity? Did you ever shoot someone? Was someone very close to you killed in action or by terrorist? Moshe
A: The key issue facing Israel is integrating its growing Arab and Haredi minorities, especially into the workforce. It's key to sustaining economic growth and mitigate inter-tribal tensions within the country. Since both minorities are non-Zionists, it's not going to be an easy process – but it's crucial.
I served in the military in unimportant non-combat jobs, partly in Lebanon and partly in the General Headquarters in Tel Aviv. I only shot at cardboard targets, not people. My uncle Aluf Hurwitz was killed in action in Gaza, in 1955, and I'm named after him.
----------
Q: One of your predecessors said that the United States needs to 'rape' Israel to make peace with the Palestinians. Leaving aside the violence of that analogy, do you agree that the U.S. needs to be more forceful in its peacemaking efforts? Clint, NYC
A: I think that Israel, first and foremost, needs to be more forceful, sincere and committed in its peacemaking efforts. 
----------
Q: Do you shave your head or are you naturally bald? Larry D.
A: I'm about half-bald since my 20s, and shave the rest.
----------
Q: How do you feel about the election of Rivlin as Israel's next president?
A: Rivlin will have to focus his energy on strengthening Israel's democracy, standing against racism and promoting minority integration. His liberal tendencies as an MK give some hope in this regard.
----------
Q: Do Israeli citizens reflect the ideals of the Likud Knesset and Netanyahu? It appears as though Netanyahu is dragging Israel down in world opinion. Most world leaders do not respect or believe Netanyahu, sort of like "Chicken Little" the sky is falling, he's becoming tiresome. How can Israelis take pride in their leader when he appears so out of touch with reality? I realize some will say the same about us but comparing Israel to the U.S. is apples to oranges. The U.S. is a mover and shaker involved in world policies, Israel is not. Nadya
A: In the eyes of many Israelis, Netanyahu appears to be the only politician who is able to lead the country. Not because they support his ideas or policy, but mainly due to the lack of credible alternative. 
----------
Q: How do you defend the apparently racist article by Salman Masalha that your newspaper published last week?
A: Salman, one of our best writers, published a first-hand account of racial profiling at Ben-Gurion Airport – one of the worst examples of Israel's institutional discrimination against its Arab citizens. He intended to shock by turning the argument on its head and showing that racial profiling could work both ways. Apparently, however, his remark about the security official's skin color, which is acceptable in Israel, could be offensive to some American readers who have different sensitivities.
----------
Q: As editor-in-chief of Israel's oldest and arguably most respected news daily, how do you feel about the fact that the online readership for your English edition has increasingly become a committed group of hateful, anti-Zionist and anti-Semitic extremists who show no interest in true reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians?
A: What is the basis for your allegation? We don't ask the political opinions of our subscribers or occasional readers, in Hebrew or in English. 
----------
Q: Bibi always demanded unity of the Palestinians, now he refuses their reunion. What's his logic, besides delaying the process? Benjamin Cantu
A: Beyond the usual blame-game rhetoric, there is a practical issue at stake as well. Separating the West Bank from Gaza enables the Israeli right-wing one-staters to argue – like Moshe Arens – against the "demographic problem" by stating that Israel can absorb the West Bank Palestinians and still remain a Jewish-majority democracy. Including Gaza and its large Palestinian population in the equation undermines this argument. 
----------
Q: Have you ever considered leaving Israel for good?
A: No.
----------
Q: While the content of the paper has clearly grown with the wider expanse allowed on a digital platform, the publication seems to be moving further than ever to a niche of elitist left, as well as to a young hipster audience, Tel Aviv exclusive. How do you intend to broaden your readership to include the periphery, the Arab intelligentsia, the right-wing who would be well-served and eager for dialogue? Your opinion pages, especially in Hebrew, are disproportionately occupied by one-sided ideas, many of them frankly ignorant, and the magazine content is elusive to the likes of my aging generation. Where are the young settlers debating Gideon Levy? Where is the response to the feminist thought appropriately but disproportionately portrayed? A newspaper need not be partisan nor politically correct. Do you have plans to expand the dialogue so that citizens from Dimona to Nazareth to Shiloh will have their voices heard and engage with Haaretz as an intellectual and relevant publication? Respectfully yours, Joseph Lubiovsky, Jerusalem
A: We're open to anybody as a reader or writer, regardless of their address or political view. And we're definitely not politically correct.
----------
Q: I know that 'apartheid' is a very loaded word – but it's a word that appears many times on the Haaretz website. Are you personally concerned about Israel going down that path? NM, Tel Aviv
A: Yes, as it moves closer to annexing the West Bank.
----------
Q: How do you feel about the election of Rivlin as Israel's next president?
A: Rivlin will have to focus his energy on strengthening Israel's democracy, standing against racism and promoting minority integration. His liberal tendencies as MK give some hope in this regard.
----------
Q: Why on earth should I pay for Haaretz???
A: Because it's a great newspaper.
----------
Q: What criteria should be met that a comment appears in your comments section (that is, that it passes Haaretz' censorship)? I find that 90% of my comments don't make their way to being published (despite that there are no insults, no hate speech, no foul language, only arguments), while some other characters can write whatewer they like. Are some subjects or persons untouchable? May one criticize the 'contributions' of Gideon Levy or Amira Hass? May one draw the attention that 850,000 Jews were expelled from Arab countries.? May one say that the 'occupation' is legal (plus it's legitimate and moral), and 'resistance' is therefore illegal and subject to sanctions?' Or it's just a question of money, you want me to subscribe. (Which I will not).
A: There are no untouchable writers or subjects in our comment section.
----------
Q: Is there one Israeli journalist who you read religiously? Nahum, Givatayim
A: There are many journalists I read regularly – Israeli and non-Israeli.
----------
Q: Do you have any plans to launch Haaretz in any other language? I am a Francophone and I would love to read in my language. Michel, Paris
A: Ideas for a third-language Haaretz (French, Arabic, Russian, Chinese) have been considered from time to time, but currently there are no concrete plans to launch a third edition.
----------
Q: Would Israel be able to survive without American support (political and/or financial)?
A: America's political support is more important to Israel's well-being.
----------
Q: If you could turn back time, which single event in Israeli history would you change or prevent?
A: The Yom Kippur War.
----------
Q: In the age of Internet, do printed newspapers still have a role to play?
A: Sure, as long as people want to read them. New technologies don't always make the older ones obsolete. Radio coexists with TV and internet. Bicycles and trains coexist with cars.
----------
Q: Can you ever envisage a day when Israel will be part of a European Union-style federation of Middle Eastern states?
A: Yes. But it's more complicated than in Europe, even among the non-Israeli states in the region.
----------
Q: Why is Haaretz more anti-Israel in its reportage than some Arab media?
A: We are professional journalists. We don't measure our reporting on a scale of pro- or anti- Israel.
----------
Q: Do you see Avigdor Lieberman as the likely successor to Netanyahu? Could he be the next Begin or Sharon and surprise everyone by being the one to finally get Israel out of the West Bank? Josh 
A: Anything can happen, obviously, but so far there have been no indication of a Lieberman about-face. Remember that Begin and Sharon got out of the Sinai and Gaza at the backdrop of national trauma – the Yom Kippur War and the second Intifada, respectively.
----------
Q: Why is Haaretz (the printed newspaper) so much more expensive than any other Israeli newspaper? Kobi, Tel Aviv
A: Because producing quality is expensive.
----------
Q: Do you miss reporting? Barry, New Jersey
A: Occasionally :-)
----------
Q: I live in New York. I go to synagogue on the High Holidays and I fast on Yom Kippur. I feel a spiritual connection to Israel, but I have never been there. How can I play a more active role in promoting what I believe is the right way forward for the State of Israel?
A: First of all, come visit us.
----------
Q: How do you explain Israel's shift to the right over the past 15 years? Do you see Israel moving back to the center any time soon? @theyoshasit
A: The right has been in power, or has held a virtual veto over policy, for the past 34 years, with a short break during the Rabin-Peres premiership. Moreover, in the past 14 years, since the breakdown of peace talks at Camp David, the mainstream political argument has stated that there is "no partner" on the Palestinian side. 
----------
Q: Do you think a viable Palestinian nation-state is a threat to the national security of United States? Ghaleb Akari, Frisco, TX
A: No.
----------
Q: Were you a member of  a youth movement when you were young? Do you think it would be helpful for your readers to know the ideological background of your columnists - youth movement, party affiliations in the past, etc.? David, Rockville, Maryland
A: In high school I was an active member of Hanoar Haoved, which was and is affiliated with the Histadrut, Israel's labor federation. I was never a political party member.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Reviving the dormant idea of peace</title>
<date>Sat Jun 07 13:19:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
In recent years, Israeli newspapers, including Haaretz and TheMarker have been holding conferences dealing with diverse topics that affect our lives, such as economics, education, the environment, health and social justice, to name a few. But what about peace, that vital component that underpins our very existence? This issue seems to have been relegated to the back burner, dismissed as a marginal topic for daydreamers.
In the course of my work as director of the Israel Peace Conference I have heard many cynical comments and disdainful questions, such as “why are you wasting your time?” or “Has Haaretz lost its mind? Who believes in peace these days?” People said that a newspaper should not be a venue for a peace conference. A newspaper can conduct a campaign for social justice. A media drive calling for more equal sharing of the national burden is quite legitimate. Promoting a pitch that supports a deal for exchanging one Israeli soldier for thousands of terrorists lies within the national consensus. But a peace conference? That is a contentious issue that only delusional left-wingers dare broach.
The concept of peace has seen better days. The words “I prefer making sacrifices for peace to the sacrifices of war,” written by then Prime Minister Menachem Begin to author Amos Oz in 1978, would today be considered treasonous by the right wing. The first Lebanon War was officially called, in Hebrew, “Operation Peace for the Galilee,” even though the reference to “peace” was manipulative and tautologic. Benjamin Netanyahu ran his election campaign in 1996 under the slogan “The Likud – making a secure peace.” In 2001 the party’s slogan was “Only Sharon can make peace.” In those days, surveys and focus groups taught campaign strategists that “peace” sells.
The fatal combination of “there is no partner” propaganda, orchestrated by Ehud Barak, the terror attacks of the second intifada that erupted after the breakdown of the Camp David summit, and Israel’s large-scale “Operation Defensive Shield” against terrorists in the West Bank, erased the word “peace” from the election campaigns of all the major parties, including Labor.
The government’s decision in 2004 to unilaterally withdraw from the Gaza Strip and northern Samaria marked the end of a decade of peace talks. This has been replaced by talk of unilateral convergence, a Palestinian state with temporary borders, an interim agreement and annexation of settlement blocs. The “peace camp” has contracted its vision and goals, from reconciliation and putting an end to the conflict, to the erection of demographic separation barriers that will prevent Israel from becoming a binational state or a de facto apartheid state.
The formula “peace in exchange for territories” has been replaced by a concept of peace being merely a prelude to war. The firing of rockets from Gaza even after Israel withdrew serves as “proof” for the right wing that this formula doesn’t work. This, despite the fact that the territories were evacuated in a unilateral move that was intended, according to Prime Minister Sharon’s adviser Dov Weisglass, to freeze the peace process.
Political leaders are convincing the public (and themselves?) that the opposite of peace is not necessarily war, but rather a deluxe occupation, with the status quo serving as the hallucinatory drug. The establishment in Israel is gradually distancing itself from peace as a value in itself. The leadership sows fear of the price of peace within people’s minds, turning the occupied territories into the most valued object. Whereas in Israel’s Declaration of Independence Israel extended a hand in peace to neighboring states and their peoples but was rebuffed, today it is the Arab League that is offering peace and neighborly relations, only to be rejected by Israel. The Arab Peace Initiative was adopted by the Arab League in 2002, and later by the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. The initiative offers Israel not only peace and security, but a normalization of relations. Up to now, no Israeli government has held a single discussion of this proposal. In 2003, the Sharon government dismissed out of hand any reference to this initiative in the “Road Map,” as one of the foundations of peace negotiations.
A common cliché in Israeli media is that the Palestinians never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity for achieving peace. Three years ago I had a chance to witness this lapse up close. This was the worst missed opportunity since the state was established. I was invited to Cairo along with a group called The Israeli Peace Initiative, which has been trying to mobilize support for the concept of regional peace. Our delegation, which included former head of the Shin Bet security services and current cabinet minister Jacob Perry, former cabinet minister Moshe Shahal, former Chief-of-Staff Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, and ex-chief of the Mossad Danny Yatom, held a long meeting with Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil al-Arabi, who had just been nominated as the Secretary-General of the Arab League.
Even though the meeting was held in the midst of the Arab Spring and the Tahrir Square uprising, our host emphasized to Israeli and Arab correspondents that the Arab countries are committed to the Arab Peace Initiative. He expressed his disappointment over the blatant disregard of the Arab League’s initiative by successive Israeli governments. Israeli media outlets, which trumpeted the cries of “the people want social justice” only reported about the meeting in a muted voice, if at all. Half a million people who took to the streets in protest against the price of housing and cottage cheese remained indifferent to the exorbitant costs of abandoning peace. These are not just costs to the economy.
The renowned American journalist and broadcaster Edward Murrow (1908-1965), who fought Senator Joe McCarthy in the latter’s attempts to quash freedom of expression, said that “there is a great and perhaps decisive battle to be fought against ignorance, intolerance and indifference. This weapon of television could be useful. The problem with television,” said Murrow, “is that it is rusting in the scabbard during a struggle for survival.” He added that “this instrument can teach, it can illuminate; yes, and it can even inspire. But it can do so only to the extent that people are determined to use it to those ends. Otherwise it’s merely wires and lights in a box.”
These words are apt for all types of media in Israel. Most of their swords are rusting in their sheaths during this existential struggle, conducting a war for peace. In convening the Israel Peace Conference and in publishing this unique Peace Supplement, Haaretz is fulfilling its duty to use the tool at its disposal in order to inform people of the advantages of peace, to light up the spark in bleary eyes and even to awaken a dormant inspiration among the seekers of peace.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Desmond Tutu: U.S. Christians must recognize Israel as apartheid state</title>
<date>Tue Jun 17 17:29:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Veteran anti-apartheid activist and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Desmond Tutu has called on the Presbyterian Church (USA) to pass a series of resolutions condemning Israel as an apartheid state and proposing policies to boycott it.The church's biennial General Assembly, which is currently meeting in Detroit, has on its agenda eight resolutions dealing with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Activists want the church and its institutions to use their investment dollars to punish Israel over its treatment of the Palestinians, such as by withdrawing investments from companies whose products are used by the Israeli government in the Palestinian territories.Presbyterian national assemblies have considered adopting sanctions over Israeli treatment of the Palestinians since 2004. Divestment advocates were narrowly outmaneuvered at the last Presbyterian convention in 2012, losing a crucial ballot by just two votes.This year, divestment activists enter the GA with signs of increasing momentum, within and outside the church."I am especially urging the Assembly to adopt the overture naming Israel as an apartheid state through its domestic policies and maintenance of the occupation, and the overture calling for divestment of certain companies that contribute to the occupation of the Palestinian people," Tutu wrote in an article published in Huffington Post."The sustainability of Israel as a homeland for the Jewish people has always been dependent on its ability to deliver justice to the Palestinians," Tutu wrote. "I know firsthand that Israel has created an apartheid reality within its borders and through its occupation. The parallels to my own beloved South Africa are painfully stark indeed.""Realistic Israeli leaders have acknowledged that Israel will either end its occupation through a one or two state solution, or live in an apartheid state in perpetuity. The latter option is unsustainable and an offense to justice. We learned in South Africa that the only way to end apartheid peacefully was to force the powerful to the table through economic pressure."Tutu stressed that the resolutions that will be voted on the General Assembly "are not about delegitimizing the State of Israel, but about ending its suppression of 4,000,000 Palestinian sisters and brothers. It's about naming an unjust system and refusing to participate in it."
Tutu admonished "stubbornness of Israel's leaders in wanting to hold onto and settling land that is not theirs," saying it "can only lead to tragedy for both peoples. For the sake of them both as God's cherished, the strong witness of the two overtures is the only peaceful route left in the cause of justice and ultimate reconciliation. My prayers today are with the members of the General Assembly and with all the peoples of the Holy Land in Israel and Palestine."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. Presbyterians vote to divest from companies used by Israel in occupied territories</title>
<date>Sat Jun 21 09:34:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) on Friday became the most prominent religious group in the United States to endorse divestment as a protest against Israeli policies toward Palestinians, voting to sell church stock in three companies whose products Israel uses in the occupied territories. Union for Reform Judaism calls on Presbyterians to reverse their decision.
The General Assembly voted by a razor-thin margin — 310-303 — to sell stock in Caterpillar, Hewlett-Packard and Motorola Solutions. Two years ago, the General Assembly rejected a similar divestment proposal by two votes.
The American Jewish Committee, a policy and advocacy group based in New York, said the vote was "driven by hatred of Israel." But Heath Rada, moderator for the church meeting, said immediately after the vote that "in no way is this a reflection of our lack of love for our Jewish brothers and sisters."
Alongside the call for divestment, the measure also included an endorsement of the two-state solution, a reaffirmation of the church's belief in Israel's right to exist, and language distancing the church's policies and aims from those of the global BDS (Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions) movement. The measure instructed the church to pursue actions that would benefit the lives of both Israelis and Palestinians and work to advance peace via 'positive investment.'
The decision is expected to reverberate well beyond the church. It comes amid discouragement over failed peace talks that have left activists desperate for some way to affect change and as the broader movement known as BDS — or boycott, divestment and sanctions against Israel — has gained some momentum in the U.S., Israel's closest and most important ally.
Presbyterians who advocated for divestment insisted their action was not part of the broader boycott movement. Israeli officials, along with many American Jewish groups and their supporters, have denounced the campaign as an attempt to delegitimize the Jewish state. In a separate vote, the assembly also voted to re-examine its historic support for a two-state solution.
The top Presbyterian legislative body has been considering divestment for a decade. Representatives of the Presbyterian socially responsible investment arm told the national meeting in Detroit that their efforts to lobby the three companies for change had failed. Carol Hylkema of the Israel/Palestine Mission Network, a Presbyterian group that advocates for Palestinians and spearheaded the drive for divestment, said their action was modeled on the divestment movement to end apartheid in South Africa.
The vote was the subject of intense lobbying both from within and outside the church. Rabbis and other members of Jewish Voice for Peace, which advocates for Palestinians, lined the halls of the meeting and prayed in vigils outside the convention center wearing T-shirts that read, "Another Jew Supporting Divestment." Other rabbis and their Presbyterian supporters held panel discussions and sent letters to delegates urging them to vote no.
Rabbi Rick Jacobs, head of the liberal Union for Reform Judaism, which is the largest branch of American Judaism, addressed the delegates twice, urging them to vote against divestment. He offered to arrange a meeting for the two top Presbyterian executives next week in Jerusalem with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss church concerns, if Presbyterians rejected the divestment proposal. After the vote, Jacobs said the denomination as a whole is no longer "a partner for joint work on Israel-Palestine peace issues."
"We need to be working together on this vital issue and there cannot be a true partnership when one side endorses positions that delegitimize the other's rights and core values," Rabbi Jacobs added.
Rabbi David Sandmel, ADL Director of Interfaith Affairs, who attended the conference, said "We are greatly disappointed by the vote in favor of divesting from companies doing business with Israel, a move that is out of step with the views of the majority of Presbyterians in the pews at the community level."
In leading an effort to strike down the proposal, Frank Allen of the Central Florida Presbytery told delegates, "Divestment will not end the conflict and bring peace. Divestment will create dissension. Dialogue and relationship building will lay the groundwork for true peace."
Bill Ward of the Presbytery of the Inland Northwest, based in Spokane, Washington, argued the proposal was not an attack on Israel. The measure adopted Friday reaffirms Israel's right to exist. "It is motivated by stewardship integrity, not partisan political advocacy. It is not anti-Israel nor is it pro-Palestinian beyond the matter of human rights," Ward said.
Two smaller U.S. religious groups have divested in protest of Israeli policies: the Friends Fiduciary Corp., which manages assets for U.S. Quakers, and the Mennonite Central Committee. Last week, the pension board of the United Methodist Church, the largest mainline Protestant group in the U.S., revealed plans to sell holdings worth about $110,000 in G4S, which provides security equipment and has contracts with Israel's prison system. However, the United Methodist Church had rejected church-wide divestment.
Motorola Solutions said in a statement that the company follows the law and its own policies that address human rights. Hewlett-Packard said its checkpoints for Palestinians were developed to expedite passage "in a secure environment, enabling people to get to their place of work or to carry out their business in a faster and safer way." Caterpillar has said it does not sell equipment to Israel, just to the U.S. government.
A church spokeswoman estimated the value of the Presbyterian holdings in the companies at $21 million.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestine's vision of peace is clear</title>
<date>Mon Jul 07 18:00:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Twenty-six years have passed since the Palestine Liberation Organization officially endorsed the two-state solution. In a painful and historic decision, Palestine recognized the State of Israel based on pre-1967 territory, conceding over 78 percent of Palestinian land. Rather than seize this opportunity for peace, the current Israeli government has chosen to use the peace process as a smoke screen for more colonization and oppression. We still wish to believe that our Israeli neighbors do not expect the Palestinian people to live under a system of apartheid. The desire of a peace- and freedom-loving nation for independence can’t be eliminated by force.
Palestine’s vision of peace is clear, and grounded firmly in principles of international law. This is because we believe that no just and lasting peace can be achieved without respecting the rights of everyone, including both Palestinians and Israelis. In accordance with these principles, the sovereignty of the states of Palestine and Israel, as bound by the 1967 international border, must be respected; and the rights of Palestinian refugees must be honored in accordance with United Nations General Assembly Resolution 194.
Negotiation serves as a powerful tool for peace, but negotiations must have a stated goal and known parameters. At least in relation to Palestine, the government of Israel does not share the same goals and parameters as the rest of the world. It is time for the world to accept that the policies of the current government of Israel are not consistent with the two-state solution. It is telling that during the last nine months of negotiations sponsored by the United States, Israel advanced housing units for 55,000 new settlers in occupied territory. Does this signify intent to achieve a just and lasting peace with Palestine? Many of our friends remind us of the wise words of late President Kennedy: “We cannot negotiate with those who say, ‘What’s mine is mine and what’s yours is negotiable.’” Negotiations will be meaningless as long as Israel continues to entrench its occupation and to change the demography of our country in order to impose new facts on the ground.
When Palestine exercised its long-overdue right to seek recognition of statehood before the United Nations, it was not in an attempt to bypass a negotiated peace. This recognition of 138 of the world’s esteemed nations opened new windows of opportunity for Palestine to assert its rights and the rights of its people, mainly through access to multilateral treaties and international organizations. The Palestinian leadership is well aware of the various treaties and organizations Palestine is able to join today.
We ask that the international community stop hiding behind calls for “resumption of talks,” without holding the Israeli government accountable to its obligations. The international community has the responsibility to protect our defenseless people living under the terror of settlers, an occupying army and a painful siege. Decisive action must be taken in order to ensure that Israeli settlers, illegally residing on and exploiting the territory and natural resources of our state, do not enjoy the same benefits as Israelis living in Israel. The attitude of the international community toward the Israeli government must be related to its respect for international law and human rights.
When the Arab League presented its generous peace plan, the Arab Peace Initiative, Israel’s response was more colonization. This offer, which still stands, offers Israel full recognition and normalization from 57 member countries of the Arab League and the Islamic Conference, in exchange for its withdrawal to the 1967 border and a just and agreed solution to the refugee issue, based on UNGA Resolution 194. Israel will never find a better offer of regional integration than the Arab Peace Initiative.
At a time when settlers continue to attack Palestinian homes, churches and mosques, when prisoners continue to be mistreated in illegal prisons, when settlements continue to expand, when more than half of our people remain in exile, and when the prospect of a negotiated two-state solution has been almost entirely eroded by the Israeli government, the brave Palestinian people continue to deliver a message of peace and justice to Israel and the rest of the world.
Despite all Israeli attempts to make our nation accept a reality of exile and apartheid under a cover of impunity, we continue our march toward freedom. Paraphrasing the late Mahmoud Darwish, “Standing here, staying here, permanent here, eternal here, and we have one goal, one, one: to be.”
As the President of the Palestinian people I am totally committed to the vision of a two-state solution, normalization and peace with our neighbor – Israel. This is the reason I have joined Pope Francis - together with President Peres - in prayer for peace. My people want peace, and we are therefore encouraged by the Haaretz conference which reflects the same wish of many Israelis who are genuinely ready for an historic compromise. Knowing that reinforces my peoples’ dedication to continue on the path of peace and reconciliation. This is the sacred obligation of Israelis and Palestinians alike to our children.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is the Chairman of the PLO.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A risk management perspective on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict</title>
<date>Fri Jun 27 10:44:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
When the Titanic, the most famous luxury liner in history, set out on her maiden voyage, she was known as “the unsinkable ship.” Given this assumption, the Titanic held on its deck lifeboats with sufficient places for only half its passengers – for after all, an unsinkable ship would never need to be equipped with any more lifeboats than that. (Actually, according to this logic, it should not have needed any lifeboats at all.)
Everyone remembers the Titanic’s tragic end, but not everyone recalls the shining lesson she left the world: Her sinking gave rise, to a large extent, to the field of risk management. The Titanic set out on her voyage on the premise that “everything will be all right.” But after the Titanic, all ships set sail on the diametrically opposite assumption: “Assuming that the ship sinks, will I survive? And how?”
This is precisely the reason why every ship at sea today carries lifeboats with more seats than the number of passengers. If the ship should sink, no matter what happens, there will be no lack of space on the boats for even a single individual.
Forty-seven years after the Six-Day War and the occupation of the territories, and after millions of words have been written about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from nearly every possible point of view, there is one perspective that is entirely absent from discourse about the conflict: the risk management perspective. In other words, if worse comes to worst, will the State of Israel survive, and how?
Today, the routine discourse in the debate on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is based on opportunity management – each side markets its wares and explains why its proposal is better. Forty-seven years of this sort of discourse should have taught us that it is sterile, that it only convinces those who are already convinced and does nothing to aid Israel’s decision-making. The time has come, then, to turn the discourse into one of risk management.
Risk management is much sharper, colder and clearer than opportunity management. It obligates us to examine soberly the options placed before us, consider the extent to which they are unsatisfactory, and foresee the dangers to which they expose us. The choice among various options will of necessity be that of the least of all evils – the alternative that gives Israel the best chance of survival.
Let us consider the following options:
1. An unending continuation of the current situation. A majority of the Israeli public apparently supports this option, for the simple reason that the easiest thing to do is to avoid any change; what’s more, this option has been working wonderfully for Israel for 47 years already. But will it forever remain strong and viable?
A cold analysis shows that continuation of the existing situation is liable to lead Israel to achieve the status of an apartheid state soon. At the end of the day, it is not possible to continue ruling over millions of people by force and simultaneously profess to being a democratic state. At some stage, the enlightened world will no longer be willing to buy into this sleight-of-hand. When that happens, Israel is likely to find itself ostracized by the community of democratic nations and exposed to harsh economic, political and social sanctions. The economic and social repercussions are liable to be far-reaching, along with the impact on Israel’s democratic image.
There might also be security-related repercussions. Could Israel, which relies on the world’s support to defend itself, possibly lose that support? It is difficult to evaluate the security risk – the world is a cynical place, and even dark regimes often receive support from democratic states, simply because of special interests. However, the social, economic and democratic dangers are unquestionably great. In this context, it would be wise to recall the lesson of South Africa: Here was a wealthy and independent state that did not require the world’s support, but which nevertheless was unable to withstand global pressures against the apartheid regime. It is therefore difficult to believe that smaller and much weaker Israel could withstand such pressures (even if it wanted to expose itself to them).
2. Two states for two peoples. The Israeli left of course supports this option, and assures us of a paradise on earth. “The wolf shall dwell with the lamb” if only we agree to withdraw from the occupied territories. It’s enticing to believe this, but what will we do if the paradise becomes hell, and in place of eternal peace, we get eternal war?
This is not an unrealistic scenario, given the lesson of what occurred in Gaza after the disengagement. And in contrast to Gaza, the areas of Judea and Samaria enjoy the topographic advantages of height and proximity to all the densely populated areas of central Israel. The possibility of a “Hamastan state” in the territories, one that would exploit its topographical advantages to rain fire and missiles on Tel Aviv, cannot be dismissed out of hand. This is a possibility that Israel must take into account as it deliberates on whether to withdraw from the territories: a perpetual war with the neighboring Palestinian state, one that would involve missiles and civilian deaths in central Israel.
There is no democratic danger in this option, but the security danger is immense. The socioeconomic risk is also significant, because of the harm a perpetual war would do to Israel’s economic and social stability. There are those who warn that Israeli society would be unable to withstand a scenario of perpetual war and that Tel Aviv’s elite would flee if it were compelled to accustom itself to life under missile attacks. It is not certain that this is a significant risk; one could argue the opposite – that confidence in the righteousness of our path would restore to Israel its lost social cohesion. But the possibility must also be taken into account.
3. One state for two peoples, a binational state. The Jewish majority tends to reject this option automatically, because it means the loss of a Jewish majority and a change in the character of the State of Israel. In this instance, the danger is very much present in the debate.
Nevertheless, it should be said that this option is credible in terms of its democratic aspect . Essentially, most of the world’s nations are “states of all their citizens,” and therefore there is no fundamental reason why Israel should be different. Conversely, it should also be noted that in order for a state of all its citizens to succeed, there must be goodwill on the part of all its citizens; it is not feasible to sustain exceedingly wide gaps between the various civil groups. Along with models like Switzerland and Canada, which successfully maintain multicultural and multilingual societies, is the frightful lesson of the former Yugoslavia, which, because of extensive internal fissures, descended into a horrific civil war and in the end splintered into different nation-states. The Israeli experience, with an extensive cultural emphasis on the Jewish character of the state and the difficulty of containing even 20 percent of Arab-Israelis within it, does not bode well for our ability to unite with the Palestinians in a single state.
As far as we can see, these are the three major options the State of Israel now faces. All of them, as may be discerned, involve immense risks in a wide range of areas. Therefore, the debate cannot remain solely one of a political-security nature; it must also relate to the social and economic risks. The decision-making process, currently dominated by the security establishment, must be removed from the hands of security experts and expanded to include representatives of the economic and social worlds. All of them should together pursue the real discourse, which is so much lacking today in the debate over Israel’s future: the understanding that Israel’s situation is particularly delicate, and that all the options before it are especially bad.
Yes, the future is difficult and complex, and there is no magic solution on the horizon. It would be self-deception to think otherwise. But a responsible state must look soberly at the dangers that may threaten it, and choose the risk that is the least of all evils – which of the three options give it the better chance of survival. True, it is a depressing discourse, but it is the only possible one we have.
Click here to see the conference program.
The articles that appear in this section have also been published in Hebrew and Arabic. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Peace in the Mideast? I’m not interested</title>
<date>Thu Jun 26 10:34:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
It’s a well-known phenomenon: the peace camp shrinks, is pushed aside, defined as “crazy leftists selling out the state.” The process is intensified as the settlements – created as temporary outposts – are becoming the decisive factor in government and society, and dragging the majority of Israelis along with them.
Most of the public realizes that the occupation does them harm, but prefers to ignore it and declare the “leftists” the source of the trouble. As Israel becomes more diplomatically isolated, and as the lower class and unstable middle class collapse under the cost of the settlements and security, the Left and its aspirations for peace becomes less and less legitimate.
The reasons for this absurd phenomenon are also well known. Ten years ago, historian and professor Daniel Gutwein showed in his article “Class Foundations of the Occupation” (Theory and Criticism, 2004) how the interests of the upper class are served by the occupation. He also showed how the upper class, which defines itself as moderate (it tends to vote center and center-left), effectively supports the occupation (though completely denies it) in order to continue developing its most precious project – privatization.
According to Gutwein, the upper crust is accepting of the fact that billions are funneled into the settlements, as well as the ongoing Israeli rule of the territories, and thus it actuality sabotages the two-state solution it seemingly champions.
Gutwein shows how the state knowingly shirks off its responsibilities to the citizens and societies within the Green Line; wildly privatizes all social services making them inaccessible to the worn-down middle class; lets the market run wild while setting arbitrary prices for housing, food and transportation, all while privatizing the job market and allowing salaries to fall.
And as the poor get poorer, the top percentiles close themselves off in their luxury residences, enjoying the privileges they acquire for lots of money. The occupation, the settlements and the territories are even farther from them than they are from the poor. When the government sends poor people to the new cities in the West Bank, including the ultra-Orthodox, the upper class is satisfied: it all happens far away from them, and it can continue to make use of the cheap labor and enjoy the good life in the big city.
Today, after the privatization project was completed and the settlements have accumulated so much power that few, even on the Left, think it will be possible to evacuate them, Gutwein’s article is that much more relevant.
Geographical, sociological and political researches have shown the changes in the consciousness of the lower class – for example, young Shas supporters being pushed to live on the other side of the Green Line. They have become “settlerized” due to clashes with their Palestinian neighbors, and as a reaction to alienation (both political and cultural) at the hands of the media, and what they call “the Tel Avivian secular elite.”
Only a few years after Gutwein’s breakthrough, sociology professor Nissim Mizrachi revealed another aspect of this supposed contradiction. In his article “Beyond the Garden and the Jungle: On the Social Limits of the Human Rights Discourse in Israel,” he asks why the poor turn their backs on the “universalistic message of equality, justice and liberation so eagerly pressed upon them.” He subsequently explains that “the politics of universality, grasped from a liberal viewpoint as a key to social reform, is experienced by various groups in Israel’s Jewish society as a grave threat to their core identity.”
Mizrachi’s thesis includes an additional explanation for this political dissonance: the same public that rejects discourse on rights within internal conflicts – for example, the Sudanese and Eritrean asylum seekers in the south – is no less threatened by the peace discourse, as it appears to be part of that same liberal-Western set of values.
Peaceniks are perceived as “those who care more for the Arabs/gays/cats than they do for the Jews.” Such a person’s remarks sound alienated, devoid of solidarity and empathy.
Both explanations make it clear why residents of disadvantaged neighborhoods and the outlying towns refuse to adopt the values of justice and equality. It’s much more natural for them to identify with their relatives, who have gone to live on the other side of the Green Line, than with those “well-off” people in Tel Aviv – let alone anyone who is outside of the national ethos, rooted as it is in the difficult economic, social, and security situation.
This combination between status and cultural identity creates a national expression, which is fiercely nationalistic. Is the peace camp able to understand this complex reality? More importantly, can it break free of its comfortable chains, and open itself up to those who aren’t accustomed to it? It’s doubtful.
Even if the peace camp doesn’t deserve the curses and insults flung in its direction, it has rightfully earned the suspicion it receives from the geographical and social periphery, based on the reasons defined by Gutwein (preference for neoliberalism and abandoning the weak) and Mizrachi (self-definition as European-elitist, and use of the term “villa in the jungle,” which expresses disgust for both the local region and the Middle East as a whole). The Left is perhaps beginning to understand this obstacle, but it isn’t doing much to try and overcome it.
In their elegant European halls, heads of the peace camp employ dictionary definitions (apartheid, racism, war crimes) in these grave discussions, though most of them are empty terms, without influence.
And while they quibble, former Labor Party chairperson Shelly Yacimovich falsely separated claims for social justice and equality and claims for the same values in the political realm, thus granting destructive legitimacy to the “social” right (Moshe Kahlon and friends).
This difference between types of discourse – that of the upper crust (whose descendants have multiple passports and they themselves live both here in Israel and abroad), and that of the other 99 percent (stuck in this threatening, grinding reality) – is only getting more pronounced, and the “social” right wing is taking advantage of this.
The “social” right wing is managing to steer the anger away from the government and the injustices perpetrated by the “well-off” peace camp – whose economic and educational advantages make them less vulnerable from everything, including the ongoing conflict. Why do these leftists care about peace? Because they take pity only on the Palestinians, as opposed to the “social” right wingers, who are looking out for the Jews.
In order to break this mold, the peace camp must prove that it cares about the society in which it lives. It must lead the economic and social struggles it has neglected, and at the same time it must hold an equal, solidary dialogue with all groups of society. It must speak differently: it mustn’t ridiculously beg forgiveness, shouldn’t flatter or condescend, but rather it should learn respect, true sympathy, and how to listen – to listen responsibly and with humility.
The articles that appear in this section have also been published in Hebrew and Arabic. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mideast peace impossible without international action</title>
<date>Sun Jun 29 16:00:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The predicted “death” of the two-state solution, which has been repeated consistently for many years now, has led to a sense of complacency and a lack of urgency regarding the current situation. In the government of Israel, this does not provoke major concern, because the present coalition’s political platform is focused on consolidating colonization rather than achieving peace. This is a government that believes it can indefinitely maintain a system whereby one group of people is privileged and another oppressed.
Among the Israeli public, it is not a central concern due to the fact that Israel is not paying any price for its systematic violations of human rights and international law, allowing its people to turn a blind eye to the millions persecuted in their name. But something is clear: We are at the point of no return. Whether we achieve a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, or enter into a long struggle for civil rights in order to defeat Israeli apartheid throughout historic Palestine, it will fall to the international community to decide.
Palestine recognized Israeli sovereignty over 78 percent of our homeland back in 1988. This painful and historic compromise was not a tactical move, but a strategic choice. We have worked tirelessly to implement, on the ground, the vision of two sovereign, democratic states living side by side in peace and security. We have made every effort to reach a just and lasting peace, from the adoption of non-violent methods to resist the Israeli occupation to diplomatic steps, within the international arena, seeking to achieve overdue Palestinian rights. Acceding to multilateral treaties also helps Palestine to shape itself as a peace-loving state that respects human rights and a responsible actor on the international stage. And yet, all such Palestinian moves have been answered with aggressive responses from Israel, resulting in an absurd situation whereby acts such as sitting at the negotiating table or signing treaties on women’s and children’s rights, are met with further settlement announcements, increased violence against Palestinians and economic sanctions on an already captive economy. 
Although some sectors within Israel understand the urgency of the situation, the lack of decisive international action has undermined those who want a negotiated two-state solution and has empowered the extremists leading the Israeli government coalition. As long as no action is taken on the economic, political and diplomatic levels, Prime Minister Netanyahu, Foreign Minister Lieberman, Housing Minister Ariel and Economy Minister Bennett will continue along the same path, which is one of apartheid and colonization rather than one of justice, peace and reconciliation.
The European Union took an important step by publishing guidelines prohibiting European funding to settlements. This is a step in the right direction, but there is much more to be done in order to tackle the Israeli settlement enterprise, the main obstacle to peace. If the international community believes in the two-state solution, simple actions such as recognizing the State of Palestine; supporting Palestine’s access to international treaties; ensuring that international companies have no contracts with, investments in, or trade with, Israeli entities that have direct or indirect links to settlements; or in the case of Europe, asking Israeli settlers to apply for visas, will go a long way toward achieving this.
The reality of the “end of the two-state solution” has been reflected in the EU Heads of Mission Report on East Jerusalem and reports on human rights and freedom of worship from the U.S. State Department. It can be read in every document produced by UN organizations and can be seen all over the occupied State of Palestine. The reality is no secret. What is required, however, is more active steps from all third party states, steps which will bring their operative policy in line with their declared policy, and most importantly, with international law.
It is time for the international community to empower those within Israel who want peace rather than colonization. It is time to stop treating Israel as a state above the law. It is time for Israel to revoke dozens of laws and hundreds of policies that discriminate against Palestinian Christians and Muslims. It is time to end the immorality of prolonging the exile and occupation of an entire nation due to the incapacity of the international community to hold Israel accountable for decades of forced displacement, occupation and colonization.
Over the years I have come to know many Israelis. My belief in the prospects of peace was boosted, most of the time, after those personal encounters. I feel that many Israelis resent the notion of forever being occupiers. However, their government continues to avoid the only logical conclusion. Time does not stand still. Israelis are approaching the point where they must make a fateful choice: Are they ready to opt for the two-state solution, or abandon it forever? I am one of those who believe a two-state solution is still possible, but I am not naïve. Without international action, the prospects for a just and lasting peace will remain elusive. 
The articles that appear in this section have also been published in Hebrew and Arabic. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Obama turned Israeli settlements into a deal breaker</title>
<date>Wed Jul 02 20:30:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Israel’s announcements regarding construction in Judea and Samaria were not the reason for the failure of the most recent talks between Israel and the Palestinians; the European and American reactions to those announcements were a much more decisive factor. Since the talks ended, U.S. officials have been feeding the media with hints and leaks blaming Israel for the failure, supposedly due to its numerous declarations of renewed construction. Examples include Secretary of State John Kerry’s unforgettable “poof” remark to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and emissary Martin Indyk’s not-so-discreet conversations in a trendy Washington, D.C. bar. Kerry and Indyk made such statements in more official settings as well, and even hinted that similar sentiments were emanating from the Oval Office. “14,000 new settlement units announced since we began negotiations,” cried the secretary of state, adding, “it’s very difficult for any leader to deal under that cloud.”
Analysts who were briefed by senior Obama administration officials explained that one could not expect Mahmoud Abbas or any other Palestinian leadership to negotiate while Israel was building in areas that were designated to be part of a future Palestinian state. Even if we ignore the fact that the U.S. knew ahead of time that there would be announcements of settlement construction during the negotiations – as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told journalist Jeffrey Goldberg – and that the number of housing units mentioned by Kerry and Indyk were grossly exaggerated – even if we completely ignore these decisive facts, the American accusations against Israel are baseless.
That, and more: The great majority of those declarations – at least 80 percent – pertained to construction in Jerusalem, or what have been called “settlement blocs” that would remain in Israeli hands, even if the negotiations were to bear fruit.
But all of this is inconsequential in light of the fact that not a single one of the “announced” housing units was going to be constructed during the negotiations. Ground would not have been broken on the lands included in the announcements for at least two years, if at all. In the past, many such land tenders remained on paper, and were not transformed into completed structures, for various reasons, economic or otherwise.
The second kind of declaration – advancing planning processes – were even less relevant to the negotiations. In some cases this meant retroactive permits for already-constructed homes, and in most cases it meant planning the earliest stages among the seven planning phases (some call them the “seven circles of hell”) required to build in Judea and Samaria. Each one of the seven stages requires, incomprehensibly, a permit from the government. Therefore, when “planning permits” are granted, we’re still many long years away from actual construction, and the process can be stopped at any time by the Israeli government.
Therefore, all of these declarations pointed to by Kerry and Indyk had absolutely no bearing on the results of the negotiations, or the feasibility of implementing those results, if they were achieved. The only potentially negative effect was a psychological one, or to use the same term as Kerry himself – the creation of that cloud. But that cloud was created by the American government, which now finds itself damning its creation and cursing its mistakes.
Before Barack Obama entered the White House in January 2009, construction in Jewish neighborhoods in East Jerusalem was never a reason for crisis. In effect, building in Ramot, Gilo, French Hill or Pisgat Ze’ev never even made headlines. True, there was one case regarding Har Homa during the Clinton era, but that was the exception that proves the rule. That case was a completely new neighborhood, built on the far outskirts of Jerusalem, after the Oslo agreements.
President Obama changed U.S. policy regarding construction in Jerusalem. The Obama Administration’s words transformed Gilo into a settlement; planning in Ramat Shlomo became a personal affront to Vice President Biden. In one fell swoop, a single foolish American decision turned construction in Jerusalem’s Jewish neighborhoods – which completely lack political significance – into a reason for crisis. Thus, the American government planted the first seeds of the “cloud” that it now speaks of. “One cannot issue an edict by which the public cannot abide,” goes one wise Jewish maxim. The Obama administration ignored the impracticality of ceasing Jewish construction in the capital, and thus made a terrible strategic mistake.
But the American government’s mistakes did not stop there. Kerry had the ability to turn Israel’s declarations into an obstacle or a catalyst for the negotiations. Unfortunately, he chose the former. During the months-long talks, the U.S. secretary of state became an expert at threatening Israel over what could happen should it fail to be flexible in negotiating. On Israel’s Channel 2, he threatened a third intifada; in Munich, he hinted at boycotts; and in Washington, he played the trump card and mentioned apartheid. No one suspects that Kerry actually wants to see one of those options become reality, but he knows how to use them effectively to “shake Israel up.”
Why were these tactics – which the U.S. government considers effective in influencing Israel – not employed on Mahmoud Abbas? In contrast to Netanyahu, Abbas did not budge even an inch from the positions he held at the start of the talks. If one of the sides required hastening and “shaking up,” it was the Palestinians. Kerry and Indyk could have gone to Abbas, secretly or openly, and told him clearly: If you aren’t flexible, if you keep dragging your feet, you’ll find many more Israelis in Judea and Samaria in a few years. Yasser Arafat himself admitted in the past that one of his motivations for signing Oslo was his fear of the settlers’ rising numbers. Instead, the U.S. chose to admonish and chastise Israel, thus finding itself, along with the Palestinians, in the same cloud it spread over the talks.
Opposition to Jewish construction in Judea and Samaria has become an article of faith, a dogma, and no longer requires any rational proof. The time has come to bring the issue back to its proper proportion.
Dani Dayan is the former chairman of the Yesha Council of Jewish Communities in Judea and Samaria (2007-2013) and presently its chief foreign envoy.
The articles that appear in this section have also been published in Hebrew and Arabic. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The undisputed truth about Israeli occupation</title>
<date>Mon Jul 07 14:20:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Imagine for a moment a man who picks someone’s safe and loots a hoard of money. The victim, tracking the man down, demands the money back. But the fellow refuses to recognize the cash as someone else’s property; it is “disputed.” The wronged party finally brings in a mediator, but, adopting the man’s logic about the money being “disputed” and not stolen, the mediator tells the victim to work out his disagreement directly with the man. And so the lucky man continues spending, the mediator continues mediating, and the victim remains a victim, poorer by the day.  
I often think of this analogy when, sitting in my home up on Mount Gerizim above Nablus, I stare out a window at the rapidly expanding colony of Har Bracha.
Since 1967, the Palestinians have lost control of their land, hilltop by hilltop, field by field, and none of the mediators sent our way has managed to stop or even to slow the ever-quickening pace of dispossession. Often the mediator has provided diplomatic cover for this.
This is all the more disturbing because the basic contours of a two-state solution have been well known and accepted by the Palestinian leadership for over 30 years. In 1981, the Palestine Liberation Organization was, like most other national liberation movements, seeking the total defeat of the enemy. Article 1 of the PLO Charter, drafted in 1964 by nationalist delegates at the Intercontinental Hotel on Jerusalem’s Mount of Olives, spelled it out: “Palestine is an Arab homeland bound by strong Arab national ties to the rest of the Arab countries and which together form the great Arab homeland.” By “Palestine,” of course, the delegates meant the entire territory between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean.
I was one of the delegates that day. Because I assumed that was the way the conflict should end, I was surprised when I got a phone call in my London office in 1981. Saudi Crown Prince Fahd was on the line. “Yes, your Royal Highness.” The prince sounded like he was on a treadmill, he was so out of breath. Once he calmed down he told me he had a “plan” to bring peace to the Holy Land. He had already discussed the plan with Yasser Arafat.
What I heard that afternoon was unfathomable: The Saudis were willing to offer the Israelis peace with the Arabs once they cleared out of the occupied territories, dismantled the settlements, solved the refugee issue, and agreed to the establishment of an independent Palestinian state. And then “all states in the region should be able to live in peace.”
Even more surprising to me was Arafat’s reaction: He accepted what came to be known as the Fez Initiative. Arafat made it even clearer in 1988 that he was willing to accept the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, 22 percent of historic Palestine, as our future Palestinian state. Needless to say, this was a painful decision for him to take.
This was the logic behind his embrace of the Oslo Accords in 1993, and the reason he signed off on the Arab Peace Initiative in 2002, which, like the Fez Initiative, offers Israel full recognition and normal relations with the Arabs in the context of comprehensive peace. Today, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas mentions the API on a daily basis.
The Israeli government never responded to either the Fez Initiative or the API. In 2013, Israelis built more settlements than ever before, and this spring the peace talks launched and guided by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry foundered because of the relentless drive to build more and more homes in Palestine. 
How is it possible that while my friend and hero Yasser Arafat, and indeed much of the Arab and Muslim world, long ago accepted the basic framework of a two-state solution, the occupation is far more entrenched today than when the Oslo Accords were signed some 20 years ago on the White House lawn? 
A main cause of the failure of so many well-intentioned peace initiatives, including the latest round of talks, is the very reason the man in my story never got his money back: The “honest brokers” all too often agree with our occupiers that the destructive spread of settlements is on “disputed,” not occupied, land; and that we and the Israelis must “work out” our differences across a table. With the negotiation rules thus rigged, justice will forever remain elusive. 
No conflict in modern history has decimated as many forests for newsprint, books and doctoral dissertations as ours. But scant attention has been paid to this linguistic sleight of hand that turns a military occupation into a quarrel over “disputed” land. When the Republican Governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie, recently dared to utter the words “occupied territories” in a speech, he was so pilloried by incensed supporters of Israel that he had to apologize.
There will be no peace so long as this fundamental truth is not told – that since 1967 we Palestinians have been occupied by the Israel Defense Forces, controlled by Israeli government planners and watched over by the Shin Bet security service. We do not need an “honest broker” refereeing our “dispute.” We need an honest judge to deliver justice. 
One option for Palestinians, of course, is to turn to the United Nations. The Security Council, which created Israel in 1947, has condemned settlement activity 15 times over the years. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court can also be used to compel Israel into obeying international law. The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, tearing a page from the anti-apartheid movement of the 1980s, can simultaneously call for boycotts against the Israeli economy and culture.  
These are all likely courses if we cannot find a positive and just formula between the parties. 
Crown Prince Fahd was visionary by recognizing in 1981 that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must be solved in a multinational, win-win manner. In the spirit of the Fez Initiative and the API, the world community should make it clear what the end game must look like: two states based on the 1967 borders, two capitals in Jerusalem, and a just and mutually agreed-upon solution to the refugee problem in accordance with UN Resolution 194. In exchange, both now and in the future, Israel will enjoy full peace and security with its neighbors and 57 Arab and Islamic countries. The bonus to Israel is beyond imagination.
Once our two governments return to the negotiation table and conclude a peace agreement, we want to live in harmony with the Israelis. Even more so, we want Israelis to contribute to our nation-building through their know-how in science, IT, entrepreneurship, health care and the humanities.
This is what the future can hold if wise men once again return to the Holy Land.
Munib R. al-Masri, a businessman and philanthropist, has been active for 40 years in finding a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The articles that appear in this section have also been published in Hebrew and Arabic. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On hope and despair in the Middle East</title>
<date>Tue Jul 08 19:30:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Hope and despair. For years, we were tossed back and forth between one and the other. Today, most Israelis and Palestinians seem to be in a gloomy, flat, state of mind, one with no horizon; dully comatose, a self-induced numbness.
Today, in an Israel that has known so much disappointment, hope (if ever mentioned at all) is always hesitant, a bit timid, and apologetic. Despair, on the other hand, is utterly confident and self-assured, as if speaking on behalf of a law of nature, an axiom that states that between these two peoples there shall never be peace, that the war between them is a heavenly decree, and that altogether, it will always be bad here, nothing but bad. As despair sees it, anyone who still hopes, who still believes in the possibility of peace, is at best naïve, or a deluded dreamer, and at worst, a traitor who weakens Israel’s wherewithal by encouraging it to be seduced by false visions.
In this sense, the Israeli right has won. The right, which adheres to this worldview – certainly over the last decades – has managed to instill it in a majority of Israelis. One could say that the right has not only vanquished the left: It has vanquished Israel. And not just because this pessimistic worldview is pushing Israel into paralysis in the area most fateful to its survival, the area where boldness and flexibility and creativity are required; the right has vanquished Israel by crushing what once could have been called “the Israeli spirit”: that spark, the ability to remake ourselves, that “nevertheless” spirit, and courage. And hope.
In the area most critical to its survival, today’s Israel is practically immobile, one might even say incompetent. Strangely enough this state of mind, is not causing overt anguish: Not only its leaders, but most of its citizens are able to keep the situation out of their minds. They excel in the ability to completely separate the two, and to keep doing so for many years, 47 years of occupation, and even do fairly well, while at the center of their being, there is essentially a void. A void of actions, a void of consciousness, a void in which an efficient suspension of moral judgment prevails, a failure to notice the injustice at the root of the entire situation.
The American writer David Foster Wallace once told a story about two young fish who are happily swimming along in the sea when they come upon an older fish. “Hello there, fellows,” the old fish says to them. “How are things?”
“Great!” say the two fish.
“How’s the water?” he asks them.
“The water’s great!” the young fish answer. Then they bid the old fish goodbye and keep on swimming. A few minutes later, one of them turns to the other and asks – “Hey, what’s water?”
Listen to the water. To the water we’ve been swimming in and drinking for the last 47 years. To which we’ve become so accustomed that we no longer feel it. This water is the life that flows here, and it is, unquestionably, still brimming with vitality and creativity, but it has also become somewhat crazed, with a chaotic, clearance-sale feeling to it – a feeling of interwoven mania and depression; a feeling of tremendous strength that sometimes plummets into colossal weakness; of living in a selfÎsatisfied democracy, with pretensions to liberalism and humanism, that occupies and humiliates and crushes another people for decades on end. A life lived amid a deafening media clamor, much of which is deliberately intended to distract and dull the senses – for how would it be possible to face this without a little distraction and self-medication? How else would it be possible to face, say, the results of the so-called “settlement project”? To face up to the full meaning of this crazy gamble on the country’s future? Listen to the water. Below the turbid waters we’ve been treading for the past 47 years runs a deep and cold current, a current of dread over a huge mistake, a monumental wrong turn and loss of way. The current is taking ever-stronger shape before our eyes in the form of a binational state, or an apartheid state, or a state of all its soldiers, or a state of all its rabbis, all its settlers, all its messiahs.
And maybe, just maybe, the despair that has ruled us in recent years is also partly the despair of the doomed, who understand by now that there is no way to avoid punishment for their deeds, or for what they allowed to happen through their support, or their silence, or their apathy, so therefore – Why not eat, drink and make merry while one still can?
This Israeli despair also contains a peculiar element of eagerness for disaster, or at least for disappointment: a certain gloating directed at anyone whose hopes were dashed. This is a particularly twisted form of joy, for ultimately, we’re rejoicing in our own misfortune. Sometimes it seems that Israeli hearts and minds are still smarting at the insult of having dared to believe back in 1993, when the Oslo Accords were signed, not just in an enemy who suddenly became a partner – but in the very possibility that things would be good, that it could ever be good here.
As if having been tempted to believe – say the people of the despair faction – in something that runs so counter to our life experience, to our tragic history, we somehow betrayed ourselves, betrayed some trademark of our destiny, and for this belief we have paid dearly, and shall go on paying, many times over. But at least from now on you’ll never catch us believing in anything, in any promise, in any chance.
Even if Mahmoud Abbas fights with all he has to prevent terror against Israelis, and declares that he knows he will only ever return to Safed, his birthplace, as a tourist; and even if he declares that the Holocaust is the gravest crime in human history – even if he does all of that, Prime Minister Netanyahu will hasten to pour a bucket of cold water on his head.
And even if the countries of the Arab League present Israel with an initiative that could kick-start some type of peace process, that contains an explicit invitation to a new kind of dialogue we’ve never seen before, for which we’ve yearned for years – the Israeli government will totally and demonstratively ignore it for 12 years and counting. Because no one is going to trick us again. We’re not suckers. Never again will we be caught believing a Palestinian, or any Arab for that matter. Or, say, a, tall, silver-haired American secretary of state who doesn’t get what life is really made of. Or in the hope that we could ever have a better life. Or just life.
It’s interesting: We only seriously tried the path of peace with the Palestinians once, in 1993. It failed, and from that moment on, it’s as if Israel decided to seal off that option once and for all. Here, too, see the twisted logic of despair at work: We’ve tried the path of war, occupation, terror and hatred dozens of times, never wearying of it or giving up on it, so why the rush to permanently divorce ourselves from peace, of all things, after a single failure?
Israel has, of course, many reasons to fear and to worry. The Middle East is in turmoil, fanatic and fundamentalist currents toss and turn it, and most of it is still hostile toward Israel and openly wishes for its destruction. But precisely against those dangers and threats, the policy of despair and dejection does not seem to be the right path to follow.
The government of Israel, the governments of Israel, act like prisoners of despair. Like its helpless victims. I do not remember ever hearing any serious statement about hope from Benjamin Netanyahu, or from any of his ministers and advisers. Not even one word of a vision of the possibilities a life of peace could offer, or about the chance that Israel could become part of a new fabric of alliances and interests in the Middle East. How did even the word itself, “hope”, become a dirty, incriminating word, second only to the word “peace” in its dangerous levels of radiation?
It’s maddening to think that the tremendous military power Israel has amassed is not giving it the courage to overcome its fears and existential despair and take a decisive step that will bring peace. The great idea of the founding of the State of Israel is that the Jewish people has returned home, and that here, we will never be victims again. Never shall we be paralyzed and submissive in the face of forces mightier than us.
Look at us: The strongest nation in the region, a regional superpower that enjoys the support of the United States on an almost inconceivable scale, along with the sympathy and commitment of Germany, England and France – and still, deep inside, it sees itself as a helpless victim. And still it behaves like a victim – of its anxieties, its real and imagined fears, its tragic history, of the mistakes of its neighbors and enemies.
This worldview is pushing the Jewish public of Israel to our most vulnerable and wounded places as a people. The very essence of “Israeliness,” which always had a forward-looking gaze and held constant ferment and constant promise, has been steadily dwindling in recent years, and is being absorbed back into the channels of trauma and pain of Jewish history and memory.
You can feel it now, in 2014, within very many of us “new” Israelis, an anxiety over the fate of the Jewish people, that sense of persecution, of victimhood, of feeling the existential foreignness of the Jews among all the other nations.
What hope can there be when such is the terrible state of things? The hope of nevertheless. A hope that does not disregard the many dangers and obstacles, but refuses to see only them and nothing else.
A hope that if the flames beneath the conflict die down, the healthy and sane features of the two peoples can gradually be revealed once more. The healing power of the everyday, of the wisdom of life and the wisdom of compromise, will begin to take effect. The sense of existential security. Of being able to raise children without abject fear, without the humiliation of occupation or the dread of terrorism. The basic human desires for family and livelihood and study. The fabric of life.
Among the two peoples today, the agents of despair and hatred have practically taken over, so it may be hard to believe that the picture I’ve described is truly possible. But a situation of peace will start to produce the agents of hope and closeness and optimism; it will give rise to more people who have a practical interest, unrelated to ideology, in creating more and more ties with members of the other people. Perhaps eventually, after some years, a deeper attachment will evolve, even genuine friendship between these two peoples, and those human beings. Such things have happened. But for now let us suffice with all those mundane situations in which Israelis and Palestinians could live with one another like human beings.
We, the people who have gathered at this Israel Conference on Peace cling to this hope, and preserve it in our heart. We cannot afford the luxury and indulgence of despair. The situation is too desperate to be left to the despairing, for accepting despair amounts to an admission that we’ve been defeated. Defeated not on the battlefield, but as human beings. Something deep and vital to us as humans was taken away, was stolen from us, the moment we agreed to let despair to have a dominion.
He whose policy is essentially a thinly veiled, profound despair is placing Israel in mortal danger. He who behaves thus cannot pretend to speak about being “a free people in our land.” He may sing “Hatikva,” “The Hope,” our national anthem but in his voice we hear: Our despair is not yet lost, the despair of two thousand years.
We who have gathered here today, and many others who are with us in spirit, insist upon hope. A hope that is not wide-eyed, a hope that won’t give up. A hope that gives us – Israelis and Palestinians both – our only chance to resist the gravitational pull of despair.
David Grossman is a writer. His works include “See Under: Love,” “To the End of the Land” and “Falling Out of Time.”
This article was translated by Anne Hartstein Pace.
The articles that appear in this section have also been published in Hebrew and Arabic. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Despite it all, most Israelis still support the two-state solution</title>
<date>Mon Jul 07 14:32:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The majority of Israelis continue to view the two-state solution as preferable for the long-term, provided the prime minister is behind the proposal. However, most Israelis don’t believe the prime minister when he says he intends to advance that solution. Almost a quarter of Israelis say that a binational solution in which the Palestinians will lack full rights – in short, an apartheid state – is preferable. And, according to another finding of a special survey conducted for Haaretz’s Israel Conference on Peace, 40 percent of Israelis have never visited a settlement in the territories.
The survey was conducted by the Dialog Institute, under the supervision of Prof. Camil Fuchs of Tel Aviv University. The sample of 504 respondents was weighted according to population groups, gender, age and voting in the last Knesset election. The survey was conducted June 9-11 (with a 4.4 percent margin of error).
Sixty percent of those asked responded affirmatively to the question, “If the prime minister reaches an agreement, whereby a Palestinian state will be established alongside Israel, would you support or not support that agreement?” Only 32 percent said they wouldn’t support such an agreement, while 7 percent said they didn’t know. This result indicates a backtracking in the Israeli public’s acceptance of a two-state solution.
In December 2012, two other polling firms conducted identical surveys, commissioned by the S. Daniel Abraham Center for International and Regional Studies at Tel Aviv University. Both polls asked a similar question concerning a peace agreement that would result in the country’s partition. At that time – just 18 months ago – 67 and 68 percent, respectively, of the respondents said they would support such an agreement.
Two additional reservations also arise from the latest Haaretz survey. The first is that the Israeli public is seemingly unfamiliar with the geopolitical situation. When the implications of partition and the specifics of an agreement were presented to the respondents – “The establishment of a Palestinian state within the 1967 boundaries with border modifications, most of the settlements to be annexed to Israel, Jerusalem to be divided and no return of refugees” – support for the two-state solution plummeted to 35 percent, with 58 percent replying in the negative. This time, the term “prime minister” was omitted as the individual who backs the agreement. The implication of this is that great responsibility falls on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as large segments of the public view his acceptance of an agreement involving partition as a precondition for their support.
The second, equally important, reservation is that the same public that says it will support a partition agreement if it’s supported by the prime minister doesn’t actually believe the prime minister’s stated intention to arrive at any such agreement. Thus, 54 percent replied in the negative and only 37 percent in the affirmative to the question, “Do you believe Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu when he says he wants to promote a peace agreement with two states for two nations?”
Another question examined what the public thinks the government should do, following the recent collapse of the peace talks and the establishment of a Palestinian unity government. (The survey was conducted a week before the kidnapping of three Yeshiva students in the West Bank.) Of the various options suggested – unilateral annexation of territories; a boycott of the Palestinians; make an effort to resume the negotiations; unilateral withdrawal from the territories; a freeze on settlement construction; or do nothing – only one gained a majority: Make an effort to return to the negotiating table. Sixty percent of those asked replied that they “agree” or “agree strongly” with this option.
The unilateral actions didn’t receive majority backing: Fifty-six percent object to a unilateral annexation of territories by Israel, compared to 37 percent who agree to this; 70 percent object to a unilateral withdrawal by Israel, compared to 25 percent who agree.
In the question that presented possible long-term solutions, partition of the country was the most popular, preferred by 28 percent of those polled. At the same time, two other possibilities were not far behind: “Continuation of the present situation” is favored by 25 percent; and an apartheid state model – “one state, in which the Palestinians will have limited rights,” as the question phrased it – is preferred by 23 percent of Israelis. Only 10 percent said they would opt for a state in which all citizens will have equal rights.
Overall, it would seem that the Israeli public is more apprehensive about granting equal rights to the Palestinians than about returning territories. Fifty-six percent said they are against granting the Palestinians full rights in the event of annexation.
Haaretz also wanted to discover which scenario the public finds most frightening: a binational (single) state, a boycott or a wave of violence. Though it’s difficult to point to a definitive result, it would appear that the most palpable threats are perceived as a binational state and a wave of violence: 50 and 51 percent (respectively) said they fear those scenarios to a large or very large degree. In contrast, 34 percent said they are afraid of an international boycott on Israel (while 62 percent said they aren’t afraid).
Israelis continue to be cool toward the settlement project. No fewer than 40 percent said they have never visited a settlement. Another 25 percent said they hadn’t visited a settlement in the past year. Conversely, 42 percent of Israelis say they have never met a Palestinian. Forty percent replied that the settlements are receiving resources that are “larger” or “significantly larger” than what Israel’s outlying towns receive; only 16 percent believe the settlements receive fewer resources than the outlying towns.
The question of what would be preferable – a peace agreement that would require the evacuation of settlements, or continuation of the settlements without an agreement – drew almost identical responses: 45 percent are in favor of an agreement and settlement evacuation; 43 percent are in favor of the current status quo with the settlements.
If the government reaches an agreement that obliges it to evacuate the settlements, only 12 percent think the evacuation will go smoothly; 57 percent that the evacuation will involve a major effort and lead to casualties; and 23 percent of the public believes the government will not succeed in evacuating settlements.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel boycott could harm Palestinian cause, says Noam Chomsky</title>
<date>Thu Jul 03 12:43:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The campaign calling to boycott Israel in an effort to change its policies toward the Palestinians risks backfiring because of limited support, leading American academic and political activist Noam Chomsky has said.
In an article posted in the Nation on Wednesday, Chomsky targets the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement. He says that while there is international support for two of the movement's main goals – ending the occupation of territories captured in the 1967 war and granting equal rights to Arab citizens of Israel, there is no significant support for its third objective – allowing Palestinian refugees to return to their homes in Israel.
Insisting on the right of return for Palestinian 1948 refugees, he writes, "is a virtual guarantee of failure."
Calling to boycott Israeli academic institutions is also undesirable, he says, since it opens the door for "glass house" principle: "if we boycott Tel Aviv University because Israel violates human rights at home, then why not boycott Harvard because of far greater violations by the United States?" he asks.
Chomsky says that efforts should be directed at initiatives that are likely to succeed. "Failed initiatives harm the victims doubly — by shifting attention from their plight to irrelevant issues… and by wasting current opportunities to do something meaningful."
He also questions with the analogy between apartheid South Africa and Israel, which is commonly used by the boycott movement. Chomsky writes that while discrimination within Israel does exist, it still doesn’t constitute as "South African-style apartheid." As for the occupied territories, "the situation is far worse that it was in South Africa," he says.
In South Africa, "the white nationalists needed the black population: it was the country’s workforce, and as grotesque as the bantustans were, the nationalist government devoted resources to sustaining and seeking international recognition for them. In sharp contrast, Israel wants to rid itself of the Palestinian burden," he explains his stance. "The road ahead is not toward South Africa, as commonly alleged, but toward something much worse."
"While there is, finally, a growing domestic opposition in the United States to Israeli crimes, it does not remotely compare with the South African case," he writes. "The necessary educational work has not been done. Spokespeople for the BDS movement may believe they have attained their 'South African moment,' but that is far from accurate. And if tactics are to be effective, they must be based on a realistic assessment of actual circumstances."
Chomsky throws his support behind efforts to boycott Israeli settlement products, noting not only the recent resolution by the Presbyterian church to divest from U.S.-based multinationals that are linked to the occupation, and more importantly the guidelines, as declared by the Europe Union, saying that the settlements are illegal under international law.
In conclusion, Chomsky urges those who are "sincerely dedicated to the Palestinian cause" to "avoid illusion and myth, and think carefully about the tactics they choose and the course they follow." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. rapper Talib Kweli backs out of Israel show</title>
<date>Fri Jul 04 10:52:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
American rapper Talib Kweli Greene has canceled his planned participation in an Israeli music festival, the artist announced on his Twitter feed, but remains interested in visiting the region and meeting with both Israelis and Palestinians fighting against the occupation.
"As much as I want to play Israel, I have decided not to in solidarity with Palestinians who will not have access to my show…," the 38-year-old rapper from Brooklyn tweeted on Tuesday.
Two minutes later, however, he qualified his previous statement. "After days of discussions with many, I've decided to try & visit Israel & Palestine with those who fight to end the state of apartheid… rather than use my art to force the issue on those who would rather not deal with it…," the artist wrote.
Greene, who goes by the stage name Talib Kweli, was supposed to perform at Hadera's Boom Box festival August, alongside Wyclef Jean and J. Views, Femi Kuti and others. Kweli is known as a rapper with a political conscience.
The announcement followed pressure from BDS tweeters to fall in line with a total boycott of Israel that built up on Monday, though some suggested alternative ideas such as giving "free shows in Palestine" or meeting with African refugees.Some followers said they hate the occupation and wish Kweli would not boycott and others supporting his decision because of the occupation. A few followers demanded more consistency from the artist, asking him if he would boycott Russia in solidarity with Ukraine, boycott Uganda because of its anti-gay hatred or condemn Islamic terror.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K. MP Galloway probed for declaring Bradford an 'Israel-free zone'</title>
<date>Thu Aug 07 22:06:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
British Parliament Member George Galloway is under investigation for declaring Bradford "an Israel-free zone."
The BBC cited West Yorkshire police officers as saying that two complaints have been lodged about a speech Galloway made on August 2 urging the city to reject all Israeli goods, services, academics and even tourists.
“We don’t want any Israeli goods. We don’t want any Israeli services. We don’t want any Israeli academics, coming to the university or the college," Galloway said at a meeting of the far-left Respect Party in Leeds.
“We don’t even want any Israeli tourists to come to Bradford, if any of them had thought of doing so.
“We reject this illegal, barbarous, savage state that calls itself Israel. And you have to do the same.”
According to the BBC, a spokesman for Galloway, Ron McKay, said the Bradford West MP stood by his remarks.
"George stands by the comments," McKay was quoted as saying. "He thinks they are quite reasonable.
"The reason he made them is because there's mass carnage and mass slaughter going on against the people of Gaza," he continued. "Direct action helped in the struggle against apartheid."
Conservative MP Robert Halfon, a former political director of the Conservative Friends of Israel, has dismissed Galloway's remarks as an "ill-considered rant that will cause great offence to many."
David Ward, Lib Dem MP for neighboring Bradford East, meanwhile, said that any boycott of Israel should extend beyond the city into a nationwide movement.
"Why restrict it to a particular town? If you are going to do boycotts, divestments and sanctions simply for a particular city or part of the country, how is that going to do any good?
"What's the point of that? It has to be a national movement," Ward was quoted saying by the BBC.
Galloway, a staunch supporter of the Palestinian cause, in 2009 said "the Palestinian people in Gaza are the new Warsaw Ghetto, and those who are murdering them are the equivalent of those who murdered the Jews in Warsaw in 1943." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>OIC lobbying Palestinians to join International Criminal Court</title>
<date>Sun Sep 28 17:44:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The world's largest bloc of Islamic countries has been lobbying the Palestinians to join the International Criminal Court so it can prosecute Israeli politicians and military leaders for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, the bloc's leader said Saturday.
Iyad Madani said the 57-nation Organization of Islamic Cooperation strongly supports Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' plan to ask the UN Security Council to impose a deadline for an Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian lands.
In a wide-ranging interview with The Associated Press, Madani also described the Islamic State extremist group which has captured a wide swath of Syria and Iraq as "criminal" and said he supports its destruction.
The Palestinians, under pressure from the United States and Israel, have been reluctant to become a party to the Rome Treaty that established the ICC. Abbas had been expected to sign up to the treaty during the recent 50-day Gaza war that killed more than 2,100 Palestinians and 73 Israelis. But he postponed an announcement, saying the Palestinians want to pursue action in the Security Council first.
"As OIC, we're lobbying him to join the Rome Treaty and open the door as a member of the ICC court to bring up charges against the individual politicians and military people in Israel who are responsible for all those atrocities, the latest of which is Gaza," Madani said.
ICC membership could work both ways. Palestinians – particularly Hamas officials who approved rocket attacks on Israeli civilians – could also be implicated for war crimes. Observers suggest this is one reason holding the Palestinian Authority back from joining the Rome Statute at this stage.
Madani said the OIC agrees with Abbas' statement to the UN General Assembly's ministerial meeting on Friday that war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide were committed in Gaza.
Madani accused Israel of "dehumanizing" treatment of the Palestinians for decades, "and we think there is a strong case to classify this current government of Israel as an apartheid state that should be dealt with internationally as an apartheid state."
But the OIC secretary general said the quest for peace can't be forgotten in the discussion of "how we can penalize each other."
The thrust now should be "to bring the Israelis to the peace camp" with the United States, Israel's most important ally, as a "moderator," not a party to the conflict, he said.
"I think you have to choose," Madani said. "You are either a moderator or a party to a conflict," he said.
Madani called for a revival of the stagnant Quartet of Mideast mediators — the United States, United Nations, European Union and Russia — with new leadership. Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair has been the official envoy of the Quartet since June 2007.
On the issue of terrorism, Madani said he fully supports U.S. airstrikes in Syria and Iraq targeting the Islamic State group, also known by its acronyms ISIS and ISIL, but only if they are part of a wider effort to dismantle the group's presence and deal with the causes that created and bred extremism in the region.
"Drones and airstrikes will not do the job alone," he said.
He also derided extremist groups like the Islamic State and Boko Haram in Nigeria who claim to represent true Islam.
"This is madness. These people cannot be voices of Islam, they don't understand Islam, and just claiming the caliphate is simply a way of creating false legitimacy of their purpose," he said.
The Islamic State group, an Al-Qaida breakaway group, has exploited the chaos resulting from Syria's civil war to carry out a blitz in which it swallowed up roughly a third of Iraq and Syria. It has brutalized the local population and imposed its strict interpretation of Islamic law in areas under its control.
Madani, however, criticized the United States for dismantling state institutions in Iraq after invading it in 2003 and adopting a policy that "emphasized sectarian differences" among Iraqis. He also blamed the international community's failure to face up to the crisis in Syria and put an end to the Palestinian suffering.
While he said it was "impossible" for Syrian President Bashar Assad to remain in power, he said the state in Syria should be maintained.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mahmoud Abbas’s address to the UN General Assembly</title>
<date>Mon Sep 29 01:28:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
In this year, proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly as the International Year of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, Israel has chosen to make it a year of a new war of genocide perpetrated against the Palestinian people.
In this year, in which this Assembly, on behalf of the countries and peoples of the world, conveyed the world’s yearning and determination to realize a just peace that achieves freedom and independence for the Palestinian people in their State of Palestine alongside Israel in order to rectify the historic injustice inflicted on the Palestinian people in Al-Nakba of 1948, the occupying Power has chosen to defy the entire world by launching its war on Gaza, by which its jets and tanks brutally assassinated lives and devastated the homes, schools and dreams of thousands of Palestinian children, women and men and in reality destroying the remaining hopes for peace.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I have addressed you in this hall during similar days in 2012 and cautioned that the colonial occupying Power was preparing for a new Nakba against the Palestinian people, and I appealed to you: Prevent a new Nakba. Support the establishment of a free and independent State of Palestine now.
I returned to this same hall two months later as Palestine was healing her wounds and her people were burying beloved martyred children, women and men after yet another war waged then against the Gaza Strip, and that day I stated: certainly there was not a single person in the world needing the loss of the lives of tens of Palestinian children in order to confirm that Israel insists on occupation; and there was also no need for thousands of deadly raids and tons of explosives to remind the world that there is an occupation that must end and that there is a people that must be freed.
I also said at that time: there was no need for a new devastating war in order to realize the absence of peace.
And, here we are again today.
Here we find ourselves, full of grief, regret and bitterness, raising the same long-standing conclusions and questions after a new war, the third war waged by the racist occupying State in five years against Gaza, this small, densely-populated and precious part of our country.
The difference today is that the scale of this genocidal crime is larger, and that the list of martyrs, especially children, is longer, as well as lists of the wounded and disabled, and that dozens of families have been completely decimated.
The difference today is that approximately half a million people were displaced from their homes, and that the number of homes, schools, hospitals, public buildings, residential buildings, mosques, factories and even cemeteries destroyed is unprecedented. And, the difference today is that the devastation caused by this recent aggression is unmatched in modern times, as confirmed by a witness, the honorable Commissioner-General of UNRWA.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
This last war against Gaza was a series of absolute war crimes carried out before the eyes and ears of the entire world, moment by moment, in a manner that makes it inconceivable that anyone today can claim that they did not realize the magnitude and horror of the crime. And, it is inconceivable that some are unable to characterize this situation in real terms and that they suffice with simply declaring their support for Israel’s right to self-defense without regard for the fate of the thousands of victims of our people, ignoring a simple fact that we remind them of today: that the life of a Palestinian is as precious as the life of any other human being.
We must also assume that no one will wonder anymore why extremism is rising and why the culture of peace is losing ground and why the efforts to achieve it are collapsing.
Yet, we believe – and hope – that no one is trying to aid the occupation this time in its impunity or its attempts to evade accountability for its crimes.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
In the name of Palestine and its people, I affirm here today: we will not forget and we will not forgive, and we will not allow war criminals to escape punishment.
I affirm in front of you that the Palestinian people hold steadfast to their legitimate right to defend themselves against the Israeli war machine and to their legitimate right to resist this colonial, racist Israeli occupation.
At the same time, I affirm that our grief, trauma and anger will not for one moment make us abandon our humanity, our values and our ethics; we will always maintain our respect and commitment to international law, international humanitarian law and the international consensus, and we will maintain the traditions of our national struggle established by the Palestinian fedayeen and to which we committed ourselves since the onset of the Palestinian revolution in early 1965.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Amidst a torrent of massacres and storms of massive destruction, we witnessed the peoples of the world gathering in huge demonstrations on the streets of many cities declaring their condemnation of the aggression and occupation and their support of freedom for Palestine. And we witnessed the overwhelming majority of countries on the various continents declaring the same noble position and rushing to provide all kinds of support and assistance to our people. And we witnessed the qualitative and quantitative broadening of activities of the international grassroots boycott campaign against Israel’s policies of occupation, apartheid and colonial settlement, especially among academia, cultural, student and youth groups.
Thus, in the name of Palestine, we pay tribute to everyone who chose to stand with human values and demanded freedom, justice and peace. All of these manifestations of true solidarity constituted an important message to those who were facing genocide in Gaza, helping them to feel they felt that they were not alone.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The recent Israeli war confirmed on the ground the crux of what the Israeli government had been declaring in the closed rooms of negotiation. This war came after long, difficult negotiations for more than eight months under the auspices of the United States and the efforts of President Barack Obama and tenacious efforts of his Secretary of State John Kerry. We engaged in this endeavor with open minds, in good faith and with a positive spirit and engaged with the efforts of the American administration in the most constructive manner, and we put forth our firm positions based on the resolutions of international legitimacy, which receive the overwhelming support of the nations of the world. And, we genuinely respected all of our commitments and understandings. Even as we watched the ongoing and escalating Israeli violations, we exercised unimaginable self-restraint, silencing our cries and tending to our own wounds in order to give the American efforts the best possible chance for success.
However, and as usual, the Israeli government did not miss the opportunity to undermine the chance for peace.
Throughout the months of negotiations, settlement construction, land confiscations, home demolitions, killing and arrest campaigns, and forced displacement in the West Bank continued unabated and the unjust blockade on the Gaza Strip was tightened. The occupation’s campaign specifically targeted the City of Jerusalem and its inhabitants, attempting to artificially alter the spirit, identity and character of the Holy City, focusing on Al-Aqsa Mosque, threatening grave consequences. At the same time, racist and armed gangs of settlers persisted with their crimes against the Palestinian people, the land, mosques, churches, properties and olive trees.As usual, the Israeli government once again failed the test of peace.
It breached an agreement with the American administration regarding the release of a group of Palestinian prisoners in the occupation’s jails — and we continue to insist on releasing all of them. And, when confronted with simple questions in the direct negotiations or through the American mediator, it did not hesitate to reveal its true positions:
Israel refuses to end its occupation of the State of Palestine since 1967, but rather seeks its continuation and entrenchment, and rejects the Palestinian state and refuses to find a just solution to the plight of the Palestine refugees.
The future proposed by the Israeli government for the Palestinian people is at best isolated ghettos for Palestinians on fragmented lands, without borders and without sovereignty over its airspace, water and natural resources, which will be under the subjugation of the racist settlers and army of occupation, and at worst will be a most abhorrent form of Apartheid.
Israel has confirmed during the negotiations that it rejects making peace with its victims, the Palestinian people.
This has all been done concurrent with an attempt to give a religious nature to the conflict and with the rising and rampant racism in the Israeli political and media discourse and its entrenchment in the school curriculum and in a series of laws and practices of the occupation and its settlers. This culture of racism, incitement and hatred was glaringly manifested in the despicable, appalling crime committed months ago by fascist settlers, who abducted the young Jerusalemite boy Mohammed Abu Khdeir, burnt him alive and killed him.
Over the past years, the occupying Power has also pursued a policy aimed at deliberately weakening the Palestinian National Authority to undermine it and, in essence, to fully negate its role. The occupation targeted the work we have been relentlessly undertaking to establish the foundations of the State of Palestine that we want: a sovereign and independent State living in peace and building bridges of mutual cooperation with its neighbors; that respects commitments, obligations and agreements; that strengthens the values of citizenship, equality, non-discrimination, the rule of law, human rights and pluralism; that deepens the Palestinian enlightened traditions of tolerance, coexistence and non-exclusion; that strengthens the culture of peace; that promotes the role of women; that establishes effective administration committed to the standards of good governance; and that cares for the needs and interests of its people. The occupation has, and continues to, to strike at this effort because it is the antithesis of its settlement policies and because it wants to destroy the chance for the realization of the Palestinian existence in an independent State within the framework of the two-State solution.
When our efforts to end the internal division through national dialogue succeeded a few months ago and we prepared to restore the unity of our land, nation and institutions and formed the national consensus government and began the process to lead to the holding of presidential and legislative elections, all countries of the world welcomed this achievement, with the exception of Israel, which has constantly sought to fragment our land and our national unity.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
And now, where do we go from here?
The idea that it is possible to simply return to the past patterns of work, which repeatedly failed, is naive at best and, in any case, is wrong, as it ignores the fact that it is no longer acceptable, nor possible, to repeat methods that have proven futile or to continue with approaches that have repeatedly failed and require comprehensive review and radical correction.
It is impossible, and I repeat – it is impossible – to return to the cycle of negotiations that failed to deal with the substance of the matter and the fundamental question. There is neither credibility nor seriousness in negotiations in which Israel predetermines the results via its settlement activities and the occupation’s brutality. There is no meaning or value in negotiations for which the agreed objective is not ending the Israeli occupation and achieving the independence of the State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital on the entire Palestinian Territory occupied in the 1967 war. And, there is no value in negotiations which are not linked to a firm timetable for the implementation of this goal.
The time has come to end this settlement occupation.
Palestine refuses to have the right to freedom of her people, who are subjected to the terrorism by the racist occupying Power and its settlers, remain hostage to Israel’s security conditions.
The people of Palestine are actually the ones who need immediate international protection, which we are seeking through international organizations, and who are in need of the security and peace that they are missing more than any other people, and the children of Palestine are worthy of the world’s efforts to ensure that their childhood, dreams and lives will not be devastated once again.
It is time for the chapters of this prolonged, ongoing tragedy to be closed.
Those who were uprooted from their warm homes, good land and beautiful country in Al-Nakba 66 years ago, pushed into the misery of exile and life as refugees and now being forced into new waves of expulsion or onto the ships of death in the world’s seas, are in need of assurances that they will not be displaced from their homes again, that their homes will not be destroyed again, and that they will not spend their lives waiting for the explosion of a new war.
It is time for this long tragedy to end.
We will not accept to forever be the ones being demanded to prove their good intentions by making concessions at the expense of their rights and to remain silent as they are killed and their land is stolen, and to understand the conditions of the other party and the importance of preserving its coalition government, while it entrenches its occupation. We are exhausted of the additional tests we must undergo to prove our efficiency, competence and eligibility to earn our natural, simple right to live a normal life and our inherent right to expect a stable and ordinary tomorrow, to dream about more beautiful days, and for our youth to be able to plan their coming days and years safely in peace and freedom over our land, like other peoples of the world.
The time has come for a real, just peace to prevail in the land of peace.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
We, and all the Arab countries, have constantly cautioned about the disastrous consequences of the continuation of the Israeli occupation and the denial of freedom and independence for the people of Palestine. We have repeatedly draw attention to the fact that allowing Israel to act as a state above the law with impunity and absolving it of any accountability or punishment for its policies, aggression and defiance of the international will and legitimacy has absolutely provided fertile ground and an environment conducive for the growth of extremism, hatred and terrorism in our region.
Confronting the terrorism that plagues our region by groups – such as “ISIL” and others that have no basis whatsoever in the tolerant Islamic religion or with humanity and are committing brutal and heinous atrocities – requires much more than military confrontation. It is an urgent matter that requires much more than condemnations and declarations of positions, which are of course necessary. What is primarily needed is a comprehensive, credible strategy to dry out the sources of terrorism and eradicate its roots in all political, intellectual, economic and social spheres in our region. It requires the creation of solid foundations for a reasonable consensus that makes the fight against all forms of terrorism in any place everywhere a collective task that is undertaken by the alliance of nations, peoples and civilizations. It requires, in this context and as a priority, bringing an end to the Israeli occupation of our country, which constitutes in its practices and perpetuation, an abhorrent form of state terrorism and a breeding ground for incitement, tension and hatred.
Mr. President,
At this moment in which we are still suffering from the horrors of war, we face a formidable challenge to reconstruct what has been destroyed by the occupation.At the invitation of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Kingdom of Norway, which we deeply appreciate, the city of Cairo will host next month an international conference for the relief and reconstruction of the Gaza Strip. Our government will present comprehensive reports to the conference on the losses inflicted by the aggression on the different sectors of life, and it will provide details of the plans and programs that will be rapidly implemented and supervised in the Gaza Strip to meet immediate relief needs and the requirements of reconstruction, in full coordination with United Nations agencies and bodies.
While we reiterate our appreciation and gratitude to all countries and organizations that rushed to provide assistance to the Palestinian people during and after the war, we are confident that brotherly and friendly countries will not waver in supporting support the plans and programs we will present and that the conference will achieve practical results that fulfill the expectations and needs of the victims of this aggression.
We reaffirm here that the primary prerequisite for the success of all these plans and efforts is an end to the ongoing Israeli blockade that has for years suffocated the Gaza Strip and turned it into the largest prison in the world for nearly two million Palestinian citizens. At the same time, we affirm our commitment and the necessity to consolidate the cease-fire through negotiations under the auspices of Egypt.
However, in order to avert repeating the cycle of war and cycle reconstruction every two or three years, it is imperative to focus on the fundamental issue and starting point, which is that the suffering of Gaza will not be completely alleviated except by ending the occupation and achieving the independence of the State of Palestine.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
During the past two weeks, Palestine and the Arab Group undertook intensive contacts with the various regional groups in the United Nations to prepare for the introduction of a draft resolution to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and to push forward the efforts to achieve peace.
This endeavor reaffirms our commitment to achieve a just peace through a negotiated solution and our adoption of a diplomatic and political effort through United Nations bodies. This endeavor is inspired by and based fully on the spirit and provisions of the many resolutions you have approved in the General Assembly and those adopted by the Security Council, which have set the foundations for a lasting solution and a just peace.
This endeavor aspires to correct the deficiency of the previous efforts to achieve peace by affirming the goal of ending the Israeli occupation and achieving the two-State solution, of the State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, over the entire territory occupied in 1967, alongside the State of Israel and reaching a just and agreed upon solution to the plight of the Palestine refugees on the basis of resolution 194, with a specific time frame for the implementation of these objectives as stipulated in the Arab Peace Initiative. This will be linked to the immediate resumption of negotiations between Palestine and Israel to demarcate the borders, reach a detailed and comprehensive agreement and draft a peace treaty between them.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We are confident that this endeavor will receive broad and full support by those who are committed to ensuring that our country will not witness new wars and atrocities, by those who wish to support a campaign to combat terrorism, by those who believe that it is necessary to act expediently to rectify the historical injustice inflicted by Al-Nakba on the Palestinian people, and by those who wish to see peace prevail in the land of the monotheistic religions.
The adoption of this resolution will affirm what you strived to realize in this year is the International Year of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, who will continue their struggle and steadfastness and will rise brave and strong from the rubble and destruction.
We, as our poet Mahmoud Darwish said: “are infected with an incurable disease, that is hope, and we love life if we are given the chance for it”.Mr. President Ladies and Gentlemen,There is an occupation that must end now.There is a people that must be freed immediately.The hour of independence of the State of Palestine has arrived. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa delays approval of Israeli circumcision device after BDS pressure</title>
<date>Mon Sep 29 19:00:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
The South African Department of Health reportedly is delaying approval of an Israeli-made circumcision device after political pressure from anti-Israel trade unions.
Prepex, a nonsurgical circumcising device developed in Israel, was approved last year by the World Health Organization. Studies show it reduces the likelihood of contracting the virus that causes AIDS by nearly 60 percent.
The boycott of the device began in 2013 by the Congress of South African Trade Unions, or Cosatu, and the African National Congress, both supporters of the Boycott Divest Sanctions campaign against Israel.
Cosatu has threatened to tell its members, many of them nurses, to refuse to use the device, Business Day Live reported.
The Department of Health denies that the delay is due to pressure from anti-Israel groups.
National Education Health and Allied Workers Union spokesman Sizwe Pamla told Business Day Live on Sunday that the union would not allow any Israeli product to be used in the public health system.
“We have told the African National Congress and the government that our position is clear and unambiguous when it comes to Israel. We boycott everything and every product that comes from that pariah and apartheid state,” he said.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>At UN, Netanyahu asks Arab states for new peace plan </title>
<date>Mon Sep 29 21:08:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
NEW YORK – Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday called on moderate Arab states to update the 2002 Arab League peace initiative to match current Middle East reality, particularly in view of the civil war in Syria and the wave of Islamic terror being spearheaded by Islamic State.
Addressing the UN General Assembly in New York, Netanyahu argued that improved relations between Israel and the Arab states would contribute to advancing peace with the Palestinians, rather than vice versa. The prime minister, however, did not present a practical plan for achieving this.
Click here for a transcript and video of the full speech.
“With a fresh approach from our neighbors, we can advance peace despite the difficulties,” he told a half-empty hall. “In Israel, we have a record of making the impossible possible. We’ve made a desolate land flourish. ... Peace, of course, would enable Israel to realize its full potential. … But the old template for peace must be updated. It must take into account new realities and new roles and responsibilities for our Arab neighbors.”
Netanyahu noted that after years during which the Arab states saw Israel as an enemy, they now understand that they and Israel are confronting the same threats, particularly Iran and radical Islam.
“Our challenge is to transform these common interests to create a productive partnership, one that would build a more secure, peaceful and prosperous Middle East. I believe the partnership between us can also help facilitate peace between Israel and the Palestinians,” he said.
“Many have long assumed that an Israeli-Palestinian peace can help facilitate a broader rapprochement between Israel and the Arab world. But these days, I think it may work the other way around, namely that a broader rapprochement between Israel and the Arab world may help facilitate an Israeli-Palestinian peace. To achieve that peace, we must look not only to Jerusalem and Ramallah but also to Cairo, to Amman, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and elsewhere,” said the prime minister.
Despite all the challenges, he said, “I believe peace can be realized with the active involvement of Arab countries – those that are willing to provide political, material and other indispensable support. I’m ready to make a historic compromise, not because Israel occupies a foreign land. The people of Israel are not occupiers in the land of Israel. … I want peace because I want to create a better future for my people.”
Netanyahu also responded to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s speech to the General Assembly last Friday, in which Abbas accused Israel of committing war crimes during Operation Protective Edge in Gaza.
“Today the Jewish state is demonized with the apartheid libel and charges of genocide,” Netanyahu said. “In what moral universe does genocide include warning the enemy civilian population to get out of harm’s way? ... Well, I suppose it’s the same moral universe where a man who wrote a dissertation of lies about the Holocaust and who insists on a Palestine free of Jews – Judenrein – can stand at this podium and shamelessly accuse Israel of genocide and ethnic cleansing,” he said, referring to Abbas.
“In the past, outrageous lies against the Jews were the precursors to the wholesale slaughter of our people, but no more. Today, we, the Jewish people, have the power to defend ourselves. We will defend ourselves against our enemies on the battlefield; we will expose their lies against us in the court of public opinion.”
Once again resorting to visual aids in a UN speech, Netanyahu displayed a picture taken by a France 24 crew of Palestinian children congregating around Hamas rocket launchers, citing this as proof that Hamas was attacking Israel from civilian areas.
“Hamas embedded its missile batteries in residential areas and told Palestinians to ignore Israel’s warnings to leave,” Netanyahu said. “And no less reprehensible, Hamas deliberately placed its rockets where Palestinian children live and play.
“Ladies and gentlemen, this is a war crime. And I say to President Abbas, these are the crimes, the war crimes, committed by your Hamas partners in the national unity government which you head and you are responsible for. And these are the real war crimes you should have investigated or spoken out against from this podium last week,” Netanyahu said, drawing applause.
The prime minister addressed the broadening of the international battle against Islamic State and militant Islam in general, saying Islamic State and Hamas “are branches of the same poisonous tree.”
Radical Islam’s ultimate goal, he said, is to dominate the world. “Now, that threat might seem exaggerated to some since it starts out small, like a cancer that attacks a particular part of the body,” he said. “But left unchecked, the cancer grows, metastasizing over wider and wider areas. To protect the peace and security of the world, we must remove this cancer before it’s too late.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Transcript of Benjamin Netanyahu's address to the 2014 UN General Assembly</title>
<date>Mon Sep 29 22:19:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU: Thank you, Mr. President. Distinguished delegates, I come here from Jerusalem to speak on behalf of my people, the people of Israel. I've come here to speak about the dangers we face and about the opportunities we seek. I've come here to expose the brazen lies spoken from this very podium against my country and against the brave soldiers who defend it.
Read these analysis pieces on the speech: Yossi Verter on Netanyahu's UN speech: Hamas, Iran, Islamic State and a finger in Obama’s eye; Barak Ravid:  Netanyahu's empty UN speech was a tour de force of deja vu.
Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Israel pray for peace, but our hopes and the world’s hopes for peace are in danger because everywhere we look militant Islam is on the march. It’s not militants. It’s not Islam. It’s militant Islam. And typically its first victims are other Muslims, but it spares no one: Christians, Jews, Yazidis, Kurds. No creed, no faith, no ethnic group is beyond its sights. And it’s rapidly spreading in every part of the world.
You know the famous American saying, all politics is local? For the militant Islamists, all politics is global, because their ultimate goal is to dominate the world. Now, that threat might seem exaggerated to some since it starts out small, like a cancer that attacks a particular part of the body. But left unchecked, the cancer grows, metastasizing over wider and wider areas. To protect the peace and security of the world, we must remove this cancer before it’s too late.
Get the news as it happens, follow us on Twitter
Last week, many of the countries represented here rightly applauded President Obama for leading the effort to confront ISIS, and yet weeks before, some of these same countries, the same countries that now support confronting ISIS, opposed Israel for confronting Hamas. They evidently don’t understand that ISIS and Hamas are branches of the same poisonous tree.
ISIS and Hamas share a fanatical creed, which they both seek to impose well beyond the territory under their control. Listen to ISIS’ self-declared caliph, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. This is what he said two months ago: A day will soon come when the Muslim will walk everywhere as a master. The Muslims will cause the world to hear and understand the meaning of terrorism and destroy the idol of democracy. Now listen to Khaled Mashal, the leader of Hamas. He proclaims a similar vision of the future: We say this to the West -- by Allah you will be defeated. Tomorrow our nation will sit on the throne of the world.
As Hamas’ charter makes clear, Hamas’ immediate goal is to destroy Israel, but Hamas has a broader objective. They also want a caliphate. Hamas shares the global ambitions of its fellow militant Islamists, and that’s why its supporters wildly cheered in the streets of Gaza as thousands of Americans were murdered in 9/11, and that’s why its leaders condemn the United States for killing Osama bin Laden whom they praised as a holy warrior.
Get Haaretz news and updates straight to you inbox - sign up to our newsletter.
So when it comes to their ultimate goals, Hamas is ISIS and ISIS is Hamas. And what they share in common all militant Islamists share in common. Boko Haram in Nigeria, Al-Shabab in Somalia, Hezbollah in Lebanon, Al-Nusra in Syria, the Mahdi army in Iraq, and the Al-Qaida branches in Yemen, Libya, the Philippines, India and elsewhere.
Some are radical Sunnis, some are radical Shiites, some want to restore a pre-medieval caliphate from the seventh century, others want to trigger the apocalyptic return of an imam from the ninth century. They operate in different lands, they target different victims and they even kill each other in their battle for supremacy. But they all share a fanatic ideology. They all seek to create ever-expanding enclaves of militant Islam where there is no freedom and no tolerance, where women are treated as chattel, Christians are decimated and minorities are subjugated, sometimes given the stark choice, convert or die. For them, anyone can be considered an infidel, including fellow Muslims.
Ladies and gentlemen, militant Islam’s ambition to dominate the world seems mad, but so too did the global ambitions of another fanatic ideology that swept into power eight decades ago. The Nazis believed in a master race. The militant Islamists believe in a master faith. They just disagree who among them will be the master of the master faith. That’s what they truly disagree about. And therefore, the question before us is whether militant Islam will have the power to realize its unbridled ambitions.
There is one place where that could soon happen -- the Islamic State of Iran. For 35 years, Iran has relentlessly pursued the global mission which was set forth by its founding ruler, Ayatollah Khomeini, in these words. “We will export our revolution to the entire world until the cry ‘there is no god but Allah’ will echo throughout the world over.” And ever since, the regime’s brutal enforcers, Iran’s revolutionary guards, have done exactly that.
Listen to its current commander, General Mohammad Ali Jafari. And he clearly stated his goal. He said “Our imam did not limit the Islamic revolution to this country, our duty is to prepare the way for an Islamic world government.”
Iran’s President Rohani stood here last week and shed crocodile tears over what he called the globalization of terrorism. Maybe he should spare us those phony tears and have a word instead with the commanders of Iran’s revolutionary guards. He could ask them to call off Iran’s global terror campaign, which has included attacks in two dozen countries on five continents since 2011 alone.
You know, to say that Iran doesn’t practice terrorism is like saying Derek Jeter never played shortstop for the New York Yankees. This is -- this bemoaning by the Iranian president of the spread of terrorism has got to be one of history’s greatest displays of doubletalk.
Now, some argue that Iran’s global terror campaign, its subversion of countries throughout the Middle East and well beyond the Middle East, some argue that this is the work of the extremists. They say things are changing. They point to last year’s election in Iran. They claim that Iran’s smooth-talking president and foreign minister, they’ve changed not only the tone of Iran’s foreign policy but also its substance. They believe that Rohani and Zarif (generally/genuinely ?) want to reconcile with the West, that they’ve abandoned the global mission of the Islamic Revolution. Really?
So let’s look at what Foreign Minister Zarif wrote in his book just a few years ago:
We have a fundamental problem with the West, and especially with America. This is because we are heirs to a global mission which is tied to our raison d'être, a global mission which is tied to our very reason for being.
And then Zarif asks a question -- I think an interesting one. He says: How come Malaysia -- he’s referring to an overwhelmingly Muslim country -- how come Malaysia doesn’t have similar problems? And he answers: Because Malaysia is not trying to change the international order.
That’s your moderate. So don’t be fooled by Iran’s manipulative charm offensive. It’s designed for one purpose and for one purpose only: to lift the sanctions and remove the obstacles to Iran’s path to the bomb. The Islamic Republic is now trying to bamboozle its way to an agreement that will remove the sanctions it still faces and leave it with a capacity of thousands of refugees -- of centrifuges, rather -- to enrich uranium. This would effectively cement Iran’s place as a threshold military nuclear power. And in the future, at the time of its choosing, Iran, the world’s most dangerous regime, in the world’s most dangerous region, would obtain the world’s most dangerous weapons. Allowing that to happen would pose the gravest threat to us all. It’s one thing to confront militant Islamists on pickup trucks armed with Kalashnikov rifles. It’s another thing to confront militant Islamists armed with weapons of mass destruction.
I remember that last year, everyone here was rightly concerned about the chemical weapons in Syria, including the possibility that they would fall into the hands of terrorists. Well, that didn’t happen, and President Obama deserves great credit for leading the diplomatic effort to dismantle virtually all of Syria’s chemical weapons capability. Imagine how much more dangerous the Islamic State, ISIS, would be if it possessed chemical weapons. Now imagine how much more dangerous the Islamic state of Iran would be if it possessed nuclear weapons.
Ladies and gentlemen, would you let ISIS enrich uranium? Would you let ISIS build a heavy water reactor? Would you let ISIS develop intercontinental ballistic missiles? Of course you wouldn’t. Then you mustn’t let the Islamic state of Iran do those things either, because here’s what will happen. Once Iran produces atomic bombs, all the charms and all the smiles will suddenly disappear. They’ll just vanish. And it’s then that the ayatollahs will show their true face and unleash their aggressive fanaticism on the entire world.
There’s only one responsible course of action to address this threat. Iran’s nuclear military capabilities must be fully dismantled. (Applause.) Make no mistake: ISIS must be defeated. But to defeat ISIS and leave Iran as a threshold nuclear power is to win the battle and lose the war. (Applause.) To defeat ISIS and leave Iran as a threshold nuclear power is to win the battle and lose the war.
Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against militant Islam is indivisible. When militant Islam succeeds anywhere, it’s emboldened everywhere. When it suffers a blow in one place, it’s set back in every place. That’s why Israel’s fight against Hamas is not just our fight, it’s your fight. Israel is fighting a fanaticism today that your countries may be forced to fight tomorrow. For 50 days this past summer Hamas fired thousands of rockets at Israel, many of them supplied by Iran. I want you to think about what your countries would do if thousands of rockets were fired at your cities. Imagine millions of your citizens having seconds at most to scramble to bomb shelters day after day. You wouldn’t let terrorists fire rockets at your cities with impunity, nor would you let terrorists dig dozens of terror tunnels under your borders to infiltrate your towns in order to murder and kidnap your citizens. Israel justly defended itself against both rocket attacks and terror tunnels. (Applause.)
Yet Israel faced another challenge. We faced a propaganda war because in an attempt to win the world sympathy, Hamas cynically used Palestinian civilians as human shields. It used schools -- not just schools; UN schools -- private homes, mosques, even hospitals to store and fire rockets at Israel. As Israel surgically struck at the rocket launchers and at the tunnels, Palestinian civilians were tragically but unintentionally killed. There are heartrending images that resulted, and these fueled libelous charges that Israel was deliberately targeting civilians. We were not. We deeply regret every single civilian casualties.
And the truth is this: Israel was doing everything to minimize Palestinian civilian casualties. Hamas was doing everything to maximize Israeli civilian casualties and Palestinian civilian casualties. Israel dropped flyers, made phone calls, sent text messages, broadcast warnings in Arabic on Palestinian television, all this to enable Palestinian civilians to evaluate targeted areas. No other country and no other army in history have gone to greater lengths to avoid casualties among the civilian population of their enemies. (Applause.)
Now, this concern for Palestinian life was all the more remarkable given that Israeli civilians were being bombarded by rockets day after day, night after night. And as their families were being rocketed by Hamas, Israel’s citizen army, the brave soldiers of the IDF, our young boys and girls, they upheld the highest moral values of any army in the world. (Applause.) Israel’s soldiers deserve not condemnation but admiration, admiration from decent people everywhere. (Applause.)
Now, here is what Hamas did. Here is what Hamas did. Hamas embedded its missile batteries in residential areas and told Palestinians to ignore Israel’s warnings to leave. And just in case people didn’t get the message, they executed Palestinian civilians in Gaza who dared to protest. And no less reprehensible, Hamas deliberately placed its rockets where Palestinian children live and play. Let me show you a photograph. It was taken by a France 24 crew during the recent conflict. It shows two Hamas rocket launchers, which were used to attack us. You see three children playing next to them. Hamas deliberately put its rockets in hundreds of residential areas like this -- hundreds of them.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a war crime. And I say to President Abbas, these are the crimes, the war crimes, committed by your Hamas partners in the national unity government which you head and you are responsible for. And these are the real war crimes you should have investigated or spoken out against from this podium last week. (Applause.)
Ladies and gentlemen, as Israel’s children huddle in bomb shelters and Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense knocked Hamas rockets out of the sky, the profound moral difference between Israel and Hamas couldn’t have been clearer. Israel was using its missiles to protect its children. Hamas was using its children to protect its missiles. (Applause.)
By investigating Israel rather than Hamas for war crimes, the UN Human Rights Council has betrayed its noble mission to protect the innocent. In fact, what it’s doing is to turn the laws of war upside down. Israel, which took unprecedented steps to minimize civilian casualties -- Israel is condemned. Hamas, which both targeted and hid behind civilians -- that’s a double war crime -- Hamas is given a pass.
The Human Rights Council is thus sending a clear message to terrorists everywhere: Use civilians as a human shield. Use them again and again and again. And you know why? Because, sadly, it works. By granting international legitimacy to the use of human shields, the UN Human Rights Council has thus become a terrorist rights council, and it will have repercussions -- it probably already has -- about the use of civilians as human shields. It’s not just our interests. It’s not just our values that are under attack. It’s your interests and your values.
Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world steeped in tyranny and terror where gays are hanged from cranes in Tehran, political prisoners are executed in Gaza, young girls are abducted en masse in Nigeria, and hundreds of thousands are butchered in Syria, Libya and Iraq, yet nearly half -- nearly half of the UN Human Rights Council’s resolutions focusing on a single country have been directed against Israel, the one true democracy in the Middle East; Israel, where issues are openly debated in a boisterous parliament, where human rights are protected by the -- by independent courts, and where women, gays and minorities live in a genuinely free society.
The human rights -- that’s an oxymoron, the human -- UN Human Rights Council, but I’ll use it just the same. The council’s biased treatment of Israel is only one manifestation of the return of one of the world’s largest prejudices. We hear mobs today in Europe call for the gassing of Jews. We hear some national leaders compare Israel to the Nazis. This is not a function of Israel’s policies. It’s a function of diseased minds. and that disease has a name. It’s called anti-Semitism. It is now spreading in polite society where it masquerades as legitimate criticism of Israel.
For centuries the Jewish people have been demonized with blood libels and charges of deicide. Today the Jewish state is demonized with the apartheid libel and charges of genocide -- genocide. In what moral universe does genocide include warning the enemy civilian population to get out of harm's way, or ensuring that they receive tons -- tons of humanitarian aid each day even as thousands of rockets are being fired at us, or setting up a field hospital to aid their wounded?
Well, I suppose it's the same moral universe where a man who wrote a dissertation of lies about the Holocaust and who insists on a Palestine free of Jews -- Judenrein -- can stand at this podium and shamelessly accuse Israel of genocide and ethnic cleansing. In the past, outrageous lies against the Jews were the precursors to the wholesale slaughter of our people, but no more. Today, we, the Jewish people, have the power to defend ourselves. We will defend ourselves against our enemies on the battlefield -- (applause) -- we will expose their lies against us in the court of public opinion. Israel will continue to stand proud and unbowed. (Applause.)
Ladies and gentlemen, despite the enormous challenges facing Israel, I believe we have a historic opportunity. After decades of seeing Israel as their enemy, leading states in the Arab world increasingly recognize that together, we and they face many of the same dangers, and principally, this means a nuclear-armed Iran and militant Islamist movements gaining ground in the Sunni world. Our challenge is to transform these common interests to create a productive partnership, one that would build a more secure, peaceful and prosperous Middle East. Together, we can strengthen regional security, we can advance projects in water and agricultural, in transportation and health and energy in so many fields.
I believe the partnership between us can also help facilitate peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Now, many have long assumed that an Israeli-Palestinian peace can help facilitate a broader rapprochement between Israel and the Arab world. But these days, I think it may work the other way around, namely that a broader rapprochement between Israel and the Arab world may help facilitate an Israeli-Palestinian peace. And therefore, to achieve that peace, we must look not only to Jerusalem and Ramallah but also to Cairo, to Amman, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and elsewhere.
I believe peace can be realized with the active involvement of Arab countries -- those that are willing to provide political, material and other indispensable support. I'm ready to make a historic compromise, not because Israel occupies a foreign land. The people of Israel are not occupiers in the land of Israel. (Applause.) History, archaeology and common sense all make clear that we have had a singular attachment to this land for over 3,000 years.
I want peace because I want to create a better future for my people, but it must be a genuine peace -- one that is anchored in mutual recognition and enduring security arrangements -- rock solid security arrangements on the ground, because you see, Israeli withdrawals from Lebanon and Gaza created two militant Islamic enclaves on our borders for which tens of thousands of rockets have been fired at Israel, and these sobering experiences heightens Israel's security concerns (regarding ?) potential territorial concessions in the future.
Now, those security concerns are even greater today. Just look around you. The Middle East is in chaos, states are disintegrating, and militant Islamists are filling the void. Israel cannot have territories from which it withdraws taken over by Islamic militants yet again, as happened in Gaza and Lebanon. That would place the likes of ISIS within mortar range, a few miles, of 80 percent of our population.
Now think about that. The distance between the 1967 lines and the suburbs of Tel Aviv is like the distance between the UN building here and Times Square. Israel is a tiny country. That’s why in any peace agreement, which will obviously necessitate a territorial compromise, I will always insist that Israel be able to defend itself by itself against any threat. (Applause.)
And yet despite everything that has happened, some still don’t take Israel’s security concerns seriously. But I do and I always will -- (applause) -- because as prime minister of Israel, I’m entrusted with the awesome responsibility of ensuring the future of the Jewish people and the future of the Jewish state. And no matter what pressure is brought to bear, I will never waiver in fulfilling that responsibility. (Applause.)
I believe that with a fresh approach from our neighbors, we can advance peace despite the difficulties we face. See, in Israel, we have a record of making the impossible possible. We’ve made a desolate land flourish, and with very few natural resources, we’ve used the fertile minds of our people to turn Israel into a global center of technology and innovation, and peace, of course, would enable Israel to realize its full potential and to bring a promising future not only for our people, not only for the Palestinian people, but for many, many others in our region.
But the old template for peace must be updated. It must take into account new realities and new roles and responsibilities for our Arab neighbors.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is a new Middle East. It presents new dangers but also new opportunities. Israel is prepared to work with Arab partners and the international community to confront those dangers and to seize those opportunities. Together, we must recognize the global threat of militant Islam, the primacy of dismantling Iran’s nuclear weapons capability and the indispensable role of Arab states in advancing peace with the Palestinians. All this may fly in the face of conventional wisdom, but it’s the truth, and the truth must always be spoken, especially here in the United Nations. (Applause.)
Isaiah, our great prophet of peace, taught us nearly 3,000 years ago in Jerusalem to speak truth to power. (Speaks in Hebrew.) For the sake of Zion, I will not be silent, for the sake of Jerusalem, I will not be still until her justice shines bright and her salvation glows like a flaming torch.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us light a torch of truth and justice to safeguard our common future. Thank you. (Applause.)
(END)

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>WATCH: Netanyahu dubs UN Human Rights Council the 'terrorist rights council'</title>
<date>Tue Sep 30 16:39:00 IDT 2014</date>
<content>
Transcript:
The Human Rights Council is thus sending a clear message to terrorists everywhere: Use civilians as a human shield. Use them again and again and again. And you know why? Because, sadly, it works. By granting international legitimacy to the use of human shields, the UN Human Rights Council has thus become a terrorist rights council, and it will have repercussions -- it probably already has -- about the use of civilians as human shields. It’s not just our interests. It’s not just our values that are under attack. It’s your interests and your values.
Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world steeped in tyranny and terror where gays are hanged from cranes in Tehran, political prisoners are executed in Gaza, young girls are abducted en masse in Nigeria, and hundreds of thousands are butchered in Syria, Libya and Iraq, yet nearly half -- nearly half of the UN Human Rights Council’s resolutions focusing on a single country have been directed against Israel, the one true democracy in the Middle East; Israel, where issues are openly debated in a boisterous parliament, where human rights are protected by the -- by independent courts, and where women, gays and minorities live in a genuinely free society.
The human rights -- that’s an oxymoron, the human -- UN Human Rights Council, but I’ll use it just the same. The council’s biased treatment of Israel is only one manifestation of the return of one of the world’s largest prejudices. We hear mobs today in Europe call for the gassing of Jews. We hear some national leaders compare Israel to the Nazis. This is not a function of Israel’s policies. It’s a function of diseased minds. and that disease has a name. It’s called anti-Semitism. It is now spreading in polite society where it masquerades as legitimate criticism of Israel.
For centuries the Jewish people have been demonized with blood libels and charges of deicide. Today the Jewish state is demonized with the apartheid libel and charges of genocide -- genocide. In what moral universe does genocide include warning the enemy civilian population to get out of harm's way, or ensuring that they receive tons -- tons of humanitarian aid each day even as thousands of rockets are being fired at us, or setting up a field hospital to aid their wounded?


</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Zambia's Guy Scott becomes Africa's first white head of state in 20 years</title>
<date>Wed Oct 29 16:09:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	Zambian President Michael Sata, once dubbed "Mr. King Cobra" for his sharp-tongued remarks, died in a London hospital after a long illness, the Zambian government said Wednesday. Vice President Guy Scott, a white Zambian of Scottish descent, was appointed acting president of the southern African nation until elections are held within 90 days.
	Scott is the first white leader of an African nation since F.W. de Klerk, the last president of South Africa under apartheid, the white racist regime that ended in 1994. Scott, a 70-year-old former agriculture minister, has said he has no presidential ambitions, and he cannot in any case become a fully empowered president because his parents were born outside Zambia, according to analysts.
	"Dr. Scott will act as president of the republic of Zambia until the country goes for a presidential by-election," said Defense Minister Edgar Lungu, who is also secretary general of the ruling Patriotic Front party.
	"The government remains intact and so does the Patriotic Front as a party," Lungu said.
	Lungu had served as acting president when Sata traveled to London for medical treatment earlier this month. Scott was previously agriculture minister and has also worked in Zambia's finance ministry.
	Sata died shortly after 11 p.m. on Tuesday at London's King Edward VII hospital, where he was being treated, Cabinet secretary Roland Msiska said in a statement.	Sata's wife, Christine Kaseba-Sata, and his son, Mulenga Sata, were at the 77-year-old president's side when he died, Msiska said. Mulenga Sata is the mayor of the Zambian capital, Lusaka.
	"I urge all of you to remain calm, united and peaceful during this very difficult period," Msiska said in an appeal to Zambians.
	Zambia had already declared Wednesday to be a national day of mourning for 26 people, all but three of them schoolchildren, who died Oct. 24 when a crowded boat capsized on Lake Kariba, near the border with Zimbabwe.
	The children were on their way to a ceremony marking Zambia's 50th anniversary of independence from Britain. Sata was unable to preside over the national celebrations because he was in the London hospital.
	Kenya, South Africa and other countries sent condolences to Zambia after Sata died. British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said Sata "played a commanding role in the public life of his country over three decades."
	Rumors that Sata was deathly ill had gripped Zambia since the leader largely dropped out of public view months ago, and opposition groups had questioned whether Sata was fit to lead a country of 15 million people that has enjoyed robust economic growth but suffers widespread poverty.
	On Sept. 19, Sata spoke at the opening of parliament in Lusaka, poking fun at speculation about his failing health, saying that he was still alive.
	Following that appearance, Sata failed to give a scheduled address at the United Nations in New York and police said doctors treated him in a hotel room.
	Earlier this year, Sata traveled to Israel amid speculation he was seeking medical treatment. On Oct. 20, Zambia said Sata had left for a "medical check-up abroad."
	Sata had a mixed relationship with Chinese investors in Zambian mines and other infrastructure, criticizing them as exploitative but toning down his rhetoric after taking office.
	Some critics say Sata became increasingly intolerant as president. An opposition leader, Frank Bwalya, was acquitted this year of defamation charges after he compared Sata to a local potato whose name is slang for someone who doesn't listen.
	As an opposition leader, Sata lost three presidential votes, breaking the jinx to become Zambia's fifth president in 2011. He also served in previous governments, and was a member of every major party.
	Sata was born in Mpika in what was then northern Rhodesia, and worked as a police officer and trade unionist under colonial rule. He also trained as a pilot in Russia.
	After independence in 1964, he joined Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independent Party, becoming governor of Lusaka, a city as well as a province, in 1985.
	He resigned from Kaunda's party in 1991 and joined the newly formed Movement for Multiparty Democracy, later serving as a party lawmaker for 10 years and as minister for local government, labor and social security, and health.
	In 2001, he left to form his Patriotic Front party. In 2008, he suffered a stroke and went to South Africa for treatment. The same year, President Levy Mwanawasa died following a stroke and a special election held later saw Sata narrowly lose to Rupiah Banda, who had been Mwanawasa's vice president.
	Sata's wife is a medical doctor and the couple had eight children.
	Sata introduced Kaseba-Sata at the opening of parliament last month, crediting her with tough love.
	"She has made me stay up to now," he said. "I haven't died yet."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Livni: Settlers want ‘apartheid’ buses</title>
<date>Fri Oct 31 08:10:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	Settlers’ demands that Jews and Palestinians travel on separate buses smack of apartheid, Justice Minister Tzipi Livni said in an interview with Army Radio Thursday.
	The Defense Ministry has said the new busing plan, first reported in Haaretz, stems strictly from security considerations: To ensure that Palestinians allowed into Israel to work don’t stay overnight illegally, they will henceforth have to leave via the same checkpoint through which they enter so their entry and exit can be tracked more easily. Since regular Israeli buses don’t pass through this checkpoint, the new rule effectively precludes Palestinians from riding them.
	However, Haaretz reported that Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon also came under heavy pressure from settlers to approve the new rule.
	“As long as we’re talking about security, the considerations are relevant ones, and the defense minister’s job really is to ensure the citizenry’s security,” Livni said in the interview. “But he said he didn’t give any such order” – i.e., one barring Palestinians from riding Israeli buses serving the settlements.
	“I applied to the attorney general when I read the [Haaretz] article, because I understood that this was the result of pressure by settlers who don’t want to travel with Arabs on the bus. I read the transcripts of what was said in that Knesset committee. It’s intolerable, the claims that they [the settlers] need their own buses, because one [Palestinian] didn’t get up for a woman or an elderly person, and another wasn’t nice to them. This is apartheid!” Livni said.
	“If this is due to security considerations, that’s something I can not only live with, but I’ll even support,” she continued. “But if we’re talking about settler pressure, that it’s not convenient or pleasant for them in the very places they sought to live, where there are Palestinians – that’s something I find unacceptable, and I’ll work against it. This is discrimination that’s forbidden by Israeli law.”
	Earlier this week, Haaretz published transcripts from a November 2013 meeting of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee’s subcommittee on the West Bank. The meeting was called to discuss the shortage of buses to the settlements, but several settlers complained about the behavior of Palestinian passengers on these buses.
	Ofri Tal-Or, 23, of Ariel, for instance, complained that a Palestinian once sat next to her and started feeling her up, ignoring her requests to stop. “I was too scared to get up because the bus was filled with Arabs and I didn’t know what to do,” she said.
	Yoni Dreier of Ariel added that his wife once came home from Bar-Ilan University on a bus packed with Palestinians, and even though she was nine months pregnant, none of them offered her a seat, forcing her to stand the whole way.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Romney assault on 'naive' Obama headlines expat Israeli-American fete  </title>
<date>Sat Nov 08 09:30:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	The inaugural conference of the Israeli-American Council served as a platform for a blistering attack on President Barack Obama on Friday night, launched by his defeated rival in the 2012 elections, Republican Mitt Romney. The "naive" president, Romney said, “is weakening our military, distancing ourselves from allies, and being divisive and demeaning towards our friends.”
	Romney said that he was ‘stunned’ by Obama’s recent letter to Iranian leader Ali Khamenei. “That the president would write a letter of this nature, in effect legitimizing a nation and a leadership that is violating international norms and is threatening the world, is so far beyond the pale, I was stunned. I was speechless.”
	Romney was warmly received with a standing ovation by about 700 expatriate Israelis who are participating in the first-ever national political conference exclusively devoted to the expat Israeli community. The conference, organized by the Israeli American Council (IAC) aims to establish the community as a “strategic asset” for Israel in the U.S. and, according to Jewish activists, as a potent political force in the future. The organization was established in Los Angeles in 2007, but underwent dramatic development and expansion after casino mogul Sheldon Adelson's decision in late 2013 to serve as its main funder. 
	Romney, who was interviewed by his former adviser Dan Senor, author of the popular book “Start-Up Nation," told the crowd that he had flown on Adelson’s private plane last week from Alaska, where he had campaigned on behalf of the Republican candidate for the Senate, Dan Sullivan. Adelson sat in the audience, together with his wife Miri, who serves as the chairperson of the IAC’s Las Vegas branch. Also attending were Israel’s UN ambassador, Ron Prosor, who exhorted his audience to participate in hasbara efforts to defend Israel, as well as Israel’s new Interior Minister Gilad Erdan, who will address the conference on Sunday.
  From left to right, IAC National Chairman Shawn Evenhaim, Sen. Joe Lieberman, Mitt Romney, IAC National Board Member Adam Milstein. Photo: Shahar Azran.
	Although the conference claims to be bipartisan, the only other politician speaking at Friday’s opening plenary was former U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman, who quit the Democratic Party in 2006 and has since become one of Obama’s harshest critics. Lieberman’s “balance” to Romney, therefore, was to attack Obama for his “harmful” relations with Israel and for the “chickenshit” epithet used against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by an anonymous administration official quoted by Jeffrey Goldberg in the Atlantic. Lieberman said of Romney “in politics and in life I’ve never met anyone as honorable or as able” as him.
	Two Democratic lawmakers are also scheduled to appear before the conference on Saturday, but both – outgoing Senate Foreign Relations Committee head Robert Menendez and Florida Congressmen Ted Deutch – are also expected to criticize Obama’s policy on Iran, though in milder terms than Romney. South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, however, will probably be just as harsh as Romney, if not more so.
	Speaking after a kosher Shabbat dinner in a ballroom at the Washington Hilton Hotel, a short distance from the White House, Romney said that the U.S. should treat Iran as it did apartheid South Africa, as a pariah state whose leaders are shunned. He said that Obama “continues to diminish himself and America and leads bad people to think America can be pushed around,” Romney said.
	He also lambasted the fact that Obama had bypassed U.S. allies in the region, including Israel. “The president is weakening our military and distancing us from our allies - which weakens us,” Romney said. “He began by going into the Arab world and apologizing for America, and saying we were dictatorial, divisive - and that we were dismissive of other nations. And the remarkable thing is that he now is doing that very thing. But not to our enemies. To our friends.” 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Five must-read opinion pieces about Israel's nation-state bill</title>
<date>Mon Dec 01 18:41:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	Few pieces of Israeli legislation have aroused as much passion and debate as the so-called nation-state bill, which has been approved by the cabinet but has yet to go to the Knesset plenum due to vociferous coalition opposition. It's the sort of bill that brings down coalitions – and it may still do just that. 	The bill, which was drafted by MK Zeev Elkin but has been adopted by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a toned-down format, defines the State of Israel as "the nation-state of the Jewish people” – an overriding identity whenever democratic principles clash with Jewish interests. 	It also reserves communal rights in Israel for Jews only, limiting the country's Arab community to “personal rights … according to law.” Elkin's original version would have defined Hebrew as Israel’s only national language, as well, reducing Arabic to secondary status.  Salman Masalha notes Netanyahu's undeniable Jewish patriotism, but questions whether the prime minister has ever known what it means to be Israeli. The last prime minister who acted in an Israeli fashion, he notes, "was murdered in a square in the first Hebrew city by a Jewish, yarmulke-wearing assassin." Read the full article.
	Welcome, Diaspora Jews, to the Israel you've been avoiding, writes Asher Schechter. "It's not like Netanyahu is changing anything," he says, "he's just lifting the veil." The money, influence and unwavering support of Jews abroad, particularly those in America, has "enabled many of the behaviors that contributed to the kind of arrogant solipsism that made Israeli politicians believe they can get away with anything. " Read the full article.   Gideon Levy speculates that the intentions underlying bill may be more far-reaching than they seem. The legislation, he says, may be "legal preparation for the right wing’s one-state solution, the annexation of the territories and the establishment of the Jewish apartheid state." There would be no need for the bill in a two-state environment, Levy writes. Only in a binational state – in which there are "two peoples, one superior and the other inferior" – would it be necessary to ensure Jewish supremacy. Read the full article.  Chemi Shalev conjures up a nightmarish scenario of post-nation state Israel. He envisions a future in which the judiciary has been emasculated and hundreds of thousands of Arabs have been deprived of voting rights and forced to wear small green crescents on each sleeve – "for their own safety as well as that of the Jews." "We've come a long way since we legislated the Jewish nation-state law back in 2014," says the prime minister, "but we still have a long way to go.” Read the full article.  	"The year 2014 has been one of the worst that the State of Israel has ever known," writes Uzi Baram. "This is the year that the hatred, racism and aspirations for Jewish exclusivity crawled out of their holes." He points to the November 2012 removal of Benny Begin – a man who was "loyal to parliamentary democracy and respected the legal system" – from the Likud slate in as the moment at which the alarm bells started ringing – though they went largely unheard at the time. Read the full article. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Three EU powers draft Security Council resolution on Israeli-Palestinian deal</title>
<date>Wed Dec 03 23:59:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	The three leading European Union countries, France, Germany and Britain, are drafting a UN Security Council resolution outlining the principles of an Israeli-Palestinian final-status deal and setting a two-year timetable for completing negotiations on such an agreement.
	Senior Israeli diplomats familiar with the draft resolution’s provisions said the Europeans have also briefed Washington on it.
	The Israeli diplomats, who asked to remain anonymous due to the sensitivity of the issue, said the move was initially led by France, a permanent member of the Security Council. Over the last two weeks, however, the French have managed to persuade both Britain – another permanent Security Council member – and Germany. The latter isn’t on the Security Council, but its support is important due to both its international influence and its close ties with Israel.
	The EU draft is meant to serve as a counterweight to an extreme, one-sided resolution drafted by the Palestinians, which is being backed by the Arab League and formally sponsored at the Security Council by Jordan. The Palestinian draft calls for an Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank within two years and the immediate acceptance of Palestine as a full UN member. The Palestinians would like their resolution brought to a vote in the second half of December, before the Christmas holiday.
	These UN moves come at a particularly bad time for Israel, given that the government has just fallen and an election campaign has begun. Moreover, a diplomatic crisis over such a Security Council resolution is liable to focus the election campaign on the Israeli-Palestinian issue and push Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, due to pressure from his right-leaning electorate, into more extreme retaliatory measures against the Palestinian Authority.
	Netanyahu is very worried about both the Palestinian and the European initiatives, but hasn’t managed to formulate a strategy to preempt them. His poor relations with both Europe and Washington make it harder to either thwart the Palestinian proposal or soften the European one to bring it closer to Israel’s positions.
	It’s not yet clear to what extent the recent political developments in Israel will affect either the Palestinian or the European timetable. Senior PA officials said their effort to push their own resolution wouldn’t be affected. “It’s impossible to freeze everything and wait for Netanyahu to fall, since after the election, perhaps the negotiations won’t be about a Palestinian state, but about an apartheid plan,” one said.
	The French, British and Germans want to present a more balanced resolution that could serve as a basis for renewed Israeli-Palestinian talks and win American backing. Thus, for instance, the European draft doesn’t call for immediately recognizing Palestine as a full UN member. Moreover, it allots two years for final-status negotiations and envisions an Israeli withdrawal beginning only after that.
	But the three European powers still haven’t agreed among themselves on all the issues. There’s a consensus on calling for a Palestinian state based on the 1967 lines, with territorial swaps. But there’s an argument over whether the resolution should address the issue of Israel being the nation-state of the Jewish people – a clause Germany is pushing to include.
	Over the past week, French, British and German diplomats have held talks at UN headquarters in New York with the Palestinians, Jordanians and representatives of other Arab states in an effort to come up with a mutually acceptable draft. But so far, the Palestinians oppose the European proposal and insist on advancing their own.
	Israeli diplomats said their impression is that the Palestinians want to advance their extreme draft in order to isolate the United States and force U.S. President Barack Obama to veto it. But senior Palestinian official involved in the talks with the Europeans rejected the claim that PA President Mahmoud Abbas opposes any European initiative or wants a confrontation with America.
	“Our insistence stems from one simple reason, which is that in every conversation we’ve had with the Americans and Europeans so far, we haven’t heard a proposal that could meet the Palestinians’ minimum demands,” one said.
	The Palestinians’ impression from their talks with the Europeans, one PA official added, is that Germany is trying to soften the European draft by eliminating the fixed timetable – which would instead simply lead to another round of talks that could last for years. “We can’t accept a draft that doesn’t include agreement on the border and a timetable for ending the occupation,” he said.
	French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius has briefed U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on the European initiative, but the Americans aren’t yet actively involved in the negotiations over its wording. Israeli diplomats said the Americans’ position on the European proposal is unclear, and it seems they haven’t yet made a decision.
	The Americans very much want to avoid casting a veto on any resolution relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, due to their efforts to forge a coalition of Arab states against the Islamic State. And Israeli diplomats noted that the European resolution would be even harder for the Americans to veto than the Palestinian one.
	Some people in the U.S. administration, headed by Kerry, are even considering submitting an American resolution to the Security Council, but the White House currently opposes this. Right now, Obama and his team want to focus on their negotiations with Iran and the war against the Islamic State rather embarking on a new Israeli-Palestinian peace initiative.
	Netanyahu is very worried about both the Palestinian and the European initiatives, but hasn’t managed to formulate a strategy to preempt them.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>West Bank settlement expansion surged under Netanyahu</title>
<date>Mon Dec 15 16:04:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	The population of Jewish settlers in the occupied West Bank has surged during Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's years in office, growing at more than twice the pace of Israel's overall population, according to newly obtained official figures.
 Settlement growth also was strong beyond Israel's separation barrier, seen by many as the basis for a border between Israel and a future Palestinian state.
	The figures reflect Netanyahu's continued support for settlement construction, even while repeatedly stating his commitment to the eventual establishment of an independent Palestinian state as part of a future peace agreement. They also could be a topic of discussion as U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry meets with Netanyahu and European officials this week over a promised UN Security Council proposal dealing with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
	While Israeli leaders of all political persuasions have built settlements for decades, the U.S. and western allies have dwindling patience for their construction.
	From the beginning of 2009 until the beginning of 2014 — Netanyahu returned to office in March 2009 — the Jewish settler population in the West Bank grew 23 percent, to 355,993 people. In comparison, the overall population has grown 9.6 percent to just over 8 million in that time. Figures for 2014 are not expected before late next year.
	The rate of settler population growth slowed slightly under Netanyahu, from 31 percent during the previous five years under his predecessors Ariel Sharon and Ehud Olmert. Olmert especially took relatively little heat for the settlements because he was seen as a moderate.
	In all, the settler population has more than doubled in the 21 years since Israel and the Palestinians have been engaged in an on-and-off peace process aimed at a partition of the Holy Land.
	Israel captured the West Bank in the 1967 Mideast war, and prime ministers of all political affiliations have allowed and sometimes encouraged settlement of the territory.
	The Palestinians claim the West Bank, east Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip for their future state. They say all Israeli construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem is illegal — a position with wide international support. Israel withdrew all its troops and settlers from Gaza in 2005.
	In a situation that challenges Israel's claims to being a democracy, the more than 2 million Palestinians in the West Bank cannot vote for the Israeli government that controls much of their lives, while Jewish settlers can.
	Netanyahu repeatedly has drawn U.S. ire with controversial construction plans. Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon suggested last week that the government would have liked to do more if not for the U.S. pressure.
	"We are very, very careful not to push the envelope too much," Yaalon said. "This (U.S.) administration won't be around forever and I hope it is temporary." Even so, he boasted that settlements are growing faster than "any other part of the country."
	The figures, which come from Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics, confirm Yaalon's claims. Netanyahu's office declined to comment on the figures ahead of a possible U.N. Security Council vote this week a resolution setting a November 2016 deadline for ending Israeli occupation. Another proposal, by France, would set a time limit of two years for Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.
	Shortly after taking office, Netanyahu gave a landmark speech endorsing Palestinian statehood, reversing his previous opposition. But his government has refused to stop settlement construction, with the exception of a 10-month period in 2009 and 2010 that was meant to spur peace talks. U.S.-brokered negotiations since have collapsed.
	Netanyahu never has said where he envisions a final border, but he has indicated that Israel must at the minimum retain the settlement "blocs," a term that usually refers to communities inside the separation barrier.
	The barrier stretches beyond the internationally-recognized pre-1967 Israeli borders, encompassing nearly a tenth of the West Bank. Israelis see that as a practical effort to incorporate most Jewish settlers, mitigating the difficult task of removing settlers as part of a peace partition. The Palestinians have suggested they would accept such an idea if they were compensated for the territory with land swaps.
	Construction beyond the barrier complicates any future pullout. Past experience in removing settlers — from Egypt's Sinai desert in the early 1980s and from Gaza in 2005 — suggests many would try to resist. The number of settlers living beyond the barrier line, according to the new numbers, is about 10 times greater than the settler population of Gaza — nearly 82,000 settlers at the beginning of 2014, compared to about 68,000 five years before.
	If the settlements beyond the barrier make partition impossible, Israel could one day face a scenario in which Palestinians demand equal rights within a single state, which would force it to choose between being a Jewish state and a democracy.
	The settlement growth is roughly the same on both sides of the separation barrier, with the anti-settlement watchdog group Peace Now identifying growth rates of 23 percent inside the barrier and 20 percent beyond it.
	"We are seeing construction growth throughout the entire West Bank," said Lior Amihai, a Peace Now researcher. "This indicates government policy."
	He said that even when factoring in the higher birthrate of the settler population, which tends to be more religious, the settlement growth rate is higher because of the nonstop construction.
	The ultra-Orthodox settlement of Beitar Illit, for example, grew 29 percent during the five-year period. The population of Bnei Brak, an ultra-Orthodox city inside Israel, grew 14 percent.
	Another complication is the settlement of Ariel, which has grown into a town of over 18,000 people. Even though it is in the middle of the northern West Bank, many Israelis consider it to be part of the blocs, something Palestinians reject. Including Ariel, more than 100,000 settlers would potentially have to be evacuated.
	Netanyahu "is a prime minister for settlements," senior Palestinian official Saeb Erekat said. "His aim was to destroy the two-state solution. He wants the concept of one state, two systems — apartheid."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel elections updates / Knesset boosts security around Eli Yishai</title>
<date>Tue Dec 16 15:26:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
 Haaretz's latest political analyses and opinions: Israeli Arabs, don't give the Jewish State your vote | A Herzog-Livni upset? Only in your dreams | Curtain coming down on Netanyahu’s rule
 Latest updates:
 3:26 P.M. Election Opinions
	As long as the Israeli government is built on Jewish ethnic purity, the Knesset has nothing to offer Israel’s Arab citizens. The Arab MKs merely serve as a fig leaf that covers the nakedness of Israeli apartheid. Consequently, Arab citizens should boycott the election, argues Salman Masahala. Read full opinion here
	While no one doubts that what Israel needs is a moderate, democratic leadership, the public does not want such a government; it is not yet ripe for a complete end to settlement construction or border adjustments, Tal Niv writes. Read full opinion here
	One of the most critical tasks facing whatever government is elected in March will be to impose order on the Education Ministry and reexamine its criteria for allocating funds, today's Haaretz Editorial says. Read full editorial here
 9:13 A.M. Knesset boosts security around Eli Yishai
	The Knesset has boosted security around Eli Yishai, in addition to a body guard already assigned to him. The decision came in reaction to scuffles that broke out between his supporters and the supporters of his political rival, Aryeh Deri, after Yishai announced his was breaking away from Shas. (Yair Ettinger)
 00:10 A.M. Kahlon declines Lapid's joint ticket 
	In an attempt to set up a second centrist block, Yair Lapid, the leader of Yesh Atid, met with Kulanu's Moshe Kahlon on Monday evening and proposed joining the parties into a unified ticket- and was declined.
	Both Yesh Atid and Kulanu declined to comment on the meeting's content. Lapid, whose party is expected to be cut half in size after the upcoming elections, has been in recent weeks working to set up understandings with both Kahlon and Lieberman's Yisrael Beitenu- but both have made it clear they have no interest in such a move.
	Before meeting with Kahlon, Lapid conducted a series of polls relating to the prospects of a joint ticket. According to the estimations put forth by Yesh Atid sources, both Yesh Atid and Kahlon's Kulanu would benefit significantly from a joint ticket - and, if running together, would be candidates for the task of assembling the next coalition.
	But these conclusions have been met with a degree of doubt by Kahlon's team. Other polls suggest Kulanu would suffer from joining forces with Lapid.
	In any case, Kahlon's party has made it clear no intentions to join any block exist. But sources who spoke with Kahlon in recent days told Haaretz that while "on the formal level, Kahlon is unequivocally refusing to join forces with any other party - he is definitely flirting with the idea. He doesn't have enough money to manage a significant campaign, and if he does end up joining Yesh Atid or Yisrael Beitenu, it will be in order to benefit from the massive budgets that they have at their disposal, for an effective campaign."
	Along with the fiscal problems, Kahlon is having trouble assembling his new party's human line-up, the sources said. "Kahlon is surrently the only one who can promise his candidates ministerial roles; his party is turning out to be the only one that is certain to join any government that will be set up after the elections – be it helmed by Netanyahu or by Herzog. Kahlon won't sit in the opposition. And despite this, many good people have got offers from him, and walked on."
	Kahlon himself stated at a Monday conference that "contrary to the rumors, there is still no list of part members." (Jonathan Lis)
 For Monday's updates blog, click here

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Meridor: I won't be the Likud's detergent</title>
<date>Thu Dec 18 22:24:00 IST 2014</date>
<content>
	Former Likud minister Dan Meridor launched a broadside against his old party on Thursday, strongly criticizing its promotion of the nation-state bill and its incitement against asylum seekers.
	Meridor, who served as justice minister under Yitzhak Shamir and finance minister under Benjamin Netanyahu, stressed that he had no intention of being part of the Likud list for the upcoming elections.	"Netanyahu won't call me and he knows why," Meridor said, during an interview on the Knesset Channel.
	"When I hear from the party that Arabs have human rights but not civil rights … when I hear that certain people are a cancer, when I hear statements that I don't even want to repeat, could I really be their detergent and represent them?"
	"No. If the party were to return to its historical path, national-liberal and not nationalistic, I would be happy to continue being part of it."
	In a separate interview on Channel 10's "London and Kirschenbaum" program, Meridor criticized the current diplomatic standstill and called on Netanyahu to advance negotiations with the Palestinians.
	"Israel doesn't lead, doesn't initiate," Meridor said. "We can't close our eyes to what is happening in Europe. They're talking, parliament after parliament, about a Palestinian state. After all, Netanyahu is in favor of a state; that's what he says. But he wants it to be agreed in negotiations that will lead to an agreement. So why oppose the idea of a state? I think we should bring a resolution to the Security Council that we are in favor of negotiations."
	Two issues should be central to negotiations with the Palestinians, Meridor said: "The '67 borders with adjustments and no return [of Palestinian refugees] to Israel. That's what we should propose. If [the Palestinians] oppose it because it denies the right of return, the world will know where the problem lies. If they support it, it will be an historic upheaval."
	Meridor also criticized the building of settlements, saying "our actions talk, not our words, because we allow settlement everywhere. Most Likud members, as well as [Habayit Hayehudi leader Naftali] Bennett and others say that there won't be a Palestinian state, so the world asks, 'well, what do you want then?' We damage ourselves."
	Last year, Meridor attacked his former Likud colleagues for promoting legislation that discriminated against Arabs and refugees, saying that they were promoting apartheid policies.
	"The only thing that interests them is the territories," he said. "Human rights, democracy, equality – none of those exist for them."

</content>
</article>
