
Home News
U.S. slams closing statement at conference as anti-Semitic
American delegation threatens to leave if statement is not changed; Fidel Castro brands Israeli actions against Palestinians as "genocide."
By Yair Sheleg	and Ha', agencies	| Aug. 31, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The United States claimed Saturday that the closing statement at the United Nations World Conference Against Racism was anti-Semitic in its content.

White House spokesman Arie Fliescher said that if several of the anti-Israel paragraphs in the statement were not changed, the American delegation would leave. He added that the U.S. representatives at the summit were there only because it was demanded by protocol.

Arab League representatives in Durban met Saturday to discuss the issues of the declaration that Israel and the U.S. have reservations about. Arab League Chairman Amr Moussa said that the sections regarding Israeli policy in the West Bank and Gaza Strip were open for discussion, just as was the notion of the Arabs recognizing the Holocaust.

"There is a degree of racism in Israel's attitude towards the Palestinians, and it must be discussed, exactly the same way that Israel wants us to recognize the Holocaust. It's one package," he said.

Cuban leader Fidel Castro on Friday branded Israeli actions against Palestinians as "genocide" and blasted the United States for seeking to hobble debate at the UN conference against racism.

"[Nobody] has the right to set preconditions to the conference or urge it to avoid the discussion... [of] the way we decide to rate the dreadful genocide perpetrated, at this very moment, against our Palestinian brothers," Castro said.

South African President Thabo Mbeki was expected to hold talks with Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat on Saturday, his office announced. Mbeki was also due to meet a representative from the Arab League, presidential aide Bheki Khumalo said.

Mbeki touched on the issue of racism in his address to delegates, saying that, "The people of Palestine, like those of Israel and everywhere else in the world, are also entitled to pursue their fullest and all-round development in conditions of freedom, safety and security," he said.

Arafat blasted Israel as a "racist" state and accused it of ethnic cleansing in comments made Friday as the UN World Conference Against Racism opened in Durban, South Africa.

"Condemnation of the Israeli occupation and its racist practices and laws, which are based on racism and superiority, is considered today an urgent demand by our people," Arafat said at a panel meeting of leaders assembled at the conference.

"This brutality and arrogance are moved by a mentality of superiority that practices racism and racial discrimination, that adopts ethnic cleansing," Arafat said. (The Palestinian leader spoke in Arabic; the remarks are taken from an official Palestinian translation.)

"This historical conference represents a decisive historical turning point in the position of all humanity vis-a-vis racism, discrimination and racist practices which are all incorporated in the Israeli occupation of and settlements in our homeland, Palestine," Arafat said.

"Our Palestinian people; who are suffering as a result of this severe occupation, cancerous settlements and racial discrimination; look forward towards this conference to stand on their side," he concluded.

Annan: Holocaust is unique, but does not justify occupation UN Secretary General Kofi Annan opened the conference Friday by addressing the controversy raging around proposals to equate Zionism with racism.

"The Jewish people have been victims of anti-Semitism in many parts of the world and in Europe they were the target of the Holocaust, the ultimate abomination. This fact must never be forgotten or diminished," Annan said.

"It is understandable, therefore, that many Jews deeply resent any accusation of racism directed against the State of Israel...

"[However,] we cannot expect Palestinians to accept this as a reason why the wrongs done to them, displacement, occupation, blockade and now extra-judicial killings should be ignored, what ever label one uses to describe them.

"But mutual accusations are not the purpose of this conference," Annan went on. "Let us admit that all countries face the issues of racism, which we need to address rather than pick on any one country or region."

Thousands attend anti-Israel, U.S. demonstratation Reuters reported that thousands of demonstrators chanting anti-Israeli and anti-American slogans marched through the center of Durban on Friday.

"Israel is an apartheid state" and "Free, Free Palestine" were among banners waved by the protesters, estimated to number 10,000, as they headed for a meeting to be addressed by U.S. civil rights leader Jesse Jackson.

In response to U.S. pressure, the draft resolution equating Zionism with racism was removed from the agenda. All the other anti-Israel resolutions have remained, something U.S. President George W. Bush has made clear is unacceptable. "If they use the forum as a way to isolate our friend and strong ally, we will not participate at any level," Bush told a news conference last Friday.

The United States and Israel sent low-level delegations to Durban because of the strongly anti-Israeli language in the draft declaration that followed weeks of haggling between diplomats in Geneva.

The level of Washington's discontent was clear on Friday when it put a junior official, diplomat John Blaney, in its seat at the opening session with instructions not to speak. "There is somebody sitting in the seat but not necessarily participating. He will not be speaking. We are observing, I guess would be the most appropriate term," a State Department official said.


Home News
Palestinians disrupt Jewish meeting in South Africa
By Reuters	| Aug. 30, 2001 | 12:00 AM

DURBAN - Pro-Palestinian activists disrupted a press conference by more than 20 Jewish groups at a United Nations-backed non-governmental world racism conference Thursday.

Plans by international Jewish groups to highlight what they said was "intimidation against Jews and Israelis" unraveled as activists from Arab and Islamic states and Palestinians tried to break up the event which came ahead of the start of the official UN conference Friday.

Several protesters shouted "Zionism is racism, Israel is apartheid," and "You have Palestinian blood on your hands" to Jewish representatives who voiced concern at what they said was "anti-Semitism" at the Durban meeting. "We're feeling intimidated, unable to communicate and shut down on the grounds of being Jewish. It's a new type of anti-Semitism," said Anne Bayefsky, a professor at New York's Columbia Law School.

Washington fears Arab nations will use the conference to equate Zionism and Israel with racism and apartheid. U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell decided against attending when the United States and Israel objected to language proposed by Arab and Islamic nations.

Instead, Washington said Wednesday it would send a middle-ranking State Department official to Durban to try to amend the language on Israel, but would not necessarily take its seat at the opening plenary on Friday.

The draft UN race declaration does not link Zionism with racism, but it says: "Foreign occupation founded on settlements...[is] a new kind of apartheid, a crime against humanity."

The draft document also expresses "deep concern about practices of racial discrimination against the Palestinians as well as other inhabitants of the Arab occupied territories." The document also refers to "ethnic cleansing of the Arab population in historic Palestine."


Home Print Edition News
Jewish delegates to Durban complain of racism
By Reuters	| Aug. 30, 2001 | 12:00 AM

DURBAN, South Africa - Jewish delegates at the UN-sponsored World Conference Against Racism here complained yesterday that they were being victimized by anti-Israeli pressure groups, and described the mood as blatantly anti-Semitic.

The conference opens on Friday, and Jewish groups already in Durban for an earlier non-governmental race forum said their members had been intimidated by pro-Palestinian groups pressing the meetings to denounce Israel as a racist and modern-day apartheid state.

"I feel besieged, there's anti-Semitism and hate literature at the World Racism Conference. It couldn't get much worse," said Anne Bayefsky, a professor from New York's Columbia Law School.

"Some of the Jewish delegates are hiding their accreditation badge because it identifies them as from Israel or as Jewish. Some are considering leaving Durban altogether," she said.

The U.S. has said it will not attend the UN conference if Arab and Islamic states insist on pressing for the meeting to accept "offensive language" against Israel.

The State Department said U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell would not attend the summit, and Washington has not announced what level of delegation, if any, it will send.

Deputy Foreign Minister Rabbi Michael Melchior said yesterday that Israel has decided to attend the conference - but still has not decided on the level of the delegation.

A senior Palestinian delegate rejected the claims that the Jewish groups were being victimized by Arab delegates. "They are not being intimidated. All the NGO [non-governmental organization] delegates here are supporting victims of racism," said Shawqi Issa, executive director of the Jerusalem-based Palestinian Society for the Protection of Human Rights and the Environment. He accused some Jewish groups of handing out pro-Israeli literature at the conference.

Stacy Durdett, representing the Anti-Defamation League, said some of around 200 Jewish representatives in Durban were shocked by their treatment and felt unfairly singled out. "More than anything Jewish delegates are being hurt since we are being targeted and victimized when we come to a conference to talk about racism," Durdett said.

Pamphlets circulated at the non-governmental meeting caricatured Jews and posters carried slogans overlapping the Star of David with the Nazi Swastika. Many pro-Palestinian delegates wore T-shirts with a slogan that equated Israel with apartheid, colonialism and a military occupying power that killed civilians. "There is a real sense of hostility toward Jewish people. We are being intimidated," said Karen Pollock, director of the London-based Holocaust Education Trust.


Home News
Israel now likely to send delegation to UN racism conference
By Dalia Shehori,	Yair Sheleg	and Ha' Reuters	| Aug. 29, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Israel has indicated a serious change in its stand regarding its participation in the United Nations Conference against Racism scheduled to open Friday in Durban, South Africa.

Deputy Foreign Minister Rabbi Michael Melchior said Wednesday that Israeli representatives would probably be at the conference, but the delegation's level, composition and whether Melchior would be a member were still unclear.

According to Melchior's communications advisor, Moni Mordichai, the reason for Israel's new stand is the indicated change in the American position. President George W. Bush announced last weekend that the United States would not participate in the conference as long as it included sharp anti-Israel positions, but a U.S. State Department preparation delegation was dispatched to Durban and was awaiting the final decision by the administration on its participation.

Reuters reported that Jewish student delegates at a preliminary conference complained Wednesday that they were being victimized by anti-Israeli pressure groups, and described the mood as blatantly anti-Semitic.

The conference opens Friday, and Jewish groups already in Durban for an earlier non-governmental race forum said their members had been intimidated by pro-Palestinian groups pressing the meetings to denounce Israel as a racist and modern-day apartheid state.

"I feel besieged, there's anti-Semitism and hate literature at the World Racism Conference. It couldn't get much worse," said Anne Bayefsky, a professor from New York's Columbia Law School.

"Some of the Jewish delegates are hiding their accreditation badge because it identifies them as from Israel or as Jewish. Some are considering leaving Durban altogether," she said.

A senior Palestinian delegate rejected the claims that the Jewish groups were being victimized by Arab delegates. "They are not being intimidated. All the NGO [non-governmental organization] delegates here are supporting victims of racism," said Shawqi Issa, executive director of the Jerusalem-based Palestinian Society for the Protection of Human Rights and the Environment. He accused some Jewish groups of handing out pro-Israeli literature at the conference.

Stacy Durdett, representing the Anti-Defamation League, said some of around 200 Jewish representatives in Durban were shocked by their treatment and felt unfairly singled out. "More than anything Jewish delegates are being hurt since we are being targeted and victimized when we come to a conference to talk about racism," Durdett said.

Pamphlets circulated at the non-governmental meeting caricatured Jews and posters carried slogans overlapping the Star of David with the Nazi Swastika. Many pro-Palestinian delegates wore T-shirts with a slogan that equated Israel with apartheid, colonialism and a military occupying power that killed civilians. "There is a real sense of hostility toward Jewish people. We are being intimidated," said Karen Pollock, director of the London-based Holocaust Education Trust.

A spokesman for the South African police said the safety of the 7,000 delegates attending the meeting was a high priority. More than 3,000 police and army personnel have been deployed at the conference, which comes amid a sharp escalation in violence between Israelis and Palestinians.


Home News
Jewish groups say victimized at UN race meeting
By Reuters	| Aug. 29, 2001 | 12:00 AM

DURBAN - Jewish delegates attending a United Nations racism conference in Durban said Wednesday they were being victimized by anti-Israeli pressure groups and had been subjected to anti-Semitism. The official UN conference opens Friday, and Jewish groups in Durban for an earlier non-governmental race forum said their members had been intimidated by pro-Palestinian groups who were pressing the meetings to denounce Israel as a racist and modern-day apartheid state.

"I feel besieged, there's anti-Semitism and hate literature at the World Racism Conference. It couldn't get much worse," Anne Bayefsky, a professor from New York's Columbia Law School said. "Some of the Jewish delegates are hiding their accreditation badge because it identifies them as from Israel or as Jewish. Some are considering leaving Durban altogether."

The United States has said it will not attend the UN conference if Arab and Islamic states insist on pressing for the meeting to accept "offensive language" against Israel. The State Department said U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell would not attend the summit, and Washington has not announced what level of delegation, if any, it will send.

Stacy Durdett, representing the Anti-Defamation League said some of around 200 Jewish representatives in Durban were shocked by their treatment and felt unfairly singled out. "More than anything Jewish delegates are being hurt since we are being targeted and victimized when we come to a conference to talk about racism," Durdett said. "The intimidation is unfortunate. At the very least it's hurtful."

Pamphlets circulated at the non-governmental meeting caricatured Jews and posters carried slogans overlapping the Star of David with the Nazi Swastika. Many pro-Palestinian delegates wore T-shirts with a slogan that equated Israel with apartheid, colonialism and a military occupying state that killed innocent civilians.

A spokesman for the South African police said the safety of the 7,000 delegates attending the meeting was a high priority.


Home News
UN chief blames Israel for raising Mideast tension
By Reuters	| Aug. 27, 2001 | 12:00 AM

ST GILGEN, Austria - United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan said on Monday Israel had exacerbated the Middle East crisis and called for international action before violence spread to neighboring countries.

"The Israelis have raised tensions in the region to levels we have not seen in many years," Annan told reporters during an official visit to Austria.

Annan was speaking after Israel on Monday assassinated Abu Ali Mustafa, the leader of the radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), in a helicopter missile attack on the group's offices in the West Bank city of Ramallah. Mustafa had the highest profile of anyone killed under Israel's policy of tracking and killing militants since a Palestinian uprising erupted in September.

Annan urged the international community to help bring the parties together for a new round of peace talks, warning that violence could spill over into the rest of the region if not controlled. "I am worried that if we do not contain the crisis it will spread," he added. "We have innocent people suffering and I think the international community has an obligation to do whatever it can to bring an end to this misery."

Speaking after a meeting with Austria's Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Annan said U.N. officials would liaise with Germany's Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer to kick-start a new dialogue between Israel and Palestine. "The killing underscores the urgency of getting them together," Annan said at a news conference held at in St. Gilgen in northwest Austria. "I have spoken to Foreign Minister Fischer who is trying to see what can be done to organize such a meeting...but no date has yet been fixed."

The U.N. chief, who will meet Austrian Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel for talks on Tuesday, is visiting Austria ahead of the United Nation's World Conference Against Racism, to be held in Durban, South Africa in four days' time. Annan urged the United States not to boycott the conference, after Washington threatened to stay away over fears that Arab nations would use the forum to equate Zionism and Israel with racism and apartheid.


Home News
Pope John Paul calls racism heavy threat against humanity
By The Associated Press	| Aug. 26, 2001 | 12:00 AM

CASTEL GANDOLFO, Italy - Lending support to an approaching UN conference on discrimination, Pope John Paul II on Sunday condemned racism as an offense to the human family.

John Paul began his traditional Sunday noon appearance to the public by noting that on August 31, in Durban, South Africa, the United Nations begins a weeklong conference against racism.

"In these last decades, characterized by globalization and marked by the worrisome revival of aggressive nationalism, of ethnic violence and of extensive phenemona of racial discrimination, human dignity is frequently heavily threatened," John Paul said, addressing a few hundred pilgrims crowded into the courtyard of his summer residence in the hills southwest of Rome.

"Every proper conscience cannot help but decisively condemn racism in whichever heart or place it lurks," the Pope said. "Unfortunately, it shows up in forms ever new and unexpected, offending and degrading the human family. Racism is a sin which constitutes a grave offense against God."

"To counter racism," the Pope urged, "people should adopt a culture of mutual welcome. Education should encourage values which exalt personal dignity and safeguard fundamental rights."

The Pontiff expressed hope that the conference in South Africa, a nation once notorious for its now outlawed apartheid system against the majority black population, would reinforce the common will to construct a more free and united world.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Unilateral separation leads inexorably to apartheid
One day, more than 30 years ago, two Israelis who dealt with handling the Palestinian population - one in Jerusalem and the other in the West Bank - met a high-ranking South African official. At the meeting, the two explained their jobs and the way they were improving Israeli-Palestinian relations by letting the Palestinians manage their own lives.
By Meron Benvenisti	| Aug. 23, 2001 | 12:00 AM

One day, more than 30 years ago, two Israelis who dealt with handling the Palestinian population - one in Jerusalem and the other in the West Bank - met a high-ranking South African official. At the meeting, the two explained their jobs and the way they were improving Israeli-Palestinian relations by letting the Palestinians manage their own lives.

Suddenly, the guest said, "What would you say if I invited you to assist the new regime in the Transkei homeland?" The Israelis were astonished. Their guest's question insinuated that their tolerant and liberal activities were similar to the racist practices of apartheid rule.

When they objected, he smiled at them. "I understand your reaction. But aren't you basically doing the same thing? You and we both face the same existential problems, so we reach the same solution. The only difference is that your solution is pragmatic and ours ideological. Yes, we're all in love with the compromises we make with ourselves."

More than 30 years have passed, and the pragmatic solutions "necessitated by reality" have crystallized into a coherent ideology. It's called unilateral separation. Like all ideologies, unilateral separation "rises above" pragmatic solutions to immediate needs, and purports to provide "an answer" to existential problems: Jewish existence (dubbed "Zionist") is in mortal danger because of the demo-geographic threat. Therefore everyone - liberals, conservatives, leftists and nationalists - rally round to save the Zionist enterprise by "separating" all the others, including Arab citizens of the state, using three barbed-wire fences - one "around Area A," the second "near the Green Line," and a third, never mentioned, along the international borders of mandatory Palestine.

Like all ideologies, unilateral separation mocks any argument that dares challenge the feasibility of its implementation. It all depends on making "brave national decisions" that rise to the occasion of the expected catastrophe, and those who are not ready to rise up to face the severity of the situation are being irresponsible. Opposition to the ideology of unilateral separation on principle, for example, like using the "demographic threat" to characterize "the proliferation" of the other, and that its implemention will only meet the needs of the ruling group and the price will be paid by the other, are rejected with disgust.

Along with mocking the soft bleeding hearts, the ideologues of unilateral separation emphasize the "fact" that it will require "the evacuation of 30-35 settlements in Judea and Samaria and tearing out sections of the state populated by Arabs of Israel." That heavy price will remain, of course, theoretical, since the ideology of separation is based on the monopoly of absolute power (the "unilateral") remaining forever in the hands of the stronger side - whether it has a demographic majority or whether it becomes a minority "in 2010." And when the demographic reversal does take place, they'll simply stop counting the "others": in any case there's no relevance to the number of heads as long as they cannot raise their hands to vote.

The demographic "threat" is nothing more than a contemptible means to enlist xenophobia and the isolationist tendencies beating in the breasts of masses of frightened people who are lost without leadership, for the purpose of creating political movements that pretend to offer "solutions for the situation."

The ideological preaching serves as a cover for "pragmatic" steps like closures and sieges, and the failure of the method requires ever-more extreme measures of separation, accompanied by ever-more extremist declarations about the "others" to justify the extreme measures. And then, when the separation comes dangerously close to apartheid, everyone cries out, "How dare you compare? We're in favor of a Palestinian state prospering on the other side of and between the three barbed-wire fences. Bantustan, you say? That's an insult."

If that South African official were to return today, he'd shake his head in sorrow. "We reached the conclusion ten years ago that unilateral separation that keeps the monopoly of coercion in the hands of the white community simply won't last and has to go. Your political thinking now is the same as it was back when we first met. True, as I said then, the existential problems are the same; we chose a united multi-racial state (what you call a "binational" state). Maybe there's still the alternative of dividing the country with an agreement. If there is, grab it. Believe me, unilateral separation is not an option. It only will turn you into a pariah state isolated from the West, just as we were. We also thought the world didn't understand us, wasn't sensitive to our plight. You have it a little easier, because you can think it's all anti-Semitism. Forget it. Learn from us."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Custom-designed political plan
"Since the Arab population, which constitutes more than 30 percent of the country's population, cannot reconcile itself to the exclusively Zionist nature of Independence Day celebrations," wrote President Dr. Abed Al-Aziz Al-Hindi.
By Akiva Eldar	| Aug. 20, 2001 | 12:00 AM

"Since the Arab population, which constitutes more than 30 percent of the country's population, cannot reconcile itself to the exclusively Zionist nature of Independence Day celebrations," wrote President Dr. Abed Al-Aziz Al-Hindi, "and since the ethos of Independence Day celebrations has been built on the very concept of the Nakba ... there is no justification whatsoever for the President or for Mohammed Al-Khatib, the Speaker of the Knesset, which will be changing its name anyway in the near future, to take part in these festivities."

The above passage appears in an article by Israel Harel, a key thinker among the settlers, in a collection of essays, "Israel 2025: Scenarios on the future of Israeli society," published by the Friedrich Ebert foundation.

Harel cites figures of the Central Bureau of Statistics that were released on the eve of Israeli Independence Day, 2025: "Israel has a population of close to 10 million persons in an area measuring 21,500 square kilometers - the territory remaining in Israeli hands as a result of the final status agreement with the Palestinians (a document that is no longer referred to as a peace treaty). Only approximately 4,752,000 of Israel's residents define themselves in a significant, absolute manner as Jews. About 50 percent of those in the school system from preschool to junior high are Arabs."

But why go as far afield as 2025? According to the CBS, over the past few years, more Arabs than Jews have registered for preschool, elementary school and junior high school in the territory lying between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River. According to Hebrew University demographer Professor Sergio Della Pergola, Palestinians and Israeli Arabs will constitute the majority of the population occupying this territory within less than a decade.

What would happen if Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat, adopting a thoroughly brilliant plan, returned to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon total control of Area A, requested that this territory be annexed by Israel and instructed his soldiers to channel their energies into other fields of activity?

After all, it would be completely unreasonable to assume that enlightened people like Harel seriously intend to deny the good neighbors of the settlement of Ofra the fundamental democratic right to cast a ballot and to stand for election. It is doubtful whether Deputy Foreign Minister Rabbi Michael Melchior, a member of the Meimad party, would volunteer to explain the morality of such an undemocratic regime at the international conference against racism in Durban.

The analysis of the crusaders of Israel's unilateral separation from the Palestinians comes as no surprise to those who regularly read Israel's statistical yearbook. The settler movement has failed miserably in the demographic race. (It is interesting to note that neither Prime Minister Ariel Sharon - who keeps repeating the phrase "The settlements protect us" - nor any of his right-wing cabinet ministers, with the sole exception of National Infrastructure Minister Avigdor Lieberman, resides in "Judea and Samaria.")

Every two years, the Palestinian population in the territories increases by approximately 180,000 - which is the size of the Israeli population living today on the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip.

In a country that does not want to become an apartheid regime where a minority rules a majority, it is crucial, in terms of national survival, to draw a clear demarcation line that will keep most of the Palestinian population outside its national borders.

The elixir offered by the champions of unilateral separation will ease the demographic pain a little but the wound will continue to bleed, perhaps even at a faster pace. It is regrettable that Israel's politicians have learned nothing from the experience of Israel's withdrawal to the "security zone" in Lebanon (where there was no need to defend Jewish settlements). Fences cannot keep a nation from achieving its goal of banishing an occupation force.

One cannot imprison 3 million human beings in Bantustans that have no infrastructure and no sources of employment. One cannot deny 3 million human beings their right to freedom of movement or their right to water resources and expect that they will not break through the fence and enter the area where the well-fed neighbors live. Would an imposed arrangement that does not, of course, include any Israeli concessions in East Jerusalem, receive the blessing of both Egypt and Jordan?

In a best-case scenario, the game of custom-designing your own political plans - from the Allon Plan to former prime minister Ehud Barak's maps - will only prolong the pain of the confrontation between the Israelis and the Palestinians. In a worst-case scenario, Prime Minister Azmi Bishara will not have to wait until 2025 to cancel Israel Independence Day.

It is fortunate that Sharon is not prepared to surrender either unilaterally or multilaterally even one empty prefabricated structure in Netzarim. This way, there remains, perhaps, some hope for the only formula that has not yet been thoroughly explored: A return to the 1967 borders, joint sovereignty in Jerusalem, territorial exchange and a solution to the Palestinian refugee problem that is not within the context of a Palestinian right of return.


Home Print Edition Features
What is going on in the state of Denmark?
Opposition to the appointment of Ambassador Carmi Gillon reflects Denmark's recent wave ofhostility toward Israel
By Nitzan Horowitz	Aug. 19, 2001 | 12:00 AM

COPENHAGEN - The first signs appeared months ago. It was hard to miss them. The "Scandinavian" volunteers from Denmark disappeared off the edge of the grassy lawns of Israeli kibbutzim. The harsh images on television and the front pages of the newspapers prompted the young people to head for other destinations after high school and during semester breaks. The kibbutz, once a model of idealism and fulfillment that Scandinavians admired, has lost its luster. In the past, the "Danish Kibbutz Friends" sent over about 1500 volunteers a year; this year only 50 went to Israel. The organization has closed its doors and suspended activities. "Now, young people feel that by working on kibbutzim they are supporting a system that represses and tortures Palestinians," is the explicit explanation offered by a member of the organization.

"Ani medaberet rak ktzat ivrit," (I only speak a little Hebrew), giggled one of the demonstrators in front of the Israeli embassy on the day that the new ambassador arrived. She was not there to express her support for Gillon. "I had a great time in Israel. My parents also volunteered on kibbutzim when they were my age. Before going to Israel I didn't know so much about what was going on there. But I saw what you are doing in the territories and I came back here feeling sympathy for the Palestinians. Israel is behaving very poorly." This, in a nutshell, is the key to understanding the turnaround in Danish public opinion toward Israel, and the public protest against Gillon.

The signs are visible everywhere. Israel Square (Israels Plads) is a well-known landmark in Copenhagen. A few months after the Intifada began, the left-wing Green-Red Alliance put forward an unanticipated proposal in the city council - renaming the inner part of this square Palestine Square (Palestines Plads). "It would be good if Copenhagen could show that Israel Square and Palestine Square can in fact exist side by side," said Mikkel Warming, a member of the alliance.

Copenhagen mayor Jens Kramer Mikkelsen was unenthusiastic. "I don't think we should use the streets of Copenhagen as a tool for implementing our foreign policy." City engineer Soren Pind, responsible for the Danish capital's squares and streets, was just as lukewarm. "It's a bad idea," he commented. "It's liable to be viewed as an unfair attack on the State of Israel. In any event, it is a pointless political initiative, because it won't be passed by the council."

The entire square still bears the name of Israel, but the icy winds in Denmark have not died down. Even the Danish Red Cross, which by its mandate is supposed to maintain strict neutrality, took a surprising step and expressed harsh criticism of the settlements and of human rights violations in Israel. "It may very well be that in so doing we are violating a few of our principles, but we did it after a great deal of thought," said Jorgen Poulsen, chairman of the local Red Cross chapter. "I don't think it would help friends of Israel at all if we failed to honestly respond to what we clearly see is going on now in Israel."

The Danish organization described Israeli policies as creating a system "very similar to apartheid. Closure prevents children from going to school; patients cannot reach hospital, agricultural plots are destroyed, and Palestinians cannot use certain roads and regions that have nothing to do with security considerations." Danish Red Cross officials are especially perturbed by the fact that ambulances are not given free access through roadblocks.

The dwindling number of friends of Israel in Denmark are responding. "This is a prime example of the one-way attack on Israel," claimed Arne Melchior, the Jewish former transportation minister who is related to Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Melchior. "When the secretary-general of the Red Cross visited Chechnya he refused to condemn Russia, even though everyone knows that Russian soldiers raped and murdered local residents on a daily basis. It's not the job of the Red Cross to take sides in a political dispute, but that's exactly what it is doing here."

The Red Cross isn't convinced. "We would be betraying our principles if we remained silent," stated the organization's president, Freddy Karup Pedersen. "It is our duty to be concerned with the well-being of victims of the conflict, and we can help only if we report on the situation in certain areas in Israel."

As for Arne Melchior - he had been one of the few individuals in Denmark to come out in Gillon's defense, but under pressure of public criticism he withdrew and joined his parliamentary colleagues in recommending that Israel not send him to Copenhagen.

Amnesty International to publish names

The new wave of international laws, which are causing sharp changes in the way human rights organizations operate, has also affected Amnesty International. The veteran organization has announced a new policy: it will place its archives at the disposal of governments, to help them put human rights violators on trial. Gillon is the first target. "We intend to use Gillon as an example," freely admits Anne Fitzgerald, at Amnesty's London headquarters. So far, the organization has released the names of victims of tortures and other violations of human rights. But from now on, Amnesty intends to publicize the names of the people responsible, from heads of government and army commanders down to the junior ranks that actually carried out the violations. "Most countries of the world have ratified the UN convention against torture, so there is no doubt that they are obliged to carry out investigations and take legal measures against the violators," says Fitzgerald.

The organization has already passed two reports to Danish Justice Minister Frank Jensen documenting the extent of torture carried out by the Shin Bet security service during Gillon's term as director. The material is hard to read. It focuses on the meaning of "moderate physical pressure." The reports refer to detainees whose heads were violently shaken from side to side. In one instance, Amnesty alleges that this caused the death of a 30-year-old Palestinian man.

The Danish government refuses to put Gillon on trial, citing his diplomatic immunity. Amnesty claims that in any event an investigation should be held. "Gillon's diplomatic immunity does not prevent the government from holding a full investigation, which might provide a firmer legal basis for putting Gillon on trial as soon as he is no longer protected by immunity," says Lars Normann Jorgensen, the local director of Amnesty International.

Other activists in the campaign exhibit a more cautious approach. They would like to avoid legal challenges to Gillon's immunity. "The tactics are supremely important," explains a renowned Danish activist. In his opinion, lodging a police complaint against the new Israeli ambassador is a risky gamble. Those who initiated it want the court to decide - for the first time - to arrest and convict an ambassador who enjoys full diplomatic immunity. "Even if the people in favor of it are trying to help, such a move could cause damage to our struggle."

His analysis: "There is only the slightest of chances that a Danish court will rule that, despite his diplomatic immunity, Gillon can be placed under arrest on the basis of the convention against torture. On the face of it, human rights activists have nothing to lose: they assume they have a slight chance of winning a precedent-setting verdict in their favor, as a direct continuation of the British verdict in the Pinochet case, as well as recent developments in Belgium. However, they are not taking into account the repercussions of a ruling against them. If the court decides, as expected, that Gillon's diplomatic immunity rules out any trial, it would be "a step backward, echoing loudly around the world, that would send us back to square one of the campaign, despite all of the very substantial breakthroughs of recent years. And Denmark, which led the war for the anti-torture treaty, would be supplying the precedent for bypassing it. We mustn't take this risk."

When China puts on the pressure

If Carmi Gillon were Chinese, he wouldn't be facing very many problems in Denmark. In the Gillon affair, the human rights organizations lobbied all of Denmark's political parties - inside and outside the coalition - to oppose the acceptance of the Israeli ambassador. Massive pressure was brought to bear, playing on the engrained ethos in Scandinavia of protecting human rights. However, the same kind of pressure, directed at another visitor to Denmark, did not achieve any such results, because it met with an overwhelming opposing pressure.

The case in question involved Taiwan's President Chen Shui-Bian, who was invited to Copenhagen to be awarded an international peace prize by a liberal organization. Evidently, President Chen will not be coming: The Danish government has refused to grant him a visa. No deafening protests were voiced in the political arena. Danish Foreign Minister Mognes Lykketoft made it clear that the government would stand by its refusal. "There's nothing we can do about it," reasoned the minister. "The European Community has a common policy on visa matters, which forbids us from issuing a visa to senior government officials from Taiwan."

Really? The European Union does indeed have certain policy guidelines, but Denmark, like other members, does not hesitate to stray from them. As for the visas - one of the objectives of the common policies is to grant full freedom of movement within Europe to an individual after he enters a member state. But even if the other countries of the EU object to hosting leaders from Taiwan, Denmark could have nevertheless issued the visa: there is, after all, little fear that the Taiwanese president would try to sneak into another country after visiting Denmark.

The refusal to receive him has to do with something else: Chinese pressure. Beijing, which is led by the people responsible for the massacre in Tiananmen Square, has succeeded in persuading most countries of the world to boycott Taiwan. The long arm of China extends all the way to the Scandinavian fortress of liberty and freedom. Which leaves the organization that wants to bestow an award on President Chan looking around for another country willing to host him.

Torture in Denmark?

Denmark is a small and civilized country that respects human rights, but it is not perfect. The Gillon case inevitably focuses attention on events within Denmark. The outcome is somewhat surprising. The most recent report on human rights filed by the U.S. State Department cites three unpleasant phenomena in the pastoral Scandinavian land: commerce in women for purposes of prostitution; an increase in xenophobia; and solitary confinement.

The American report stresses that Denmark had rejected the common European policy of imposing a minimum eight-year prison sentence on individuals convicted of trafficking in human beings. Denmark claims that its sentences are sufficient. The U.S. State Department disagrees, and cites the following example: Last spring, a man in Denmark was convicted of smuggling in several women from Colombia for the purpose of coerced prostitution. He was sentenced to an eight-month prison term, even though it was his second conviction for the same offense.

The attitude toward foreigners is also a cause for concern. The American report notes that the flow of refugees and immigrants exacerbates the tension between Danes and the foreigners. Last year, Danish Interior Minister Karen Jesperson hit on an original idea: immigrants convicted of crimes would be sent to one of the isolated North Sea islands that are under Danish sovereignty. The proposal was enthusiastically received by the public.

The most surprising point raised in the same American report concerns what is sometimes considered to be a form of torture. Denmark, which led the international campaign to formulate the convention against torture, was served with a reprimand last year by the UN commission that oversees implementation of that convention. The commission criticized widespread resort in Danish prisons to holding prisoners in solitary confinement. The government quickly moved to redress the wrong: the percentage of prisoners held in isolation declined from nearly 10 percent in 1999 to less than 4 percent in 2000.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters
Intolerant of tolerance of intolerance Regarding "Movement-wide Reform mission here..." Anglo File, August 3, 2001
Aug. 17, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Intolerant of tolerance of intolerance

Regarding "Movement-wide Reform mission here..." Anglo File, August 3, 2001

I am an Israeli citizen, aged 55 years, married with family and we have lived in Israel for the past 31 years.

I am not able to understand the American Jewish tolerance of the intolerance of the Orthodox movement which totally dominates Israelis, does not recognize Reform or Conservative Jewry or their Rabbis, and regards non-Orthodox Jews as almost goyim [gentiles] - in some cases, regards them as worse than goyim.

As is well-known, a reform or Conservative Rabbi cannot conduct a recognized marriage or funeral or any other Jewish ceremony.

I cannot understand how they ignore this fact and try to be "politically correct" when dealing with Israel and the indignity and political zealotry inflicted on all non-Orthodox people in Israel. Israel is the only Western democracy that treats its citizens unequally and utilizes religious intolerance to maintain a political and financial monopoly.

American Jewry, by providing Israel with unqualified financial and political support, helps perpetuate this intolerance and the damage done to Israel's place in the family of free nations with the excuse that one must not rock the boat while Israel is facing so many enemies from within and without.

Israel is in the long term going to remain in this state of insecurity; and this insecurity is no excuse for world Jewry to avoid facing up to its responsibilities for this "apartheid" state of affairs in our beloved country.

Lorraine Melzer

Ramat Hasharon

Not-so-yummy roaches

Regarding "The dirty dozen," Anglo File, June 6, 2001

The cockroach most common in Israel is the European cockroach. The American cockroach is much bigger and seen more outside than inside buildings. I do not know which variety they breed at Abu Kabir, but I remember that when I was working as an assistant at the Institute of Zoology at the University of Basel, Switzerland, most reptiles refused to eat cockroaches and spat them out with an expression of disgust. Obviously, they were not tasty, and we had to find them other sources of food.

Ruth Schueler

Jerusalem


Home Print Edition News
Arab and Islamic teams stand firm at UN racism talks
By Reuters	| Aug. 12, 2001 | 12:00 AM

GENEVA - Talks failed on Friday to settle angry disputes over how the UN Conference on Racism will deal with Israeli policies toward Palestinians and compensation for African slavery.

Yaakov Levy, Israeli ambassador to the UN in Geneva, expressed disappointment and as expected said his delegation would "reconsider its participation" at Durban in coming days.

"I wish to reiterate, the Middle East conflict is political, not racial," he said in a speech.

"Regrettably we found ourselves with the same shameful language in both documents," Levy said, referring to draft texts for the conference proposed by Arab and Islamic countries.

But United Nations human rights chief Mary Robinson was optimistic that consensus could be reached on final texts about both controversial issues at the conference, which opens in Durban, South Africa, in three weeks' time.

Working groups are to pursue informal talks, but any compromise is expected to be hammered out in capitals, with Washington playing a key role, according to diplomats.

The United States has said it will not attend the conference unless Arab states drop demands that the conference texts single out Israel as a "racist" occupying power allegedly depriving Palestinians of basic rights.

"The agenda in Durban should not be to single out and brand a certain country as racist. Have we no shame?" U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state Michael Southwick said in a speech.

Malaysia's delegate, speaking on behalf of Arab and Muslim member states of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), appeared to strike a conciliatory note.

"The OIC wishes to express its willingness to engage in consultations to reach compromise to pave the way for a successful conference in Durban," he said.

Syria's delegation declared: "The oppression suffered by the Palestinian people on racial grounds should be at the center of the work of the conference."

Nabil Ramlawi, the Palestinian representative, said: "We ask that racist practices by the Israeli occupation against the Palestinian people be discussed at Durban. ... We cannot set aside racism and racial discrimination and new forms of apartheid."

Egypt's ambassador Fayza Aboulnaga said Arab delegations had adopted a "very reasonable, moderate and constructive" position which had tried to take account of Israeli concerns.


Home Weekend Week's End
Israel says U.N. racism draft mocks Holocaust
By Reuters	| Aug. 9, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Israel accused Arab and Islamic countries on Thursday of mocking the Holocaust by trying to equate the Jewish state with the Nazis at a United Nations racism conference to be held in South Africa this month. "They made a mockery of the Holocaust," Michael Melchior, deputy foreign minister, told reporters.

A preparatory committee meeting in Geneva has until Friday to decide whether the conference will pass a resolution condemning Israeli policies that Israel says equates the plight of Palestinians with the Nazi's slaughter of six million Jews during World War Two. "It's put in the context of the Middle East, saying really that the real Holocaust is against the people of Palestine and of course implying by that the Jews deserved the Holocaust," Melchior said.

Israel and its closest ally, the United States, have threatened to boycott the August 31 to September 7 conference in Durban if Arab and Islamic states insist on accusing Israel of racist policies -- including genocide and ethnic cleansing. "It's a total delegitimisation of the State of Israel and the Jewish people," Melchior said.

UN human rights chief Mary Robinson called for more time to save the conference which is under threat after negotiations over the text reached an impasse in Geneva on Thursday.

Several countries have raised the possibility of making some changes to the text after Friday's deadline, but Israel wants all anti-Zionist language removed by the end of the week. "We are not close to making a compromise," Melchior, head of the Israeli delegation, said in Jerusalem. The Egyptian and Syrian-led effort to condemn Israel for what Arab states call "racist policies" comes in the wake of the intifada. The draft text describes Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip as "a new kind of apartheid, a crime against humanity".

The United Nations General Assembly equated Zionism with racism in resolutions adopted annually from 1975 until 1991, but such references disappeared after the 1991 Madrid Middle East peace conference which led to peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as Syria and Jordan.


Home News
Despite U.S. boycott threats, Africans push for slavery apology
By The Associated Press	| Aug. 6, 2001 | 12:00 AM

GENEVA - Despite U.S. boycott threats, Africans pushed their demands Monday that the West compensate victims of the slave trade as negotiators intensified their preparations for the World Conference Against Racism. The African insistence on compensation for slavery and colonialism remains a major part of the draft declaration proposed for the conference starting August 31 in Durban, South Africa.

The United States has warned that other countries that it will refuse to attend the meeting if the compensation demand or what it regards as unacceptable criticism of Israel remains on the agenda for the conference by the end of this week.

Some progress was made last week on removing anti-Israel wording, but a revised African proposal obtained by The Associated Press on Monday still contained demands for an apology for the slave trade and references to the need for concrete actions by countries that benefited from slavery or colonialism.

Ahmed Ben Bella, a leader of Algeria's drive for independence from France in 1962, said Monday that the West should acknowledge that the trans-Atlantic slave trade was a crime and compensate by forgiving Africa's current debt. "The world community should recognize that the slave trade and the enslavement of Africans as well as colonialism constitute crimes against humanity," Ben Bella told reporters.

"The Holocaust, in which millions of Jews died, has been recognized as a crime against humanity," he said. "The death of 142 million Africans during the slave trade was a holocaust too."

Ben Bella is a member of a group - known as the Goree Initiative - launched in June in Senegal to push the Durban conference to address the issue of slavery. Goree is an island off the west coast of Africa where captured Africans were held before they were shipped across the Atlantic to be sold into slavery in the Western Hemisphere.

Proposed wording from the African group of delegates in the preparatory conference would have the final declaration say, The World Conference recognizes that slavery, the slave trade, colonialism and apartheid constitute crimes against humanity.

It also would recognize the urgent need of problems stemming from the practices of the past and call on those who have benefited from these practices to assume full responsibility. It said steps could include enhanced remedial developmental policies, programs and concrete measures.

South African Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who has said she hopes the United States will in the end find some way of participating in the conference, was in Geneva on Monday to encourage negotiators.

U.S. officials said Washington's delegation, which includes Bush administration officials, was being joined by two Congressional Democrats, Tom Lantos of California, an outspoken supporter of Israel, and Cynthia McKinney of Georgia.

McKinney said last week that the administration's boycott threat was a clear example of their indifference to racism.

U.S. officials have said they were particularly disturbed by proposed wording equating Zionism with racism, but Arab delegates have indicated they are willing to drop the criticism of the movement that led to the founding of the modern state of Israel.

Nonetheless, there are many other condemnations of Israel laced through the 88 pages of draft text, and the United States wants all of them removed as well.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the editor
Israel is reported to be compiling a list of countries in which its officials might be in danger of arrest for war crimes allegations. Never mind officials - all an ordinary citizen has to do is say "Israel" to get attacked by members of the public.
Aug. 2, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Israel is reported to be compiling a list of countries in which its officials might be in danger of arrest for war crimes allegations. Never mind officials - all an ordinary citizen has to do is say "Israel" to get attacked by members of the public.

I was queueing in a small London post office the other day and the clerk asked me where my parcel was going. When I replied, "Israel," people in the queue started shouting abuse at me. An elderly man snarled "Israel! Israel! You like Israel? Why don't you just go bloody live there, and hopefully get blown up by a bomb?" The other people in the queue laughed.

As I left the post office, an even more elderly lady shouted at me "The trouble is all you Jews sending money to Israel."

I then migrated to the wine shop, which I have frequented for twenty years. I asked the proprietor if he would be stocking the Israeli wine that has just won several medals at the Bordeaux Festival. Having never before been rude to me, he startled me by thundering "I would never stock anything from Israel!"

Feeling throughly persecuted, I ended up at the organic food shop, where I complimented the manageress on her stock of Israeli corn on the cob. Believe it or not, she said: "Israel? That must have slipped through the net! I'm removing it from the shelves. They are an apartheid state and they use Arab slave labor."

I asked her where she learned these fictions and she replied: "I read The Guardian and The Independent. (Britain's two most relentless Israel-bashing newspapers.) It's little wonder one feels under siege. In Saturday's Guardian, Tony Evans advises readers to avoid visiting Israeli kibbutzim, where visitors become "cheap labor to subsidize the Israeli state, which has occupied Palestine for decades."

In London's Evening Standard this week, Edward Fox writes a scathing piece about Israel and "... the sheer ghastliness of a place like Tel Aviv." He writes Israeli coffee is so terrible that "it tells us more than reams of political analysis what the place is really like."

Israel's government, PR and tourism industry still have a lot of work to do to combat this relentless Israel-bashing. It should be inviting visitors to stay on kibbutzim and to enjoy the rich cultural life of Tel Aviv - not to mention the great coffee.

Carol Gould

London

Israel-Peru relations

The physical distance between Peru and Israel may lead many to suppose that both countries have lived separated existences with few links. Hence the recent official visit to Peru by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres may have seemed a strange piece of news.

However, Peru not only voted for the creation of the State of Israel at the United Nations in 1947, but also had relevant participation at the UN Special Committee on Palestine (UNSCOP) which supported its creation.

Despite its economic limitations, Peru took part in the UN Emergency Forces (UNEF) from November 1973 to August 1975, sending soldiers to join Austrian, Canadian, Polish, Irish, Swiss and Finnish troops under General Gaston Ibanez O'Brien, a Peruvian. This Peruvian battalion was formed by 497 young soldiers, 132 of them still cadets. They were in charge of monitoring the peace and separating forces along the Suez Canal. and were later involved in the Three Peruvian soldiers sacrificed their lives for Israel's peace.

Finally, Peru is a country that has been free of anti-Semitism, always providing a peaceful environment for members of its Jewish community and collaborating in its human and professional development. It is therefore no surpriss to find Jewish politicians in our society - and these days even a vice president like David Waisman, a first lady like Eliane Karp de Toledo, and a congressman like Jacques Rodrich, who took the oath of office in Hebrew at the Peruvian Congress on July 28th.

These are just some notes to help both countries review and relaunch their relationship to the benefir of both nations.

J. David Hurtado Fudinaga,

Second Secretary, Embassy of Peru

Misleading headlines

The International Herald Tribune had a lead caption on its July 30 front page saying "Israeli police storm Al-Aqsa compound in Jerusalem," and inviting the reader to turn to page 16 for the story by Clyde Haberman of The New York Times.

The story itself was exquisitely balanced but the front-page caption was a dreadful distortion of what actually happened at the Kotel on Tisha B'Av. Arabs rained down rocks on Jewish worshipers. This provoked a scrupulously restrained response by Israeli police.

It is this kind of misrepresentation of the news from Israel that led me to launch a public campaign in New York to encourage subscribers to The New York Times to suspend delivery of the Times from Rosh-Hashanah through Yom Kippur (September 18-27) to deliver a message about our disappointment with the newspaper's coverage from Israel. For example - a headline on July 4: "Settler Dies..." He didn't die, he was brutally murdered as the article reports - shot and stabbed repeatedly. The Times executive editor, Joseph Lelyveld, agreed in a meeting with me that the headline should have read "slain" or "killed" not "died". He said however, that in the haste to get out a daily newspaper such mistakes happen.

I was about to write to the Tribune about its caption when I noticed the headline on page one of Ha'aretz" (July 30): "Police storm Temple Mount, dozens injured". If this is the way Ha'aretz headlines the news in Israel what can one possibly expect from the Times or the Tribune?

Rabbi Haskel Lookstein

New York, NY


Home Print Edition News
NGOs' draft paper labels Israel as a `fascist apartheid' state
By Yair Sheleg	and Nathan Guttman	| Aug. 1, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The final version of the draft resolution of the Non-Governmental Organizations Forum for the UN World Conference against Racism (WCAR) dubs Israel an apartheid country and stipulates that the Palestinians have the right to resist the Israeli occupation "by any means."

The resolution, presented in the Geneva yesterday, has yet to be ratified.

In their resolution, the NGOs call on the conference - which will be held in Durban, South Africa, between August 31 and September 7 - to pronounce Israel a racist, fascist apartheid regime, and refer to the Palestinian predicament as a "holocaust."

The Palestinians endure "a colonialistic discriminatory military occupation that violates their fundamental human rights of self determination ... the Palestinian people have the clear right under international law to resist such occupation," the resolution reads.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Congress adopted a resolution a few days ago expressing its reservations about the plans to condemn Israel and Zionism at the conference. "Whereas the attempt by some to use the WCAR as a platform to resuscitate the divisive and discredited notion equating Zionism with racism, a notion that was overwhelmingly rejected by United Nations Resolution 3379 (1991), would undermine the goals and objectives of the conference," the resolution states.


Home News
Yad Vashem calls on UN to stop change of 'Holocaust' definition
By Reuters	| Jul. 27, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Head of the Yad Vashem holocaust museum, Avner Shalev, called Friday on United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan to prevent the changing of the term "Holocaust" at the upcoming UN Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance in Durban, South Africa from August 31 to September 7.

Shalev also called upon the entire world, especially Europe, to prevent the UN from being used as a political tool.

The United States is threatening to skip the upcoming UN conference if the agenda includes discussions on reparations for slavery and Zionism as racism, the Washington Post reported Friday.

Citing a senior State Department official, the newspaper said the Bush administration would present its position to dozens of Washington-based ambassadors Friday and seek support for keeping the two topics off the conference agenda.

"We need to be really clear about our position," the State Department official was quoted as saying. "We don't want anybody to be surprised when they look up on the day of Durban and wonder why we're not there."

The Post said the official's comment was a firm message to Mary Robinson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the main organizer of the racism conference. Robinson on Monday will open the final round of meetings in Geneva to discuss the agenda for the racism conference.

"I am aware that there are quite a number of hurdles," Robinson was quoted as saying. Arab and Asian nations have put forward a draft declaration that calls Israeli treatment of Palestinians "a new kind of apartheid." The international watchdog group Human Rights Watch has been pressing for discussion of the subject of compensation for slavery.

"Serious work has to be done to eliminate unbalanced and inflammatory language on the Middle East and slavery and reparations," spokeswoman Brenda Greenberg said. She said the United States objected to, among other things, the language that Israeli government policies are racist and constitute a new form of apartheid. "We have made clear our opposition to this language in the strongest possible terms," Greenberg said.


Home Print Edition News
U.S., Israel brace for anti-Zionism drive at UN racism conference
A drive by Arab and Asian nations to brand Zionism as a form of racism and a crime against humanity could derail a United Nations conference on racism in South Africa next month, U.S. officials said on yesterday.
Jul. 26, 2001 | 12:00 AM

A drive by Arab and Asian nations to brand Zionism as a form of racism and a crime against humanity could derail a United Nations conference on racism in South Africa next month, U.S. officials said on yesterday.

Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Melchior vowed that Israel will battle what it calls an attempt by Arab countries to demonize the Jewish state at the World Conference Against Racism.

UN member nations as well as a host of non-governmental organizations will gather in Durban for the conference, scheduled to take place between August 31 and September 7. The gathering is supposed to examine ways to combat racial discrimination and promote understanding and awareness of a global problem.

But Arab and Asian nations have put forward a draft declaration that equates Israeli treatment of Palestinians with the Nazi genocide of 6 million Jews during the Holocaust of World War Two. One paragraph in the draft reads:

"We affirm that a foreign occupation founded on settlements, its laws based on racial discrimination ... totally contradict the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and constitute a serious violation of international human rights and humanitarian law, a new kind of apartheid, a crime against humanity and a serious threat to international peace and security."

Another part of the draft reads: "The Holocaust and the ethnic cleansing of the Arab population in historic Palestine must never be forgotten."

U.S. officials say Washington could boycott the meeting unless this language is expunged and are working at a high level with European and Middle East allies, including Egypt and Jordan, which have made peace with Israel, to have it removed. So far the Arab states have been unreceptive.

"The Egyptians and others have said they can't turn a blind eye to the current situation in the occupied territories. Our position is that this conference is not the place to deal with the Palestinian uprising and the Middle East conflict," said one U.S. official working on the issue.

"This is supposed to be a consensus document and we have made it clear that this revolting language is totally unacceptable to us," he said.

Melchior said proposals to single out Israel and accuse it of genocide in its struggle to put down a Palestinian uprising are dominating preparations for the conference.

Speaking to foreign ambassadors, he complained that, "According to proposals now on the table, Israel is the only country in the world that is breaching world principles of justice and is practicing racism, practicing genocide, practicing ethnic cleansing, practicing neo-apartheid."

He observed wryly, "I think there are a couple of other countries which also have some problems."

Also, he said, international criticism of Jewish settlements in territories the Palestinians claim for a future state goes beyond politics.

"What's said in the preparation for Durban is that settlements are ethnic cleansing, a genocide, absolute evils against humanity," he complained, calling it absolute demonization of Israel and the Jewish people.

Because of the Israel-Palestinian fighting, there have been proposals to revive a UN General Assembly resolution in 1975 that equated Zionism, the movement which led to the creation of Israel, with racism.

The resolution was repealed in 1991. The UN's high commissioner for human rights, Mary Robinson, has said the issue would not resurface in Durban.


Home Print Edition Features
What went wrong at Camp David - the official PLO version
Palestinian experts who worked alongside the PA negotiating team have embarked in recent weeks on a round of appearances in Israel to explain what "really" happened at Camp David.
By Akiva Eldar	| Jul. 24, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Members of the panel of experts working alongside the Palestinian negotiating team, who have American passports in their possession that open Israel Defense Forces roadblocks, have embarked in recent weeks on a round of appearances throughout Israel. They lecture at living room meetings in homes in Herzliya and meet with forums of confused intellectuals in Jerusalem.

The questions repeat themselves: There is always someone who will ask why Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat reacted with such violence to the very generous proposals of former prime minister Ehud Barak? Had they really been prepared to accept Barak's proposal for an exchange of territories? And how could a pointed question about the right of return fail to be asked?

The young Palestinians, among them a legal adviser from New York and a doctoral student in law from Oxford, pull out an answer - in excellent English - to every question.

When Barak embarked on a spate of attacks against Arafat under the heading "I exposed his true face," the members of the Palestinian panel decided that this time they would not neglect Israeli public opinion. Under the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) logo, they collected the typical questions asked by Israeli listeners and next to them detailed the Palestinian positions and their version of Camp David and the events that snowballed from it.

Their version, especially concerning the map that Barak proposed there, is quite close to the one that Robert Malley, former U.S. president Bill Clinton's special assistant for Arab-Israeli affairs, is now publishing in the world press (to Clinton's displeasure).

The weak points in their 11 replies, from the perspective of the Israeli questioner, remain in the areas of the violence and the right of return. It is difficult, and perhaps impossible, to explain the transition from the blow-up of the negotiations to the blowing-up of explosive devices. It is not easy to go along with the right of return while convincing suspicious Zionists that they are planning to send the refugees to Canada, with no right of return.

But the importance of the document is in the obvious effort the Palestinians are making to rehabilitate the trust in them among supporters of compromise in Israel and to allay their anxieties. If this publication is put together with the little ladder Arafat has been given in the form of observers in the territories, and if Arafat does indeed make use of it to stop the violence - the document can perhaps boost the trampled status of talks and a compromise. The document was written both in Hebrew and in English. The following is the English version:

1. Why did the Palestinians reject the Camp David Peace Proposal?

For a true and lasting peace between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples, there must be two viable and independent states living as equal neighbors. Israel's Camp David proposal, which was never set forth in writing, denied the Palestinian state viability and independence by dividing Palestinian territory into four separate cantons entirely surrounded, and therefore controlled, by Israel. The Camp David proposal also denied Palestinians control over their own borders, airspace and water resources while legitimizing and expanding illegal Israeli colonies in Palestinian territory. Israel's Camp David proposal presented a `re-packaging' of military occupation, not an end to military occupation.

2. Didn't Israel's proposal give the Palestinians almost all of the territories occupied by Israel in 1967?

No. Israel sought to annex almost 9 percent of the Occupied Palestinian Territories and in exchange offered only 1 percent of Israel's own territory. In addition, Israel sought control over an additional 10 percent of the Occupied Palestinian Territories in the form of a "long-term lease." However, the issue is not one of percentages - the issue is one of viability and independence. In a prison for example, 95 percent of the prison compound is ostensibly for the prisoners - cells, cafeterias, gym and medical facilities - but the remaining 5 percent is all that is needed for the prison guards to maintain control over the prisoner population. Similarly, the Camp David proposal, while admittedly making Palestinian prison cells larger, failed to end Israeli control over the Palestinian population.

3. Did the Palestinians accept the idea of a land swap?

The Palestinians were (and are) prepared to consider any idea that is consistent with a fair peace based on international law and equality of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. The Palestinians did consider the idea of a land swap but proposed that such land swap must be based on a one-to-one ratio, with land of equal value and in areas adjacent to the border with Palestine and in the same vicinity as the lands to be annexed by Israel. However, Israel's Camp David proposal of a nine-to-one land swap (in Israel's favor) was viewed as so unfair as to seriously undermine belief in Israel's commitment to a fair territorial compromise.

4. How did Israel's proposal envision the territory of a Palestinian state?

Israel's proposal divided Palestine into four separate cantons surrounded by Israel: the Northern West Bank, the Central West Bank, the Southern West Bank and Gaza. Going from any one area to another would require crossing Israeli sovereign territory and consequently subject movement of Palestinians within their own country to Israeli control. Not only would such restrictions apply to the movement of people, but also to the movement of goods, in effect subjecting the Palestinian economy to Israeli control. Lastly, the Camp David proposal would have left Israel in control over all Palestinian borders, thereby allowing Israel to control not only internal movement of people and goods but international movement as well. Such a Palestinian state would have had less sovereignty and viability than the Bantustans created by the South African apartheid government.

5. How did Israel's proposal address Palestinian East Jerusalem?

The Camp David Proposal required Palestinians to give up any claim to the occupied portion of Jerusalem. The proposal would have forced recognition of Israel's annexation of all of Arab East Jerusalem. Talks after Camp David suggested that Israel was prepared to allow Palestinians sovereignty over isolated Palestinian neighborhoods in the heart of East Jerusalem, however such neighborhoods would remain surrounded by illegal Israeli colonies and would remain separated not only from each other but also from the rest of the Palestinian state. In effect, such a proposal would create Palestinian ghettos in the heart of Jerusalem.

6. Why didn't the Palestinians ever present a comprehensive permanent settlement proposal of their own in response to Barak's proposals?

The comprehensive settlement to the conflict is embodied in United Nations Resolutions 242 and 338, as was accepted by both sides at the Madrid Summit in 1991 and later in the Oslo Accords of 1993. The purpose of the negotiations is to implement these UN [Security Council] resolutions (which call for an Israeli withdrawal from land occupied by force by Israel in 1967) and reach agreement on final status issues. On a number of occasions since Camp David - especially at the Taba talks - the Palestinian negotiating team presented its concept for the resolution of the key permanent status issues. It is important to keep in mind, however, that Israel and the Palestinians are differently situated. Israel seeks broad concessions from the Palestinians. Israel has not offered a single concession involving its own territory and rights. The Palestinians, on the other hand, seek to establish a viable, sovereign state on their own territory, to provide for the withdrawal of Israeli military forces and colonies (which are universally recognized as illegal), and to secure the right of Palestinian refugees to return to the homes they were forced to flee in 1948. Although Palestinian negotiators have been willing to accommodate legitimate Israeli needs within that context, particularly with respect to security and refugees, it is up to Israel to define these needs and to suggest the narrowest possible means of addressing them.

7. Why did the peace process fall apart just as it was making real progress toward a permanent agreement?

Palestinians entered the peace process on the understanding that (1) it would deliver concrete improvements to their lives during the interim period, (2) that the interim period would be relatively short in duration - i.e., five years, and (3) that a permanent agreement would implement United Nations [Security Council] Resolutions 242 and 338. But the peace process delivered none of these things. Instead, Palestinians suffered more burdensome restrictions on their movement and a serious decline in their economic situation. Israeli colonies expanded at an unprecedented pace and the West Bank and Gaza Strip became more fragmented with the construction of settler "by-pass" roads and the proliferation of Israeli military checkpoints. Deadlines were repeatedly missed in the implementation of agreements. In sum, Palestinians simply did not experience any "progress" in terms of their daily lives.

However, what decisively undermined Palestinian support for the peace process was the way Israel presented its proposal. Prior to entering into the first negotiations on permanent status issues, Prime Minister Barak publicly and repeatedly threatened Palestinians that his "offer" would be Israel's best and final offer and if not accepted, Israel would seriously consider "unilateral separation" (a euphemism for imposing a settlement rather than negotiating one). Palestinians felt that they had been betrayed by Israel who had committed itself at the beginning of the Oslo process to ending its occupation of Palestinian lands in accordance with Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338.

8. Doesn't the violence which erupted following Camp David prove that Palestinians do not really want to live in peace with Israel?

Palestinians recognized Israel's right to exist in 1988 and reiterated this recognition on several occasions including Madrid in 1991 and the Oslo Accords in September, 1993. Nevertheless, Israel has yet to explicitly and formally recognize Palestine's right to exist. The Palestinian people waited patiently since the Madrid Conference in 1991 for their freedom and independence despite Israel's incessant policy of creating facts on the ground by building colonies in occupied territory (Israeli housing units in Occupied Palestinian Territory - not including East Jerusalem - increased by 52 percent since the signing of the Oslo Accords and the settler population, including those in East Jerusalem, more than doubled). The Palestinians do indeed wish to live at peace with Israel but peace with Israel must be a fair peace - not an unfair peace imposed by a stronger party over a weaker party.

9. Doesn't the failure of Camp David prove that the Palestinians are just not prepared to compromise?

The Palestinians have indeed compromised. In the Oslo Accords, the Palestinians recognized Israeli sovereignty over 78 percent of historic Palestine (23 percent more than Israel was granted pursuant to the 1947 UN Partition Plan) on the assumption that the Palestinians would be able to exercise sovereignty over the remaining 22 percent. The overwhelming majority of Palestinians accepted this compromise but this extremely generous compromise was ignored at Camp David and the Palestinians were asked to "compromise the compromise" and make further concessions in favor of Israel. Though the Palestinians can continue to make compromises, no people can be expected to compromise fundamental rights or the viability of their state.

10. Have the Palestinians abandoned the two-state solution and do they now insist on all of historic Palestine?

The current situation has undoubtedly hardened positions on both sides, with extremists in both Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories claiming all of historic Palestine. Nevertheless, there is no evidence that the Palestinian Authority or the majority of Palestinians have abandoned the two-state solution. The two-state solution, however, is most seriously threatened by the on-going construction of Israeli colonies and bypass roads aimed at incorporating the Occupied Palestinian Territories into Israel. Without a halt to such construction, a two-state solution may simply be impossible to implement - already prompting a number of Palestinian academics and intellectuals to argue that Israel will never allow the Palestinians to have a viable state and Palestinians should instead focus their efforts on obtaining equal rights as Israeli citizens.

11. Isn't it unreasonable for the Palestinians to demand the unlimited right of return to Israel of all Palestinian refugees?

The refugees were never seriously discussed at Camp David because Prime Minister Barak declared that Israel bore no responsibility for the refugee problem or its solution. Obviously, there can be no comprehensive solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict without resolving one of its key components: the plight of the Palestinian refugees.

There is a clearly recognized right under international law that non-combatants who flee during a conflict have the right to return after the conflict is over. But an Israeli recognition of the Palestinian right of return does not mean that all refugees will exercise that right. What is needed in addition to such recognition is the concept of choice. Many refugees may opt for (i) resettlement in third countries, (ii) resettlement in a newly independent Palestine (though they originate from that part of Palestine which became Israel) or (iii) normalization of their legal status in the host country where they currently reside. In addition, the right of return may be implemented in phases so as to address Israel's demographic concerns.


Home Print Edition Features
Tanks in the distance
It would be interesting to wake up Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in the middle of the night and ask him: Is Arafat a terrorist or a partner? Is he doing something against the terror or is he conning the whole world?
By Akiva Eldar	| Jul. 19, 2001 | 12:00 AM

It would be interesting to wake up Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in the middle of the night and ask him: Is Arafat a terrorist or a partner? Is he doing something against the terror or is he conning the whole world?

On Sunday, Sharon told Foreign Minister Shimon Peres that he was finally convinced that without Arafat, the situation would be much worse than with Arafat, and promised to stop calling the Palestinian leader names.

On Monday, after the Binyamina bombing and the shelling of Jenin, the prime minister's spokesmen said that Arafat is making fools of everyone. Israeli intelligence provided Arafat with a detailed list of terrorists who right this minute are planning to blow them selves up together with the Maccabiah. Arafat didn't invite a single one in, not even to a hotel room.

Sharon's ready to do a lot to prevent the next big attack, especially a new Maccabiah disaster. Try explaining to the American administration that Israel doesn't belong on the list of countries dangerous for tourists, or to Jewish mothers that they shouldn't call their athletic children to get on the next plane out of this country. The current assumption in both the military and diplomatic circles is that it won't matter which organization sends the next suicide bomber, where it explodes or how quickly Arafat condemns it. Nothing, not the U.S. president, not the G-8 and not Shimon Peres, can stop the tanks from storming into Area A.

But senior officials in the government and army have the impression that Sharon is ready to avoid a war at almost any price. The chief of staff may promise him that the invasion will be quick, fast and elegant, but the last thing Sharon wants is pictures of women and children lying dead in the streets of the West Bank and dozens of funerals of Israeli soldiers.

The assassination of the Hamas activists, which also took the lives of innocents including peace activist Isaac Sa'ada from Bethlehem, was supposed to prevent the big attack and stop the next big one that was going to follow it.

Sharon's problem is that the president of the United States - the only person who can control Sharon better than Bibi Netanyahu and Avigdor Lieberman - sends an assistant of an assistant secretary of state. Try explaining to Israelis that Israel has to stick to the restraint policy because David Satterfield banged on the table.

Netanyahu's foreign workers

Apparently, Benjamin Netanyahu's public opinion polls show that if he wants to return to the Prime Minister's Office, it won't be enough for him to give Ariel Sharon advice about how to "eradicate terrorism." Sharon's polls, by the way, show that most Israelis still support the policy of restraint. As peace with the Palestinians fades, along with the Jewish majority in the Land of Israel, Netanyahu is offering Israelis the ultimate solution. He has a theory that once and for all will free the Jews, including the leftists, of the occupier's complex and fear of apartheid.

Netanyahu investigated and found that most of the Palestinians living between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean are the offspring of foreign workers attracted to the country at the beginning of the 20th century by the Jewish pioneers who made the desert bloom - moths attracted by the light, so to speak. The logical conclusion is that there's no reason to get hot and bothered about a demographic threat. No country gives national rights to its foreign workers, even if they are the absolute majority in a particular district. It doesn't matter when the natives, the Jews, invited the Arabs to plow their fields; they were day workers who exploited the generosity of the Jews and got stuck like a bone in their throat and don't deserve self-determination.

A report by Yossi Verter in Ha'aretz from July 17, about a meeting of Netanyahu supporters in Eilat, describes how the former prime minister won applause by telling his listeners that he gave a knock-out blow to a CNN interviewer who told him the Palestinians claim Israel stole their land. "I told her it wasn't their land," he revealed to his supporters, and that until the start of the return of the Jews "there wasn't a living soul here." In a letter published yesterday in Ha'aretz, Netanyahu reiterates the claim that at least half the growth of the Arab population in the country, in the first half of the 20th century, was because of Arab immigration. And he adds: "Not only did the Jewish pioneering bring with it technological and medical progress and raise the life expectancy of all the population, it also brought masses of Arab immigrants."

Netanyahu didn't invent this theory. It can be found in the writings of the leaders of the Revisionist movement. He probably found it in Joan Peters' book, which, like Netanyahu, buttresses the claim with quotes from Winston Churchill. In the 601 pages of "From Time Immemorial: The Origins of the Arab-Jewish Conflict," published in 1984, the freelance journalist tries to prove that the Arabs of Israel are not anything more than the offspring of foreign workers who exploited the generosity of their employers. Peters, who underwent a transformation from Arab-lover to Zionist, uses quotation marks around the term Palestinians.

If Netanyahu had telephoned the Middle East historian Yehoshua Porat, from the Hebrew University, he would have saved himself the severe criticism we heard from the Jerusalem professor yesterday. Porat would be happy to send Netanyahu a copy of a 1986 article that appeared in the New York Review of Books about the old-new theory Netanyahu is now promoting. Porat, like others who reacted to Peters' book, tore its thesis into shreds.

It's important to note that Porat is not suspected of being a leftist or a Netanyahu-hater. He was one of the more prominent academics who backed Netanyahu in the election campaign of 1996 against Shimon Peres.

Porat says that the foreign Arab workers who settled mostly in the Ashdod and Ashkelon area, as well as Circassians and Muslims who came from Bosnia, were a tiny minority. Arabs from Syria did indeed come to work for Jews "but when the work was done they went home," says Porat.

You don't have to be a big expert, says Porat, to understand that most of the growth of the Palestinian population was a result of natural birthrates. "It's enough to look at the Arab population of Israel, which has grown five-fold since the establishment of the state, from 150,000 to 800,000 (not counting East Jerusalem). And that was in a society that wasn't eager to absorb them."

The veteran Orientalist also ridicules Netanyahu's theory that it was the work of the Jewish pioneers who made the desert bloom and that this drew the Arab workers. "The Jewish settlement needed donations from Rothschild and then, under the Mandate, there was an orderly administration that controled immigration. And with the numbers, Porat demolishes the Peters-Netanyahu theory. "The census of 1922 showed there were 600,000 Palestinian residents in the country. The high birthrate, together with modern medicine and improved nutrition, were what contributed to the growth of the population.

To put things in perspective, Porat mentions that Napoleon's expedition to Egypt at the beginning of the 19th century estimated there were two million people in the country. "Look how many there are now in Egypt," he asks and answers himself, "and that's all without any foreign workers." Porat concludes that Zionism doesn't need prevarication to justify its existence.


Home News Diplomacy and Defense
Jewish groups preparing for Israel-bashing racism conference
The UN World Conference on Racism set for Durban, South Africa in September is being billed as the most important human rights event of the year - but it is rapidly evolving into a world forum to blast Israel for racism, anti-Arabism, and violating Palestinian human rights, according to Irwin Cotler, a leading international expert on human rights.
By Sharon Sadeh	Jul. 17, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The UN World Conference on Racism set for Durban, South Africa in September is being billed as the most important human rights event of the year - but it is rapidly evolving into a world forum to blast Israel for racism, anti-Arabism, and violating Palestinian human rights, according to Irwin Cotler, a leading international expert on human rights.

Cotler, a Canadian parliamentarian and legal rights expert, took part in an emergency meeting of 60 representatives from Jewish organizations and Israeli agencies - including deputy foreign minister Rabbi Michael Melchior - in London this week, under the auspices of the Jewish Board of Deputies. The meeting discussed how to deal with what Melchior called the "anti-Semitism in new clothes" the conference is expected to indulge in.

Drafts of resolutions prepared for the conference at preliminary planning sessions in Geneva and Tehran earlier this year, depict Israel as a racist state that systematically discriminates against Arabs.

It calls on Israel to repeal "laws based on racial discrimination, like the Law of Return and the policy of forceful occupation that prevents uprooted Palestinian refugees from returning to their homes and property.

"The draft resolutions emphasize the illegality of the settlements and depict Israel as a country where laws are based on racial discrimination aimed at continuing control over occupied territory ... a violation of internationally recognized human rights ... a new form of apartheid, a crime against humanity and a real threat to international peace and security."

Cotler says "advancing and protecting human rights is the new fashion that should be perceived as a new civic-secular religion that dictates policymakers in the West. If Israel is perceived as the absolutely evil violator of human rights, as the Palestinians and Muslim states are trying to do, Israel will end up the `anti-Christ' of our age."

Noting that the old phraseology equating Zionism with racism failed for the anti-Israeli forces, Cotler says the new rhetoric makes use of catchwords that "hit the target of the moral positions of decision makers in the West .. for example, the connection between the loaded term `occupation' and the term `illegal' is a hint that Israel takes steps similar to those taken by the Nazis."

Cotler is particularly concerned because he says Israel has not done enough to counter Palestinian propaganda. "The Palestinians have exploited Israel's silence during diplomatic negotiations to draft and distribute a grave indictment. While the Oslo process was proceeding apace, Israel was silent in the face of Palestinian declarations in international forums about harm done to Palestinians by Israel. That silence was interpreted in the world as an Israeli admission and some basic truths about Israel and its rights as a democracy were undermined."

Cotler also warns that even if Israel ignores the Durban conference, the Belgian investigation into the viability of a legal proceeding against Prime Minister Ariel Sharon for his role in the Sabra and Chatilla massacres of 1982 "will be but the tip of the iceberg in the legal proceedings that could take place against Israel, let alone the harm that could be done to vital Israeli and Jewish interests."

Melchior admits that Israel has been neither aware nor prepared for the significance of developments in international regarding human rights. "The government did not identify the significance of these developments and the ramifications that no government will be able to avoid.

"But that's changing, because now we understand we are in an existential struggle. They are trying to paint Israel as an enemy of human rights, as a the new apartheid state."

World Jewish Congress director Israel Singer, who also took part in the emergency session, said Israel and the Jewish communities would work together to present a "joint Jewish position and fighting for our right to our rights. We certainly won't turn the other cheek."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters
Jul. 17, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Mistake of a highway

Regarding "Trans-Political Highway," editorial of June 27:

I was astounded by how the body of your editorial contradicted the conclusion. Five paragraphs were devoted to the untenable situation of having the Trans-Israel Highway Company pave over land for which they have not yet paid. In excruciating detail, those five paragraphs pinpointed many of the political reasons why the highway should not be built at all.

Beyond political considerations, there is also the issue of the environment: Runoff from the highway will contaminate drinking water, and favoring the movement away from mass transit to roads can cause the quality of the air in Jerusalem to approach that of Mexico City.

Another issue, well-documented, is the expected increase in road deaths that comes from increased speed limits, as surely as night follows day.

Yet, at the end of the editorial, there is a call on all parties to "make the maximum effort ... to achieve a quick compromise" so this road that has already caused so much damage before it is even built, can cause even more harm to the environment and to the very fragile political arena.

David I. Block

Co-Chair, American Friends of The Committee for Public Transportation in Israel

New York, NY

Looking the other way

Regarding "Separate roads - a way to keep the warring populations apart" by Amos Harel, June 28:

Amos Harel's implication that seperate roads for Israelis and Palestinians would be a healthy way to "keep the warring populations apart" seems horribly misguided. An inadequate solution, separation could, at best, serve as a band-aid on a gaping wound.

I appreciate Harel's recognition that internal closures are intended as collective punishment against a civilian Palestinian population, but it is inadequate to suggest that "separating traffic arteries" is a way to solve the Palestinian plight.

Quite the contrary, to delineate officially between "Palestinian roads" and "Israeli roads" would only serve to solidify an existing system that not only looks like apartheid, but also acts like apartheid.

As an American NGO [non-governmental organization] employee, I once lost my way driving to a project in the Gaza Strip. With my green-plated Palestinian vehicle, I found myself on a settler-only road and quickly stopped to ask a young Israeli soldier how I could get back on the right track. Tongue-in-cheek, the soldier pointed to the North and replied, "See that beautiful, wide, well-lit road over there? That's not it. Yours is the dirt road beside it." It would have been funny, if it hadn't been so terrible.

Yes, it is true that "supporters of the plan believe that it is preferable to continuing to close our eyes to the present situation." But they're wrong. It would instead allow the majority of the Israeli public to do exactly that - to try their best to look the other way.

Out of sight, out of mind.

Helen Grant

American Committee on Jerusalem

Washington, D.C.


Home Print Edition Opinion
`Transfer' is dead, long live apartheid
With the assassination of Tourism Minister Rehavam Ze'evi, Israel lost the only child in the political arena who, like the child in The Emperor's New Clothes, managed to expose the nakedness of the seemingly moderate right. He was the only person of leadership in the rightist camp to propose a solution to the conflict between the vision of a Greater Israel and the vision of a Jewish state.
By Akiva Eldar	| Oct. 23, 2001 | 12:00 AM

With the assassination of Tourism Minister Rehavam Ze'evi, Israel lost the only child in the political arena who, like the child in The Emperor's New Clothes, managed to expose the nakedness of the seemingly moderate right. He was the only person of leadership in the rightist camp to propose a solution to the conflict between the vision of a Greater Israel and the vision of a Jewish state.

Ze'evi said out loud what a number of high-ranking Likud politicians (i.e. Public Security Minister Uzi Landau, Education Minister Limor Livnat and Environment Minister Tzachi Hanegbi) are thinking but not saying: "In the Land of Israel, there is room for only one nation - the Jewish people." This is the practical significance of their call to get rid of Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat and to liquidate the PA altogether. But if Arafat is out of the way, and if the PA has been put out of commission, who will then represent the Palestinian people? Hamas spiritual leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin? Perhaps that is the reason why the "mainstream" of Israeli politics "forgave" Ze'evi for his "transfer" idea. Those who have learned to live with a protracted occupation, with the denial of political rights to three million human beings and with apartheid looming over the horizon, found it convenient to have someone like Ze'evi with his "transfer" notion to their right on Israel's political spectrum.

Although Ariel Sharon has pledged to carry out Ze'evi's political "last will and testament," no one really believes Israel's prime minister will actually implement an ideology that, in practical terms, means banishing Palestinians from their homes. In fact, Sharon himself has declared that he is "prepared to give to them [the Palestinians]," for the first time in their history, a state of their own.

It is doubtful whether Sharon himself actually believes that he will ever find any Palestinian leader willing to accept his multi-staged plan. The first stage would be the creation of a state that would consist of cantons, would be surrounded by Jewish settlements, would not have any real sovereignty and would not exercise any control over the location of its external borders or over its airspace. The second stage would be implemented 20 years later: If Israel is pleased with their behavior, it will offer the Palestinians a state that would be contained within the enclaves left to them by the Jewish settlers. However, unless a miracle happens, this proposal will be presented to the Palestinian people by a Jewish minority that will, by that time, have lost both its democratic base and its moral one. Land expropriations and the distress generated by the occupation have not had any impact on the Palestinian birth rate. The drop in Jewish immigration to Israel offsets the increase in the number of Palestinians who are leaving the West Bank and the Gaza Strip to take up residence elsewhere in the world.

The wave of immigration from the former Soviet Union that increased Israel's population by one million people (one-third of whom, however, are not Jewish) put the dire predictions of the demographers on hold for a while. However, that "human reservoir" is steadily dwindling. In the wake of the economic crisis that hit the United States in the early 1990s, then-deputy foreign minister Benjamin Netanyahu summoned diplomatic correspondents to an urgent press conference where he warned that Israel had not made sufficient preparations to absorb the hundreds of thousands of Jews who would be immigrating to Israel from New York and Los Angeles. In the wake of the recent series of terror and anthrax attacks in the United States, immigration emissaries of the Jewish Agency are not reporting any long lineups. Furthermore, the gap in the natural increase rate between the Palestinian and Jewish populations has remained unchanged over the past number of years.

In a document he recently sent to members of the Israeli government, demographer Sergio della Pergola noted that, unless some sudden calamity befalls the West and forces Jews to immigrate to Israel, the small Jewish majority in the territory that, before May 1948, was British Mandatory Palestine will disappear by the end of the first decade of this century. Della Pergola, a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, projects that, by 2010, Jews will constitute only 44 percent - at the most, 47 percent - of the population in the territory contained by the Jordan River on the east and by the Mediterranean Sea on the west. According to a "moderate" assessment, by 2050 the percentage of Jews in that territory's population will shrink to less than 37 percent - roughly equivalent to their share of the territory's population in the early 1930s.

Shortly before he was assassinated, Ze'evi submitted his letter of resignation from the government. The reason for his decision was his understanding that, for the "program" offered by Sharon (as well as those proposed by former U.S. president Bill Clinton and former prime minister Ehud Barak), there is simply no partner available. Ze'evi also knew that the Israeli establishment is not prepared to pay the price of peace, because that price includes far-reaching concessions over Jerusalem and over the Palestinian refugees. Although he was an extreme nationalist, Ze'evi was a responsible politician who refused to bury his head in the sand and to rely on the progress of time or on the messiah. The transfer idea is dead and has left Israelis with the old choice - a small Land of Israel that is Jewish and democratic, or a large Land of Israel that is Palestinian and has an apartheid-style regime.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Call us when you have changed your thinking
A year has passed since the tragic events in which Arab citizens of Israel were shot dead by members of the Israel police force. It will be a long time before the wounds that were opened in those incidents will heal.
By Danny Rabinowitz	Oct. 22, 2001 | 12:00 AM

A year has passed since the tragic events in which Arab citizens of Israel were shot dead by members of the Israel police force. It will be a long time before the wounds that were opened in those incidents will heal.

Many of those who belong to the Jewish mainstream in Israel still believe it is their role to re-educate the Arab community, and this re-education process must also be accompanied by the elements of punishment. On the other hand, many Arabs have a deep and dangerous sense of despair.

The prospect of egalitarian citizenship, a hope to which the members of an entire generation in the Arab community dedicated a good part of their lives, collapsed in the thunder of the shots fired by the police officers. The vision of Jewish-Arab brotherhood was swallowed up by the mourning chants of the bereaved mothers and by the cries for revenge at the funerals and at the memorial ceremonies.

The relative quiet of the Arab community in Israel this past year is misleading. During the first few months following those tragic events, it was the quiet of shock and fear. These feelings have dissipated somewhat; however, beneath the surface surges the mighty current of a natural, self-evident, identification with the Palestinian people and with its national struggle.

The generation that set the tone in the events of October 2000, the young men and women in their early 20s, are not subservient like their grandparents who lived through the events of 1948, nor are they naive like their parents who stood their ground politically on Land Day in 1976. These young Arab women and men in Israel circa 2001 are very familiar with Israeli culture and have a much better knowledge of that culture than did their parents or grandparents.

However, these young people, at the same time, display an unprecedented sense of determination in their desire to disconnect themselves from the State of Israel in its present format. They have no patience for the declarations of politicians about equality.

"Call us when you have changed your thinking," they tauntingly address the Jewish majority in Israel and then go back to the business of advancing themselves and their communities.

The struggle over the status of the Arab citizens of Israel is not a zero-sum game, and it is not being conducted between only two groups. It is part of a wider struggle, which is enfolding in the context of a variegated tribal reality. A number of subgroups are competing for the right to define the state and its values and are indirectly competing for the right to a share in the state's resources - land, capital, political strength, and identity.

If the hegemonic group tries to seize control of everything, there will never be peace in this land. Peace will come only if the group that has emerged victorious in the internal struggle wisely does what the Americans, who have emerged victorious in the global struggle for control of economic and cultural resources, never thought of doing - namely, to triumph without leaving the losers alone in the dark to suffer starvation and to feel deceived and bitter.

The dilemma facing the Jewish majority in Israel has come into sharper focus in the wake of the recent events of last October. On the one hand, there is the approach that advocates a campaign of punishment and which demands not only that the domination by the Jewish majority of the Arab minority continue but that it be intensified by means of the negation of civil rights and by means of other "sticks" - with a small piece of carrot thrown in from time to time.

This approach, which was supported by many members of the Jewish public in Israel until the October riots, has developed thick, tangled roots in the wake of those events. One of the reasons why this approach is enticing and seductive is the phenomenal manner in which the Israeli public discourse has managed to conceal the price tag in the folds of the discourse's garment - relinquishing of the principles of natural equality and genuine democracy, a dangerous slide toward an apartheid-style "democracy of the master race," and living on borrowed time until the violent and inevitable uprising of the victims of this regime.

On the one hand, there is a need for presenting an approach that assigns supreme importance to the principle of equal citizenship. This approach is diametrically opposed to the principle that the right to participate in the life of the state and to enjoy the resources of the state depends on the individual's ethno-national identity.

This principle, however, is a complete distortion of the present situation. The real danger lies in Israel's obstinate adherence to its ethno-national self-definition as a "Jewish state." This spirit is carrying Israeli society and the state as a whole toward a slippery slope at the bottom of which there is an intensification of ethnic oppression - a violent, dark syndrome that has already been termed the "dark side of democracy."

The Arab citizens of Israel have a special role to play in the multi-group struggle over the future of the state. Their success will depend, of course, on the ability of the Jewish majority to harness the emotional resources needed to turn its ethno-territorial project into a comprehensive liberal democracy.

Such a dramatic about-face will signal the choice of a path that can enable this strife-ridden state to survive and to prosper despite its powerful internal tensions. If the Arabs fail in this mission and if the illusion of the seemingly unified Jewish ethnic project remains dominant for another generation or two, there is the distinct possibility that a much more extensive social and political collapse could take place here. The responsibility for that failure would be shared by everyone.


Home Print Edition Opinion
On the road from Durban racism and terror converge
What starts with Jews is often an early danger warning for society at large
By Shimon Samuels	Oct. 10, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Seventy-two hours after the close of the United Nations hate-fest in South Africa, its virulence struck at strategic and financial centers of its main target, the United States.

The vacuum of post-Communism was filled by a coalition of so-called "anti-globalization" human rights and Islamic groups that hold fundamentalist world views and a pathological contempt for America and those who share its values.

The opening of the Non-Governmental Organizations' Forum in Durban was characterized by the free distribution of PLO propaganda T-shirts, bearing the conference official logo at the registration tent. Others unashamedly circulated in T-shirts, proclaiming loyalty to Hamas.

Terrorism now operates on three international levels - state-sponsorship, religious endorsement, and moral justification. While government and theological proponents of hate have long been identified, the moral justifiers exposed themselves in the Durban process, for it was here that "anti-racism" and terrorism converged, endorsed by positions of the principal human rights organizations.

When the NGO draft declaration first became known to include clauses on "the Palestinian right to resistance by any means" and similar violent language, International NGO's (INGO's) convened to discuss a response for their own constituencies. Since the declaration spoke in the name of "we, the NGO's of the world," all were implicated by omission.

Thus, Amnesty International urged restraint, Franciscans International exclaimed horror at seeming to subscribe to violence, the International Federation for Human Rights invoked UN instruments.

These proclamations were, however, blown asunder when Human Rights Watch stated that it "could not oppose calls for violence when violence was justified, as in the campaign against apartheid or support for the intifada."

The INGO's statement was watered down to a mere criticism of the document's title, "Durban, Final Version." Human Rights Watch publicly pleaded, "get us off the hook," and the NGO's Steering Committee obliged - the hate manifesto was rebaptized as "A Working Paper."

At the final vote on the text, and just before the Jewish walkout, I asked these same organizations to show their solidarity. They mumbled reservations "to be made public at the right time." Passive endorsement became complicity as one more NGO enters the scene - al-Qaida, of Osama Bin Laden.

My 30-year professional involvement in combating anti-Semitism and racism paled in the fetid air of Durban. The Wiesenthal Centre was the only Jewish organization elected to the NGO's coordination. As an alternate member of the Stalinist-controlled steering committee, that was completely subservient to the Palestine Law Society (which had inspired the document's text), I was charged with being "an Israeli agent."

Later, I was ejected from the committee's meeting with High Commissioner Mary Robinson, as "there was no place for the World Jewish Caucus." Our speakers at the Commission on anti-Semitism were abused by Arab supporters restrained by South African police.

So-called distinctions drawn between "anti-Zionism" and "anti-Semitism" were forever effaced when "Third World" demonstrators on Friday afternoon forced the closure of the Jewish Center, while distributing "The Protocols of Zion" chanting "Hitler didn't finish the job."

The Palestine Law Society proposed to weight voting of documents "in favor of the exploited South against the colonialist North" - one more slap at Western democracies.

The manipulation at the NGO level was mirrored at the Inter-Government Conference, which opened with addresses from Yasser Arafat and Fidel Castro. Its official drafting committee included such paragons of pluralism and respect for human rights as Algeria, Iran and Iraq.

The United States and Israel drew a red line, by their departure, for Europeans, Canadians and Australians to belatedly enter the breach and fend off Islamo-Arab extremism in the final documents.

But the atmosphere had been poisoned and deep, almost geological, hate-lines exposed.

The climate for hate-acts is determined by the stridency of hate-speeches and, often, what starts with the Jews is an early warning of impending danger for society in general. Indeed, the democratic world is now in the line of fire.

Simon Wiesenthal said that, in the 1920s, he was "not so much concerned by the number of Nazis as by the absent voices of anti-Nazis."

The undertones of violence at Durban were challenged by too few voices of sanity, while the hate-mongers set a tone for the perpetration in New York and Washington DC of ideological mass murder.

Dr. Shimon Samuels is director for international liaison of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, based in Paris, and was chair of the Jewish Caucus at the World Conference Against Racism.


Home Print Edition Features
Last exit from Durban
South Africa's Jewish community is shrinking as many young people leave to search for `the good life' somewhere else. For those who remain it isn't easy to adjust to new realities
By Yair Sheleg	| Oct. 1, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Marlene Bethlehem, president of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, has three children. The eldest, Louise, 37, immigrated to Israel 16 years ago, "due to her revulsion at apartheid." The second daughter, Lael, 33, remained to fight apartheid racism; today she has a senior public position, protecting the nation's forests. The youngest, Keith, 32, planned on staying in South Africa, before an event occurred that changed his life, his mother says.

"My brother, Ronnie, a well-known economist, was kidnapped and murdered four years ago," Bethlehem explains. "My son, an attorney by profession, decided to leave the country. He asked me: `Do you want these murders to come still closer to you?' Within four months, he was set up in London, partly because his wife is English."

Bella Miller, a 76-year-old widow from Durban, has a similar story to tell. "I have three children," she says. "When Howard, my eldest son, had his car stolen, he decided to leave the country. A year later he was settled in Washington. My second son, Ivan, who lived in Johannesburg, also had his car stolen; but he decided to remain and improve security arrangements. The youngest son, Michael, lives in Cape Town; he's still single, and likes to enjoy himself." She adds that a car belonging to a nephew, a physician, was also stolen, "and immediately after this happened, he phoned his wife and told her to put the apartment up for sale. They immigrated to Israel, because their children have pretty good Hebrew."

When Bethlehem and Miller speak about "cars being stolen," their reference is to armed robbery of vehicles. Such car theft, it turns out, is one of the most prevalent forms of crime in South Africa.

The spate of car theft has reached such alarming proportions that local police squads have set up special units to deal with the epidemic. Since special security devices are installed in cars, criminals have started robbing them directly from their owners, at gunpoint. Drivers in South Africa understand that they are at particular risk when they enter and leave their automobiles; also, cars idling at traffic lights and junctions can be targeted by thieves. So, after they climb into their cars, the first thing most drivers do is to make sure that doors and windows are locked.

Car theft, however, isn't the only widespread form of crime in the country. With unemployment rates high, many young people resort to crime. Thus, home security systems have become a particularly conspicuous emblem of the South African lifestyle, particularly in wealthy areas.

Any self-respecting home owner places a sign at the entrance to his residence, identifying the security company responsible for it. Potential thieves are to read the sign and draw their own conclusions.

For many home owners, however, the warning signs aren't enough. They enclose their homes with fences, walls, and sometimes barbed wire.

The heavy security measures of private homes are utilized, and often upgraded, by Jewish communal institutions. For instance, a preschool institution at Johannesburg's Glenhazel area (an affluent suburb where many Jews live) is encircled by an electronic fence. A guard posted by the nursery school's entrance opens its bolted, steel door only after first receiving a go-ahead from the secretary's office inside, where electronic surveillance monitors are mounted.

Crime isn't the only threat posed to the quality of life in South Africa. Many fear that the country's economic future is far from secure. True, during seven years of democratic rule, the inflation rate has dropped from 18 percent to just 7 percent. And the new government did not nationalize private companies, as many feared would happen - instead, it launched rapid privatization programs.

Yet privatization and other policies have aggravated unemployment levels in South Africa, and stirred grave concerns about possible mass layoffs in the future (tension is rife between the government and professional unions in this regard). The fears of many whites, Jews among them, about the future of the economy have been exacerbated by the government's declared commitment to sponsor affirmative action policies on behalf of blacks, to offset the legacy of apartheid discrimination.

The principal economic worry involves the stability, or lack thereof, of the local currency, the rand. Devaluation of the rand began during the apartheid period, when South Africa's economy was boycotted by the international community. The rand's value continues to sag today, due to a combination of factors - lack of foreign investment (investors are worried about South Africa's uncertain economic-political future), and also so-called "regional influences," meaning the blatant lack of stability of neighboring countries, especially Zimbabwe (where the regime tacitly or explicitly encourages attacks against white farmers).

Search for stability

Recoiling from this inauspicious mix of rising crime rates and economic uncertainty, many have decided to emigrate. Representatives of different generations of the Jewish community tend to quarrel about the causes of this flight from South Africa. While Miller and Frank Schneider, another retired Jew from Durban, say that their children have left mainly in response to crime, Jonathan Russon, an accountant from Johannesburg, believes that most of his Jewish peers who have left the country have done so mainly to "search for more stable salary levels and currencies."

Whether the exodus is rooted mainly in social, political or economic determinants, there is one common denominator running through all of the individual stories. Jews and others are leaving South Africa in the hope of "finding a more secure future."

As for the reasons for leaving, there generally isn't much difference between Jews and other white South Africans. Jonathan Ribin, a Jewish musician from Johannesburg, notes that a community of 12,000 non-Jewish white immigrants from South Africa is taking root today in Perth, Australia. Jews tend not to have special reasons to leave, since anti-Semitism is rare in the country.

Recent signs of an anti-Semitic trend have been limited almost exclusively to Cape Town, on the southern tip of the country. A group of Muslim extremists, the Pajad, which has been active in the city in recent years, is responsible for Cape Town's exceptional status. The group originally devoted its efforts to constructive causes like the war against drugs; as time went by, however, its fundamentalist Islamic credo became more militant. There have been anti-Semitic radio broadcasts in Cape Town in recent months; and just a few weeks ago, when the international anti-racism conference was taking place in Durban, a Jewish doctor in Cape town was assaulted and badly injured by a band of Muslim radicals.

Yet anti-Semitism in Cape town remains limited to a string of isolated incidents; and there is no noticeable anti-Semitic trend in the country as a whole. Trends in Glenhazel convey hints that the country's Jewish community is not concerned about the possibility of an anti-Semitic upsurge. Numerous Glenhazel Jews wear skullcaps in public. And Jews in this Johannesburg suburb recently sponsored a fair in the local mall, selling gifts and special items in preparation for the High Holy Days and Sukkot.

There were performances of Hasidic songs and a shofar-blowing contest, and the fair was publicized far and wide, by organizers who were manifestly not worried about any sort of hostile backlash.

Jewish emigration from South Africa is thus part of a general current trend of white departure. On the other hand, the Jews began to leave long before the collapse of the apartheid regime. Trying to pinpoint the moment when confidence about the future began to flag, many in the Jewish community refer to the year 1976 as a key turning point. In June of that year, riots flared in Soweto, outside of Johannesburg, and many saw that as an ominous sign of troubled times ahead.

Marlene Bethlehem explains: "Before apartheid collapsed, many people, like my eldest daughter, left because they couldn't accept the regime. And in recent years, many, like my youngest child, have been leaving because they fear that the present government isn't able to preserve law and order."

Though identifying the precise causal dynamics can be difficult, the bottom line regarding South African Jewry is written in stark numbers. In 25 years, a community of 120,000 people has dwindled to 80,000 (some say that the current number is still smaller).

Most of the emigrants are young people. Looking for a "better future," young Jewish South Africans first depart from relatively small cities and towns across the country that have hosted modest Jewish communities throughout the past century. Jews who remain in South Africa are concentrated heavily in two communities, Johannesburg (60,000) and Cape Town (50,000). The smaller communities are shrinking, heading toward the point of no return.

Departure from the small South African Jewish communities is not always part of an internal migration trend whose final destinations are Johannesburg or Cape Town. And many young Jews who pack their bags to leave the country for good have their parents' blessing. Schneider, for instance, says that "all over the world, parents usually want their children to remain close by; but we ourselves, and other parents like us, have persuaded our children to leave because they don't have a future here."

Many families are far-flung, with members settled in a bewildering array of locales around the globe. Marlene Bethlehem is a case in point: there is a daughter in Israel, a son in London, and a daughter in Johannesburg. Bethlehem's friend Gale Goldberg has a son in Toronto, a son in Los Angeles, a daughter in Australia, and a daughter who lived in Israel before returning recently to South Africa.

For such parents, annual vacations become globe-trotting affairs, a series of shuttle visits between children located in different countries and continents. Even parents of lesser economic means scrape together the funds to finance such global excursions, "to see the children." South Africa's Chief Rabbi Cyril Harris explains: "Some women go out and work so that by the end of the year they're able to afford such trips." Others, such as the Schneider parents, make an effort at least once every other year to visit children overseas.

Some elderly parents who require supervision and medical care have been adversely affected by this global scattering of South African Jews. It may be that some, or all, of their offspring live overseas. In some cases, children are unable to provide the funds needed to support their aging parents, so the burden of providing for these dependent senior citizens falls upon the organized Jewish community. Meantime, the Jewish communal organizations have their own economic worries - they are troubled by the devaluation of the rand, the cessation of government subsidies to private social welfare and educational institutions, and by the flight of many former donors, wealthy South African Jews who have left the country. Jewish social welfare and education institutions are saddled today with heavy debts; and donors who remain in the country are besieged by ever-increasing demands.

Up to now, the organized Jewish community has met these challenges with great success. Jewish senior citizens homes admit all members of the community, whatever their income level (this model applies to many Jewish communities around the globe; unfortunately it is not in effect in Israel). The ultra-Orthodox Chabad movement, a conspicuous presence in the South African Jewish landscape, operates a special housing complex for people of all ages who have been unable to purchase apartments on their own.

Memories of apartheid

"The schvartzes," sighs B., a wealthy member of Durban's Jewish community, "don't know how to run the state." The Yiddish term for blacks, an internal Jewish code word redolent of deep disdain, appears often in conversations with older members of the Jewish community. These South African Jews don't even attempt to conceal their nostalgia for what they regard as the good old days of apartheid. Days in which law and order prevailed, when the police were tough and only white people competed in the professions - in short, when there were no schvartzes, and when there was no affirmative action to benefit the blacks.

P., for instance, also from Durban, says: "Life under the old regime was more comfortable, at least for us. There weren't all these problems with the various communities. The police were strong; and there wasn't a rash of crime and kidnapping, as there is today. You could walk on the street without being afraid of crime." Today, P. complains, "the schvartzes don't like to work. Factories are closing since workers strike, and do protest dances instead of working. So foreign investors take their money elsewhere."

Attitudes among the younger generation are more complex. Blunt expressions of contempt and disdain of the sort uttered by the older generation are not common among younger South African Jews. Yet for many it still seems natural that blacks work as servants. An Israeli who spent a few months this year as a guest in South Africa's Jewish community recalls one telling incident: when he offered to help clear away the dishes at a special Shabbat table, his hosts were angered. "It took us five years to get the servants accustomed to doing all the work," he was told. "Don't mess it up for us." In another, similar incident, he drew incredulous looks when he insisted on shining his own shoes - the Israeli was informed there was a servant to do that sort of work.

Like other whites, Jews have little social contacts with blacks. Errol Goodman, who has a senior position in Johannesburg's organized Jewish community, explains: "While apartheid was repealed on a legal level, it remains in effect in social terms. Jews, like all other whites, shut themselves away in their own neighborhoods. They are leaving state schools and transferring to private educational facilities, because when blacks entered the state school system, its level declined - that was natural, since in previous generations blacks received just a minimal amount of education."

David Ackerman, a 22-year-old Jewish student from Durban who is active in the Zionist Federation, does not miss the apartheid regime in any way. Yet like many of his older peers, he harbors some doubts about the new government.

"For my father, the change of power was a personal trauma," he recalls. "Not because he supported apartheid. He simply claimed, as somebody affiliated through work with Durban's Technicon, that lecturers ought to be hired by virtue of their abilities, and not because of skin color. Taking that position was enough - he was accused of racism. Students hit him; and in the end he had to leave his job, apparently to vacate it to a black instructor. Though he found work at a private institution, the episode was, for him, traumatic."

Asked whether he believes that his parents and their peers could have done more in the struggle against apartheid, Ackerman gives a negative reply: "They knew that the regime was awful, but they couldn't do anything about it, since it was a totalitarian government. They were a small minority, one which was frightened about an upsurge of anti-Semitism, akin to what characterized the regime here during the Nazi period. And you can't ignore the fact that Jews, like all the other whites, profited from apartheid. They had a very comfortable daily life."

When the chief rabbi, Cyril Harris, arrived from Britain, took up his position in South Africa's Jewish community and delivered an apology in its name for its not having done enough to defeat apartheid, Ackerman's grandfather wrote an article criticizing the new rabbi, claiming that the community could not have done more.

It is worth mentioning that the Jewish community today sponsors a number of initiatives to assist the nation's black population. For instance, Harris has been instrumental in establishing Tikkun, an organization that works for the benefit of black communities. Tikkun's activities include the establishment of a cooperative for growing organic vegetables, a support center for youth at risk, a medical center for pregnant women, and special classroom instruction for children who have reading difficulties. The ORT education organization has also joined efforts on behalf of black South Africans, establishing a vocational training center for blacks in Johannesburg. But these are relatively isolated initiatives. In terms of attitude and social networks, the Jewish community as a whole remains detached from the black public.

The `new South Africa'

This reality of detachment raises a broad question: How do South African Jews really view their place in the state? Do those who choose to remain do so simply because they have no alternative - due to a lack of economic resources or an inability to transfer their business abroad? Or do they genuinely see themselves and their children as being part of the "new South Africa," which is now governed by the black majority?

The Jewish establishment issues clear declarations in support of the latter. It affirms its commitment to the new South Africa for a combination of tactical-practical, and authentic-emotional, reasons. Practically speaking, the Jewish establishment doesn't want to be suspected of disloyalty; it is comprised of people who have decided to stay in South Africa and link their own personal future to the fate of the country.

During the annual meeting of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies last month, Board leaders were emphatic about their belief and commitment to the "new South Africa." SAJBD chairman Russel Gaddin declared: "Our community has so much to offer - so much experience and knowledge - which can be harnessed to build the new South Africa ... As citizens of the country and as human beings, don't Jews bear an obligation to improve the lot of the state's vast majority?"

Striking a similar note, Bethlehem says: "I definitely view myself as a proud South African. I am particularly proud of the way in which the state's dramatic transformation, and the reconciliation which came following the political change, came about peacefully. I am definitely connected to the land, and the landscape."

The establishment also has an apparent desire to arrange the historical record in a way that reflects a prominent Jewish involvement in the struggle against apartheid. Visitors to Cape Town's Jewish Museum, which opened just a few years ago and documents Jewish history in the country, report that the handful of Jewish activists who helped spearhead the struggle against apartheid receive disproportionately lavish treatment. The museum apparently wants to to create the impression that the group's outlook was representative of the community's position.

Helen Friedman, a member of this group who remains active today in the campaign to help blacks, reflects that "when I was an anti-apartheid activist, nobody, including the Jews, wanted to know what I was up to; they stayed away from me. That they didn't help me goes without saying. During the past 10 years I have suddenly gotten a lot of publicity and recognition - from the Jewish establishment as well. But nobody really comes to see what exactly it is that I do. They put a picture of me in the Jewish Museum and wrote about me, but nobody asked me to describe what I did."

Friedman notes, however, that she hasn't been entirely neglected by the Jewish community. In fact, she says, "I have in the past five years received a lot of love and backing, and most of the people who finance my support organization are Jewish."

Difficult transition

SAJDP director-general Judah Kaye astutely analyzes the Jewish community's dilemma: "We got used to viewing South Africa as a Western country, as a land which has a Western culture. The challenge we face is to become accustomed to life in an African state."

There are many indications that the community is finding it hard to make this transition. The South African Jew lives in what Marvin Smith, former SAJDP president, calls "internal exile." His body, Smith explains, is in South Africa, but his soul is enclosed in Western "bubbles" that he has contrived. Community members live in elegant, affluent, and heavily protected houses that are located in American-style suburbs; they work in fortress-like office buildings where international business deals are made; and they try to remain sealed off, protected from aspects of the African environment outside (soaring levels of AIDS, unemployment, poverty and crime).

Arguably, the trend of "returning to religion" which has taken root in the Jewish community, particularly in Johannesburg, reflects this impulse to cut loose from the local setting. The South African Jewish community has long been characterized by its unusually strong religious and Zionist commitments. A majority of its members, even those who travel to synagogue on Shabbat by automobile, define themselves as Orthodox. As children, a large portion of the community's members attended Jewish day schools throughout the week; Hebrew lessons were stressed in these institutions, as was the strengthening of bonds with Israel. Zionist youth movements have enjoyed extraordinarily strong membership rates.

Intermarriage rates were very low in the past. Though it has risen somewhat today, it remains at just 15 percent - as compared to the 50 percent intermarriage figure that looms in the United States and other Western countries.

The dominant social, religious, ideological and educational trends were affected by apartheid and its legacy. As Rabbi Harris puts it, the trends are explained "by the generally isolated character of society in South Africa. Separation hasn't existed only between blacks and whites: the blacks themselves were separated along tribal lines. Muslims also keep to themselves."

Under seven years of black rule, the Jewish community's religious profile has strengthened. Institutions encouraging Jews to become Orthodox - Chabad, Or Sameah, Esh Hatorah - are flourishing in Johannesburg, recruiting hundreds of new members each year, and black Orthodox skullcaps are a prominent part of the community's landscape. Increasing numbers of people adhere to kashrut and Shabbat laws and rites. Many concur with Ackerman's analysis, depicting the process as "a desire to clutch something that is well-known." Religious frameworks, he notes, "provide a sense of social security which offsets the general uncertainty and fears about the future."

Despite the strong Jewish and Zionist components in the community's identity, Israel is not the destination preferred by most who choose to leave. Most emigrants head for Australia, Canada and Britain; if a green card is available, they set off for the United States. Israel receives just 20 percent of those who leave.

A number of explanations are put forth to account for Israel's relatively low level of popularity among immigrants: Immigrants want English-language countries and are deterred by Hebrew. Devaluation of the rand means that a large villa in South Africa is sold for around $200,000, a price that fetches not much more than a modest apartment in many parts of Israel. It seems that the main factor spoiling Israel's appeal is what many refer to simply as "the good life." Goodman puts it this way: "The community here is very spoiled. We have a good, comfortable life. If people decide to leave, they don't want to go to a place where life is hard, like Israel."


Home Life Books
Making common cause against McDonaldization
Considered the world's most outstanding example of the failure of pure capitalism in its neo-liberal guise, Argentina is currently lurching toward collapse. Many talk of leaving, but some, like Alex Portuguez, are throwing themselves into the struggle for democratization and social justice
By Aryeh Dayan	Sep. 16, 2001 | 12:00 AM

nce a week, Alex Portuguez leaves his apartment in Almagro, a neighborhood in Buenos Aires made up mainly of middle-class merchants and professionals, and crosses the city to reach its northernmost edge, which is much wealthier and more prestigious. Once there, he passes by the classiest cafes, restaurants and places of entertainment in the Argentinian capital and finds himself at the entrance of the Sheraton Hotel.

There he does what only a few of the more well-to-do residents of Buenos Aires dare to do these days: He crosses the busy street, passes the large, well-kept park opposite the hotel, and a few minutes later is already swallowed up among the alleys of a huge shantytown. The houses are on the verge of collapse, and in the narrow, dirty streets dozens of children are running around, some of them barefoot, and some in rags. The shanties in the neighborhood are built on a somewhat lower level than the nearby highway. The differences in elevation remove the neighborhood from the line of sight of those driving along the highway, and perhaps from their awareness as well.

It is almost impossible to find anyone in Buenos Aires who can estimate precisely the number of people living in this neighborhood, which has no formal name, and which everyone calls Villa 21 (villa is a Spanish word meaning a large village or a small town, and it is the Argentinian equivalent of the American "slums" or the Brazilian favela).

On the other hand, it is very easy to find people in Buenos Aires for whom the name Villa 21 has a frightening connotation. Many of the city's wealthier residents would probably prefer to ignore the existence of the huge, awful slum, some of whose residents are actually on the verge of starvation.

But its geographical proximity to the city's most prestigious areas means that its residents are a reality that cannot be ignored: At almost every traffic light in Buenos Aires, they are there, walking among the cars, trying to sell something to the drivers, wiping the windshields, or simply begging. The residents of the high-class neighborhoods tend to blame the Villa 21 people automatically for the violent crime which has lately been overwhelming Buenos Aires. The moldy paths between the shanties are off-limits to the wealthy.

Creating a change in awareness

Alex Portuguez, who walks on these paths every week, says he feels disdain for people "who think that if they ignore the harsh reality, it will be easier for them to live with it." He is a student of anthropology at the University of Buenos Aires, who grew up in a home that provided economic and social stability. He comes to the shantytown to help its children with their studies, an educational project that is part of a broader political and social activity, whose goal, he explains, is "to create a change in awareness that will eventually lead to social changes, and to the democratization of Argentinian society."

Portuguez is active in several small Argentinian organizations that often conduct noisy and colorful demonstrations against globalization and capitalism. This January, he participated in the founding convention of the World Social Forum in the city of Porto Alegre. The group wants to serve as an umbrella organization for groups from all over the world that are fighting globalization, and plans to meet every year at the same time as the annual World Economic Forum that takes place in Davos, Switzerland.

When he returned from Porto Alegre, Portuguez helped set up a group of volunteers to teach children in deprived neighborhoods, and also joined the community radio station, which is trying to present an alternative to the commercial media. Despite his youth (he is 22 years old), he has already become a leading figure among the anti-establishment groups.

"In Villa 21 I see terrible things," he said when we met, at his request, in a small, fashionable cafe in one of the most beautiful areas of Buenos Aires. "There are 13-year-old children there who look like eight-year-olds, because of malnutrition; there are children who use drugs, and there are teenagers who both use and deal in them. I've even heard of teenagers who murdered other teenagers because of stupid arguments.

"At first I would go crazy," he continues, recalling his experiences in Villa 21. "From there, I looked at the Sheraton Hotel and at the skyscrapers next to it, and I didn't understand how it was possible. How does it happen that next to all this luxury, there is all this poverty? Only later, slowly but surely, did I start to understand that these were actually two sides of the same coin. The coin can be called globalization, it can be called capitalism, and it can be called by many other names. Whatever you call it - it reflects a cruel reality that is unacceptable."

Portuguez prefers to use a more complicated, but no less accurate term: "McDonaldization." "The problem we have to deal with is not only political or economic, but also cultural," he explains. "If globalization means a strengthening of connections between various people and cultures, then I am in favor of globalization. But that's not what's happening today.

"Today there is one culture, one of whose main symbols is McDonald's, which has taken over the entire world, including Argentina, of course. The political and economic expressions of this culture, in which individualism and capitalism are central, have shaped a society without social networks, and without social solidarity. Today, everyone shuts himself up at home in front of the television, which is nothing but an instrument of repression in the hands of this dominant culture." This culture, declares Portuguez, has brought Argentina to the brink of catastrophe.

Turning out the airport lights

In today's Argentina, which is undergoing a very severe economic and social crisis, almost everyone is talking about the forthcoming catastrophe. The press warns of the country's approaching bankruptcy, taxi drivers claim that "there has never been such a difficult period," and "the situation" has become the usual subject of conversation at every social gathering.

Almost every Argentinian tells of a friend who has recently emigrated, or who plans to do so in the near future - to Spain, Italy, the U.S. or Israel. This national mood is also expressed in black humor, which predicts "the end of the country." Even the old Israeli joke about the last person to leave turning out the light at the airport, is making the rounds in an updated Argentinian version.

A little less than a month ago, at a demonstration still held at May 5 Square every Thursday afternoon by the mothers of the Desaparecidos (those missing since the days of the military regime's "dirty war" in 1976-83), all the posters and all the speeches, without exception, dealt with the economic crisis.

Argentina, a country of 35 million inhabitants, with abundant natural resources, is today considered the world's most outstanding example of the failure of pure capitalism in its neo-liberal guise. In a long and painful process, which began in the days of the military dictatorship, and picked up tremendous momentum in the days of President Carlos Menem in the 1990s, Argentina carried out, in the most extreme manner, the economic model designed by the Chicago economists, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.

Now, after having privatized almost all the government-owned companies and services, decreased to a minimum the involvement of the government in supplying social services, and granted local and foreign investors almost every possible break and benefit, the country finds itself facing both economic disaster and social gaps that are reaching alarming proportions.

The rate of unemployment is over 16 percent, and more than one-third - 13.3 million people - of the entire population lives below the poverty line. Four million of the impoverished are concentrated in the greater Buenos Aires area. The Argentinian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) reports that only a year ago, the number of poor in this area was lower by 500,000. ABS publications distinguish between those who are "below the poverty line" (a monthly income of not more than $154), and those who are "on the verge of starvation" (an income that is not sufficient for buying basic foods). The number of people in greater Buenos Aires who are on the verge of starvation grew in the past year from 925,000 to 1,250,000. Another statistic: The top decile earns 35.8 percent of all income, and the bottom decile only 1.3 percent.

In July, the government of social-democratic President Fernando de la Rua announced a policy that was meant to pull Argentina out of the crisis by means of a "zero deficit" in the state budget. In order to balance the budget, the government decided to cut salaries and pensions of government workers by 13 percent, and to decrease the few allotments for social services that still exist. Since this policy was declared, hardly a day passes without demonstrations by the unemployed, a protest meeting of trade unions, or a strike in some government service. Less conventional protests occur when groups of unemployed and/or residents of deprived neighborhoods, which arise in various places in the country, block highways or take over government offices by force. People are now beginning to fear that there will be chaos.

Alex Portuguez, who together with his anti-globalization friends participates in many of these protest activities, sees them as the beginning of a welcome turning point. "The large amount of capital that dominates Argentina," he explains, "tried in recent years to destroy society, so that everyone would be overcome by his own private despair, shut himself up at home in front of the television, and accept the situation." In his opinion, the new mass demonstrations point to a failure of the strategy of the capitalists.

Born in Jerusalem

Alex Portuguez was born in Jerusalem. His parents came from Argentina to Israel at the end of the 1960s, and returned to Argentina in the mid-1980s. Although he has no connection with his country of birth, understands only a few words of Hebrew, and defines himself as an Argentinian patriot, he retains his Israeli citizenship, and even makes sure to renew his passport at the Israeli consulate every few years. His brother, who is seven years older than he and lives in New York, defines himself as an Israeli, speaks Hebrew, and is involved in the Israeli community in the city.

His parents, Blanca Kahn and Mario Portuguez, were Jews and Zionists. Both were born in Argentina to parents who had emigrated from Europe during the 1920s and 1930s. Mario Portuguez joined the Zionist Movement at a young age, while he was a high school student. When the Six-Day War broke out in June 1967, he was a student at the faculty of medicine, and he rushed to the Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires in order to volunteer to help Israel in the war.

"The embassy organized a group of Jewish volunteers, and sent them to Israel by ship," says Alex, struggling to hide an ironic smile. "I think that the war was over before the ship even set sail. Father worked a little in one of the kibbutzim, traveled a little in Israel, and returned to Argentina to complete his medical studies."

A short time later he met Blanca Kahn, who had had a much longer experience in Israel than he. Kahn lost her mother when she was a little girl, and her father, who had a hard time raising her, sent her to Israel, Portuguez says. When Blanca was 13 years old, she came by ship to Haifa, and was taken in by the Youth Aliyah and sent to Kibbutz Meggido. She lived there for seven years, returning to Argentina at the beginning of the 1960s. In 1968, the couple married, and a year later, right after Mario Portuguez completed his medical studies, they came to Israel and settled in Jerusalem. Dr. Portuguez specialized in ophthalmology, and found work in Hadassah Hospital. His wife worked for three years in the production company of movie mogul Menahem Golan, until she gave birth to her first son.

In 1980, a year after Alex was born, they once again packed their bags, going as Israeli emissaries to Swaziland, in southern Africa. For two years, Dr. Portuguez took part in an Israeli aid project in the field of medicine. In 1982, the family returned to Jerusalem, and in 1983 they were sent in the same framework to Ciskei, one of the black "homelands" then set up by the South African apartheid regime. In 1985, at the end of their mission in Ciskei, the family decided to go back to Argentina. Alex was then six years old.

He started elementary school in Argentina. "At the time, I spoke a little Hebrew I had learned in Israel, a little English I had learned in South Africa, and very little Spanish I had learned at home," he recalls. "At first, not a single child in the class understood me, but very quickly I forgot Hebrew, learned Spanish, and became integrated into the new society."

A harsh blow to the family

In 1989, he and his family suffered a harsh blow: His father was murdered in his clinic by one of his patients; the murderer committed suicide. "The man went berserk when father informed him that he was about to lose his sight. He went home, returned with a gun, and killed my father. It was a terrible blow; because of it, my brother left Argentina for New York, to start a new life there." Alex remained in Buenos Aires with his mother, with whom he still lives.

He believes that his father's murder was one of the factors that influenced his critical views regarding the nature of the society dominated by global capitalism. The unfathomable deed caused him to become interested in the nature of man, and in the quality of the society that gives rise to such phenomena. In order to understand the nature of man, he went to study anthropology. After studying the essence of modern capitalist society, he joined organizations fighting against it.

Since then, he regularly participates in demonstrations, writes posters and leaflets, conducts interminable debates with his fellow students, and from time to time, also joins in the blocking of roads and the takeover of public buildings. In a profile of him published in El Clarin, the most widely distributed newspaper in Argentina, he was described as one of the most outstanding student activists involved in political activity.

Portuguez himself considers the highlight of his activity the weekly lessons in Villa 21, and the articles and criticism on issues of culture and art that he broadcasts on the community radio station. "In Villa 21 and on the radio," he explains, "I am working against two of the basic principles of the capitalist system: pushing the poor to the margins of society, and turning the media into a tool in the hands of the wealthy capitalists who rule the country."

Many of the residents of Villa 21 are immigrants from Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru and Chile, who are in Argentina illegally. Others are Argentinians from the poor northern districts, who migrated to Buenos Aires in search of work. "Both groups," says Portuguez, "are equally discriminated against. Both are thrown to the margins of society, in the hope that they will disappear there. Teaching children in deprived neighborhoods is a drop in the ocean, and it doesn't sound sufficiently important or heroic. But it should be remembered that such activity, during the military regime, was a certain ticket to `disappearance.' At the time, people who taught slum children were considered subversive. And that has left a scar that still scares many people."

The radio station where he works was founded at the initiative of students of communications at one of the city's universities, and finances itself through neighborhood advertising alone; large commercial firms are not allowed to participate. "As opposed to ordinary radio stations," he explains, "for us, commercials are not the main thing. They are only an existential necessity." Many of the broadcasts deal with what Portuguez calls "forming ties among the listeners.

"I believe in participatory democracy rather than representative democracy," he added, when asked to explain the motives behind this broadcasting policy. "It was not the politicians who created democracy. Democracy must be created from below - by forming ties among people in the street, the neighborhood, the school, the work place, the university. That's what we're trying to do by means of radio - to recreate minimal solidarity between people. The commercial media sow despair, because they want people to think that there is no possibility of changing the situation. They know that desperate people will remain helpless in their living rooms, in front of television. Our radio station, which is very political but has no party identity, tries to take people out of their desperation and indifference."

He knows that his words sound very optimistic, but that doesn't worry him. "I prefer to sound optimistic rather than to act like the devout Marxists or the devout religious believers, who are convinced that there is only one right way," he says. "I believe in utopia, I believe that one can change people's awareness by creating cultural alternatives. And I don't believe utopia can be realized through an armed struggle. In the past, there have been many attempts to do this, in Argentina as well. It has always failed, at a terrible price." n


Home Print Edition Opinion
In bed with Bouteflika
Several thousand words before the demand that Israel be declared a racist, apartheid state, and before the sections devoted to children and gay rights, the environment and the need to compensate the descendants of the slaves in America, the report prepared by the non-government organizations which met in Durban contains a section on the Jewish people. This is a fair, laudable and correct section. Its main thrust is a call to extinguish anti-Semitism that remains widespread in many countries and
By Tom Segev	| Sep. 7, 2001 | 12:00 AM
	
Several thousand words before the demand that Israel be declared a racist, apartheid state, and before the sections devoted to children and gay rights, the environment and the need to compensate the descendants of the slaves in America, the report prepared by the non-government organizations which met in Durban contains a section on the Jewish people. This is a fair, laudable and correct section. Its main thrust is a call to extinguish anti-Semitism that remains widespread in many countries and (according to the NGO paper) is expressed via Holocaust denial, the desecration of Jewish cemeteries and arson attacks against synagogues.

Many justifiable things were written at Durban, and it would be wrong to treat the World Conference Against Racism with disdain. That is because the human rights of most inhabitants of the globe aren't suitably safeguarded. The most potent way of defending them is to apply international pressure. History teaches that even the most loathsome, malicious regimes, including Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, did not ignore international opinion - and it sometimes happened that they restrained, albeit superficially, their oppressive, genocidal policies in response to such pressure. In this vein, South Africa is the right country to host such a conference: World opinion played a large role in the overthrow of its apartheid regime.

The rub, of course, was that this was a conference attended by official state delegates, and there are only a handful of states with a clean track record worthy of participation in a discussion of human rights. Cuban President Fidel Castro was there, as was Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, and other, comparable, dictators. Some of the state regimes represented at the conference allow child slaves to be bought and sold. Thus, the first reflexive response to what was said at Durban was: Look who's talking.

Two global organizations, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, public annual reports that catalogue countries around the world, rating them as offensive, or a little less offensive. These annual rosters of ratings and marks, particularly those posted by Amnesty, generally reflect serious work. Thus, it was interesting to note this week that the two organizations took exception to the anti-Israel denunciations that were incorporated in the Durban declaration.

By the same token, what the two organizations have to say about Israel is important: Some states, including Arab ones, are worse, yet Israel's record is very bad.

Zionism is not more racist than other nationalist movements. Its aim of concentrating in one land a Jewish people whose members belong to numerous races renders Zionism one of the less racist nationalist movements. Genocide, as in the case of Rwanda, has yet to occur on account of Zionism.

Yet, in a constant, systematic fashion, Israel violates many of the most fundamental human rights belonging to Palestinians from the territories. Regrettably, not all of these violations, perhaps not even the majority of them, are necessitated in operations to wipe out terror. Most are required in order to ensure the continuation of the conquest. Both on a general policy level, and in terms of concrete contacts with residents, a large portion of what occurs in the territories reflects ultra-nationalism, economic interests, blunt insensitivity, spiteful vindictiveness, and also hatred that is not devoid of malice and prejudice. Every roadblock thrown up in the territories encapsulates this reality.

There are several Israeli organizations, along with a few politicians and some journalists, that try to campaign against the violation of Palestinians' human rights. So long as Palestinian terror continues unchecked, this effort grows more difficult; caught in the maelstrom, the human rights organizations are often compelled to defend themselves against the charge that they are doing something which is somehow "anti-Israeli" and unpatriotic.

The anti-Israeli hysteria in Durban reinforces this allegation; this week it has been as though those who promote the fight for human rights in Israel have been pushed into bed with Abdelaziz Bouteflika. The outcome could be that still fewer Israelis will call attention to the continuing violation of the human rights of residents of the territories, and a growing number of Israelis will associate the struggle for these Palestinians' rights with "hatred of Israel." That is the real damage wrought this week in Durban.


Home Print Edition Opinion
A public relations failure at Durban
The dramatic walkout by the Israeli and American delegations from the United Nations' World Conference Against Racism in Durban has given this conference the kick in the behind that it has richly deserved. The conference is a crude, embarrassing demonstration of anti-Israel hatred and, in fact, constitutes one of the most virulent manifestations of such animosity in Israeli history.
By Yair Sheleg	| Sep. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM

DURBAN - The dramatic walkout by the Israeli and American delegations from the United Nations' World Conference Against Racism in Durban has given this conference the kick in the behind that it has richly deserved. The conference is a crude, embarrassing demonstration of anti-Israel hatred and, in fact, constitutes one of the most virulent manifestations of such animosity in Israeli history. But the walkout cannot conceal the fact that many fumbles were made in the early stages of preparation for the conference.

The most glaring error was the utter failure to take into account that the struggle in Durban had to be conducted on two fronts: The diplomatic battle against anti-Israel wording in the conference resolutions and the public relations battle to win over public opinion - through "street skirmishes" and through the media.

Considering its diminished international stature these days, Israel handled itself admirably on the diplomatic front. It managed to persuade a long list of Western states - including some that have expressed scathing criticism of Israeli policies - that the resolutions proposed by the bloc of Muslim conference delegates go well beyond the parameters of legitimate criticism and actually constitute an attempt to delegitimize Israel's very existence. These states participated in efforts to pressure the Muslim bloc to moderate its position and, ultimately, the most senior of these Western countries, the United States, dramatically pulled out of the conference, although this move has placed the U.S. on a direct collision course with African nations and with its own Afro-American community.

Apparently, those responsible for preparing for Durban completely overlooked the public relations aspect of the conference, as far as the general public is concerned. This failure blatantly expressed itself at several levels. First of all, beyond the diplomatic efforts, a major public relations campaign should have been launched long ago to display to the general public - especially to Western public opinion - the true nature of the WCAR: A gathering in which the Third World wants to settle historical accounts with the West. That was the reason why Third World delegates were prepared to accept (even if angrily) the takeover of conference proceedings by the Palestinians.

The principal blunder was the failure to properly prepare for the street battles in Durban itself. Realizing that this arena was just as important as the diplomatic one, the Palestinians and their supporters arrived in Durban armed with posters, T-shirts and other articles intended to help them establish the mood at the conference. In contrast, the Israeli-Jewish side was represented by a pitifully small WUJS (World Union of Jewish Students) delegation. Like their colleagues in the ultra-Orthodox Neturei Karta community in Jerusalem, the WUJS students proved that a small, but energetic group can arouse a considerable amount of media attention - which only emphasizes the sense of a missed opportunity at Durban.

The responsibility for the failure is not necessarily the Israeli government's. It is unrealistic to expect diplomats and government representatives to conduct public relations street battles. This should primarily have been the job of the Jewish and Israeli organizations that decided to stay out of Durban. The Jewish organizations chose this policy as a matter of principle: They believed that the best course of action with such a gathering is simply to boycott it. It is easy to understand their feelings.

The members of these Jewish organizations belong to the older generation; some of them are Holocaust survivors who have managed to acquire for themselves a prominent, dignified place in American society and who find it unbearable to accept the idea that the Durban conference would return them to Square One - to the role of the persecuted Jew. Nonetheless, despite all the sympathy one may have for their position, there is no justification for the absence of these organizations from the Durban conference.

One cannot always choose the location of the battlefield and, once the decision was made that the WCAR was an important arena for a public relations fight, all the guns should have been brought into action - which means that the representatives of Jewish and Israeli organizations should have been there.

It is even more embarrassing, however, to note the position of Israeli human rights groups. Some of them, like the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, chose to absent themselves from Durban altogether, apparently because they did not want to have to cross swords verbally with their overseas counterparts in an attempt to defend Israel's positions. Other Israeli human rights groups, like Bat Shalom (a feminist peace organization of Israeli women) and Rabbis For Human Rights, actually came to Durban to take part in the anti-Israel bashing, which was even more ferocious in the Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) forum than in the conference of governmental representatives.

The representatives of these Israeli human rights groups did not raise their voice in protest against the extreme resolutions that were adopted by the NGO forum and which were even criticized by Amnesty International. These resolutions called on the international community to isolate Israel, just as the former apartheid regime in South Africa had been ostracized.

Is there not one Israeli humanitarian organization that believes that the anti-Israeli attacks at Durban should have been rejected, even though this same organization is consistently critical of various actions undertaken by Israel?


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Din Rodef applies to terrorists The United States ambassador to Israel, Daniel Kurtzer, has demanded that Israel explain why it killed PFLP leader Mustafa Zibri (Abu Ali Mustafa). We could understand if a non-Jew would question Israel's decision to target a killer with blood on his hands and one who was determined to kill more innocent Jews.
Sep. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Din Rodef applies to terrorists

The United States ambassador to Israel, Daniel Kurtzer, has demanded that Israel explain why it killed PFLP leader Mustafa Zibri (Abu Ali Mustafa). We could understand if a non-Jew would question Israel's decision to target a killer with blood on his hands and one who was determined to kill more innocent Jews.

The new ambassador claims to be an Orthodox Jew. Surely, therefore, he is aware of the Din Rodef, or Law of the Pursuer. The rule was first set forth in the 12th century by Moses Maimonides, the Spanish Jewish scholar who became a towering figure of Talmudic lore. Going beyond the principle of self-defense, it states that even a witness to the act of someone's trying to kill another is allowed to kill the potential assassin.

Our biblical tradition demands, and all civilized peoples recognize the concept, that if someone is intent on killing you, you are to kill him first if there is no other way to prevent the murder.

In this case, Zibri's record is clear. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, of which Zabri was leader, has claimed responsibility for numerous attacks on Israelis in the past year and is responsible for the killing of at least 14 U.S. citizens since its founding in the 1960s. He has perpetrated bestial killings of countless innocent Jews in the past.

Israel has demanded that the PA arrest him and other terrorists with blood on their hands. The requests have been repeatedly ignored. In my opinion, Israel had not only the right, but the duty to kill him. Israel has shown remarkable restraint in the face of unprecedented provocation. Which other country in the world would have held its guns, let alone composure? There was no massive retaliation.

Where is its integrity? How can the State Department gloss over a torrent of Palestinian horror these past 11 months? Why is it unjustly denouncing Israel for carrying what is obviously a measure of self-defense? Why was the State Department silent when so many Jews, eight Americans among them, were deliberately murdered by the Palestinian Authority?

We must all protest the State Department's continuing criticism of Israel's policy of targeted killing of terror leaders. The US should back Israel's efforts against terror in no uncertain terms. There is no room for indecisiveness. Terror, wherever it appears, must be wiped out at its source!

Incidentally, even though Zibri was in a West Bank building that housed American citizens, other than Mr. Zibri, no one was hurt.

Ben Eliahou

Manalapan, NJ

Moslems are the colonists

This week in Durban a cynical world which once enslaved Africans proved that they continue to enslave African minds. Black slavery is still practiced in Mauritania and Saudi Arabia, while Moslem Sudan continues a campaign of genocide, rape and enslavement against its Christian blacks. Press reports from the largest Moslem country, Indonesia, consist almost entirely of anti-Christian pogroms; while Saudi Arabia, the Arab paradigm, brutally represses free practice of Christianity on its territory. Idi Amin, that infamous butcher of Africans, continues to live out his days in Saudi luxury .... but when Saudis, Indonesians and Sudanese gather in Africa, who is excoriated? The Jews.

For several years, it has been a tradition among Arabs and left-wing Jews to compare Israel to South Africa. As it turns out, there is much in common between the two countries, but not for the usual reasons given. Like the black peoples of South African, Jews were the original natives in Palestine. There was a Jewish country named "Israel" 15 centuries before the first Moslem was even born, and Jews continue to constitute the majority in the Land.

The Moslems are merely the latest in a long line of foreign colonialists who have attempted to take over the country. In essence, we Jews are the "blacks" of the Middle East, and the Arabs are a foreign elitist element which strives for rule through apartheid. The Israeli love affair with Africa has flourished for three millennia, from the Queen of Sheba to the mass in-migration of Ethiopia's Jews.

The recent support of Israel for White-ruled South Africa was never a political statement. Just as Mozambique and other African countries conducted business' with the apartheid regime, Israel did so because it was necessary for survival. Israel is the only country in the area which heeds the banner of Nelson Mandela, "One Man - One Vote."

Yasser Arafat advocates a racially-pure state, with vague guarantees that Jews might stay on in minority "bantustans." Is South African support for racist Arab dictators any different from past Israeli support for Pretoria? Is it really based on anything more than oil, money and votes at the United Nations?

Prof. Stephen Berger

Tel Aviv


Home News
South Africa proposes compromise to break Durban impasse
EU wants accord by Wednesday night; new wording kept secret
By Reuters	| Sep. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM
	
DURBAN, South Africa - A U.N. conference on racism sought an accord on Wednesday on a South African-proposed draft text on the Middle East that could break an impasse threatening to derail the meeting.

The conference was plunged into crisis on Monday when the United States and Israel pulled out in protest at language in drafts that branded Israel as racist for its treatment of Palestinians in the occupied territories.

A spokesman for the European Union said late on Tuesday that the new wording "provided an acceptable basis for negotiation" but declined to give further details.

Although it has not openly threatened to follow the U.S. lead and abandon the conference, the EU has made it clear that it also rejects the singling out of Israel for condemnation.

The EU -- backed in its stance by 13 aspiring members, including Turkey -- has said it wants an accord by Wednesday night.

A special drafting group, chaired by South African Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, was set up and talks would continue overnight, spokesman Koen Vervaeke told Reuters.

South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, has long considered the Palestine Liberation Organisation to be a comrade-in-arms while the Israeli government was an ally of Pretoria during the apartheid era.

But South Africa, proud of its victory over white-minority rule seven years ago, has called for tolerance and said it is seeking compromise wording that is acceptable to all.

U.S. HARSHLY CRITICISED

The U.S. pullout triggered a storm of criticism, including harsh words from South Africa and African American activists who accused Washington of seizing on the Middle East to avoid uncomfortable conference themes such as past slavery.

South African Deputy President Jacob Zuma called the U.S. move "unhelpful" and said it had complicated the search for common ground in handling the sensitive Middle East issue.

He fiercely defended the right of Arab states to raise the Palestinian question at the conference. "They (the U.S. cannot say every issue in the world you can touch but this issue."

"The manner in which it was done leaves you feeling uncomfortable. The world has changed -- they can (no longer) just act as if they were masters," he told journalists.

But in Washington, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters on Tuesday the conference was a "lost opportunity" for those concerned about the race issue.

"It's unfortunate that people in this conference brought it to the point where America and Israel had no choice but to leave the conference," he said in a daily briefing.

When asked if the events at the conference were motivated by anti-Semitism, Fleischer said: "I think there's no question that in a conference that should have been dedicated to fighting intolerance, the language that it has chosen to use in describing Israel is laced with intolerance."

Other thorny issues that remain unresolved in Durban include African demands that former slave states make a formal apology for centuries of human trafficking up to the early 19th century that saw millions shipped in chains to the Americas.


Home News
EU to leave racism conference if no compromise reached
The EU has given South Africa until Wednesday night to remove references to Israel as a racist and apartheid state.
By Yair Sheleg	and Nitzan Horowitz, Ha'aretz Correspondents	| Sep. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The European Union has threatened to leave the United Nations Conference against Racism being held in Durban, South Africa, if the wording for a final resolution is not changed.

The EU's fifteen member nations will meet Wednesday night at 11 P.M. (Israel time) to decide on further steps to be taken at the conference.

On Wednesday EU representatives presented to the South African foreign minister, who is serving as conference president, a demand for "meaningful progress" with regard to canceling anti-Semetic wording in the final resolution of the conference. The EU representatives announced that if the Arab countries do not retreat from the proposed wording, the EU states will leave Durban. If that happens, an additional 13 countries who are candidates to join the EU, as well as other states including Canada, Australia and states from Latin America, will probably also leave.

French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin said Wednesday that France and the EU would leave the conference if attempts continued to compare Zionism to racism. "If the link between Zionism and racism is maintained, the issue of our departure - along with the Europeans - will come up immediately," he said.

A French government spokesman said that the decision would probably be made Wednesday night. He stressed that the meaning of an EU departure would be the failure of the conference, along with international repercussions in regard to the United Nations and developing nations.

Although the EU demand has yet to be answered, there has been a "substantial softening" in the position of the Arab League. Kon Parpayka, aide to Foreign Minister Louis Michel of Belgium, the country which currently holds the presidency of the European Union, told Ha'aretz that "we are not speaking about an ultimatum for a particular hour, but we have made clear the need for some progress within a reasonable amount of time."

The EU began work on a compromise proposal for the conference's closing statement one day after delegations from the United States and Israel left Durban. An EU spokesman said Tuesday that the new wording "is a basis for negotiations" but refused to provide details. EU states, with the exception of Turkey, said that they were interested in reaching an agreed formulation by Wednesday evening. The special committee, led by the South African foreign minister, was established in order to continue talks for a compromise statement. But many diplomats currently in South Africa feel that the limited amount of time left is not enough for a compromise to be reached.


Home Print Edition News
Europeans seek new formula in Durban
The European countries in Durban are working feverishly on a new final resolution for the World Conference Against Racism "to try to save the conference," Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel told Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Melchior last night. Belgium currently holds the presidency of the European Union.
By Yair Sheleg	and Nitzan Horowitz	| Sep. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The European countries in Durban are working feverishly on a new final resolution for the World Conference Against Racism "to try to save the conference," Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel told Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Melchior last night. Belgium currently holds the presidency of the European Union.

The conference is due to close tomorrow, and the Europeans are working over a draft prepared by the South Africans, as hosts of the conference, which would satisfy all the parties in order to end the conference in a "reasonable manner" despite the U.S. and Israeli walkout.

Melchior emphasized to Belgian minister Michel that Israel would accept any resolution that did not violate three red lines Israel has drawn:

l No isolation of Israel - Jerusalem will not accept Israel being singled out as the only country specifically mentioned in the resolution

l No partial condemnation - Israel will also not agree to a "a partial condemnation," such as eliminating the reference to Israeli "apartheid" while leaving a Zionism equals racism clause. "We will not accept a compromise built on our backs," said Melchior.

l No to hate language - Israel will not accept a resolution that uses forms of Holocaust denial or other terminology that are euphemisms for anti-Semitism

Louis promised that Belgium would do what it could to observe those red lines and would make every effort to prevent extremist resolutions. But a European source said last night that even if the resolution were substantially softened, Israel was likely to come under fire in one or another form and in language hitherto unprecedented in international forums.

Jerusalem does not expect European countries to leave Durban if their efforts fail.

"We haven't asked them to leave," said a diplomatic source, "but we won't be disappointed if they do." There have been some reports indicating Australia, New Zealand, Latvia and other countries may quit the conference if no compromise resolution is formulated.

Melchior did not seem optimistic last night that the Europeans would succeed in drafting a new resolution in the time remaining before the conference ends.

Meanwhile, UN Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, last night refused to accept the NPO Forum declarations, which had referred to Israel as an apartheid state and called for an international war crimes tribunal to investigate Israeli war crimes in the territories as well as calls for isolating Israel in the international arena.

According to Rabbi Avraham Cooper, of the Simon Wiesenthal Institute, a ceremony at which Robinson was to accept the declarations, thereby turning them into official UN documents was postponed, and, said the rabbi, "Robinson said she was refusing to accept the documents because they were full of hate language against Israel."

U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan called the American and Israeli withdrawals "unfortunate. In these circumstances each country should be at the table to discuss," he said, during a visit to Rwanda. "I would have preferred that the U.S. was there."

Human rights organizations expressed disappointment with the U.S. decision.

Jewish delegations at the conference were pulling out as well, according to Shimon Samuels, an official with the Simon Wiesenthal Center and chair of the Jewish caucus.

The European Union said it had no current plans to leave the conference, but if it did, it would be as a bloc, along with the EU's 13 candidate states.

Canada said it would stay for the time being, but would not accept the current wording of the document. Australia said it was considering all options, according to delegate spokesman Bala Chettur.


Home Print Edition News
Israel, U.S. leave Durban; Peres dubs meet a `farce'
Israel and the United States pulled out of the UN's World Conference Against Racism yesterday, after efforts to soften the anti-Israel language of the conference's draft summary statement failed.
By Dalia Shehori	and Yair Sheleg	| Sep. 4, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Israel and the United States pulled out of the UN's World Conference Against Racism yesterday, after efforts to soften the anti-Israel language of the conference's draft summary statement failed.

"The Durban conference is a farce," Foreign Minister Shimon Peres told reporters in Jerusalem last night, terming the conference's activities an "unbelievable attempt to smear Israel."

"We regret very much the very bizarre show in Durban. An important convention that's supposed to defend human rights became a source of hatred," he said.

Peres blamed the Arab League in particular, saying it had led a concerted effort to single out Israel and blame it in unacceptable terms for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

"The Arab League, all of it, has come out against peace," he said.

In contrast, he lauded the U.S. "I want to thank the United States of America, which took an extremely courageous position in order to make the world look more responsible, more balanced, more truthful. I think the United States has saved the honor of our world, of our time," he said.

He thanked U.S. President George W. Bush and U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell for their "unhesitating leadership," as well as the 43 countries that also "saved the world's honor" by taking "a clear position against this unbelievable attack to smear Israel with false colors." These nations included Russia, the European Union, most of eastern Europe, most of Latin America, India, Japan, Singapore and some African states, he said.

Powell, in a statement released in Durban, also denounced the draft declaration in uncompromising terms. He assailed the attempt to single out "only one country in the world, Israel, for censure and abuse," and said that conferences could not combat racism by drafting declarations with "hateful language" that was a throwback to the days when the United Nations equated Zionism with racism.

"Today I have instructed our representatives at the World Conference Against Racism to return home. I have taken this decision with regret because of the importance of the international fight against racism and the contribution that this conference could have made to it," Powell's statement said. "But following discussions today by our team in Durban and others who are working for a successful conference... I am convinced that it will not be possible."

The draft text termed Israel's treatment of Palestinians "a new apartheid" and a "crime against humanity," stated that the conference "recognized with deep concern the increase of racist practices of Zionism" and said that Zionism is based on racial superiority. Israel was the only country mentioned specifically in the document.

The Israeli-American withdrawal followed days of intensive efforts, led primarily by Norway, to convince Arab and Muslim delegates to remove the anti-Israel statements from the draft resolution and replace them with a general statement calling on all parties in the Middle East to end the violence and return to negotiations and stressing the right of all peoples in the region to self-determination. Though Israel had initially objected to any reference to its conflict with the Palestinians in the document, it had agreed to this compromise.

Yesterday, however, it became clear that the Norwegian effort had no chance of being accepted by the Muslim bloc. "Today we reached the conclusion that the efforts [to remove the offending articles] had been exhausted, so we decided to leave," said Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Melchior, who was in charge of Israel's preparations for the conference.

"From the beginning, we debated over whether to attend the conference at all," he added. "Our decision to participate stemmed from intensive pressure by friendly states, who wanted to try to remove the Arab proposals during the conference itself."

Foreign Ministry sources said the Muslim bloc's rejectionism was spearheaded by Arab League Secretary-General and former Egyptian foreign minister Amr Moussa and current Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher. Though the U.S. did not publicly blame anyone, off the record, American government sources also said that Amr Moussa had been the main troublemaker.

Shimon Samuels, of the Weisenthal Center in Los Angeles, who has been coordinating the lobbying effort by Jewish nongovernmental organizations at the conference, said he heard similar assessments from the black American leader Jesse Jackson, who had also attempted to mediate on the issue. "The Egyptians returned to ground zero regarding the equation of Zionism with racism, the Syrians denied the existence of the Holocaust, and the Iranians objected to any mention of anti-Semitism in the conference resolutions, on the grounds that the conference is dealing with the problems of the present, and anti-Semitism is not a problem nowadays," Samuels said.

But Palestinian UN representative Salman Herfi said the Arab delegations had been very reasonable; it was the U.S. delegation that refused to compromise. "It's sad. It's sad they didn't leave room for dialogue, they didn't leave room for flexibility," he said.

Though Israel has not asked any other states to join the walk-out, Melchior said that Canada, Australia and New Zealand were considering doing so, and if they did, other Western countries might follow. Foreign Ministry sources said that some eastern European countries - Hungary, Romania, Latvia and the Czech Republic - were also considering leaving.

But a British Foreign Office spokesman said the European Union had no plans to withdraw. "This conference is an opportunity to address racism and xenophobia in the world. The problem of the Middle East should not have been imported into the conference," he said.

Other than in Israel, Jerusalem's withdrawal passed largely without comment. But the American withdrawal sparked criticism from several directions. South Africa, the conference host, termed the decision "unfortunate and unnecessary," and UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson, secretary-general of the conference, said she regretted the U.S. decision. Human rights organizations at the conference also condemned the withdrawal, as did Jesse Jackson.

But Tom Lantos, a Democratic U.S. congressman who was a member of the delegation, supported the decision. "A conference that should have been about horrible discrimination around the world has been hijacked by extremist elements for its own purposes," Lantos said. "The conference will stand self-condemned."

Within Israel, there was some disagreement over Jerusalem's decision to withdraw. Opposition leader Yossi Sarid supported the decision, saying the conference had proven to be a premeditated political lynching of Israel, Zionism and Judaism. But former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu criticized the government for "abandoning the arena" and urged it to at least keep a public relations team in Durban. "Imagine what would have happened if then Israeli ambassador to the UN Chaim Herzog had come home instead of tearing the UN resolution equating Zionism with racism to shreds?" Netanyahu said.


Home News
Having failed to sway the U.S., the Palestinians are seeking salvation in Durban
The Palestinians believe that in contrast to the diplomatic level, where they have made few gains since the intifada started, international public opinion favors them. The racism summit has bolstered this feeling, writes Danny Rubinstein.
By Danny Rubinstein	and Ha'aretz Palestinian Affairs Correspondent	| Sep. 4, 2001 | 12:00 AM

After almost a year of ongoing, bloody conflict with Israel, the Palestinians have concluded that Arab leaders have done little for them. Egypt and Jordan have stuck to their respective peace treaties with Israel. No Arab state is threatening war against Israel. The Arab leaders are even refusing to convene another summit. The U.S. is giving Israel broad diplomatic backing, and uses its veto power in the United Nations Security Council to prevent anti-Israel decisions. The U.S. position paralyzes pro-Palestinian activity in other countries around the world.

Against this backdrop, the Palestinians are intensely engaged in the UN World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa. Even now, after Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat's return from the conference, Palestinian politicians and media are still caught up in the gathering. The conference in Durban is almost certainly the Palestinians' greatest diplomatic and public relations victory since the start of the intifada.

Will the events in Durban have practical implications? The Palestinian representatives are certainly hoping they will, especially considering that the 15,000 delegates from different organizations who are at the Durban conference have given full expression to their broad public support for the intifada around the world. "For how long can the U.S. continue to swim against the tide?" wrote the political editor of the Palestinian news agency. In his opinion, senior officials in the Bush administration in Washington will ultimately comprehend the great damage they have sustained as a result of the fact that the government of Israeli PM Ariel Sharon has been using U.S. planes and weapons to murder leaders, to kill women and children, to destroy homes and to turn the Palestinian territories into a wasteland.

The Palestinians' great success is that of all the racial grievances in the world, the representatives present in Durban chose to focus on what is happening in Gaza and the West Bank. Al-Hayat al-Jadida, the mouthpiece of the Palestinian Authority, wrote that Palestinians went to Durban to demand justice because they have not received it in Washington.

The settlements, the Judaization of Jerusalem, the assassinations, the blockade, the bombings, and the collective punishment  all these are war crimes which the Palestinian spokespeople hope the world is increasingly discovering. In recent months, there have been cases like the war crimes accusations against Sharon in Belgium, and the battle against Israel's new ambassador to Denmark, Carmi Gillon. Now the Palestinians have the large and important conference in Durban, which has taken their international campaign against Israel to new heights.

The Palestinian delegation to Durban included Jamal al-Dura, the father of Mohammed, who died in his father's arms at the Netzarim junction at the start of the intifada, as well as relatives of other Palestinians who have been killed in the fighting, as well as representatives of Palestinian human rights groups.

"We have come to South Africa to show the world our tortured body, and the bodies of our children and our heroes  victims of racism and of the occupation," wrote the Palestinian journalist Hafez Barghouti, who directly addressed the Americans and the West, reminding them how blacks from Africa had been brought to the U.S. to work as slaves for the white man. Now, he writes, the white man (America) is leading a mixture of all the races (the new immigrants from the former Soviet Union) to Barghouti's land (Israel), in order to enslave the Palestinians.

He concludes with a declaration: "We are not slaves. We were born free and will remain so, and we will resist all the compromises being offered by the slave traders who are trying to enslave us."

It is worth noting that in the Arab world, generally, the issue of slavery is treated very carefully, because there were many Arabs among the slave traders who shipped the Africans to America.

On the official level, the members of the Arab delegations and the Palestinians in Durban were careful not to revert to the 1975 Zionism-is-racism equation in the UN. Arab representatives, like Egypt's Faiza Abu-Naja, explained that meetings were held among the representatives of the Arab states, where it was agreed that the efforts should be aimed at focusing world opinion on what the Israelis were doing to the Palestinians in the territories, and not to get embroiled in defining Zionism.

Nevertheless, on the informal level, almost everyone was speaking about Zionism and racism, or about Zionism and apartheid. This is the clear impression one gets from the Palestinian media. This weekend Palestinian papers carried numerous pictures of marches and meetings in Durban in which placards condemning Zionism and racism were ubiquitous. The Al-Quds newspaper carried a picture of an ultra-Orthodox rabbi carrying a placard with the words, "End of Zionism = Peace." Another publication had a picture of a Jew carrying a placard with the words: "Israel does not represent Jews of the world."

For years now, the Arab world has used the term "Zionism" as a curse with almost monstrous overtones in order to define the arrogant and condescending Jewish movement, which is trying to decimate the Palestinians. Since the start of the intifada, many Arab and Palestinian spokespeople have ceased calling Israel by its name and have reverted to using the term "the Zionist entity." This can be seen as something of a return to the questioning of the very legitimacy of the state of Israel, which is, once again, on the world agenda against the backdrop of the present tough times.


Home News
Peres, the one-man peace process, seeks Arafat truce as comrades vie for his old job
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres rejected opposition to planned truce talks, and argued Monday that Israel had scored diplomatic victories amid scathing criticism at the UN conference against racism in South Africa.
By Bradley Burston	and Ha'aretz Correspondent	| Sep. 3, 2001 | 12:00 AM

As Labor party doves and hawks squared off on the eve of a primary to choose a successor to fallen party chief Ehud Barak, Shimon Peres, another former prime minister, took the limelight Monday, defending a plan to meet Yasser Arafat for truce talks, and arguing that Israel had scored unprecedented diplomatic victories amid tides of criticism at a closely-watched UN conference on racism.

Virtually a one-man peace process after nearly a year of bloodshed, Foreign Minister Peres said Monday he might meet the Palestinian leader at an annual gathering of European industrialists near Milan at week's end, in hopes of forging a cease-fire.

Peres's activism in maintaining communication with the Palestinians while stage-managing Israel's responses to Arab denunciations at the UN conference in Durban, South Africa, overshadowed the Tuesday contest between hawkish Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer and dovish Knesset Speaker Avraham Burg.

"I was invited, and Arafat was also invited," Peres told Army Radio of the three-day European business convention. "So it could be that we will meet there, not because of our having chosen this place, but because of the instance of this event. Asked if a cease-fire would emerge from the current contacts with Arafat, Peres replied, "That is my hope."

Under fire by rightists for meeting Arafat, Peres was pressed to explain why Arafat would agree now to a cessation of violence. "I believe that he himself needs this," Peres said. "The intifada has not yielded much in the way of benefit, at the same time, to my sorrow, it has yielded increasing numbers of victims, as well as causing exceptional hardships, and where is it leading? Terror is not only difficult for us, it's hard for the Palestinians as well."

Peres and Arafat last week held telephone discussions that gave rise to a deal under which Israel ended a two-day incursion into the Palestinian town of Beit Jala in return for a pledge by Arafat to curb shooting from Beit Jala on the adjacent Jerusalem Jewish neighborhood of Gilo.

Gilo, a frequent target of Palestinian gunners and built on land captured in the 1967 Six-Day War, returned to the headlines as the site of one of four Jerusalem bombs that exploded Monday morning in apparent retaliation for Israel's killing last week of the leader of the radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine wing of Arafat's Palestine Liberation Organization. Five Israelis were lightly wounded in the blasts.

Peres said there was agreement with the Palestinians on holding a meeting with Arafat, but the sides had not yet decided on where or when it might take place.

Turning to the Durban conference, Peres said that Israel had notched estimable diplomatic achievements despite an atmosphere that one Israeli commentator called "catastrophically anti-Israel, as conference delegates denounced alleged Israeli war-crimes and genocide, and a parallel gathering of non-governmental organizations branded Israel a "racist Apartheid state".

"This is the first time that the opposition to the Arab proposal includes not only the United States but also the 15 EU nations, which adopted a formal decision to oppose, all the Eastern European nations, which in the past would generally vote with the Arab side; Canada, Russia, the Latin American states ... India, Japan and Singapore."

Peres said the Arab actions at the conference were "disgusting" and "horrible", but indicated that a decision on whether to bolt the meeting would depend on U.S. actions.

Ha'aretz political correspondent Yossi Verter said that regardless of the outcome of the close Tuesday Labor primary contest between Ben-Eliezer and Burg, non-candidate Peres - the serial loser of Israeli electoral politics - had already emerged a victor.

Verter noted that in a policy reversal, Ben-Eliezer had declared support for a plan to create a position of Labor party presidency specifically for Peres. Burg has long voiced support for the plan, which would preserve a measure of honor and influence for Peres while clearing the field of party leadership for younger men.

"The Labor primaries are tomorrow," Verter writes in Monday's paper, "and Peres has already won."


Home News
Israel, U.S. leave UN conference; Annan: 'unfortunate' decision
Peres: Withdrawal due to "unilateral and ugly proposal by the Arab and Muslim leagues"; Powell: You do not combat racism with hateful language.
By Aluf Benn,	Yair Sheleg	and Ha', agencies	| Sep. 3, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Israel and the United States announced Monday night that they were withdrawing from the United Nations World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa, after attempts to reach a compromise on the conference's draft declaration ended in failure.

Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, speaking at a press conference Monday night, announced that Israel had decided to withdraw following a "unilateral and ugly proposal by the Arab and Muslim leagues that are united against peace and for the Intifada against Israel."

"We have instructed our delegation in Durban to come back home. We regret very much the very bizarre show in Durban. An important convention that is supposed to defend human rights became a source of hatred," said Peres.

The foreign minister said that Israel had been unfairly labeled as a colonialist nation by members of the conference.

U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell released a statement Monday calling for the withdrawal of the American delegation.

"Today I have instructed our representatives at the World Conference Against Racism to return home. I have taken this decision with regret, because of the importance of the international fight against racism and the contribution that the Conference could have made to it," the statement said.

"But, following discussions today by our team in Durban and others who are working for a successful conference, I am convinced that will not be possible.

"I know that you do not combat racism by conferences that produce declarations containing hateful language, some of which is a throwback to the days of 'Zionism equals racism'; or supports the idea that we have made too much of the Holocaust; or suggests that apartheid exists in Israel; or that singles out only one country in the world, Israel, for censure and abuse," the statement concluded.

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Monday that he regretted the American decision to withdraw from the conference.

"I think it is unfortunate, I consider it regrettable because I would like to see them there," Annan told a news conference in the Rwandan capital Kigali.

A Palestinian representative at the conference said the Arab delegations had been very reasonable, but the U.S. delegation had refused to compromise. "It's sad," he said. "It's sad they didn't leave room for dialogue, they didn't leave room for flexibility."

The representative accused the United States of pulling out because of its own refusal to face up to responsibility for slavery and the injustices done to Native Americans.

"Their withdrawal will not affect the success of the conference. The conference will succeed," he said.

"It seems that despite extraordinary efforts by the American government reaching back many months, it will prove impossible for the American delegation to continue participating at this conference," said Congressman Tom Lantos, a member of the American delegation.

"Those who have made it their goal to hijack the conference for their propaganda purposes apparently have shown in the course of the day a degree of rigidity and unwillingness to compromise," the Democratic Party lawmaker told reporters.

Israel hit back earlier Monday at its Arab critics at the conference, accusing them of encouraging racial hatred and seeking to hijack the United Nations meeting for political ends.

The head of the Israeli delegation, Foreign Ministry director-general Mordechai Yedid, said that references to Israel in draft texts were "the most racist declaration in a major international organization since the Second World War."

Yedid had particularly harsh words for Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat, who had told the conference on the opening day that Israeli actions in the Palestinian territories amounted to "ethnic cleansing." He said that Arafat had delivered a message of hate.

As compromise efforts mounted in an effort to head off a U.S.-Israeli walkout from the conference, Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa said Monday that only a balanced declaration on the Middle East, acceptable to everybody, will be taken seriously at the meeting.

Peres, meanwhile, said it would be preferable if the U.S. led the way in a walkout. "We will not do anything before the United States, to avoid the impression that the United States is serving Israel," Peres told Israel Radio. "Its voice carries more weight. So we have decided to be second voice, not first voice."

Peres said Monday that Israel had scored unprecedented successes in the stormy summit, where Zionism has been a frequent target of speakers and protesters.

"All 15 nations of the European Union agreed to oppose the Arab proposal - this has never once happened," Peres told Israel Radio. "All the nations of Eastern Europe, who in generally were tied to the association of non-aligned nations, agreed to oppose the Arab proposal. The United States led the campaign of opposition."

"It was the first time that India, a country of 1.1 billion people, did not support the proposal of the non-aligned bloc. Russia also did not join [with the non-aligned bloc], neither did the nations of Latin America. Japan was very active against the proposal."

Peres said none of the countries he listed had related with any degree of seriousness to the conference, which he said was "an embarrassing, one-sided show."


Home Print Edition Opinion
Good intentions turned sour
UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan is largely responsible for the resounding failure of the World Conference Against Racism currently underway in South Africa. In the months of preparation leading up to the conference, Annan, along with UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson, allowed a determined group of Muslim countries to set a very twisted agenda and formulate a stilted final draft resolution.
Sep. 3, 2001 | 12:00 AM

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan is largely responsible for the resounding failure of the World Conference Against Racism currently underway in South Africa. In the months of preparation leading up to the conference, Annan, along with UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson, allowed a determined group of Muslim countries to set a very twisted agenda and formulate a stilted final draft resolution.

Numerous countries in Africa, Asia and even Europe agreed with enthusiasm or indifference to the destruction of the stated goal of the conference, originally intended to advance tolerance among peoples. It was a sorely missed opportunity and the damage will be felt for a long time to come.

Annan's opening speech on Friday fell into the same trap as the rest of the conference. Annan termed the Holocaust the "ultimate abomination", but then linked this, most infuriatingly, with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. "We cannot expect Palestinians to accept this as a reason why the wrongs done to them - displacement, occupation, blockade and now extra-judicial killings - should be ignored, whatever label one uses to describe them."

These statements by Annan obscure the contribution of the Palestinians to the continuing slaughter and grant a license to the continuation of murderous acts of terror against Israelis.

When the head of the United Nations seems to draw something of a parallel between the Holocaust and the Middle East conflict in this manner, it is hardly surprising to see Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat exploit this supportive stage to launch a sharp attack that, in fact, negates the legitimacy of the State of Israel.

Arafat described Israel's actions as a "colonial, racist plot" intended to secure control over holy Christian and Muslim sites. He did not refrain from repeating absurd allegations, such as Israel's supposed "use of uranium," to support his accusations.

Israeli and U.S. representatives, along with some from Europe, made a few pathetic attempts to moderate the proposed anti-Israel resolutions that were submitted at the conference. Meanwhile, as expected, the human rights forum of non-governmental organizations that convened in Durban alongside the World Conference Against Racism made its dismal contribution to hatred and intolerance with an extreme declaration that branded Israel a "racist apartheid state" and called for the establishment of a UN commission to prosecute war crimes allegedly being committed by Israelis.

In this heated atmosphere, and at a time in which the streets of Durban have been taken over by anti-Israeli demonstrators, it is difficult to imagine that the decisions of the UN conference will be implemented in any substantial way.

The Palestinians and their supporters have succeeded in finding a forum in which to isolate and lash out at Israel, but it is clear that their success does not advance the chances of dialogue and discussion on ending the conflict.

Israel must muster all its strength to fight against the attempts to turn the state into a pariah and to raise doubts about its legitimate right to exist. Israel must show every honest person in the world that this conference, which was intended to fight against racism, has turned into a stage for rabid, uninhibited, unwavering anti-Semitism, just like in the dark days of the past.


Home Print Edition News
Decision due today on Durban pull-out
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres will decide this morning on whether to withdraw the Israeli delegation from the World Conference Against Racism in Durban, after thousands of nongovernment organizations attending a parallel conference in Durban adopted a harshly anti-Israel summary statement yesterday.
By Aluf Benn	and Yair Sheleg	| Sep. 3, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres will decide this morning on whether to withdraw the Israeli delegation from the World Conference Against Racism in Durban, after thousands of nongovernment organizations attending a parallel conference in Durban adopted a harshly anti-Israel summary statement yesterday.

The NGO resolution called Israel "a racist apartheid state" and accused it of "systematic perpetration of racist crimes, including war crimes, acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing." In addition, pro-Palestinian delegates at the forum managed to remove a passage from the draft text that condemned the firebombing of synagogues and armed assaults against Jews.

This resolution "is an outburst of hate, of anti-Semitism, anti-Zionism, without any consideration," Peres told reporters in Tel Aviv.

Sharon and Peres are to deliver their decision on whether the Israeli delegation should leave at 11 A.M. today. The decision will be determined by whether a compromise formula that would remove anti-Israeli clauses from the conference's summary statement seems to have any chance of being adopted.

The compromise formula was proposed by a group of European states, headed by Norway, plus Canada. It would erase the harshest anti-Israel statements in the draft resolution - such as those that accuse Israel of carrying out a form of "apartheid" and of committing "crimes against humanity" - but would retain a reference to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This reference, however, would merely call on all sides to stop the violence and return to peace negotiations.

U.S. Congressman Tom Lantos, one of the U.S. representatives in Durban, said the wording of the Norwegian proposal is acceptable to Washington.

Peres spoke in favor of withdrawing the delegation yesterday, but government sources said that it is the Americans' stance that will determine Israel's moves. Israel is coordinating closely with the U.S., the sources noted.

Israel is also trying to coordinate with other Western states in order to arrange a joint walk-out should the Norwegian initiative fail. A Foreign Ministry source said that in addition to the U.S., Canada, Germany and Austria are considering joining the walk-out. Canada, like the U.S., sent only a low-level delegation to the conference to protest the anti-Israel resolutions.

Even if Israel does not leave tomorrow, however, the delegation could still walk out at a later date if the Norwegian initiative falls through. The conference is slated to end on Friday.

The resolution adopted by the NGO Forum yesterday left others besides Israel unhappy. Mary Robinson, the UN human rights chief who is hosting the WCAR, said she personally opposed the declaration, but could not stop the forum from adopting it. U.S. officials also said they were "deeply unhappy" about the harsh anti-Israeli language used by the NGOs.

Jewish NGOs walked out of the session in protest shortly before more than 40 NGO caucus groups passed the declaration in the early hours of Sunday. There were 3,744 accredited NGOs at the conference.

Resolutions at NGO forums have no binding authority, but they have increasingly influenced the final declarations adopted at the UN governmental meetings they precede.

No shofar

The head of the Israeli delegation to the WCAR, Deputy Foreign Ministry Director-General Mordechai Yadid, is slated to address the conference today. Deputy Foreign Minister Melchior, who was supposed to have headed the delegation, had planned a dramatic speech at which he would sound the shofar and connect the symbolic blast of the ram's horn - a key feature of the High Holy Days synagogue service - to Judaism's universal values. Yadid will deliver the speech Melchior wrote, but minus the shofar-blowing.

The speech opens with the traditional Jewish explanation for why God initially created only one man and one woman - to show that all people are brothers and sisters. It then tries to show that it was Judaism who gave the world the ideas of equality and respect for all mankind, after which it discusses the long history of anti-Semitism.

It concludes with a bitter denunciation of the conference, whose "blind hatred for Jews" has betrayed the millions of victims of racism who had hoped the conference would offer them succor, "turning their hopes into a farce."

Israel will also run a public relations campaign accusing the Arab states of "engaging in discrimination and terror" in their attacks on Israel, after Israel "proposed returning all of the territories to the Palestinians." The campaign was devised at a meeting convened by Peres yesterday.

Melchior, who handled Israel's preparations for the WCAR, yesterday rejected the criticism of his efforts that has been heard from both ends of the political spectrum - specifically, from former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former justice minister Yossi Beilin. Melchior argued that Israel's close coordination with the U.S. and the fact that only Muslim nations are supporting the anti-Israel resolutions bear witness to his efforts' success.

Victims attend

Meanwhile, three victims of Palestinian terror plan to try to address conference delegates tomorrow through a press conference sponsored by Jewish organizations attending the WCAR. They are Rabbi Philippe Hadad, whose Paris synagogue was torched at the beginning of the Intifada last October, Ruth Gillis, whose husband Dr. Shmuel Gillis was murdered in a drive-by shooting om his way home to Karmei Tzur from Jerusalem's Hadassah Hospital, and Rabbi Seth Mandell, whose teenage son Kobi was stoned to death by Palestinians while on a hike near his home in Tekoa.

Shimon Samuels of the Weisenthal Center in Los Angeles said the Jewish groups organized the press conference after Gillis was denied the right to speak at the conference itself - despite the fact that other victims of racism were allowed to speak. Samuels said that WCAR organizers have given a number of reasons for refusing to let Gillis speak, of which the latest was that anti-Semitism is "an Eastern European problem."

.
Home News
UN Conference Against Racism in South Africa
Sep. 3, 2001 | 12:00 AM

It was meant to mark the victory over Apartheid in South Africa and affirm an international consensus in the battle against racism. But the United Nations Conference Against Racism in South Africa, attended by representatives from 150 nations, has been enveloped by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with the Arab countries and the Palestinians turning it into a forum for an all-out assault on Israel.

Despite assurances by UN Human Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson that the Zionism-is-racism equation would not be on the agenda, both the United States and Israel sent only low-level delegations to the conference, in protest over the anti-Israel atmosphere which already preceded the summit opening, on August 31 in the port city of Durban.

At the conference, Israel has been accused of everything from being a "racist Apartheid state," to ethnic cleansing, war crimes and even genocide. In his address, Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat called Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip "a racist colonialist plot; a plot of aggression, of uprooting, of taking over the land and taking over all that his holy, especially places that are holy to Muslims and Christians, in Bethelehem, among other places."

For the Palestinians, Durban has essentially been home turf: they have enjoyed the strident backing of the Muslim states, as well as the large Muslim community in South Africa, and the sympathy many Black South Africans have for the Palestinian cause. "Zionism is Apartheid" placards have been evident at almost all of the protests surrounding the conference, and some of the old battle cries of the anti-Apartheid movement in South Africa have been adopted at pro-Palestinian demonstrations.

In Israel, part of the debate has focused on whether the government should have dispatched a high-level delegation to confront the anti-Israel barrage head-on - a view held by deputy foreign minister Michael Melchior.

Others have suggested that the battle was lost before it even started - especially the battle for the street. "I think the present intifada has spread into the international street in a big way this time," said Alon Liel, who served as Israel's ambassador to South Africa in the 1990s. "And the street has become stronger and stronger in the diplomatic battle against governments."


Home Print Edition News
Israel weighs quitting Durban
Arafat decries `racist policy,' but doesn't call Israel `racist state'
By Yair Sheleg	and Ori Nir	| Sep. 2, 2001 | 12:00 AM

DURBAN - What threatened weeks ago to become a contentious conference on racism indeed turned into one, when delegates from all over the world met in this coastal South African city this weekend. Among the stumbling blocks were the focus on Israel and what have been termed by the Arab and Muslim organizations and states as "racist policies," and also the debate among African states, particularly in western Africa, on whether or not to demand reparations for centuries of slavery.

The Israeli delegation to the UN-sponsored World Conference against Racism (WCAR) is considering its withdrawal to protest what appears to be a refusal to remove sharply anti-Israeli formulations of a joint communique summing up the meeting, according to the chief Israeli delegate, Mordechai Yadid, the Foreign Ministry's deputy director for international organizations.

Israeli diplomatic efforts are centering on convincing other Western countries, such as the U.S., Canada and European Union countries, also to withdraw their delegations in support of Israel.

In parallel, efforts are continuing to gain the cancellation of the anti-Israeli proposals, arguing that the forum against racism is not appropriate for a debate on a political confrontation, which is what the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is being termed by the Israeli and American delegates.

In a dramatic move yesterday, representatives of Jewish organizations at the conference withdrew from talks for the formulation of an outline for a joint communique by non-governmental organizations. The walk-out occurred after other participants voted to remove an article proposed by the Jewish representatives.

The pullout of the Jewish representatives leaves the ground open for Arab organizations who are seeking to include an article which delineates the difference between Judaism as a religion and Zionism as a racist ideology.

Palestinian Authority chairman Yasser Arafat condemned yesterday what he called Israel's racist practices but declined to label Israel a racist state, a decision which Reverend Jesse Jackson described as a compromise in how Palestinians would choose to condemn Israel at the conference.

However, Arafat made a harsh speech to the "Round Table" of the 16 heads of state who arrived at Durban, describing Israel's occupation of the territories as "a racist colonialist plot; a plot of aggression, of uprooting, of taking over the land and taking over all that is holy, especially places that are holy to Muslims and Christians, in Bethlehem and in Hebron, among other places."

In what has become by now a fairly regular diatribe against Israel, Arafat blamed Israel of repeatedly "violating [the UN] charter, international human rights and human law." He also described the occupation of the territories as "a new and advanced type of apartheid."

Arafat also uttered accusations which have become commonplace in the mythology of the current Intifada, particularly the Israeli use of "illegal weapons, including uranium."

Arab foreign ministers met yesterday morning to coordinate their position on the final declaration. Amr Moussa, Secretary-General of the Arab League, said the section condemning Israel's treatment of the Palestinians and the recognition of the Holocaust were both open to negotiation.

The U.S. government, which has called parts of a draft declaration anti-Semitic, said American diplomats would leave the eight-day UN summit if the provisions condemning Israel were not removed.

UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said "delegates working on the documents were making serious efforts to find compromise language," he said. "I sense a mood and a willingness among the delegations to be flexible."

Nelson Mandela called on all those present "to seize the chance to end the contagion of discrimination."


Home News
UN Conference Against Racism in Durban
Sep. 2, 2001 | 12:00 AM

It was meant to mark the victory over Apartheid in South Africa and affirm an international consensus in the battle against racism. But the United Nations Conference Against Racism in South Africa, attended by representatives from 150 nations, has been enveloped by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with the Arab countries and the Palestinians turning it into a forum for an all-out assault on Israel.

Click here for more

THE CONFERENCE IN PICTURES

Background

EU threatens to bolt Durban- 06/09/01

Europeans seek new formula in Durban- 05/09/01

Israel, U.S. leave Durban; Peres dubs meet a `farce'- 04/09/01

Flowers for the enemy win pictures for the world - 03/09/01

Israel weighs quitting Durban - 02/09/01

NGOs call for probe into Israeli war crimes - 02/09/01

U.S. slams closing statement at conference as anti-Semitic - 31/08/01

Israeli diplomats row over UN racism forum -29/08/01

U.S. to send low-level team to Durban - 28/08/01

Israel holds off on racism parley - 27/08/01

NGO to protest Israel's treatment of foreign workers at Durban conference - 27/08/01

Analysis and features

Time for a little proportion / Meron Benvenisti - 06/09/01

Islam coopts the Jewish Satan / Eliahu Salpeter- 06/09/01

A public relations failure at Durban / Yair Sheleg - 05/09/01

In any case, much, much worse / Gideon Samet - 05/09/01

All too happy to ignore Africa's 'double holocaust' / Nitzan Horowitz - 02/09/01

The turn of the screw / Doron Rosenblum - 02/09/01

A stain on the UN / Editorial - 28/08/01

Human rights hit the headlines / Yair Sheleg - 24/08/01

Back to malicious formulations / Editorial  06/08/01

Home News Israel
NGOs call for probe into Israeli war crimes
By Yair Sheleg	| Sep. 2, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The forum of non-governmental organizations that met in Durban, South Africa, alongside the United Nations World Conference Against Racism called yesterday for the following steps against Israel:

l The establishment of an international court to investigate war crimes committed by Israel in the territories and to indict anyone allegedly responsible for genocide, ethnic cleansing or the implementation of apartheid-like policy.

l The isolation of Israel by the international community, in a manner similar to the way in which the apartheid regime in South Africa was punished via the imposition of economic sanctions and other measures.

l The revival of the previous UN resolution equating Zionism and racism.

The legal adviser to the foreign minister, Alan Baker, a member of Israel's delegation to Durban, said last night that the forum's resolutions were "very grave," yet lacked any legal or diplomatic substance. Baker conceded that the Durban conference's attacks on Israel would have educational-public relations consequences and would aggravate incitement against Israel.


Home News
Israel still under the cosh in Durban, but could it have been any different?
As Israel was pilloried again Sunday at the UN Conference on Racism, the focus at home was on the source of the stridently anti-Israel atmosphere in Durban, and whether the government could have done anything to ameliorate it.
By Peter Hirschberg, Ha'aretz Correspondent	Sep. 2, 2001 | 12:00 AM

As Israel was pilloried yet again Sunday at the UN Conference Against Racism in South Africa, and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said the Israeli delegation was "seriously" thinking of withdrawing, the focus in Israel was on the source of the stridently anti-Israel atmosphere in Durban and whether the government could have done anything to ameliorate it.

Thousands of non-government organizations (NGOs), which met on the margins of the summit, accused Israel on Sunday of being a "racist apartheid state," and of "systematic perpetration of racist crimes including war crimes, acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing." A member of the Palestinian delegation said these declarations should be included in the concluding statement of the summit itself.

"If this (NGO statement) is a sign of what's going to be at the conference, then it's not a good sign at all," said Tova Herzl, Israel's ambassador to South Africa.

Alon Liel, who served in the 1990s as ambassador in South Africa, said the NGO statement was the harshest Israel had encountered since the UN's 1975 Zionism-is-racism declaration, although he said he did not expect that equation to be reinstated.

Both Israel and the U.S. sent only low-level delegations to Durban after it became clear that the conference would become an Israel-bashing forum. Meretz MK Ran Cohen, who is in Durban, said Sunday that it was not just a case of the statements at the conference being unbalanced, but that they "almost completely ignore Israel's moral right to exist."

But Cohen said that Israel had to bear some of the responsibility for the source of the virulently anti-Israel feeling  its occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. "We have got ourselves into an impossible situation, where after 34 years, we are still ruling over another nation, and determining their fate," he said.

But Cohen added that the main reason why the summit had turned into an anti-Israel diatribe, was the extremist line adopted by the Arab states and the Palestinians. "All the time they are devising formulations and positions that are more and more radical," he told Army Radio.

Considering the strident backing of Third World countries, South Africa's large Muslim community, and the sympathy many black South Africans have for the Palestinian cause, the Palestinians have essentially been operating on home turf. "Zionism is apartheid" placards are evident at almost all of the protests surrounding the conference, and some of the old battle cries of the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa have been adopted at pro-Palestinian demonstrations.

Deputy foreign minister, Michael Melchior, expressed the view last week that Israel should dispatch a high-level delegation to Durban and confront the anti-Israel forces there head-on. But, considering the environment there, it's unclear whether even the slickest of Israel's PR exponents could have done anything to stem the tide.

Even the presence of Shimon Peres, said Alon Liel, who served last year as foreign ministry director-general, could not have sweetened the atmosphere for Israel. The "battle for the street," he said, was "lost even before it started. I think the present intifada has spread into the international street in a big way this time. And the street has become stronger and stronger in the diplomatic battle against governments. We see this in other spheres, like the battle against globalization."

At best, said Liel, interviewed on Israel Radio, Israel might be able to score a "conciliation goal," if it manages to block two or three of the more extreme statements at the conference. Liel, however, counselled against pulling out of the conference: "I think the decision to send a low-level delegation was correct, and maybe will still enable a moderating of the statements."

Ultimately, Liel said, the only way to have changed the atmosphere at the conference was for the government to have taken a series of decisions - which he said the present government simply could not have taken - like "dismantling 30 settlements on the eve of Durban, or renewing the policy of restraint."





Home Jewish World Jewish World News
A kashrut inspector with a bodyguard and bulletproof vehicle
A new authority in the rabbinate smacks of discrimination, say Arab owners of two canneries.
By Aryeh Dayan	Nov. 28, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Pri Zur is the name of a small canning factory that employs no more than 30 workers. Established over thirty years ago, the company produces most types of canned goods at a modest volume of about 3,500 tons a year. There are only few machines, most of them outdated, a large warehouse and small, decrepit office building.

Shimorei Hamerkaz is another canning operation, larger and more modern and not far from Pri Zur. Its machines are state-of-the-art and its offices are squeaky clean. It has twice as many employees as Pri Zur and its annual production is three times larger, with a wider range of products. Even so, both Shimorei Hamerkaz and Pri Zur are relatively small family businesses struggling to cope with the economic difficulties that have plagued such industrial efforts in recent years.

Aside from country's troubled economy, these two factories face another obstacle: Both are Arab-owned. The Shimorei Hamerkaz factory is located in one of the neighborhoods of Baka al-Garbiyeh. Pri Zur stands several kilometers to the south, in the industrial zone of Zemer, a regional council of several small Arab villages. Though both of the factories are within Israel's sovereign borders and their owners are Israeli citizens, the Chief Rabbinate's kashrut inspectors treat them as if they were hostile entities operating in a combat zone. (And without these inspectors, the factories cannot market their products via the large supermarket chains in Israel.)

Since the outbreak of the intifada, the rabbinate has demanded that these factories finance expensive security arrangements for its inspectors. (No Jewish companies have been asked to do anything of the sort, even those located in settlements in the territories.) When the Arab factory owners hesitate in complying with their demands, or attempt to negotiate, the inspectors suspend their work. When they suspend their activity, it brings the entire production line to a halt because the firms would risk losing their kashrut license if they continued to produce without rabbinic supervision.

In a letter sent to Industry and Trade Minister Dalia Itzik several months ago, the general manager of Shimorei Hamerkaz, Afif Zebad, complained that the rabbinate's demands "double the cost of the kashrut certificate and are liable to lead to the complete collapse of the factory."

Since the letter was written, the rabbinate has added more demands that further increase the cost of their certification. "It is not a matter of kashrut or security,"contends Masoud Daqa, the owner of Pri Zur. "Our troubles started three years ago, when the Chief Rabbinate suddenly decided to transfer the dealings with our factories to rabbis from the settlements. Since then, the inspectors have continually abused us. They are abusing us only because we are Arabs. There is no other explanation for their demands."

A rabbinate for Arab companies

In the distant past, when they received their kashrut certificates from the religious council of Afula and later from the religious council of Givat Ada, the companies' relations with the inspectors were completely in order. Things began to go downhill three years ago when the kashrut supervision for Arab firms was transferred from adjacent religious councils to a new "Rabbinate for National Kashrut." Rabbi Eliyahu Maimon, a department director at the Chief Rabbinate, denies that this new entity was especially established to deal with Arab businesses. Rather, he argues, it was established "to solve the problem of all of the factories located in communities where there is no religious council." The previous arrangement, he adds, posed several problems from the perspective of strict observance of Jewish law (halakha).

The new arrangement may have solved problems of halakha, but also created new problems. The formation of the new body, whose jurisdiction primarily comprises Arab factories, was perceived by these business owners as an attempt to establish a "rabbinate for the Arabs," or as the manager of one of these factories said, "an additional step toward turning Israel into an apartheid state."

Daqa notes: "There are also no religious councils in kibbutzim, but they remained under the supervision of the local religious councils."

Rabbi Maimon responds: "Most of the kibbutzim belong to regional councils that extend religious services."

The concerns of the Arab factory owners were reinforced when they learned that the offices of the new kashrut authority were located in the Yitzhar settlement, a bastion of the Kach movement and of other followers of the late Rabbi Meir Kahane. Moshe Salomon, a resident of Yitzhar, was appointed to head the new body. Its financial management was assigned to the treasurer of the religious council attached to the Samaria regional council, which includes settlements located between Tul Karm and Nablus. The task of supervising kashrut at Pri Zur and Shimorei Hamerkaz was given to an inspector who lives in Immanuel. Later this job was passed on to another inspector, who lives in the Shaked settlement.

Relations between the kashrut authority and Arab factory owners quickly soured. "One of the first things that Moshe Salomon did was to demand a key to the room containing the factory's steam vat," Daqa says. "I asked him why he needs a key and he replied, without any embarrassment, that he doesn't believe Arabs and wants to be able to enter the factory even when it is closed to check what we have done." Salomon confirms that this is true. Unlike the accepted procedure with Jewish firms, the Arab business owners were asked to provide post-dated checks in advance. The checks continued to be cashed, even when the inspectors stopped coming.

The disdainful attitude of the kashrut authority toward the Arab factories turned to outright hostility when the intifada erupted. Daqa and Zebad immediately received notification, by fax, that inspection services were suspended.

"Jews cannot enter the Arab sector," Salomon announced, "and therefore you must close the factories." Ten days passed before the inspectors returned and enable the factories to resume operations. However, according to Daqa, "two weeks later, a rock was thrown at the inspector's car as he was traveling from his home in Immanuel toward our area. Despite the fact that the rock was thrown in the territories, by the Qalqilyah junction, they immediately stopped working with us."

As a condition for resuming the kashrut inspections, the factory owners were requested to finance windshield protection on the inspectors' cars, install location devices and supply emergency Mirs alarm systems for the inspectors. These demands amounted to a cost of about NIS 8,000. After several days of discussion (during which the factories were idle, of course) the owners gave in to these demands.

Relative quiet was maintained, more or less, until July 2. At three o'clock in the afternoon on this day, the kashrut inspector Aharon Abdian finished his work at Pri Zur and headed home to Immanuel. On the way, he stopped at Baka a-Sharqiyeh, across the Green Line, to do some shopping and was murdered by a gunman near the vegetable stand. "The first thing," Daqa recalls, "the rabbinate in Yitzhar informed us that they are in mourning and are halting their supervision until the end of the seven-day mourning period (shiva). They forced us, of course, to close the factories until the end of the shiva, despite their awareness that our factories depend on seasonal work and that July is the most important month in the year for us."

At the end of the shiva, the rabbinate presented a new demand: The factories must finance bodyguards to accompany the inspectors. "We found a security firm that wasn't too expensive, but they rejected it," Daqa says. "They demanded that the guards be under the age of 35 and veterans of elite army units." Daqa and his fellow Arab businessmen were eventually forced to hire the services of the company recommended by the rabbinate - "Shmira Kihalakha, Ltd." from Bnei Brak. They pay NIS 40 an hour for this security service; the official price for an hour of kashrut supervision according to the Ministry of Religious Affairs - NIS 37.

Before complying with the demand of the rabbinate for bodyguards, the Arab factory owners requested the assistance of the trade and industry minister. Minister Itzik reviewed the case and passed it on to her deputy, MK Eli Ben-Menahem, who sent a letter to Religious Affairs Minister Asher Ohana. The deputy minister received a reply from Rabbi Ya'akov Sabag, the head of the Kashrut Division at the Chief Rabbinate, who gave full support for the demands of the inspectors.

Directives from the security forces

The last straw, so far, which threatens to also break the backs of the factories, came last month. An Israel Defense Forces soldier was murdered on October 28 while sitting in his car near Kibbutz Matzar, just a few kilometers north of Baka al-Garbiyeh. The fax from Moshe Salomon was quick to follow. "In light of the growing number of hostile attacks on the roads leading to the factory," he wrote to the managers of the two factories, "and especially after the attack at Matzar Junction this morning, on the route the inspector travels several times a day, we've consulted with the chief rabbis. In this consultation, we recommended to the rabbis that until the security situation improves, the factories in high-risk areas should be responsible for transporting the inspectors in bullet-proof vehicles, as is customary for other service providers in the area. The rabbis accepted our recommendation and we ask that you make sure to provide transportation for the inspectors in armored vehicles as stipulated ....Only under this condition can we confirm that inspection services will be provided as appropriate." The cost of renting a bulletproof car is about $500 a day.

This latest demand came just before the beginning of Ramadan, one of the peak seasons for production and consumption of pickled food products. For this reason, the owners of Shimorei Hamerkaz decided to comply with this demand for now and try to contest it after Ramadan. (Pri Zur received an exemption by arguing that there are "alternative routes" to the factory.) The owners of the two factories consulted with former justice minister David Libai, one of the country's most prominent attorneys, and Libai recommended that they file a petition with the High Court of Justice. The petition will apparently be submitted next month, after the end of Ramadan.

Moshe Salomon, the director of the Rabbinate for National Kashrut, rejects the charges that the Arab factories have been subjected to discriminatory action. The rabbinate's demands are solely intended to protect the lives of the inspectors, he insists. "A Jew who spends eight hours a day at a factory in Baka al-Garbiyeh immediately becomes a target for attack," he declares. Salomon says that he has received "warnings from the security forces" and that all of the demands presented to the factories are based on "instructions I received from the security forces" and were approved by Chief Rabbi Eliyahu Bakshi-Doron. (The chief rabbi's bureau refused to confirm or deny this statement.)

One of the central issues in the High Court debate, if a petition is indeed submitted, will be the question of who should be financing security for state-sponsored services. In a letter Libai wrote to the chief rabbi, he argued that "the responsibility for security ... is placed completely on the government, the IDF and Israel Police." According to Libai, if government employees are subject to risk, security measures must be provided from government funds.

"This argument is 120 percent correct," Rabbi Maimon told Ha'aretz. "The state, and not the factory owners, indeed are required to finance protection for the inspectors. The problem is that despite the fact that we have requested this from the Religious Affairs Ministry one hundred times, and despite our attempts to mobilize some MKs on this issue, the ministry has refused to budget this. It's truly unfair to place the burden of financing security on the factory owners, but the blame goes to the Ministry of Religious Affairs."

Shimon Malka, the ministry's spokesman, disagrees: "Rabbi Maimon is wrong. If he thinks that the state should finance the protection of inspectors, he should turn to the director-general of the Chief Rabbinate and ask him for funding. It's not at all a matter for the Ministry of Religious Affairs.


Home Print Edition Opinion
World Jewry and the war against global terrorism
The terror attacks on America have presented Western Jewish communities with two major problems. A conflict has developed between members of the communities and their governments over a tendency to minimize the gravity of Arab terrorism against Israel. Frictions have been generated in the Jewish communities over their position on the war on global terrorism.
By Eliahu Salpeter	Nov. 7, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The September 11 terror attack on America, and Washington's attempt to forge an international coalition to fight fundamentalist Islamic terrorism, have presented the Jewish communities of the West with two major problems.

On one hand, a conflict has developed between many members of these communities and their governments over a tendency to minimize the gravity of Arab terrorism against Israel.

On the other hand, within the communities themselves, frictions have been generated by the question of the Jewish community's position on the war on global terrorism. For example, there is a debate within Western Jewry about the degree to which the rights of the individual can be violated in the context of a struggle against terrorism. Jewish leaders are also divided over Israeli policy in the present world crisis.

At the same time, the members of the Western Jewish Diaspora are showing a significantly greater measure of concern for the institutions of Western Jewish communities and even for individual Jews themselves.

At a press conference held last week in Jerusalem, Elan Steinberg, executive director of the World Jewish Congress, said that with the outbreak of the Al-Aqsa intifada, there was an unprecedented rise in anti-Semitism and in attacks on Jewish communities. According to Steinberg, this was the most intensive wave of anti-Semitism since the end of the Second World War.

Dr. Avi Beker, executive director of the World Jewish Congress in Israel who is also responsible for the WJC's international activities, has noted that, over the past few years, hundreds of mosques have been built throughout Europe and that the incitement that has emanated from these mosques has led to violent attacks against Jewish institutions in Europe.

Isi Liebler, who chairs the governing board of the World Jewish Congress, has observed that Diaspora Jewish communities, especially in Europe, now find themselves confronted with an upsurge of both terror and violent anti-Semitism. The phenomenon is particularly blatant in countries with large Muslim communities, he points out.

Liebler, writing in The Jerusalem Post, comments that in contrast with public opinion polls indicating a significant increase in the identification of Diaspora Jews with both their own Jewishness and Israel, because of the Muslim threat in the countries where they live, Diaspora Jews are not surprisingly voicing less support for Israel. Furthermore, he writes, one hears less expressions of Jewish solidarity, and there has been a drop in the number of Diaspora Jews visiting Israel.

According to the findings of a questionnaire compiled for the New York-based Jewish newspaper the Forward, there are contradictions in Diaspora Jewish attitudes toward Israel. Whereas 61 percent of the respondents said that Jews are right to protest the pressure that their government is exerting on Israel, 51 percent said that the American administration headed by President George W. Bush is justified in demanding that Israel display greater restraint in its dealings with the Palestinians.

The umbrella organization of British Jewry, the Board of Deputies, like other Jewish umbrella organizations in other European countries, has come out with scathing criticism for the "double standard" that distinguishes between the attitude toward the terrorism of bin Laden and the attitude toward Arab terrorism directed against Israel.

The Board sent a letter to British Prime Minister Tony Blair in which it strongly protested recent declarations made by British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw. The Board's spokesperson, Paul Gross, has stated that anti-Israel declarations made in the British media are awakening anti-Jewish sentiments.

The Guardian has written that, among Britain's Jews, considerable anger is being expressed over the fact that Israel is being subjected to harsh criticism instead of receiving praise over its response to the assassination of Tourism Minister Rehavam Ze'evi. The newspaper points out that the Jewish press in the United Kingdom is showing a united front expressing support for Israel.

The representatives of French Jewry voiced great concern last week in Jerusalem in the face of the escalating anti-Semitism in their country. One of the most flagrant acts perpetrated in the context of this escalation was the arson against a Jewish school in Marseille. Roger Cukierman, president of the CRIF (Conseil representatif des institutions juives de France), the umbrella organization for Jewish institutions, has pointed out that anti-Semitism in France is tangible. According to Cukierman, the manner in which the French press covers Israeli policies is a disaster as far as French Jews are concerned because Israel and the Jews are regarded as interchangeable terms in the eyes of the French public.

The president of the Union of Jewish Students in Germany, Victoria Bolburd, has pointed out that, when the Union asked German citizens to express their grief over the casualties of the September 11 attack on America, seven out of ten responses conveyed anti-Semitic sentiments. Meanwhile, in South Africa, many people are voicing protest over what they term "apartheid in Israel" and these expressions of anti-Semitism are a source of concern for the Jewish community of that country.

Fear of flying is reflected not just in the diminished number of tourists visiting Israel but also in the reduction in the number of participants in Jewish conferences held here. One must also note the fear of participating in events where the presence of many Jews could turn them into a collective target. A survey conducted by the Forward found that 75 percent of American Jews feel more threatened than they did prior to September 11 and that more than half of these Jews cited their Jewishness as the reason for their increased fears.

Over the last few weeks, Jewish institutions throughout Europe have beefed up their security arrangements. The WJC has decided to establish a $40-million foundation that would help small Jewish communities to purchase security equipment.

There have also been some bizarre reactions. NBC has decided to postpone the screening of its miniseries on the Warsaw Ghetto, "Uprising," for what the major American network said were security reasons. The Boston Philharmonic Orchestra has canceled its performance of the orchestral version of the opera by John Adams, "The Death of Klinghoffer," which recalls the murder of Leon Klinghoffer aboard the cruise ship Achille Lauro by Arab terrorists. The orchestra explained that its decision was made because of the proximity to the events of September 11.


Home Print Edition News
News in Brief
Nov. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM

Constitutional court bill may be annuled

The bill to establish a constitutional court in Israel is to be annuled today unless its initiators can delay the preliminary reading vote. The proposers of the bill, MKs Yigal Bibi (National Religious Party) and Eliezer Cohen (National Union-Israel Beiteinu) plan to ask the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee to delay the first vote on the law by six months. The constitutional court would be a high court for cases dealing with constitutional dilemmas and would comprise 11 judges, including three Supreme Court judges, two dayanim (judges according to Jewish law), one kadi (Muslim judge), four professors and one representative of new immigrants. (Gideon Alon)

Knesset votes today on Bishara immunity

The Knesset House Committee is to vote today on whether to strip MK Azmi Bishara (Balad-National Democratic Alliance) of his parliamentary immunity. If passed, the request, submitted by Attorney General Elyakim Rubinstein, would allow Bishara to be tried on charges of declaring support of terrorist organizations and assisting in arranging illegal visits to Syria by Israeli citizens. (Gideon Alon)

TA rally against `apartheid education'

Jewish and Arab demonstrators rallied outside the Tel Aviv city council meeting yesterday to protest against what they called "apartheid education." They charged that the city's education director, Gila Ben-Har, had been "indifferent" to an attack by Jewish pupils on Arab pupils from Jaffa 10 days ago. (Yam Yehoshua)

Barak to MIA family `State won't give up'

Former prime minister Ehud Barak paid a condolence call to the family of MIA soldier Benny Avraham yesterday, accompanied by Deputy Defense Minister Dalia Rabin-Pelossof. Avraham was one of the three missing soldiers, kidnapped from the Lebanese border in October 2000 while Barak was in office, who were pronounced dead by the army and its chief chaplain last week. (Yam Yehoshua)

More unidentified powder sent to Katsav

An envelope containing unidentified white powder was received at the residence of President Moshe Katsav yesterday morning. The envelope was opened at 11 A.M. by the same postal worker who opened a similar letter last week, which was found to be clear of anthrax spores. (Dalia Shehori)Domestic tourism to Eilat grows

Internal tourism to Eilat has increased despite the malaise in Israel's tourism sector. Between January and September 2001, the number of Israelis staying overnight at hotels in the city rose about 18 percent. The chairman of Eilat Hotels Association, Aharon Dekel, forecast a further increase of about 15 percent in 2002, which he described as an encouraging development, given the dramatic drop in foreign tourists. He expressed concern, however, that any growth in domestic tourism would not compensate for the drop in visitors from overseas. Eilat has seen 50 percent fewer tourists from Europe in 2001 compared to last year. (Revital Levy-Stein)

Court reviews Haifa U suspensions

The Haifa District Court is to discuss a petition today submitted by three University of Haifa students, demanding an injunction that would revoke the institution's decision to suspend them. The three students, all members of the university's Arab student committee, took part in a demonstration protesting dormitory admission criteria for Arab students. The university suspended them for eight days on the grounds that the protest violated a ban on political demonstrations on campus. The three students are to be represented in court by Adalah, the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel. (David Ratner)

Two held for attempted male rape

Two men have been arrested on charges of attempted rape and abuse of an 18-year-old man at a Tel Aviv nightclub late Friday night. Police investigators believe the two suspects, both 23 and from Tel Aviv, forced the victim into the club's bathroom and tried to rape him. The suspects fled when other clubgoers entered the rest room. When he returned home, the victim told his parents about the incident and said the perpetrators told him they were en route to another club, in Jaffa. The victim and family members then went to this second club, identified the suspects and summoned the police. Both were remanded in custody yesterday. (Amit Ben-Aroya)



Home Article Print Page
Sons and mothers vs. sacred cows
The New Profile movement - the Movement for the Civil-ization of Israeli Society - is going to war with the army.
By Dorit Abramovitch	Dec. 30, 2001 | 12:00 AM

"Many women in the peace camp would be pleased if their children refused to serve in combat units," says Smadar Nehab. "I've been blessed by a son who has chosen not to serve in the territories. This is the strongest possible statement against the occupation. My son, Matan, is a patriot. He prefers not to serve there so that the state will continue to be able to exist."

Nehab knows other women who think as she does: "Many people, especially mothers and sons, realize that the time has come to be radical in opposing the occupation. Refusing to serve is a radical stance that responds to an extreme situation. This is the most assertive position that can be taken against the war games that are going on now, and only this will be able to change something in this country."

Haggith Gor Ziv of New Profile - the Movement for the Civil-ization of Israeli Society also supports the refusal to be conscripted into the Israel Defense Forces. "The unwillingness to have a son conscripted into a combat unit is a spreading phenomenon. Many mothers are already talking about this openly," she says. "Mothers do not want their sons to be part of the oppression of another people. And mothers who have right-wing ideas don't want their sons to pay with their lives."

According to data collected by New Profile, the proportion of Israelis of conscription age who do not serve in the IDF comes to 50 percent. This figure includes ultra-Orthodox yeshiva students and Arabs, but there is also a considerable proportion of teenagers of both sexes who are not drafted for reasons of poor health or unsuitability.

"This is a strong social statement," says Gor Ziv. "Our young people are voting with their feet and it is worth paying attention to their voice. The trend of non-conscription is on the rise. This is the spread of a broad resistance movement that the military-governmental system is trying to blur."

According to Gor Ziv, hundreds of mothers are openly opposed to their sons serving at all and particularly in the territories. "We are calling for an end to the occupation and an end to the war. Many of us were active in the Four Mothers movement [which led the campaign to have the army leave Lebanon], and it seems that now is the time to come out against this country's sacred cow - the army."

South African similarities

Nehab's son, Matan Kaminer, who is 18-and-a-half, says that about two-and-a-half years ago, he had already begun to ask himself what he would do when the time came for him to serve in the army.

"I knew that I would not want to serve in the territories, but all of a sudden, I was not sure that I wanted to go into the army at all. My father refused to serve in Lebanon and both my parents believe in selective refusal, but not sweeping refusal. For the last generation, the army was a sacred cow, but for me this is an outdated approach. I have many friends who have refused to serve in the army and I support them. After all, anyone who serves in the army serves the occupation.

"Is guarding prisoners at Megiddo Prison better than serving in the territories? I'm not sure. As far as I'm concerned, the driver who transports soldiers to a base and the cook who serves at the Kirya [IDF headquarters in Tel Aviv] are also participating in the oppression. Ninety percent of the work done in the army is maintaining the occupation and not defending Israel."

Kaminer is currently doing a year of service in a commune in Jaffa sponsored by the Re'ut Sedaka movement for Jewish-Arab coexistence. "I have not yet had to deal practically with the question of refusal," he says. "I am supposed to be drafted in November. The moment I get my official conscription date, I will send a letter to the army declaring my intention to refuse. The absurdity is that refusing to serve in the territories is much harder than refusing to serve at all. The sanctions imposed by the army against those who refuse to serve in the territories are more severe."

According to Gor Ziv, calling for people to refuse to serve in the army is forbidden in the state of Israel.

"When we studied draft-refusal movements in other places in the world, we found out that our case is amazingly similar to what happened in South Africa. In 1985, a mothers' movement called Black Sash began, which called for a blanket refusal to serve in the army. The movement's idea, which influenced the fight against apartheid, was that the army was just an executive arm for preserving the white regime and that it was not an army that protected the inhabitants of the country. The extent of refusal there was enormous and reached 50 percent of the candidates for the draft. These people found various ways of not joining the army. In 1988, the mothers' movement was banned, because it explicitly called for refusing to be drafted into the army."

In 1985, 7,600 candidates for conscription refused to obey their call-up orders into the South African army for reasons of conscience. This was an increase of 50 percent over previous years. "In 1986, the extent of emigration from South Africa grew and came to 45,000 young people of conscription age," Gor Ziv explains. "The mothers' movement came out with a call for a change in the conscription law, so that young people could do alternative service. This was an anti-militarist movement that engaged in providing information to the public - just like our movement. In South Africa, too, the general public was unaware of the right to refuse for reasons of conscience."

A quotation from a letter published in a Johannesburg newspaper in 1989 looks as if it were taken directly from the reality of Israeli life: "The South African way of life allows a great many myths to exist in our society. One of the greatest of these is the one that goes `the army will make a man of your son,'" wrote one mother. "We allow the might of the army to swallow the boys we, as mothers, have spent 18 years turning into civilized human beings, caring and considerate of others, and in two years, turn them into efficient, largely unthinking, killing machines."

Second time around

Orit Lavnin-Dgani was a key activist in the Four Mothers movement. "I see a phenomenon similar to the one we knew then - mothers who are hoping that there will be something about their sons that will prevent their conscription," she says. "Many mothers are saying that the war in the territories is just, but are doing all they can to convince their sons to go to a computer unit or to serve in the Kirya. I am part of a group of mothers who support outright the refusal to serve in the army and we intend to publish a paid announcement inviting women to come out of this closet and struggle openly against the army and the regime.

"We want to channel the phenomenon that already exists and to set up a movement of women who will say that this war is unjust. Four Mothers gathered momentum after the helicopter disaster of 1997 [two collided en route to Lebanon in February 1997, with 54 killed]. Then, too, it was necessary to reach rock bottom in order to start crying out. The time has come to save our sons and to explain to the public the connection between the disaster of Lebanon and the disaster of the territories."

Lavnin-Dgani has three sons. The eldest completed his military service four years ago, his middle brother is in 12th grade and the youngest is 11.

"Everything is happening to me the second time around," she says. "It was very difficult for me with my eldest son. During the classification process prior to induction, I was already suffering because of terrible dilemmas. He wanted to go to a very elite unit, and I was surprised by this, even though my spouse was kind of a hero. On the one hand, I supported the pluralist approach, whereby it was my son's right to behave differently from me, and on the other, I did not want the army to wipe out my children. I do not want to spoil my relationship with my sons and I don't want to lose them.

"I remember my eldest son asking me, `Mom, you'll support me if I go to a combat unit, won't you?' Of course, I answered that I would, though I thought to myself that the education system and society had raised me a `killer' child. From the moment he got to Lebanon, something very deep changed in him. He began to wake up. After two weeks in Lebanon, in November, 1998, he phoned me and really yelled: `Mom, it's unbelievable what's happening here. Get everyone together to work against this.' He hadn't imagined what was awaiting him there until he saw the extent of the horror. Immediately after he told me that, in his opinion, a mother who sits there quietly is abandoning her son, I decided to enlist in Four Mothers activity.

"Now the same story is starting with my second son," continues Lavnin-Dgani. "His brother explained to him that the army is not what he thinks it is, but this didn't help. He is still talking in terms of fulfillment and contributing to the state. Here, too, the education system has been more successful than I've been. We live in Kfar Tavor and the motto here is `A pretty wife, a pretty apartment, a 4X4 vehicle and a son in combat unit.' I would prefer that he not enlist at all, though I'm prepared to compromise with him - that he not join a combat unit and that he not serve in the territories. I don't understand how he can feel comfortable with an army like this and how he can be prepared to be raw material in its hands. He and his friends do want to hear me and what I have to say. They need this voice, and their mothers are telling me that they talk about me. This testifies to the need in this society for someone to say what others are afraid to know and to hear."

Lavnin-Dgani acknowledges that she, too, has gone through a process over the years that is not at all simple: "Like many other mothers in Israel, I wanted a paratrooper son. Today, I don't want to abandon my sons and I am finding more and more other women who feel the same way. These are mothers for whom saving their sons is not enough, and they want to change this dreadful reality. The general public is still living in the dichotomy of `We are the good guys and they are the bad guys.'

"What we succeeded in doing in Four Mothers can also be done here: to get in touch with the fears of the Jewish public with the help of factual information, and to provide it with a social and historical perspective. There is no need for the Lebanon scenario to be repeated. I hope that we will not get to 1,000 soldiers killed for them to understand that we must put an end to this."


Home Life Books
`Unsilencing' a long-denied past
The so-called truth commissions that have convened to confront the dark past of various nations are problematic - but vital
By Benjamin Pogrund	| Dec. 21, 2001 | 12:00 AM

"Unspeakable Truths: Confronting State Terror and Atrocity," by Priscilla B. Hayner, published by Routledge, New York, 340 pages, $27.50

"Truth commissions" are in fashion - bodies set up to investigate past abuses of human rights after a tyranny collapses or after civil war. The commissions are a recent development, from the last quarter of the 20th century. Of course, there were earlier investigations of abuses, notably in Germany and Japan after World War II. In these cases, the investigations, and the punishment of perpetrators, were imposed by the conquerors. These days, the push to open the past to scrutiny usually comes from inside the affected societies, from the victims. With it are the demands, which have become such a common feature of our times, for perpetrators - nations, groups and individuals - to apologize for harm they inflicted, even centuries ago.

The modern truth commissions are the subject of this book by an American expert, Priscilla Hayner. Based on more than 500 interviews in more than a dozen countries, the pages are crammed with information and assessments, plus a useful 30-page summary of who has done what. The starting point is that the term "truth commission" covers a wide variety of shapes, forms and purposes. Even the name varies: "historical clarification commission" (Guatemala), "commissions on the disappeared" (Argentina, Uganda, Sri Lanka), "truth and justice commission" (Haiti and Ecuador), "truth and reconciliation commission" (Chile and South Africa).

But Hayner notes the shared, basic characteristics: The commissions focus on the past. They investigate a pattern of abuses over a period of time rather than a specific event. They are temporary bodies, whose existence ends after submitting a report. And they are officially sanctioned or empowered by the state - which ensures them better access to information, increased security for sensitive investigations, and greater likelihood that the results will be treated seriously.

Limits of inquiry

Applying these criteria, Hayner lists 21 truth commissions of significance, with another 16 lesser ones. The first recognized commission, in Uganda in 1974, was inauspicious: Appointed by then president Idi Amin to investigate disappearances of people in the opposition, its report never saw the light of day - which was hardly surprising as he was party to their murder.

The first well-known inquiry was in Argentina in the 1980s. It followed the seven-year military dictatorship in that country, during which anywhere from 10,000 to 30,000 people were "disappeared" - the euphemism for the torturing and killing of people who were sometimes then disposed of, alive or dead, by being dropped from a plane into the sea. The commission of inquiry took more than 7,000 statements and documented the names of 8,960 people who had disappeared. Its report, "Never Again," appeared in shorter, book-length form, sold 150,000 copies within two months and was reprinted 20 times.

Since then, the belief has steadily grown that the crimes of undemocratic regimes must be made known. Court process, whether it takes place at home or in the new international tribunals, is often viewed as inadequate on its own because rules of evidence limit the scope of inquiry.

South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which reported in 1998, is the best known of these bodies - state-of-the-art, bigger and wider-ranging than any other. Its staff of 300 had a budget of $18 million a year for two-and-a-half years, and gathered testimony about the evils and consequences of apartheid from more than 21,000 victims and witnesses. Its special strength was the high degree of state backing it received, which enabled it, uniquely, to offer amnesty to perpetrators who confessed their sins and to protect witnesses.

But are truth commissions worth the effort? "Common wisdom holds that the future depends on the past," says Hayner. "One must confront the legacy of past horrors or there will be no foundation on which to build a new society. Bury your sins, and they will reemerge later. By directly confronting the conflicts of old, it is surmised, these conflicts will be less likely to explode into severe violence or political conflict in the future."

She quotes an Argentinean journalist saying to her: "People always ask, `Why reopen wounds that have closed?'" and his answer, "Because they were badly closed. First you have to cure the infection, or they will reopen themselves." Yet such situations are not always so straightforward: As Hayner points out, sometimes, such as in the midst of a delicate transition, the truth can actually increase tensions, especially if it exposes the misdeeds of still-powerful people or armed forces.

A staple on the `justice menu'

Some put the greatest stress on forgiveness and reconciliation, which they argue will result from airing the truth. That was a driving force in the South African commission. At its public hearings, a huge sign proclaimed, "Truth: The road to reconciliation." However, the extent to which this was actually achieved is much disputed. Similarly, in Chile, reconciliation was also a prime aim.

A distinction must be made between individual reconciliation and national or political reconciliation, says Hayner. On the one hand, an "official accounting and conclusion about the facts can allow opposing parties to debate and govern together without latent conflicts and bitterness over past lies." But it's far more complex at the individual level: "Forgiveness, healing and reconciliation are deeply personal processes, and each person's needs and reactions to peace-making and truth-telling may be different."

Indeed, much about truth commissions turns out to be more complex than first meets the eye. Is it healthily cathartic for victims to tell their stories? Yes, but beware the danger of retraumatization, a devastating reliving of the horror that was suffered.

Should victims receive reparation? Yes, but Hayner points to the "sad irony that a newly democratized state must pay for the abusive policies of the prior government." Problems and hazards abound. So do the weaknesses inherent in relying on a mass of information, pain-filled and emotional, which has not been subject to intensive cross-examination.

But at the end of the road, Hayner believes that truth commissions "are fast becoming a staple in the transitional justice menu of options. Because they do respond to such an apparently fundamental and widely felt need - first and foremost, to know and acknowledge the truth, to `unsilence' a long-denied past - it is likely we will only see more of them." And with the help of the international community and learning from experience, "we are likely to see new and unexpected models develop, perhaps including significant improvements on past examples."

Even at this moment, a range of countries struggling to come to terms with the dark past are studying the possibility of a truth commission: among them are Indonesia, East Timor, Yugoslavia, Colombia, Bosnia and Nigeria.

The obvious question: Will we, one day, have our own truth commission in this country to explore and expose abuses of human rights? The answer must be that if enough people want it, then it will be. And if it does happen, then it must be a joint and official creation of the Israeli and Palestinian governments - and if they ever get to the point of agreeing on a truth commission, then we will truly have achieved peace.

Benjamin Pogrund's latest book, "War of Words - Memoir of a South African Journalist," was published by Seven Stories Press, New York, last year.


Home Print Edition Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Dec. 24, 2001 | 12:00 AM

The Golan example

Apparently, Ra'anan Gissin, who said, "Monitors have never stopped terror activities. They have only complicated the situation," is unaware of the UN Disengagement Observer Force in the Golan. That region has been calm for years, despite the tension that exists between Syria and Israel. The only "complication" from a similar arrangement in the territories would be that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon could not continue to violate the Geneva Convention and UN resolutions. Without an end to these breaches, there can be no peace.

It is obvious that Sharon wants neither peace nor a withdrawal from the territories. He wants only land and blood, as his criminal past will attest, and even Israeli security must take a back seat to those goals. He knows that even if he can murder enough people to stop all Palestinian resistance, the rest will still be his neighbors, and still have their hatred fueled by an oppressive occupation.

Sharon's destruction of all of the apparatus built up under Oslo proves that he would rather have a hostile and disorganized population to rule and pillage than permit a Palestinian state. I am ashamed that America remains complicit in this barbarous apartheid.

John F. Doyle

Arlington, MA

Fashion flop

Regarding "Smart investments," December 20

I was astonished to read today's fashion article. Exactly who can afford such clothing? Why does your fashion editor assume that it is only worth investing in items from the most expensive fashion houses?

One can build up a basic wardrobe without spending thousands of shekels on luxury goods. It is a pity that the writer did not survey the lower-priced labels available in local shops. Printing such an article in times of economic pressure and high unemployment shows insensitivity and a total lack of understanding.

Ruth Sobol

Ramat Efal

An altruistic idea

The Israeli public has seen interviews with some of the more than one million citizens who try to survive with incomes under the poverty line. It is totally incomprehensible that the Finance Ministry is so insensitive to this human suffering that it is proposing to eliminate child allowances across the board. In my opinion, the ministry should ask the more fortunate among us to forfeit our child allowances. In parallel, it should plan for the future and spearhead a program to educate people to be responsible parents who do not have more children then they can afford. I think that the ministry will be pleasantly surprised at the good will of Israeli citizens.

Miles B. Rubin

Haifa

Israel's Vietman

As an American friend of Israel, I would like to draw a parallel between America's war in Vietnam and the present situation in Israel. It was only after 58,000 American soldiers had died and countless others were injured that U.S. public opinion became so strongly opposed to that war that it ended, and then, only after president Lyndon Johnson said he would not seek re-election. The war continued for about three more years until it ended in 1975.

In Israel, the fighting between Palestinians and Israelis will only end when the Israeli people realize the importance of making a genuine peace with the Palestinian people. This will only become possible if Israel, being the superior military power, takes the first step, which would mean the freezing of all settlements for an indefinite period. Israel would then be in a position to ask the Palestinians to take follow-up steps, which would mean the cessation of terrorist acts to permit the two sides to engage in serious negotiations. The continuous fighting between both sides has led to a spiral of violence, which is self-defeating. Only if the Israeli people recognize that this situation cannot continue can there be genuine steps toward peace.

Rebery Boehm

New York


Home Life Books
`Unsilencing' a long-denied past
The so-called truth commissions that have convened to confront the dark past of various nations are problematic - but vital
By Benjamin Pogrund	| Dec. 21, 2001 | 12:00 AM

"Unspeakable Truths: Confronting State Terror and Atrocity," by Priscilla B. Hayner, published by Routledge, New York, 340 pages, $27.50

"Truth commissions" are in fashion - bodies set up to investigate past abuses of human rights after a tyranny collapses or after civil war. The commissions are a recent development, from the last quarter of the 20th century. Of course, there were earlier investigations of abuses, notably in Germany and Japan after World War II. In these cases, the investigations, and the punishment of perpetrators, were imposed by the conquerors. These days, the push to open the past to scrutiny usually comes from inside the affected societies, from the victims. With it are the demands, which have become such a common feature of our times, for perpetrators - nations, groups and individuals - to apologize for harm they inflicted, even centuries ago.

The modern truth commissions are the subject of this book by an American expert, Priscilla Hayner. Based on more than 500 interviews in more than a dozen countries, the pages are crammed with information and assessments, plus a useful 30-page summary of who has done what. The starting point is that the term "truth commission" covers a wide variety of shapes, forms and purposes. Even the name varies: "historical clarification commission" (Guatemala), "commissions on the disappeared" (Argentina, Uganda, Sri Lanka), "truth and justice commission" (Haiti and Ecuador), "truth and reconciliation commission" (Chile and South Africa).

But Hayner notes the shared, basic characteristics: The commissions focus on the past. They investigate a pattern of abuses over a period of time rather than a specific event. They are temporary bodies, whose existence ends after submitting a report. And they are officially sanctioned or empowered by the state - which ensures them better access to information, increased security for sensitive investigations, and greater likelihood that the results will be treated seriously.

Limits of inquiry

Applying these criteria, Hayner lists 21 truth commissions of significance, with another 16 lesser ones. The first recognized commission, in Uganda in 1974, was inauspicious: Appointed by then president Idi Amin to investigate disappearances of people in the opposition, its report never saw the light of day - which was hardly surprising as he was party to their murder.

The first well-known inquiry was in Argentina in the 1980s. It followed the seven-year military dictatorship in that country, during which anywhere from 10,000 to 30,000 people were "disappeared" - the euphemism for the torturing and killing of people who were sometimes then disposed of, alive or dead, by being dropped from a plane into the sea. The commission of inquiry took more than 7,000 statements and documented the names of 8,960 people who had disappeared. Its report, "Never Again," appeared in shorter, book-length form, sold 150,000 copies within two months and was reprinted 20 times.

Since then, the belief has steadily grown that the crimes of undemocratic regimes must be made known. Court process, whether it takes place at home or in the new international tribunals, is often viewed as inadequate on its own because rules of evidence limit the scope of inquiry.

South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which reported in 1998, is the best known of these bodies - state-of-the-art, bigger and wider-ranging than any other. Its staff of 300 had a budget of $18 million a year for two-and-a-half years, and gathered testimony about the evils and consequences of apartheid from more than 21,000 victims and witnesses. Its special strength was the high degree of state backing it received, which enabled it, uniquely, to offer amnesty to perpetrators who confessed their sins and to protect witnesses.

But are truth commissions worth the effort? "Common wisdom holds that the future depends on the past," says Hayner. "One must confront the legacy of past horrors or there will be no foundation on which to build a new society. Bury your sins, and they will reemerge later. By directly confronting the conflicts of old, it is surmised, these conflicts will be less likely to explode into severe violence or political conflict in the future."

She quotes an Argentinean journalist saying to her: "People always ask, `Why reopen wounds that have closed?'" and his answer, "Because they were badly closed. First you have to cure the infection, or they will reopen themselves." Yet such situations are not always so straightforward: As Hayner points out, sometimes, such as in the midst of a delicate transition, the truth can actually increase tensions, especially if it exposes the misdeeds of still-powerful people or armed forces.

A staple on the `justice menu'

Some put the greatest stress on forgiveness and reconciliation, which they argue will result from airing the truth. That was a driving force in the South African commission. At its public hearings, a huge sign proclaimed, "Truth: The road to reconciliation." However, the extent to which this was actually achieved is much disputed. Similarly, in Chile, reconciliation was also a prime aim.

A distinction must be made between individual reconciliation and national or political reconciliation, says Hayner. On the one hand, an "official accounting and conclusion about the facts can allow opposing parties to debate and govern together without latent conflicts and bitterness over past lies." But it's far more complex at the individual level: "Forgiveness, healing and reconciliation are deeply personal processes, and each person's needs and reactions to peace-making and truth-telling may be different."

Indeed, much about truth commissions turns out to be more complex than first meets the eye. Is it healthily cathartic for victims to tell their stories? Yes, but beware the danger of retraumatization, a devastating reliving of the horror that was suffered.

Should victims receive reparation? Yes, but Hayner points to the "sad irony that a newly democratized state must pay for the abusive policies of the prior government." Problems and hazards abound. So do the weaknesses inherent in relying on a mass of information, pain-filled and emotional, which has not been subject to intensive cross-examination.

But at the end of the road, Hayner believes that truth commissions "are fast becoming a staple in the transitional justice menu of options. Because they do respond to such an apparently fundamental and widely felt need - first and foremost, to know and acknowledge the truth, to `unsilence' a long-denied past - it is likely we will only see more of them." And with the help of the international community and learning from experience, "we are likely to see new and unexpected models develop, perhaps including significant improvements on past examples."

Even at this moment, a range of countries struggling to come to terms with the dark past are studying the possibility of a truth commission: among them are Indonesia, East Timor, Yugoslavia, Colombia, Bosnia and Nigeria.

The obvious question: Will we, one day, have our own truth commission in this country to explore and expose abuses of human rights? The answer must be that if enough people want it, then it will be. And if it does happen, then it must be a joint and official creation of the Israeli and Palestinian governments - and if they ever get to the point of agreeing on a truth commission, then we will truly have achieved peace.

Benjamin Pogrund's latest book, "War of Words - Memoir of a South African Journalist," was published by Seven Stories Press, New York, last year.


Home News
Anti-Israel protesters jeer Clinton in Glasgow
By Reuters	| Dec. 10, 2001 | 12:00 AM

GLASGOW - About 300 anti-Israel protesters staged a demonstration against a visit to Scotland by Bill Clinton on Monday as the former U.S. president prepared to begin a speaking tour at the invitation of a Jewish charity.

Clinton himself was kept well away from the protest outside Glasgow's Hilton Hotel but guests were heckled as they arrived to listen to the first of three speeches he will make at fund-raising dinners hosted by the Jewish National Fund (JNF).

Carrying banners urging "Stop Israeli War Crimes" and "Stop Israeli Apartheid" the protesters chanted "racist, racist" and "peace, peace Palestine."

The British-based JNF was founded in 1901 to raise money to buy land for Jews in what in 1948 became the state of Israel. Its declared roles are buying land, building roads, funding settlements, farming, forestry and developing water resources.

"He (Clinton) was supposed to be an honest broker in the Middle East peace process, so why is he raising funds for one side?" protest organizer Wael Shawish said as the noisy demonstrators blew fog-horns and shouted.

Clinton, who earlier in the day played golf at the renowned Turnberry links on Scotland's west coast, will address another JNF centenary fund-raising dinner in the northern English city of Manchester on Tuesday and a third in London on Wednesday.


Home Print Edition News
Nobel prize winners call for release of Burma's Suu Kyi
By Reuters	| Dec. 9, 2001 | 12:00 AM

OSLO -Nobel Peace Prize winners appealed to Burma's military junta yesterday to free the 1991 laureate, opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, from house arrest.

Former winners South African anti-apartheid advocate Bishop Desmond Tutu and East Timorese independence campaigner Jose Ramos Horta led the call in Oslo where about 30 laureates met on the 100th anniversary of the first prize.

Several hundred people gathered in the rain outside Norway's parliament for the appeal, two days before UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and the United Nations share the 2001 prize.

"I have the greatest possible admiration for Aung San Suu Kyi and believe that her cause will eventually prevail," Tutu said in a statement on the 10th anniversary of Suu Kyi winning the prize.

Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy won Burma's last democratic election in 1990 by a landslide, but the junta refused to step down.

Suu Kyi, who won the Nobel for her peaceful pursuit of human rights and democracy, has been under house arrest for most of the past 11 years in Burma, also known as Myanmar.

Even so, the award is considered a partial success as it has put the spotlight on the military regime. "I think the prize to Aung San Suu Kyi has focused the world's attention on Burma," director of the Nobel Institute, Geir Lundestad, said.

The appeal also called for the release of 21 detained elected members of the Burmese parliament and 1,500 other political prisoners being held by the ruling military junta.

Suu Kyi is the daughter of Burma's independence hero General Aung San, who was assassinated in 1947 when the country was on the threshold of independence from Britain.


Home News
Police say South African former 'first lady' was strangled
By Reuters	| Dec. 5, 2001 | 12:00 AM

CAPE TOWN - The former wife of South Africa's last apartheid president was stabbed and strangled to death in her luxury beachfront flat, police said Wednesday. Marike de Klerk was the latest and one of the most prominent victims of the country's rampant crime.

"She was strangled to death," police Superintendent Wicus Holtzhausen said after a postmortem earlier on Wednesday.

"I have learned with great shock and sorrow of the circumstances of the tragic death of my former wife, Marike," said former president F.W. de Klerk, who left a Nobel centenary celebration in Stockholm to be with his children. "I have been informed that the South African Police Service is conducting a murder inquiry and hope that they bring the person or persons involved to justice as soon as possible."

Holtzhausen said Marike de Klerk had been stabbed in the back, but that her death was caused by strangulation. He said there was no indication of a break-in at her second-floor apartment in the high-security Dolphin Beach complex north of Cape Town and little sign of struggle.

"There were marks on her elbows, but we don't know if that indicates a struggle or whether it happened when she hit the floor," he said.

Holtzhausen said police had returned to her apartment Wednesday to search for clues, but he added, "At this stage we have no suspects at all."

Police found Marike de Klerk's body Tuesday after a hairdresser had raised the alarm when she missed an appointment. Police sources said she was found dressed in pajamas and probably had been killed Monday morning, more than 24 hours before she was found.

De Klerk, who led South Africa from white apartheid rule to democracy between 1989 and 1994, now lives partly in London and partly on a wine farm owned by his second wife, Elita , He divorced Marike, his wife of 39 years, in 1998.

Marike had opposed the separation from her husband and appealed repeatedly in radio and television programmes for him to return to her. Friends said she was deeply depressed.

South Africa has one of the highest crime rates in the world with about 21,000 murders last year alone. Victims have included prominent businessmen, sports stars, doctors and lawyers. Long-distance runner Matthews "Loop-en-Val" Motshwarateu, a national champion and world record holder, died last month, after being shot in a hijacking outside his Johannesburg home.

Security analyst Peter Gastrow said murder levels had been coming down steadily since the end of white rule in 1994, but remained unacceptably high.

"The violence in our society is still at outrageous levels. Whether you're in a rural area or in a city, special security measures are essential if you want to survive," he said.

Gastrow said the high crime rate was partly a legacy of the 1980s war over apartheid. He said poverty and urbanization were also factors fuelling some the world's worst rates of murder, violent attack and rape.

De Klerk, who shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela who became president after him, was expected home Thursday, an aide said.

"Marike's death has come as a great blow to our family," De Klerk said in his statement from Stockholm. "Marike was a wonderful mother and served South Africa with great distinction and dedication."

De Klerk said he had been in constant touch with their children, sons Jan and Willem and daughter Susan, since Marike's body was discovered.
