<article>
<title>Letters to the Editor: BDS, ultra-Orthodox Jews and French peace initiative</title>
<date>Mon Feb 01 20:43:40 IST 2016</date>
<content>
BDS, Israel’s only salvation
In response to “Shutting down debate in Chicago” (Sharon Kleinbaum, Opinion, January 31).
I empathize with the things written by Rabbi Kleinbaum in the body of her article. I cannot in any way agree with her conclusion that Israeli and Palestinian activists can bring about change.
In 2002 many well-known retired senior officers, including generals, formed the Council for Peace and Security. Thousands of people signed their names in support of the group’s positions. The government ignored it.
In 2003-2005 Ami Ayalon, former head of Shin Bet, and Palestinian Professor Sari Nusseibeh tried to lead a grassroots movement for negotiations on the basis of their proposals. Some 254,000 Israelis and 161,000 Palestinians supported this effort. Our government did not.
The negation of these efforts, together with the government’s ignoring of the Saudi Peace Proposals of 2002 and 2009 have shown us that the only way to save Israel from the messianic wave sweeping the country is through economic, political and cultural coercion, i.e., BDS.
Just as sanctions against Russia and Iran were meant to bring about change, BDS is not meant to destroy Israel as the national explainer and his cronies continually tell us. As in the case with apartheid South Africa, it is meant to bring about change that will be for the good of all the peoples in the region.
Stan Sagie
Ramat Yishai
This Diaspora Jew has had it
“I want to guarantee ... as prime minister of Israel, I will always ensure that all Jews can feel at home in Israel, Reform Jews, Conservative Jews, Orthodox Jews, all Jews. ... [Israel will] invest in strengthening Reform and Conservative communities within Israel.” – Prime Minister Netanyahu, October 2015.
As expected, Netanyahu’s position was condemned by Orthodox and ultra-Orthodox MKs and communities. In keeping with the Israeli government’s ever-increasing Orthodox leaning, Education Minister Bennett reassigned funds from Reform and Conservative “Jewish renewal” activities to Orthodox activities. MK Moshe Gafni, the ultra-Orthodox chairperson of the Knesset Finance Committee, promised to block allocation of any funding to expand the mixed-prayer space at the Western Wall. Without support from Habayit Hayehudi and United Torah Judaism, Netanyahu loses majority support in Knesset; so, to remain in power, once again Netanyahu must cave into the demands of Orthodox and ultra-Orthodox MKs.
And once again, we non-Orthodox Jews remain “non-Jews” in many important ways, sanctioned by the Israeli government.
I’m stunned that the Israeli government continues to expect support – financial and political – from us in the Diaspora, yet denies us equality in our supposed homeland. I cannot and will not support this government that denies my right to be who and what I am. I will continue to disavow the actions of this government that excludes me yet claims to act in my name.
Judy Bamberger
O’Connor, Australia
French frame-up of Israel
What duplicity. France has already prejudged the outcome of its proposed conference on the Arab-Israeli conflict. It has predetermined that Israel would be at fault if an agreement is not reached, and France would recognize a Palestinian state.
What incentive do the Arabs have to reach an agreement with Israel? They can demand that all of Jerusalem be their capital, that 5 million Arabs be admitted into Israel and that Islam becomes the state religion of Israel.
They have nothing to lose. One way or another, France will recognize them, just as Iceland, Sweden and the Vatican have. It will further delegitimize Israel and support the Arab claim that Israel must be dismantled.
It is little wonder French Jews are leaving in record numbers. Fortunately, Israel and Quebec will welcome and protect them.
Len Bennett
Ottawa, Ontario
Letters should be exclusive to Haaretz and must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number (an e-mail address is not sufficient). Please note that letters are subject to editing. Please send your letters to letters@haaretz.co.il

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Respecting Arab MKs is a must if Israel is to remain a democracy</title>
<date>Mon Feb 08 02:03:46 IST 2016</date>
<content>
It’s okay to object to the actions of Balad Knesset members Jamal Zahalka, Basel Ghattas and Haneen Zoabi, whose party is a partner in the Joint Arab List. It’s okay to oppose their meeting with the families of terrorists, to deem it unacceptable for them to observe a moment of silence in the terrorists’ memory and inappropriate to call them martyrs. But it’s not okay to join the ugly, aggressive persecution campaign against the MKs, which has no place in a democracy.
The Knesset has united against the three, nearly wall-to-wall. Representatives from every party but their own vied to be the sharpest-tongued against them. The right’s goal was transparent and dangerous: another attempt to delegitimize the Knesset’s Arab representatives as a step toward ostracism and perhaps even removing them from the legislature. This goal was aided, intentionally or not, by centrist and left-wing MKs who joined the unbridled assault. MKs from Zionist Union, Yesh Atid and even Meretz took part in the attack on Balad.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who never misses an opportunity for incitement against Arab Israelis, outdid them all by “instructing” the attorney general to examine what legal steps can be taken against the three MKs. He, together with the Knesset speaker, also filed a complaint against the MKs with the Knesset Ethics Committee, and Sunday Netanyahu said he would “promote legislation so that anyone who acts like this will not serve in the Knesset.” Nobody would imagine Netanyahu taking such steps against, say, a Jewish MK who claimed that the murder of the Palestinian family in Duma wasn’t terror, or against Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked, who reportedly met with the family of one of the Jews arrested as suspects in that case.
The MKs of the Joint Arab List, the Knesset’s third biggest party, were elected to represent their voters. This community does not share the worldview, beliefs and opinions of Israel’s Jewish Zionist majority. If Israel purports to be a democracy and to reject accusations that it is becoming an apartheid state, it must respect these opinions, even when they are irritating or even painful to the Jewish majority. The Balad MKs said they met with the families in an effort to help them obtain the release of the bodies of their loved ones, months after they were killed. It’s their right and even their duty to do so.
Arab Israelis are members of the Palestinian people, sometimes even members of the same families, but in any case the same people, with the same history. This creates the fragile and delicate situation of having a conflict of loyalties between their people and their country.
The way to preserve democracy in Israel is to respect this complex situation and demonstrate maximum sensitivity toward it. Arab MKs are in any case already excluded from many areas, and pushing them into a corner would bode ill for Israel. If they are forced to boycott the Knesset, and their community to boycott the elections, Israel will cease to be a democracy.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Talking about the zombie two-state solution: It's something to do</title>
<date>Fri Feb 19 06:54:29 IST 2016</date>
<content>
They said it was over. They said it was dead, a reminder of simpler times.
But as with '80s music, apparently some people are still trying to bring back the two-state solution - yes, the one Thomas Friedman eulogized just last week. This week, France officially proposed an international summit in Paris, bringing together Israeli and Palestinians, with European, American and Arab mediators, in order to end that pesky conflict thing once and for all. The aim, said the outgoing French Foreign Affairs Minister Laurent Fabius, is to “preserve and make happen the two-state solution.” And if the initiative fails, France warned, it would recognize a Palestinian state.
Israel, predictably, responded to the French initiative with perplexity. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the French initiative “puzzling,” explaining that the “threat” to recognize a Palestinian state ensures the talks will fail. (The Palestinian Authority, on the other hand, welcomed the initiative).
To be fair to Netanyahu, if taken at face value, the French proposal is puzzling. Israel is dealing with an unorganized wave of horizontal terrorism that seems more and more like an intifada, while Palestinians are reckoning with the realization that Israel will not grant them statehood, simply because it doesn't want to.
At this time (proposing an old-fashioned peace summit sounds hopelessly out-of-touch. Neither side is in any mood to compromise, or has the political ability to push for radical solutions, and even the would-be mediators seem to have lost interest. Europe is preoccupied with the constantly-escalating refugee crisis, the Arab states are dealing with ISIS and each other, and the U.S. is in an election year and has essentially relinquished the Israeli-Palestinian issue since its last effort to broker peace talks in 2014 collapsed.
The only one really interested in this summit seems to be Fabius, who during his almost four years as foreign affairs minister, has been very active on the Israeli-Palestinian front. Last year, he tried and failed to promote a resolution at the UN Security Council outlining terms for ending the conflict.
None of his efforts to move the Israel-Palestinian needle in a more positive direction bore fruit. His latest initiative is probably more of a last-ditch effort  before he leaves the ministry.
But he isn't alone:  The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, visited Israel-Palestine this week, ostensibly to promote a two-state solution that the Obama administration itself seems to have given up on.
The thing is, neither the French nor Power's initiative mean that anyone believes the two-state solution is still viable. Haaretz’s Barak Ravid suggested the conference is an idea that was designed to fail, a way for Fabius to leave behind a legacy by opening the door to alternatives on the Israeli-Palestinian issue, like recognizing a Palestinian state.
If that is true, then the proposed peace conference isn’t meant to be a revival of the peace process, but its funeral, and Netanyahu’s government (once again falling victim to its own myopia) has played into the hands of its ideological rivals by automatically rejecting it.
The insistent way in which the two-state concept refuses to die  and stay buried is rooted not in belief, but in the simple fact that the system is highly vested in it. There are dozens of think tanks, organizations and lobby groups dedicated to promoting a two-state solution. The American left supports a two-state solution, the European left supports a two-state solution, and the majority of the Israeli left, despite Labor leader Isaac Herzog’s strange plan to unilaterally disengage with the Palestinians, still believes there is no other way.
Yet with the PA on the verge of collapse and with recent Israeli policies skirting the thin line between South African apartheid (tossing Arab MKs out of the Knesset) and Loony Tunes cartoons  (like “We will surround all of the State of Israel with fences and barriers to defend ourselves against the wild beasts”), it’s difficult to imagine that many people honestly believe there’s hope for peace accord anytime soon.
The allure of the two-state solution is that it’s familiar, it’s relatively simple to understand, and there’s already an infrastructure supporting it. But the Jews and the Palestinians are already in an undeclared de-facto binational state, with one side living under military occupation (or, in the case of Gaza, the world’s largest prison), and the other free to enjoy (some of) the benefits of democracy.
The only way forward is equality, but achieving equality will require uneasy compromises by both parties, responsible leadership able to contain what is sure to be a tumultuous process, committed foreign allies with will and resources, and most importantly: a willingness to recognize that the current situation is simply untenable.
However, in lieu of all that, I guess talking about a two-state solution is also something to do.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Dear Oscar star, say yes to that free Israel trip. Then do this.</title>
<date>Tue Feb 23 18:32:24 IST 2016</date>
<content>
Dear major Academy Award nominee or presenter,
By now you've doubtless gotten wind of that blue card in the swag bag. The trip to Israel, all expenses paid. By now, also, people will have given you all manner of reasons not to go.
Some, your agent maybe, may tell you not to go because it's dangerous — that there are Palestinian knife attacks against Israeli and other civilians every single day, sometimes several times a day.
They're right. But it's not a reason to turn down the trip.
Others, supporters of BDS, the movement to boycott, divest from, and sanction Israel, may tell you to stay away from here because this is a propaganda stunt by an Israeli government trying to whitewash away serious allegations of violations of human rights.
They're right, too. But that's not a reason to stay away from here either.
After all, they're asking you to boycott an entire country, and all the people in it, without even having seen it for yourself.
Come. Take the trip. See for yourself.
But before you do, I, as a card-carrying Israeli, have some unsolicited advice for you.
DISCLOSURE: Just so you know, before I was a card-carrying Israeli, or ever imagined I might be such a thing, I was a native of Studio City and an employee of Universal Studios (janitorial position, serial summer hire). At some point, I took a trip to Israel, and I found out that absolutely nothing I had read about the place, seen on the news, or been told, was anywhere near what it's really like here.
What I found out — and have learned anew, year by tumultuous, troubling, soul-battering year — is that Israel and the exceptional people who live there are nothing like you think they are. Whatever you think they are.
No other place in the world inspires the passion and the havoc, the loyalties and the lies that this one does. "Feeling alive" here is not an issue. You can't know anything about it from a distance. You need to see it, feel it under your feet and before your eyes, take in the air, in order to realize that something inexplicable happens to the people who come here.
So listen to all those people telling you not to make the trip. They have important points to make. Then go anyway.
You can be a force for making this a better place. You can help heal the deep wounds from which everyone who lives here suffers. It all depends on how you approach the trip. More about that in Section 4 below.
Before that, though, why in the world would you want to want to come to a place like this?
1. It's family.
Prepare to meet some of the best people you will ever get to know.
And yes, prepare to meet some of the worst as well.
This is a family. A sprawling, fiercely loving, profoundly flawed, astonishingly dysfunctional extended family.
It is, as well, a family related by blood and scripture, by land and the many cruelties of history, to the people who are our neighbors.
This, you will come to realize, is not really a country at all. And not only because it has no recognized borders or capital city. Or because there are those who, openly or covertly, wish it did not exist at all.
It's a family, and if you spend time wisely in this place, it will become part of yours.
Prepare to fall in love. With the place, and with many of its people. And prepare not to understand exactly what this love is.
Prepare, also, to be appalled.
War does terrible things to people, and the people of this country have been at war for every moment they have lived here. In many ways their spirit is beaten to rags. They have unimaginable reservoirs of raw grief and rage.
They have terrible leaders. They know it. But they have lost the belief that they can have better ones. They feel that they only have each other, and, judging by their leaders, they're right.
Under the circumstances, leaving them alone, isolating them, hasn't helped anyone over the decades, and in many ways makes what is unendurable for everyone here, even worse.
Prepare to meet people in power who are amateurish, fat-headed, cluelessly provincial, unintentionally — or not — insulting. Starting with the tourism minister.
2. This is your chance. Learn from them. Ask them a straightforward, three word question: "What's your plan?"
Don't let them jerk you around. There are millions of Palestinians living under Israeli rule in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. They are living there without basic human rights, without the right to vote, without rights of free speech, without true freedoms of religion, assembly, movement, or professional or academic opportunity.
If government people don't answer directly, if they blame the Palestinians or blame BDS or blame Iran or ISIS or President Obama, don't take it personally. Ask them again.
"What's your plan?"
Don't let them jerk you around. Don't let anyone suggest that this is not a military occupation. Take it from an objective observer, a former resident of Studio City: Anyone in the army who was ordered to occupy Palestinians — as I was, on and off for nearly 20 years — can tell you about the rights denied, the medical services delayed, the extremists on both sides making the impossible worse.
A further word of unsolicited guidance:
3. The equation is simple. Israel - Occupation = Democracy. Israel + Occupation = Apartheid.
Which way is Israel headed?
If you meet the leaders, applaud the proposal by Finance Minister Moshe Kahlon to present a new package of economic measures to benefit Palestinians. Then ask where, exactly, this proposal stands.
Applaud, as well, the government's proposal for the largest-ever plan to advance the economic development of Israel’s Arab population, which from Israel's founding has suffered from discrimination and second-class citizen status.
Then ask, where, exactly, this proposal stands.
4. Everything in Israel is either much better or much, much worse than it was intended to be. Nothing is what it's supposed to be.
There are great people, many of them, who are working to make the Israel they love a better place.
You need to be here to see them. Their work may be as quiet as the bakery down the street from my house, where the Palestinian Israeli family of bakers wears shirts in Arabic, Hebrew and English, reading "Arabs and Jews Refuse to be Enemies."
You need to be here to appreciate them.
There are schools which, in their quiet way, are making radical strides toward a future which both Jews and Arabs can live with, and well.
Ask to visit the Hand in Hand schools, where Palestinian and Jewish Israeli children study together.
Ask to meet people from the human rights, religious freedom, pro-democracy and social justice organizations sponsored by the New Israel Fund, like the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, Rabbis for Human Rights, and Breaking the Silence.
Ask to meet people from Peace Now, working for transparency in Israeli policies in the West Bank and Gaza.
Ask to meet legislators working for a better Israel and human rights for all who live in the Holy Land, people like Ayman Odeh of the Joint List, Zehava Galon and Tamar Zandberg of Meretz, Merav Michaeli and Stav Shaffir of Labor / Zionist Union.
One more thing. Israelis may seem hard headed. But they're not stupid. They know they have bad leaders. They expect nothing from them, and they're right — they get nothing from them. Their leaders know how to stay in office — and that's it.
Come to Israel. Don't let extremists have the final say. Racism thrives on isolation and separation and fear. Just as occupation thrives on darkness.
Come to Israel. Shed light.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Republican candidates love Israel. Too bad they don't make sense</title>
<date>Tue Mar 15 15:40:00 IST 2016</date>
<content>
At the (largely civil) Republican debate in Miami last week, the four candidates left standing gor into yet another argument about whose is bigger. This time, the argument didn’t revolve around hands or penis size, but around something just a little more substantive: their love of Israel.
Ted Cruz thought he had it in the bag when he vowed to “stand unapologetically with the nation of Israel.” Marco Rubio, though, had other plans, when he promised to “stand firmly on the side of Israel.” Donald Trump, though, took things up a notch when he promised to be “very, very pro-Israel,” before clearly winning the exchange by delivering a brutal coup de grâce: “I happen to have a son-in-law and a daughter that are Jewish, OK? And two grandchildren that are Jewish.”
It wasn’t the most troubling moment of the debate. (Trumps justifying the violence in his rallies by putting the blame on protesters easily takes the cake.) But it demonstrates how low the discourse on Israel has sunk, especially within the GOP.
Risk, rewards and ridiculous pander
Republican candidates love Israel. Honest to God, they do. They may not win a majority of Jewish voters (in 2012, some 69% of Jews voted for Obama; a recent Pew Center survey expects more of the same this election cycle), but they love to proclaim their unfettered love for the Jewish state. How do we know? Israel was mentioned 37 times during the Republican debate in Miami and 55 times during the one before that.
Uninhibited adoration for Israel plays well with the Republican electorate. According to a Gallup poll last year, 83% of Republicans side with Israel over the Palestinians, and it may come in especially handy as Florida Jews prepare to vote in the primary today. If you want to win the voters’ support, and more importantly, the financial backing of major donors like Sheldon Adelson and Paul Singer, you have to say nothing but positive things about Israel. Them's the rules of the game.
Played well, the rewards can be considerable. Previously during the campaign, Trump seemed to have been challenging the Republican orthodoxy by saying he’d be “neutral” between Israelis and Palestinians. In the last two weeks, though, Trump has spoken several times about his “tremendous love for Israel,” even dredging up his past as a “grand marshal of the Israeli Day Parade down 5th avenue” and his daughter Ivanka’s conversion to Orthodox Judaism.
Amazingly, this ridiculous pander seems to work. Trump is now going to headline the AIPAC conference together with Hillary Clinton. And two days ago, he seemed to have gotten a nod from Sheldon Adelson, when the front page of the newspaper Israel Hayom (which the Adelsons control) quoted former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani saying: “Trump isn’t afraid to say ‘Islamic Terror’.” 
Sadly, all this makes for very little substance, and what substance there is regarding Israel among Republican presidential hopefuls makes very little sense.
While Republican candidates have been pressing hard on the pro-Israel lever, their recipes for helping Israel essentially boil down to the tautology “we’ll support Israel by strongly supporting Israel.” Which is just fine and dandy, but really tells us very little about how these four candidates, if elected president, intend to help “America’s strongest ally” (copyright Ted Cruz) to tackle its myriad challenges.
A hair weak on specifics
Marco Rubio, for instance, has said several times that Israel “has no partner for peace” and that he “doesn’t see the conditions right now” for a two-state solution.” This is a fine reiteration of Benjamin Netanyahu’s favorite talking points, but it reveals little about what Rubio intends to do in the very plausible case that, for instance, the Palestinian Authority collapses. Will his promises to “fight efforts to delegitimize the Jewish state” help him assure Israel’s security when and if it effectively becomes an apartheid state?
And do would President Ted Cruz's promises to supply Israel with “everything it needs to defend itself” include yet-undeveloped technology that stops Palestinian 15-year-olds armed with screwdrivers and cutlery from being enraged at the prospect of spending the rest of their lives under military occupation? Will his promises to move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem prevent the next war in Gaza?
President John Kasich might try to “stabilize the region by supporting the Israelis and making sure they have the weapons and the security that they need with our 100 percent backing.” He’s bound to find out that Israel is in fact a very smallplayer in the region, and arming it further won’t do much to bolster security in Syria or Iraq.
Which brings us to President Trump. Oh, President Trump. President Trump just might “negotiate a peace settlement” between Israel and Palestine. He is, after all, a “negotiator”. And his previous experience as an Israel Day Parader might be of some assistance.
Granted, the Democratic candidates have not fared much better when it comes to Israel. Hillary Clinton’s most significant statement about Israel during this election cycle was that as president she will “reaffirm the unbreakable bonds of friendship and unity between the two nations” and invite Benjamin Netanyahu to the Clinton White House during her first month in office. Bernie Sanders has been just slightly more nuanced (though in this race, the fact that he has nuance says a lot).
But as naive as Democrats have been, Republicans have been downright deluded. Obama has “treated Israel horribly” - so they say. Israel, they (rightly) say, is in trouble. But its troubles have nothing to do with a lack of affection, which is the only thing they seem to be offering.
Do they honestly believe, one has to wonder, that moving the American embassy to Jerusalem, or fighting “efforts to de-legitimize Israel,” selling Israel more arms or simply “standing by Israel” going to make Israel’s precarious situation any better?
Let’s be honest: Probably not. But boy, they sure love that nonsense in Florida.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Letter to the Editor: Beinart’s erroneous distinction</title>
<date>Fri Apr 08 03:11:22 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
Beinart’s erroneous distinction
Twice within a week, Peter Beinart published columns about his hobby horse that anti-Zionism is not anti-Semitism (“No, anti-Zionism isn’t anti-Semitism,” Mar. 30; “Why Rabbi Sacks is wrong,” April 6). Anti-Zionism is a pathology that works insidiously. Once anti-Semitism was an obsession with Jews, but today since this animosity is too obvious, it has come to mean being consumed by hatred of the homeland of the Jews. If anti-Zionists are concerned by atrocities, why are they indifferent to the death of 2,000 civilians in the Russian bombing of Syria? If anti-Zionists are concerned by apartheid, why are they indifferent to the ugly caste system in India, the “world’s largest democracy”? If Muslim anti-Zionists care about the fate of their fellow Muslims, why are the many Pakistanis in Britain indifferent to the suffering of their brethren in Kashmir under India, but obsessed with Israel’s rule over Palestinians?
Beinart claims that because Jews are prominent in anti-Zionism, then it must be kosher. However, many of them abuse and mock Judaism. For example, here, in downtown Toronto, up to two dozen anti-Zionist Jews denounce Israel in front of the Israeli Consulate every Friday between 5 and 6 P.M. When Shabbat begins after 4 P.M. in winter they are there, and when Rosh Hashanah fell on Friday in 2013 and 2014, they still protested, desecrating the High Holiday. Hate overcomes respect for Judaism. 
Jacob MendlovicToronto
Sharansky’s pain over the Kotel crisis
In response to “Sharansky Western Wall plans at risk if talks reopened,” April 5
Although I have long been affiliated with and a supporter of the Original Women of the Wall, I felt a real poignancy in Judy Maltz’s piece describing Natan Sharansky’s warning about reopening negotiations over the new prayer space at Robinson’s Arch. Sharansky is such a man of integrity. It must be difficult and painful for him to understand that not everyone at the negotiating table brought the good intentions and integrity that he did. 
Bakol GellarJerusalem

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ayelet Shaked: Israel's minister of annexation</title>
<date>Mon May 02 23:16:23 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked’s portfolio automatically gives her a seat on the security cabinet. But more important to Shaked than the rule of law she’s responsible for are the settlers who vote for her Habayit Hayehudi party and influence its internal rankings, and who want to legalize the inequality between first-class Israeli citizens and fourth-class Palestinian subjects (in the middle are Israeli Arabs and residents of East Jerusalem who are not citizens).
Shaked announced Monday that she’s working with Attorney General Avichai Mendelblit on a plan to apply Israeli law in the West Bank. She said a committee to be established will examine each law that passes in the Knesset and decide whether it should immediately be applied to the settlements as well by military order.
Shaked’s proposal comes after repeated efforts to legislate bills that smack of annexation. Bills submitted by Orit Strock, Yariv Levin, Zeev Elkin and Shaked herself in the previous government, in an effort to get future laws to apply to in the West Bank, were opposed by then-Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein and were ultimately scuttled, although they were approved by the Ministerial Committee for Legislation.
Also in the previous Knesset, Habayit Hayehudi pushed an initiative to apply labor laws in the West Bank to help pregnant women in the settlements. But it backtracked when it became clear that the legislation would improve Palestinian rights and add an economic burden to employers in the settlements.
Israel has not been inadvertently avoiding the process Shaked advocates. To date, Israeli law applies to the settlers on a personal basis under the law that extends emergency regulations, while whatever applies on a regional basis is by order of the regional military commander. There are already Israeli laws “imported” to the territories that favor the settlers, and Shaked’s proposal will make the situation worse because the laws will be applied more systematically.
The proposal is expected to deepen the apartheid in Israel’s code of law that effectively exists between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. It will also cause Israel damage in the international arena. The proposal is akin to de facto annexation, making discrimination in the territories official. This will bring the world down on Israel’s head, which is why even firm opponents of withdrawal like former premiers Menachem Begin and Yitzhak Shamir avoided such a step.
Mendelblit must refuse to support the legal bypass Shaked is trying to pave, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu – who repeatedly says that he’s ready “for negotiations with the Palestinians without preconditions” – must protect the State of Israel’s interests, which are being trampled by the interests of the messianic Greater Israel.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>For Diaspora Jews, the occupation can’t just be a spectator sport  </title>
<date>Mon Jul 11 16:02:00 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
What is the responsibility of a witness to injustice?
I recently visited Hebron with Breaking the Silence.  Run by Israeli military veterans, the NGO collects testimony from soldiers about incidents of wrongdoing.
Some of these incidents are actual violations of law — like looting, assaulting detainees, or firing a barrage of shells on a random house in Gaza to commemorate the death of a fellow soldier, while others — practices like “mapping” a house — interrupting the residents in order to draw a floor plan, take down names and phone numbers and ID’s and snap photos — even if soldiers discard the data shortly afterwards — are part and parcel of running an occupation.
The goal of such practices, as First Sergeant (res.) Yehuda Shaul, a founding member of Breaking the Silence, describes them, “is to intimidate and to make our presence felt. They [the Palestinians] never know when we’re going to show up.”
In hosting tours of Israelis and non-Israelis to places like Hebron and South Hebron Hills, and in running many other educational events with youth movements, schools, and in universities, the group is clear about its aims: to help end the occupation.
As I attended the Hebrew-language version of the tour, the only non-Israeli among the group, I wondered about slacktivism versus activism, and about voyeurism versus bearing witness.
If the tour's goal is to fire up participants about the severity of the occupation while preventing the all-too-human tendency to get excited by peeping into others’ suffering, then one must first, I found, overcome a great sense of banality.
How unlike the bomb-dodging days and flare-illuminated nights of war correspondents across the planet’s most intense conflict zones, or at least as I imagine them, was this experience. I returned dusty, tired and, despite my best efforts to seek shade, sunburned. When it comes to the occupation, there is often very little to stimulate the senses.
There was the monument to the late racist Rabbi Meir Kahane in a Kiryat Arba park, and, nearby, the grave of Baruch Goldstein who murdered 29 Palestinians in 1994. Two weeks after our tour, a Palestinian teen from a nearby village would stab 13-year old Kiryat Arba resident Hallel Yaffa Ariel to death in her bed.
In adjacent Hebron, there was the infamous al-Shuhada street, which used to host a vibrant market and is now a ghost town. We stood across from an apartment building where Palestinian residents, no longer allowed onto the main street, must resort to leaving their homes through windows and the roof.
There was the Israeli settler, who, while being restrained by police officers, accused us of being “disgusting traitors.” And there were more mild-mannered settlers, too, some as young as 12 or 13, who tagged along on our tour, inserting their version of events where they could.
And there was the settler-with-a-sense of humor, who stood alongside our group, softly singing “Am Yisrael Chai” (“the Nation of Israel Lives”) while swinging his hips.
There were the unmarked cars interrupting our tour, the drivers flashing their police badges at our guide before questioning him. And there were the two impoverished Palestinians who didn’t leave our side, entreating us dozens of times to buy their embroidered cloth purses, even after we did.
The leader of our tour — an endless fount of knowledge armed with maps, facts and figures — was IDF First Sergeant (ret.) Ido Even-Paz, Breaking the Silence’s director of education.
I asked him the question that most often dogs the group from its critics. If their aim is to end the occupation, thus needing to change Israeli hearts and minds, why take the message abroad?
Even-Paz’s reply was striking. “We want to show the world that there's someone to talk to here in Israel; that, unlike extremely closed societies, we are a vibrant democracy. If that means that we are serving as a fig leaf for the government, so be it."
After having taken thousands (in Even-Paz’s estimation) of Israelis and non-Israelis on their tours, and given that 71.5% percent of Jewish Israelis don’t actually believe there is an “occupation,”  Breaking the Silence has its work cut out for it. Shaul tells me they can’t “keep up with the demand” for events, having run 90 in Israel over the last six months.
Most of their activities, he stresses, are in Israel — not abroad. And Even-Paz cites the fact that some Israeli top brass — like former Shin Bet chiefs Ami Ayalon and Yuval Diskin, as well as Israeli Police Maj. Gen. (ret.) Alik Ron and Maj. Gen. (res.) Amiram Levin — have come out publicly in support of the NGO. These moves reflect a broader trend of the Israeli security establishment pushing back on the government’s orientation towards the Palestinian question.
As for the broader world, the international community tends to see military rule of West Bank residents — and civilian rule for Israeli residents — for what it is. Diaspora Jews, for their part, are divided: many are troubled by the occupation while others take their cue from the Israeli government.
So, five years after Peace Now board member and prominent American Jewish feminist and author Letty Cottin Pogrebin visited Hebron and used the “a” (for apartheid) word to describe it, what is the proper thing to do?
We must continue to talk about the occupation in our own communities, however indifferent or hostile the reception. We must be aware of the fact that the Israeli government does not — and cannot — speak for the millions of West Bank Palestinians under its rule.
Supporting groups like Breaking the Silence is one way to bolster Israeli democratic discourse while helping push the needle within Israel towards meaningful policy change, however slow the process may be.
A postscript: Breaking the Silence has again made headlines after being vilified by the president of Ben Gurion University (who vetoed the Middle East Studies department’s selection of the NGO to receive its annual peace prize on the basis that the group, in her words, doesn’t represent the “national consensus,”), and by Yesh Atid leader and MK Yair Lapid, who went after the new editor of Haaretz’s English edition, Noa Landau,  for being the partner of a Breaking the Silence activist.
In a subsequent Facebook post (Hebrew), Lapid apologized for his sexist remark, while doubling down on his criticism of Haaretz and Breaking the Silence (calling the latter a “dangerous organization”).
If pushing Israelis to end the occupation is viewed as 'dangerous', I can’t help but wonder how the alternative — another fifty years of this — is any less so.
Mira Sucharov is associate professor of political science at Carleton University in Ottawa. Follow her on Twitter: @sucharov
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>We’re American Jewish historians. This is why we’ve left Zionism behind</title>
<date>Mon Aug 01 16:45:50 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
Hasia Diner: The Israel I once loved was a naïve delusion
When I was asked to run as a delegate on the progressive Hatikva platform to the 2010 World Zionist Congress, I encountered my personal rubicon, the line I could not cross. I was required to sign the "Jerusalem Program." This statement of principles asked me to affirm that I believed in “the centrality of the State of Israel and Jerusalem as capital” for the Jewish people. It encouraged “Aliyah to Israel,” that is, the classic negation of the diaspora and as such the ending of Jewish life outside a homeland in Israel. 
The “Jerusalem Program” also asked me to declare that I wanted to see the “strengthening [of] Israel as a Jewish, Zionist and democratic state.” As to democratic, I had no problem, but the singular insistence on Israel as a Jewish and Zionist state made me realize that, at least in light of this document, I could not call myself a Zionist, any longer. Does Jewish constitute a race or ethnicity? Does a Jewish state mean a racial state?
The death of vast numbers of Jewish communities as a result of Zionist activity has impoverished the Jewish people, robbing us of these many cultures that have fallen into the maw of Israeli homogenization. The ideal of a religiously neutral state worked amazingly well for the millions of Jews who came to America. 
The socialist Zionism of the Habonim youth movement was central to my early years, providing my base during the 1970s when the Jewish settlement of the Occupied Territories began. I need not belabor the point that from that date on, the Palestinian land that has been expropriated for Jews has grown by leaps and bounds and that the tactics used by the State of Israel to suppress the Palestinians have grown harsher and harsher. 
Nor do I need to say that the exponential growth of far right political parties and the increasing Haredization of Israel, makes it a place that I abhor visiting, and to which I will contribute no money, whose products I will not buy, nor will I expend my limited but still to me, meaningful, political clout to support it. 
I have read too much about colonialism and racism to maintain what I now see as a naïve view, that only the events of June 1967 changed everything. The Israel that I loved, the one my parents embraced as the closest approximation to Eden on earth, itself had depended well before 1967 upon the expropriation of Arab lands and the expulsion of Arab populations. The Law of Return can no longer look to me as anything other than racism. I abhor violence, bombings, stabbings, or whatever hurtful means oppressed individuals resort to out of anger and frustration. And yet, I am not surprised when they do so, after so many decades of occupation, with no evidence of progress.
I feel a sense of repulsion when I enter a synagogue in front of which the congregation has planted a sign reading, “We Stand With Israel.” I just do not go and avoid many Jewish settings where I know Israel will loom large as an icon of identity. 
Marjorie N. Feld: The moment I began my reeducation
In all facets of my very Jewish upbringing I was immersed in Holocaust education. It was made absolutely clear to me that only Israel could prevent the concentration camps, right-wing anti-Semitism and genocide, from reappearing.  Friends and I travelled throughout Israel on a summer high school program in 1988, hitting the Jewish tourist spots (Masada, the Western Wall) that reinforced both Jewish nationalist triumphalism and the co-constitutive invisibility of Palestinians, their history, the violence and ethnic cleansing that created the Jewish state.  
I now call it my propaganda tour, but I learned this language only later. From non-Jews I met in liberal and left organizations in college, I first heard strong critiques of Zionism as Western colonialism, as a militarist project, as racism. Very smart friends of mine were articulating these critiques, and they made me terrifically uncomfortable.    A feminist scholar I met at a conference asked me directly if I considered myself a Zionist, and I gave an indirect answer. Her anger became palpable. She nearly shouted: “You’ve read Chomsky, haven’t you?” I had not yet read Noam Chomsky’s writings on Israel, I confessed. As I recall she turned away and didn’t speak to me again that evening. That might be hyperbole, or more likely my own sense of shame.  
I reeducated myself, stopping to look at all of the facts that I had bumped up against for years. The 1947 radio broadcast of the votes at the UN that declared the Jewish people had a home and would never face genocide again: I had listened to this recording and this interpretation dozens of times in the sites of my Jewish education. Now I interpreted it anew. The founding of Israel was the Nakba, the great catastrophe, for Palestinians, with ethnic cleansing, destruction, and no right of return.  
In short, I no longer found common ground with those who saw an anti-Semitic or anti-Zionist bent, or even conspiracy, on the left. I saw that that Israel fit neatly into my broader understanding of Western colonialism. How could Israel be the antidote to genocide when it was the product of imperialism and ethnic cleansing?  
Like Hasia, I often feel marginalized. I travel across several towns, driving past many other synagogues, to my synagogue precisely because I too refuse to enter to any institution that flies the “We Stand with Israel” banner. 
‘Before’ and ‘after’ Zionism in the U.S. Jewish community
Our journeys from “before” to “after” identifying with Zionism have been painful, and we’ve searched for allies and institutions. We have both found Jewish Studies a difficult space in which to criticize Israel, to stand against the Occupation or even Zionism. Though we certainly do not claim to speak for all American Jews, as scholars we know we are a part of something much larger, something that, we assert, should be shaking the foundation of American Jewish leaders. Closing down all conversations on Israel/Palestine, demonizing the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement, marginalizing or silencing those who dissent from the Zionist “consensus”:  there is a growing gap between these leaders and the people for whom they claim to speak. 
Hasia Diner is a professor of American Jewish history at New York University. She is the author of “We Remember with Reverence and Love: American Jews and the Myth of Silence after the Holocaust” (NYUP, 2010).
Marjorie N. Feld is professor of history at Babson College and the author of “Nations Divided:  American Jews and the Struggle over Apartheid” (Palgrave Macmillan, 2014). 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The dangerous fantasies of Jeffrey Goldberg</title>
<date>Wed Aug 03 19:04:02 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
Jeffrey Goldberg has a fantasy. Like every fantasy, it’s only loosely connected to reality. But don’t dare try to spoil it – he’s enjoying it too much.
Goldberg is an enlightened liberal, representing progressive American Jewry. He’s liberal, intellectual, Zionist (of course), a friend of Israel (of course), close to U.S. President Barack Obama and a highly regarded journalist. He is critical of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (who isn’t?) and has liberal, enlightened Israeli friends just like him.
In Goldberg’s fantasy, Israel is as enlightened as he is: liberal, democratic and just. Don’t you dare try casting doubt on that – Goldberg’s liberalism won’t tolerate it. He will praise freedom of expression in Israel, as he did at a Haaretz conference in Palo Alto last November, and will say that Israelis' freedom of the press and lively public debate is what makes Israel so popular in America. But from now on, it will have to be without Haaretz and the lively public debate it fosters about Zionism among Jewish Americans.
According to Goldberg, Haaretz is doing something unforgiveable: it’s shattering his fantasy. Because of an op-ed piece in which two American-Jewish historians explain why they’ve abandoned Zionism, as well as a piece of my own (“Yes, Israel is an evil state,” July 31), the liberal Goldberg has decided he’s had enough of Haaretz. He tweeted to his 107,000 Twitter followers that these sort of pieces make him sick. Neo-Nazis, he said, have been distributing my op-ed, so he was going to have to “take a break” from Haaretz.
I would love to know who those neo-Nazis are. After all, neo-Nazis and the radical right are now some of Israel’s best friends. Did Goldberg mean to say that BDS advocates are neo-Nazis? And besides, I’m not sure I understand. What, the pieces are true, but it’s only the way they’re used that angers Goldberg? Should they not be published because neo-Nazis disseminate them? Or are the articles not actually true?
Behind this lies the greatest boorishness of all: the rather primitive idea that Israel’s critics are the ones giving it a bad name, not its actions and policies. That criticism of Israel was born of articles in Haaretz, not the crimes of the occupation. The video footage released Tuesday showing a Border Policeman throwing the bike of a terrified Palestinian girl into the bushes in Hebron did more damage to Israel than all of my pieces in Haaretz combined. Goldberg probably thought it should never have been posted, because of the neo-Nazis.
You’re tired of Haaretz, Jeffrey? The Palestinians are far more tired of the occupation. They’d also like a break.
And now to the essence. Goldberg thinks a country that’s oppressing four million human beings is an enlightened state implementing the liberal values of the West. That a country that in its own backyard is maintaining one of the most brutal and tyrannical regimes that exist today – certainly in the Western world – and has been running an apartheid regime for nearly 50 years, is a democracy. Would Goldberg call his country a democracy if there was racist discrimination in the south?
No one is denying Goldberg his right to deceive himself and his readers. But the Goldbergs bear a heavy burden of guilt, because the occupation also continues because of them – those who spread the lie of Israeli democracy and its liberal nonsense. The smokescreen that Goldberg spreads in America allows it. He wants to continue enjoying Israel as long as it doesn’t harm the Reform movement or the Women of the Wall, while ignoring everything it does to the Palestinians.
Haaretz will manage without Goldberg, but Israel would be a different country without this newspaper. It would be a country that even propagandist Goldberg would be ashamed of, without journalism of substance and without real oversight. Who will cover the occupation? Channel 2? Or the asylum seekers – Yedioth Ahronoth? Who will write about the undermining of democracy? Israel Hayom?
That’s the country Goldberg would like to continue to fantasize about in Washington. Thanks, but we’re not interested.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. Jews must support Black Lives Matter, regardless of its platform's anti-Israel assertions</title>
<date>Wed Aug 10 15:52:10 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
Many in the Jewish community were justifiably outraged when the Movement for Black Lives, a coalition of dozens of organizations mobilizing for racial justice in America, made the libelous assertion in its recently published platform that Israel is an “apartheid state” perpetrating a “genocide” against the Palestinian people. There were feelings of confusion, disappointment, anger and even the hurt borne of betrayal. Some have called for an outright rejection of the Movement. Unless it changes course on this plank, these voices argue, they “can’t,” or, more accurately, won’t, support it. 
This approach is wrongheaded and counterproductive. First, to abandon the Movement for Black Lives is to abandon the Jewish responsibility to fight for equality. The Jewish tradition sees the equality of all human beings as a fundamental religious principle, as close to an axiom as the Jewish tradition gets. Central to our faith is the notion that there is only one God, an assertion religious Jews affirm twice daily when we recite the Shema. The belief in one God means that all human beings are brothers and sisters, sharing as we do the same Creator. In the Torah, this God, the God of all humanity, is depicted as loathing racism (Numbers 12:1-10) and demanding the creation of a society where minorities receive special protection (Exodus 23:9, et. al.) and are treated equally before the law (Num. 15:16). For Jews to cease fighting for racial justice is to jettison a core part of who we are, and who we are called to be. We must remember that we Jews stand for more than just the State of Israel.
A special love for the land and people of Israel is unquestionably a core part of the Jewish tradition, and is rightly central to the moral and spiritual consciousness of most contemporary American Jews. However, supporting and strengthening the Jewish state and its citizens is not incompatible with supporting and strengthening the Movement for Black Lives. It is not zero-sum. Despite what (some of) the authors of the platform might believe, one does not have to choose one value in order to advance the other. The platform has six demands in total, of which the portion dealing with Israel (or, more accurately, U.S. financial and military support for Israel) is found in one part of one demand, “Invest-Divest.” 
Surely one policy plank does not invalidate a whole platform. Divestment from Israel is not so central to the platform that one cannot plausibly support everything else in the platform except for that one plank. 
If that is true, one might ask, then why did the platform’s authors include divestment from Israel in the first place? And why use such incendiary language? Is it not a distraction from the fight for racial equality? Does it prove, in the words of Rabbi Dan Dorsch, that the way of the Black Lives Matter movement is not the way of Dr. Martin Luther King, and that Jews should not join with the Movement as they did with Dr. King in the 1960’s?
Well, no. Dr. King famously wrote in his “Letter from a Birmingham Jail” that “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.” In 1963, King advanced that line of argument to explain why he, an Atlanta pastor, was concerned with the treatment of blacks in Birmingham. But in 1967, King employed the same line of reasoning to argue why he, an American civil rights activist, was joining the fight against the war in Vietnam. In a speech at New York City’s Riverside Church  alongside Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel, King offered several reasons why his involvement in the antiwar movement was directly connected to his civil rights work. 
One reason was that the war effort diverted significant resources that could have been invested in the uplift of poor communities, both black and white. Another was that King felt he could not make a compelling case for non-violence in the pursuit of social change at home without speaking out against state-sanctioned violence in Vietnam. And, finally, King explained that he had to protest the war because of his common humanity - informed by his faith - with the people of Vietnam, caught up in and brutalized by decades of horrific war. He argued in that speech for a “genuine revolution of values,” for all nations to transcend provincial loyalty to cultivate “a worldwide fellowship that lifts neighborly concern beyond one's tribe, race, class, and nation is in reality a call for an all-embracing, unconditional love for all men.” 
If one adheres to Dr. King's philosophy and simultaneously believes that Israel is “an apartheid state” perpetuating a genocide against the Palestinian people, then American divestment from Israel is part and parcel of the struggle for civil rights at home, not a distraction. While I vehemently disagree with and am offended by that characterization of Israel, I understand the logic. 
But those of us who admire Dr. King and the Jewish leaders who stood with him and yet disagree with the authors’ premise about Israel still must fight for racial justice - as well as engage in an honest conversation about how American foreign policy impacts that fight - lest we betray everything that Dr. King and his Jewish allies stood for. 
And those who feel the platform’s assertions about Israel are too dangerous to be disregarded can actively fight against those who seek to advance its attendant policies in the arenas where those policies are being debated. But even that course of action does not prevent one from aligning with the Movement for Black Lives on every other issue, nor does it absolve one of the responsibility to fight for equality.
And make no mistake: Jews who are serious about the fight for racial equality in America should ally themselves with an organized movement - rather than advocate for justice independently - because the cause will only be effective through organized effort, strength in numbers, and “political will and power,” as the platform puts it. Ironically, this point should be obvious to American Jews. After all, the fight for a strong U.S.-Israel relationship is only achieved through the organized effort, strength in numbers, and political power of groups like AIPAC. 
As was the case in the 1960’s, the Jewish community has the strength to help make the Movement for Black Lives a success. Abandoning it makes it more likely to fail, and any of us alone are unlikely to rectify centuries of systematic injustice. We Jews  ought to be allies with those who fight for equality and dignity, for that is our fight, too.
Rabbi Michael Knopf is the Rabbi of Temple Beth-el in Richmond, Virginia, and is a Clal-Rabbis Without Borders Fellow. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiKnopf

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ignore what Black Lives Matter says about Israel</title>
<date>Thu Aug 18 16:04:24 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
The brouhaha about Black Lives Matter’s platform and what it says about Israel, says a lot more about Jews than it says about American blacks, or about relations between the two communities.
The platform, issued almost three weeks ago, does devote a disproportionate about of attention to Israel, and what it does say, is objectionable to most Jews and Israelis. Israel is committing “genocide” against Palestinians, it’s an “apartheid” regime and bulldozes Palestinian homes to make way for settlements.
The $3 billion in U.S. aid Israel gets annually gets as much word count in the platform as all other defense spending. Egypt gets almost as much money, but as far Black Lives Matter is concerned, Egypt’s only sin is being an “ally” of Israel.
But Israel is just a minor – albeit prominently minor – part of a platform that addresses a whole range of issues far beyond its remit. It delves deeply into climate change on the flimsy pretext that blacks are among the “most affected” by its consequences. It condemns the War on Terror and valiantly struggles to make it into black issue by exaggerating U.S. military activity in Africa, even though the war is being fought primarily in the Middle East, and has nothing to do with police misbehavior towards American blacks.
It calls for universal healthcare, free education through college (and oddly enough, good cafeteria food) and reparations as compensation for the suffering of American slaves – all things way for the political agenda for mainstream America, which can barely even stomach Obamacare.
What it doesn’t mention
The Black Lives Matter platform is a document of the American left that ignores the needs, interest and concerns of the people in whose name it purports to be speaking.
It is hostile to Israel not because the Israel-Palestine dispute has any bearing on the lives of African Americans or because African Americans as a group dislike Israel, or identify with the Palestinians. It is hostile to Israel because it Israel is a top agenda item for the American left.
The left’s predominance is evident in the vocabulary the platform employs, terms like “colonialism,” ”the American empire”  and “patriarchy,” which go down well in college sociology departments and among community activists, but hardly speak to the broad, much less black, American population.  
Thus, like Donald Trump’s pronouncements on undocumented Mexican immigrants, Hillary Clinton and his business acumen, the Black Lives Matter platform doesn’t deal in facts but in articulating a worldview, highly defined and ideologically driven in this case. Facts are messy things that have to be hammered into shape to fit in with the theory.
Let’s take a real issue that might have concerned Black Lives Matter vis a vis Israel, namely Israel’s treatment of African refugees.
But it doesn’t merit attention is because it doesn’t get a lot of international media attention and isn’t on the left’s agenda, which is busy enough with Israel’s other crimes.
Let’s say Black Lives Matter had addressed the issue in a real and forthright way, without ideological blinders. It could have justifiably pointed out how Israel has blocked its borders, herded refugees into camps, and abused and mistreated them.
But if the movement was going to seriously address the issue, it would have to asking why Africans are fleeing Africa to begin with, how they are treated along the way by their fellow Africans and by Egypt, how other Africans on the way to Europe are abused by Arab countries and how they are herded into camps and abused by their European hosts.
But that’s much too complicated, no good for slogans and doesn’t fit the template of white oppression and the blameless suffering of blacks. Better just to point out Israel’s sins
The reality is that American blacks aren’t hostile to Israel or identify with Palestinians. A 2013 Pew survey found that about 44% of black Protestants, for instance, strongly sympathized with Israel, which was 20 points lower than for all American but a rate far higher than the 12% who sympathize with Palestinians.
One commentator on the poll said blacks’ pro-Israel feeling are linked to their Christian beliefs  – the same poll found that 51% of black Protestants believe Israel was given to the Jewish people by God – but you won’t find a word about Christian values in the Black Lives Matter platform, because it’s of no interest to its framers.
Ignore the Black Lives Matter platform. It has no resonance with African Americans and will have a shelf life of a few months before everyone forgets it.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>If Trump wins, we could see the worst of U.S.-Israel ties on steroids</title>
<date>Mon Aug 22 15:01:31 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
It is easy, perhaps too easy, to harp on the absurdities of how American politics relate to Israel. It is the satirical material of popular political shows, such as “The West Wing,” in which fictional President Josiah Bartlet once considered framing and mounting a map of the Holy Land from 1709 and got dressed down by staffers: “People would be offended – the map does not recognize Israel.”
In the current election, reality makes fictional scriptwriters seem unimaginative: drafting the Democratic platform became a Basil Fawlty-like exercise in not mentioning the occupation, while Republican candidate Donald Trump has encouraged settlement building and accused the Obama administration of treating Israel as a second-class citizen (blessed, indeed, is the second-class citizen who receives more military assistance than any other country, bar none). 
Setting aside disbelief for a moment, imagine the following scenario. Despite the compelling and mounting evidence of the doomed nature of the Trump candidacy – even after the recent launch of his campaign among Americans exiled in Israel – the Donald wins and is sworn in as America's 45th president on January 20, 2017.
President Trump then sets out to govern based on the positions – or at least sound bites – he has espoused during the campaign, including those about banning Muslims, building a wall with Mexico and Israel’s right to expand settlements.
Likewise, senior echelons of the Trump administration are staffed by some of those who have spoken as his advisers on Israel affairs (these include a president of the American Friends of the Beit El settlement, who has compared J Street to “Kapos during the Nazi regime” and a former settler who boasts of not having met any Palestinians since his time as a yeshiva student in the settlements during the 1980s).
Then imagine that the collection of national-security pronouncements (a mixture of America First, chauvinism and pivoting away from friends toward certain foes) become policies sustainable throughout a significant chunk of a Trump administration’s tenure.
America's closest allies, including in NATO and in Asia, are put on notice that they must demonstrate their usefulness to America and pay their way. With one notable exception, Israel.
America’s global commitments are radically downsized. Again, with one exception, Israel, for whom America will continue to jump through every hoop in every international forum and to deploy whatever is deemed necessary to defend that state – militarily, politically and economically.
The entire scenario is far-fetched, not least its opening premise of a Trump election victory – yet the GOP has nominated Trump, the candidate and his advisers have taken these positions and this election is being treated as a serious contest.
What, then, would the consequences be were this scenario to unfold? The effects of a Trump administration’s specific brand of pro-Israelism would likely accelerate – perhaps dramatically – two trends already in motion.
The first is occurring inside the United States, and involves the shifting political terrain regarding Israel. Evidence already exists as to the difficulties of sustaining uncritical bipartisan support of every Israeli policy.
Could that notion survive the unprecedented polarizing effect of a Trump administration, in which Israeli occupation policies – building separation walls, racial profiling, appeals to ethnocracy over democracy (the shared Netanyahu/Trump playbook) – are closely identified as Trump values?
The Donald's particular brand of pro-Israel exceptionalism will be hard for many who are traditionally sympathetic to Israel to stomach – more so even than Netanyahu’s foray’s into partisan U.S. politics.
More strident critiques of the U.S.-Israel relationship are likely to become part of the mainstream anti-Trump narrative. The potential impact among Democrats and non-Trump Republicans should not be underestimated.
The second trend likely to be put on steroids under a Trump presidency is the ascendancy of the Israeli far right’s claim that its policies can be implemented even while Israel benefits from American and international support.
The key political fault line in Israel today is not between left and right, but rather between rightists calling for the precipitous annexation of the West Bank and realization of the vision of Greater Israel versus those arguing for continued but incrementalist territorial expansion and Palestinian dispossession.
That distinction – between the extreme and pragmatic right – may seem semantic, but it matters a great deal. The pragmatic right is more cautious, more democratic and includes elements open to compromise under certain circumstances.
The debate in Israel long ago abandoned issues of morality, international law or even values, and has become increasingly focused on two simple themes: demographics, and whether there are any limits, internationally, to Israeli impunity.
The more it has been proven that Israel can get away with anything at minimal or no cost internationally, the more extreme Israeli politics and policies have, unsurprisingly, become.
If an American administration were to shift from timidly opposing to openly embracing a permanent Israeli apartheid system for managing the Palestinians, then the demographic issue is also resolved, with Palestinian enfranchisement off the agenda indefinitely.
There is a school of thought in certain leftist circles that welcomes the clarifying and polarizing impact of a prospective Trump presidency. That is the logic of the “Bernie or Bust” crew, those Sanders supporters who refuse to back Hillary Clinton. Their so-called theory of change can also be applied to the Israel-Palestine issue.
In reality, that prospect is terrifying, not least for those who are ultimately supposed to benefit from this “clarity.” If Trump’s pronouncements are not to be taken seriously, then the candidacy itself is not serious.
And if the Republican nominee means what he says, then let's not pretend this is politics as usual. Choices have consequences – sometimes decidedly ill-advised ones.
Daniel Levy is the President of the U.S. / Middle East Project, based in New York and London and served until recently as Middle East and North Africa Director at the European Council on Foreign Relations.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS is a lot of things, but it's not anti-Semitic</title>
<date>Wed Sep 21 21:51:01 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
The charge of racism has become a useful way to shoot down substantive debate. Donald Trump certainly has felt its sting, as did Brexit voters, both after raising legitimate questions about the economic impact of globalization only to find themselves bombarded with accusations of bigotry and hate.
Israel is also often charged with racism, and with apartheid in recent years, on top of more traditional crimes of colonialism and imperialism.  It’s no surprise that “Israeli apartheid” has become the clarion call of the boycott, sanctions and divestment movement  -- it hits the racism button so hard.
How ironic then that pro-Israel groups are throwing back the racism charge at BDS itself. The argument is that regardless of whether BDS portrays itself as pro-Palestinian or as a champion of human rights, the very essence of the movement – promoting a boycott of Israel – is by nature anti-Semitic, because it singles out Israel for punishment.
Leftists charged with racism
The anti-Semitism charge is a serious business. No one wants to be openly associated with any kind of racism – certainly not the movement’s rank-and-file leftists.
But there is even a bigger problem. If BDS is really anti-Semitic or even anti-Israeli businesses and institutions would be in violation of anti-discrimination laws. And if that's the case, any business complying with  BDS would be at risk of being sued.
The BDS-as-racism campaign is gaining momentum, at least in the U.S. Just last week the New York City Council passed a resolution condemning BDS for, among other things, its “unacceptable anti-Semitic rhetoric”. A dozen or so U.S. states have passed anti-BDS legislation, and a key U.S. trade bill approved by Congress last year includes anti-BDS provisions.  All of this is only possible because the only good excuse for impinging on people’s rights to boycott products or services as they see fit is that it is motivated by racism.
But is the BDS movement anti-Semitic, or even anti-Israeli?
Not going by its official BDS website, where you won't find anything self-evidently anti-Semitic. The word “Jew” doesn’t appear, and a section is devoted to defending the movement against charges of anti-Semitism.
Its criticism of Israel is intense and uncomfortable to read, even if you know a lot of it is over the top, but the official movement steers carefully clear from stereotyping Israelis, and speaks only of the culpability of Israeli institutions for the Palestinian plight.
That’s the website, which no doubt is carefully vetted to make sure the movement stays on message. Grassroots BDS is another matter.
Magnet for haters
As Trump and Brexit campaigners know, once you start raising issues like immigration, you’re going to attract the haters.
You might legitimately think mass immigration is bad for the economy, but if you do, you’re going to find your allies are people who just don’t like foreigners.
BDS is in the same boat: People who are legitimately outraged by Israel’s behavior are going to find themselves at rallies shoulder to shoulder with people who don’t like Jews.
Anti-BDS activists argue that by singling out Israel, even the best-intentioned BDSers are ipso facto discriminating against Israelis. They correctly argue there are a lot of places in the world where human rights are being violated and/or are under occupation. Why pick on Israel, unless you don’t like Jews? 
That is because BDS is a one-issue group, and its issue in Israel. To say that it should be mounting campaigns against Syria, Zimbabwe or Iran before it tackles Israel isn’t fair and realistic. That would be like accusing the 1970s-era struggle for Soviet Jewry of being anti-Russian because it ignored oppression in elsewhere in the world or saying the American Lyme Disease Foundation has no business raising money that should go to fighting cancer.
The anti-Semitism charge is tempting to many who find BDS’s virulent anti-Israel posture unsettling and unjust. Not a few activists in the movement have dubious motives and its anti-Israel campaign often strays into dark areas, as when the filmmaker Shimon Dotan was disinvited from a Syracuse University film festival apparently for no other reason than that he is Israeli. But the charge is unproven. There are quite enough exaggerations or outright falsehoods perpetuated by BDS. Fight them on that and leave the anti-Semitism alone.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Was Shimon Peres a man of peace?</title>
<date>Wed Sep 28 21:01:15 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
He was my private political instructor for four years, day and night. He didn’t act like a teacher, but I learned a lot from him, about what to do, but also what not to do. I was very young, and he was already Shimon Peres. We parted with mixed feelings. 
He was the last of the old-time Israelis. What’s “Israeli” to you? Once it was Shimon Peres. Now Miri Regev represents Israeliness much more than he does. But when Israel still wanted to be portrayed as a peace-seeking nation, it had Peres.
Read more on Shimon Peres: Peres pursued peace for sake of Israel's values, and Palestinians' dignity | Hawk to dove, pro-settlements to pro-peace: Shimon Peres was it all | The countless contradictions of the late and great Shimon Peres | Obama, world leaders mourn Peres | Shimon Peres, the eternal immigrant | Peres' quixotic battle for Israeli-Palestinian peace | Drop the kitsch: Shimon Peres had a dark side, too | Peres, 1923-2016: an interactive timeline
When it was still important for it to be accepted – Peres. When saying one had been a shepherd was still respectable – Peres. When speaking of books was still admired – Peres. When at least a semblance of enlightenment and modesty was still important – Peres. It was a different country. He died yesterday, but that Israel died long ago. It’s not certain that it was as lovely as we tend to describe it.
His Israel was a country of great achievements, but also of shadows and lies. One cannot crown him a wondrous figure, as the whole world is doing now, without also describing his country. If Peres was a hero of peace, then the State of Israel is a peace-seeking country. Is anybody buying that? One cannot call it an occupier, a dispossessor, a pariah, while calling Peres a giant of peace.
If Israel is on the verge of a moral abyss, then Peres had a part in that. If it’s a country en route to apartheid, he was a founding partner.
The state was Peres and Peres was the state, at least to some extent. He was a fixture of the landscape for all those years and in all those positions. Look at him and you see us.
We so want peace but are doing so little to achieve it. He was the country’s pretty face but also misleading. Israelis are remembering him fondly now; how wonderful it is that we had such a man. Those world leaders who will be coming to his funeral tomorrow will also effusively praise his contribution to peace.
But what peace? The man gave us the Dimona reactor and the 1956 Sinai Operation, Upper Nazareth and Ofra, Israel Military Industries and Israel Aerospace Industries – so how much peace (and justice) did he really bring, and how much occupation and settlements?
There’s no doubt that he wanted peace and worked for it. But he stopped halfway by ignoring the settlement issue during the Oslo process, and there are no half-paths to peace. It’s not just the right that’s responsible for that failure.
He was an impressive man.  His span of knowledge was broader than most of his contemporaries, as was his personal charm. We never had a more curious and stylish politician, nor a better conversationalist. I’ll go further; he was also an honest man, certainly no less than his colleagues. And no one could talk about peace the way he did; even Mahatma Ghandi spoke about it less. 
Back in the late 1970s, Peres was already saying in every speech, “It’s impossible to rule over another people against its will.” It moved me then. But during the ensuing decades when he was at the helm, that sentence remained in party speeches. What did he do to end the occupation? He contributed a great deal to Israel – to its security, to its prosperity – but not to its justice. So just don’t say he was a man of peace. 
He wanted peace. Who doesn’t? But the truth must be told, even in difficult moments; he never perceived the Palestinians as equal to Jews, and certainly not as having equal rights.
After years in the company of David Ben-Gurion perhaps it was too difficult to formulate a different approach. Human rights and international law didn’t interest him, and Palestinian suffering didn’t move him. 
When U.S. President Barack Obama praises him tomorrow as a man of peace, one will get the sneaking suspicion that he may be Peres’ spitting image. How pleasant it is to praise Peres.
Because above all else, Peres was the champion of the Israeli desire to “go with and feel without.” Of saying how terrific we are. Now there isn’t even anyone left to say it.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Shimon Peres was one Holocaust-era Jew whom anti-Semitism didn't scare </title>
<date>Thu Sep 29 19:35:36 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
By the time you read this column, I’m pretty sure you will have read and heard enough Shimon Peres quotes over the last few days to last you a while. But I’m going to give you one more all the same. As president, he naturally met hundreds of delegations of Diaspora Jews and whenever, as often happens in such meetings, they brought up the issue of anti-Semitism, he refused to dwell on it. “Anti-Semitism,” he told them, “is no longer a problem for the Jews. It is a problem for the goyim.” He was pretty special among Israeli politicians, who love to go on about how Jews abroad face hatred, in disregarding it is a threat. And of course he was right.
No one could accuse the Polish-born Peres – whose family members not fortunate enough to have emigrated before the Holocaust were all wiped out – of not being aware of the worst the outside world could do to the Jews. But in his pragmatic and forward-looking worldview, he appreciated the fact that in today’s world, where nearly all the Jews live in prosperous Western countries, when anti-Semitism does appear, it’s no longer the Jews who have to be worried. Irrational hatred of Jews, and of Israel, is a sign of ignorance among individuals and dysfunction of groups and societies.
Read more on Shimon Peres: Peres pursued peace for sake of Israel's values, and Palestinians' dignity | Hawk to dove, pro-settlements to pro-peace: Shimon Peres was it all | The countless contradictions of the late and great Shimon Peres | Obama, world leaders mourn Peres | Shimon Peres, the eternal immigrant | Peres' quixotic battle for Israeli-Palestinian peace | Drop the kitsch: Shimon Peres had a dark side, too | Peres, 1923-2016: an interactive timeline
Peres recognized how the status of Jews changed in his lifetime as they became fully integrated and well-adjusted citizens, while the obsessive Jew-haters and “anti-Zionists” were now the misfits, relegated to the margins. It wasn’t only his assessment of the world we live in today – it was also an integral part of his self-confidence and optimistic outlook. He knew that the Jewish state would ultimately prosper as part of the international community because successful countries could only be those that treated Jews with respect.
For proof that on this, at least, Peres was 100% correct, you only have to look at any serious assessment of contemporary anti-Semitism. The headlines may tell you that anti-Semitism is on the rise but actually, looking at the data, actual physical attacks upon Jews have never been lower. Where we find anti-Semitism is on the internet and social networks like Twitter. And it’s clear where it’s coming from. In the United States it’s coming from the neo-fascist “alt-right” element of the Trump campaign. In Britain from the cranks of the far-left Corbynist cult who have taken over what was once a proud, anti-racist Labour Party and from the xenophobes of the Brexit movement. On the European continent it’s coming from resurgent nationalists on the right who are trying to take Europe back to a darker age, and frustrated immigrants who have only learned the worst traditions of their new home countries and are blaming their situation on Jewish bankers. Further afield it is being fueled by Russian trolls and bizarre conspiracy theorists who populate propaganda channels like Russia Today and Iran’s Press TV. And it’s coming from Islamic dictatorships.
Of course it’s unpleasant to read or hear any of the tripe coming from these places, but it’s about as harmful to Jews as the ravings of a lunatic. And of course there’s no coincidence that it’s coming out of troubled societies, political parties who have lost their way as well as unfortunate and, quite frankly, backward communities. History has naturally conditioned us to be alarmed when we hear Jews being blamed for the world’s problems (or Israel being used as an excuse for the woes of the Middle East). But Peres was right in pointing out that in this day and age, anti-Semitism is no longer about the Jews. It’s just another symptom of an illness affecting some groups and societies. It afflicts the weak and those susceptible to conspiracy theories and other forms of quackery. It may once have been fashionable but if you see anti-Semitism and irrational hatred of Israel anywhere today, you know that in those same places liberal democracy is hated as well. And that science and experts are disregarded and the “mainstream media” distrusted.
Following on Ben-Gurion
Shimon Peres’ philosophical outlook on anti-Semitism was the natural continuation of his mentor David Ben-Gurion’s famous exhortation that “it doesn’t matter what the goyim say. It matters what the Jews do.” Their point was that often, focusing too much on what our haters say about us is the real problem. It diverts our time, attention and resources from building our own society and fixing its flaws.
There is of course one flaw in the Peres philosophy. In being prepared to overlook anti-Semitism as an internal illness that doesn’t really affect the Jews anymore, he was also too willing to overlook the injustices committed by countries and governments he dealt with. He championed defense ties with apartheid-era South Africa, lobbied against recognizing Turkey’s genocide of the Armenians, and in more recent years had much too friendly relations with Putin’s Russia. Only last month he gave an interview to the Kremlin’s Russia Today channel defending Putin’s intentions in Syria. It wasn’t one of his proudest moments and it’s sad that one of his last interviews was with a news organization that routinely hosts anti-Semites and Holocaust-deniers. It would be too easy to put it down to the vanity of an old man, but Peres was always of the view that Israel cannot choose its allies. Still, learning from someone also means learning from his mistakes.
Peres was right: Anti-Semitism is a sign of a society’s ills, not something the Jews need to do something about. But it also means that the other side of the coin is that Jews and the Jewish state can only be secure for long in an environment of democracy. Peres argued that Israel was secure enough to make concessions to its neighbors for peace. If that is true, then it should be secure enough to recognize injustices where they exist. Secure enough for a long-term commitment to democracy over the convenient pragmatism of allying with dictatorships.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel's national puppet theater heads to settlements</title>
<date>Wed Oct 26 12:06:18 IDT 2016</date>
<content>
There’s nothing new in the desire of the settlers, Israeli citizens living in territories that are not the country’s sovereign territory, to normalize their residence there, one way being through their demand that cultural institutions supported by public funds perform for them in their communities.
For that purpose several cultural centers were built there, which can accommodate complete shows.
Nor is there anything new about the fact that the Israeli government is promoting the appearance of “normalization” in a situation that is far from normal, in occupied territories, where in effect there is an apartheid policy:
One population enjoys full rights while another lives under conditions of oppression. Culture and Sports Minister Miri Regev (Likud) even signed regulations recently that enable her ministry to punish cultural institutions by denying them a part of their budget for not performing in the country’s periphery, and to provide incentives for those performing only in settlements.
Until now few plays by the supported public theaters were performed in the cultural centers of the settlements, and the managements of those theaters made sure that there would be substitutes for the few theater people who refused to perform there for reasons of conscience.
Since this activity is relatively marginal, they have refrained as far as possible from publishing declarations on the subject. At the same time, there is a considerable group of artists opposed to performing in the territories, and in addition there is evidence that such performances damage the foreign relations of Israeli theater.
What’s new in the case of the scheduled performance by the Habima National Theater in the cultural center of Kiryat Arba - a place that has become a symbol of the injustices of the occupation and the settlements - is the declaration published by the theater on the subject.
For the first time, the management of a public theater is publishing a declaration that also links the fact that it is a “national” theater to the idea that “we are interested in continuing to provide high-quality culture to all the citizens of Israel,” and also “rejects with repugnance any call to exclude citizens and to exclude communities, and condemns any attempt at a cultural boycott in any place where Israeli citizens live.”
In 1958 one reason why Habima received the title “national” from the Israeli government was to enable the government to provide financial support.
For over 20 years the theater has been mired in a financial and artistic crisis, and receives regular and special financial assistance, contrary to the rules of proper administration, as the State Comptroller remarked in a severe report.
The culture and sports minister recently established a committee to examine the significance of the “national” aspect of the theater, and she is regularly invited to its debut performances where she delivers speeches.
It’s clear that the theater is totally dependent upon the good graces of the government and the minister, even if its directors had a viewpoint regarding the morality of the settlements.
The fact that the government and the settlers are using culture and its institutions to put a kosher stamp on a politically and morally unacceptable situation is another expression of the self-righteous policy of “robbed Cossacks.”
The Habima management’s provocative consent to this is a moral stain worthy of condemnation.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Whitewashing apartheid</title>
<date>Fri Nov 18 02:08:29 IST 2016</date>
<content>
The creativity of the Justice Ministry knows no bounds when it comes to trying to whitewash the crimes of the settlements. After the shameful vote on the unconstitutional law to retroactively legalize illegal settlements, which although it passed its preliminary vote in the Knesset is destined to be struck down in court, the attorney general and the justice minister are seeking alternatives to retroactively legalize outposts. Their efforts are intended to legitimize not only the outposts, but the apartheid rule in the territories.
One of the proposals is to declare settlers a “local population,” in an area defined as under military occupation. This declaration has many problems, but even if it could be accepted, in the end it would define both populations – Jewish and Palestinian – as “local populations” in an occupied zone.
 By this definition would it be possible to take lands from one population at the expense of another?  That is, could lands be taken from Jews to benefit the Palestinians? Would the laws that are applied to the Palestinian local population, including military law, be applied to the settlers, with both groups judged by the same courts and according to the same laws?
Since the answer to this question is no, defining the settlers as a “local population,” will only continue a long process of creating apartheid rule. Because if these are “local” populations, why should they be subject to different legal systems and why should they not have equal rights, including granting Palestinians the right to vote in elections in Israel?
Over the years, the High Court of Justice has refused to touch the hot potato of the settlements’ legality. Rather, it has ruled that as long as settlers are living in the territories, their needs have to be met like the needs of any person living in a certain place. But what does that have to do with taking private Palestinian lands on which to build or expand the settlements?
The Justice Ministry’s reliance on a  controversial arrangement, used in Cyprus, is nothing more than a superfluous,  damaging and manipulative action. The best solution for Israel is the two-state solution. The other possibility – granting full civil rights and equality before the law for Jews and Palestinians – would mean the end of the Jewish state. The third possibility is called apartheid.

</content>
</article>
