<article>
<title>2009: A woman who didn’t embarrass South Africa dies</title>
<date>Thu Jan 01 06:00:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	On January 1, 2009, Helen Suzman, who in her 36 years in the South African parliament fought for the peaceful overthrow of apartheid, died at the age of 91.
	During an especially difficult 13-year period, Suzman was her Progressive Party’s only serving member. (For six of those years, she was also the only woman in the lower house of parliament, the House of Assembly.) But she persisted, enduring the condescending and sometimes racist and anti-Semitic comments of her colleagues, and retired only when it was clear that the battle against apartheid was over.
	Helen Gavronsky was born on November 7, 1917, in Germiston, a small mining town outside Johannesburg. Her parents, Samuel Gavronsky and the former Frieda David, were Lithuanian Jews who came to South Africa in the early years of the 20th century. Frieda died two weeks after Helen, her second daughter, was born.
	Samuel, a prosperous meat merchant, remarried when Helen was 9 and the family moved to Parktown, a comfortable Johannesburg suburb.
	The Suzmans were traditional in their Jewish observance, though Helen attended the Parktown Convent school.
	Helen began studying economics and statistics at the University of the Witwatersrand in 1934. Three years later, at 19, she dropped out and married Moses Meyer Suzman, a cardiologist 13 years her senior. They had two daughters and remain together until his death, in 1994.
 For the people with no vote
	After returning to and graduating from Witwatersrand, Suzman worked as a statistician at the War Supplies Board. In 1945 she began teaching economic history at Wits, a job she held until she entered parliament in 1953.
	Her entrée into politics was sparked by her research for a government commission examining the economic conditions of the black African population. When the National Party came to power, in 1948, and South Africa formally adopted a policy of racial separation, Suzman became involved in the United Party, then the official opposition, in the hope of fostering change.
	In 1953, Suzman entered the House of Assembly, representing the Johannesburg district of Houghton. She also became what she later described as an “honorary ombudsman for all those people who have no vote and no Member of Parliament” — that is, for all non-white South Africans.
	In her commitment to using democratic means only to end apartheid, Suzman differed from the African National Congress, led by Nelson Mandela, which was willing to use violence. From 1967 she was a regular visitor to the imprisoned Mandela, who was released only in 1990 and who told a reporter that “this courageous woman” was the “first and only woman ever to grace our cells.”
 No egg on her face
	In 1959, with the United Party becoming more supportive of apartheid, Suzman and 11 other MPs broke away to form the Progressive Party. (In 1977, after merging with the Reform Party, it became the Progressive Federal Party.) From 1961 to 1974, Suzman was the party’s only MP.
	She used her status — and immunity from prosecution — as a legislator to badger the government and keep the facts of apartheid in the public eye. When one cabinet minister chided her in parliament for her regular inquiries, saying, “You put these questions just to embarrass South Africa overseas,” Suzman famously replied, “It is not my question that embarrasses South Africa — it is your answers.”
	Suzman never saw herself as a spokesman for the Jews, but was open and proud of her Jewish heritage and supportive of Israel. But she was critical of the organized Jewish community for the refusal of its Board of Deputies to take a stand against apartheid.
	In 1989, when it became clear that the country’s new president, Frederik W. de Klerk, was ready to take the necessary steps to end apartheid, Suzman, then 71, announced her retirement from politics. Over the next 20 years, before her death on this day in 2009, she remained active in public life and did not hesitate to criticize the ruling ANC when she judged its conduct to be illegal or undemocratic.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Aboriginal leader identifies with Jewish suffering on Holocaust Day </title>
<date>Thu Jan 29 16:54:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	On the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Jews from the Auschwitz death camp, the chairman of Australia's first and largest community-controlled Aboriginal health service expressed his people's identification with "the injustice wrought on the Jewish community," the organization announced.
	“Aboriginal leader William Cooper was advocating for the rights of Jews long before other many Australians – including, to our shame, our government - began to lend support to the Jewish cause,” said Sol Bellear, chairman of the Aboriginal Medical Service Redfern. “The reason why was simple: William Cooper and many of his contemporaries knew then, just as Aboriginal people still know today, how the sting of persecution and oppression feels. That’s why William Cooper began speaking up in the 1930s, and it’s why Aboriginal people today still speak up.”
	Israel has honored Cooper for his Israel advocacy on several occasions, planting trees in his honor at the Forest of the Martyrs and honoring his memory at the Yad VaShem Holocaust Museum.
	“The Liberation of Jewish people from Auschwitz is a very important moment in world history, and the Aboriginal Medical Service Redfern acknowledges its importance not only to our own community, but to the broader Australian community,” Bellear said.
	He said Aboriginal Australians, despite never being afforded their own self-determination, had a long history of confronting injustice, such as protesting against Apartheid South Africa.
	“Bad things happen when good people stay silent, and the history of Aboriginal people advocating for the oppressed is long and well established, and that’s something for which everyone in the Aboriginal community should be rightly proud,” added Bellear.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Durban university student council issues call to expel Jewish students</title>
<date>Thu Feb 12 20:00:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	The student council at the Durban University of Technology has called on the South African school to expel all Jewish students, particularly those who don't back the Palestinian cause, according to press reports in the country.
	“As the SRC, we had a meeting and analyzed international politics," the council secretary, Mqondisi Duma, was quoted by Independent Online and other outlets as saying.
	"We took the decision that Jewish students, especially those who do not support the Palestinian struggle, should deregister.”
	The university's vice chancellor, Ahmed Bawa, said in a statement quoted by the South African Jewish Report that the demand was "totally preposterous, unjust, unfair, unreasonable and unconstitutional.
	"It’s in violation of our values and principles. [The university] does not discriminate against any person based on their race, religion, color, ethnicity, sexual orientation or political affiliation.”
	Jewish groups also weighed in on the student-council request.
	Independent Online quoted the chairwoman of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, Mary Kluk, as saying she was “appalled,” and Natan Pollack, national chairman of the South African Union of Jewish Students, as calling the proposal “deplorable."
	On his Facebook page, Duma posted a statement from the student council, saying that the panel "apologizes without reservation to any one offended by recent demands made by us regarding Jewish students."
	He then said that the council wished to "clarify that our position is, in fact, that Israel is an Apartheid, genocidal and terrorist State and that in solidarity with our Palestinian people who are currently oppressed and colonized by Israel we demand that ANY student Jewish, Muslim, Christian even Atheist or any other that is funded by the Apartheid State of Israel and its institutions must not be students in DUT, and if there are any, they must be immediately de-registered.
	"Our campuses will not be breeding grounds for Apartheid.
	"The SRC at DUT furthermore ... has adopted a full and complete cultural and academic boycott of Israel in line with the international boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) against Israel movement." 
	Durban was the reference point of three conferences on racism, in 2001 in Durban, 2009 in Geneva and 2011 in New York. The conventions were criticized for promoting anti-Semitism.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African BDS protesters threaten to kill Jews</title>
<date>Tue Mar 10 17:16:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
Johannesburg, SOUTH AFRICA — Protesters chanted anti-Semitic slogans and threatened to kill Jews outside a South African Zionist Federation event in Johannesburg on Sunday. “You think this is Israel, we are going to kill you!” and “You Jews do not belong here in South Africa!” supporters of the BDS movement shouted in front of the Sandton Convention Centre, where the South Africa-Israel Expo and a federation conference was being held. They were joined by protesters in African National Congress and South African Communist Party T-shirts. Together, they disrupted traffic in the city’s business and financial center.
ANC officials and figures from the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement took turns addressing the crowd from atop a small truck protest organizers had parked outside the convention hall.
“At one point a man got on the truck and said that as a Jew he was calling on other Jews to stop apartheid in Palestine,” a man who said he had come from Pretoria to attend the trade expo told Haaretz, adding, “The protesters were pushing security staff stationed outside the conference center. It was shocking.”
Security officers blocking the main entrance directed people leaving the event to exit through the attached shopping mall, out of concern for their safety.
It is “every South African citizen’s constitutional right to attend events of our choosing without fear of intimidation,” the South African Jewish Board of Deputies said in a statement.
“From the outset, it was clear that the aim of the demonstration, in the protesters’ own words, was to ‘shut down Sandton’ and ensure ‘no Zionist conference be held on our soil,’” board of deputies chairwoman Mary Kluk said, adding, “When their attempts at doing so failed, it became apparent that the rally was nothing more than a front to stoke up Jew-hatred in South Africa.”
The national coordinator of BDS South Africa, Muhammed Desai, told Haaretz that claims the protesters made anti-Semitic remarks were “utter nonsense.”
“Typical of the board of deputies to play the anti-Semitism card,” Desai said. “If there was any anti-Semitism it should have been reported to local authorities. That the board hasn’t lodged any complaints shows their bluff. They are trying to distract from the fact that they are defending an apartheid Israeli regime.”
The event marked the end of Israeli Apartheid Week, which saw several events organized by BDS and affiliate groups at South African university campuses and other venues.
Last week, an address by prominent Palestinian human rights activist Bassem Eid at the University of Johannesburg, organized by the South African Union of Jewish Students, was forced to end early due to BDS protesters, according to the board of deputies.
Eid, a vocal critic of BDS and Israeli Apartheid Week, is the founder and executive director of the Palestinian Human Rights Monitoring Group. He was escorted to safety by campus security officers after students climbed onto the stage; one stuck his fingers into Eid’s nose.
In a video clip, posted to the Stop the BDS Facebook page, a Muslim student who attended the event registered her shock and disgust with the behavior and messages of the BDS protesters in the audience. “These people are not Muslims, they are barbarians,” cried the young woman, who wore hijab.
Laundering Jew-hatred
 
Canadian MP and human rights lawyer Irwin Cotler, who was active in the struggle against apartheid in South Africa and represented Natan Sharansky, now the chairman of the Jewish Agency for Israel, while he was a prisoner in the Soviet gulag, spoke at the opening of the Zionist federation conference Saturday night.
He railed against what he called the laundering of anti-Semitism using the language and tools of the universal struggle for human rights.
“Criticism of Israel is not anti-Semitism,” Cotler said. “But singling out Israel for selective opprobrium and condemnation, or denying Israel’s right to exist and calling for its destruction, is discriminatory and hateful, and not saying so is destructive. To compare Israel with South African apartheid shames the real anti-apartheid struggle.”
Other speakers at the event included Sharansky, Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat and Israeli Ambassador to South Africa Arthur Lenk.
Lenk praised the local Jewish community for its support of Israel, and contrasted the charity events it organizes with recent BDS events featuring appearances by Palestinian airplane hijacker Leila Khaled.
Johannesburg’s The Star newspaper reported that some of the protesters bused in by BDS on Sunday did not know what exactly they were protesting.
“I can’t say I know why I’m here,” they quoted one protester as saying. The South African Communist Party “called me to say there was an event in Sandton and buses were available. I don’t know why we are here, who we are supporting and against who.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Student councils of 5 South African universities join BDS campaign</title>
<date>Mon May 04 20:02:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
	The student councils of five South African universities decided Monday to join an academic boycott of what they refer to as "Apartheid Israel," and said they will be pressuring their institutions to implement the boycott.
	"The Israeli regime is proving itself to be anti-children, anti-student and anti-education," student council presidents of the universities said in a statement.
	Many opponents of the boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign have said BDS is just another form of age-old anti-Semitism, a criticism the five South African universities – the University of South Africa, Cape Peninsula University of Technology, Durban University of Technology, Mangasutho University of Technology and the University of the Western Cape – sought to defuse.
	"Conflating criticism of Israel's colonial policies of Occupation and Apartheid can not and should not be equated with anti-Semitism," the statement said.
	The five student councils said they would be auditing their universities' investment funds and service providers "to ensure that companies that are in violation of the BDS call and complicit in the Israeli Occupation" will be excluded from investment funds and service contracts.
	They said they would also be supporting the Israeli Apartheid Week initiative, a collection of international events aimed at raising awareness of Israel's policies toward the Palestinians and building support for BDS, and joining the call for a conference in South Africa about boycotting Israel.
	The decision came shortly after South Africa's minister of higher education, Blade Nzimande, called for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions last month after Israel refused him an entry visa, saying he is radically anti-Israel and was planning to visit the Palestinian Authority rather than Israel.
	In February the student council at the Durban University of Technology called on the school to expel all Jewish students, particularly those who don't back the Palestinian cause, according to press reports in the country.
	In 2011 the South African Union of Students, which represents all university student councils in the country, urged a widespread boycott of Israel.	That year, the University of Johannesburg ended its relationship with Israel's Ben-Gurion University. The University of the Witwatersrand joined the boycott in 2012 and the University of Cape Town took part last year.	 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On U.S. campuses, when does ‘anti-Israel’ become anti-Semitic?</title>
<date>Sat May 23 01:45:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
JTA - Liana Kadisha, a senior at Stanford University, says some Jewish students on her campus feel they have to hide who they are. The 22-year-old knows of several who tuck their Star of David necklaces inside their shirts, self-conscious about drawing attention to their Jewish identity.
That’s not the only worry for Jews at the bucolic Palo Alto campus.
Last month, Molly Horwiz, a Jewish candidate for the Stanford student senate, found herself grilled by members of a campus club who questioned her ability to think independently because of her “Jewish identity,” she said. Days later, vandals painted swastikas on a Stanford frat house.
Those incidents followed a student senate debate over an Israel divestment resolution in February. The bill passed on a second vote, after failing in a first round.
“The night of the first vote, one of the pro-divestment students got up and shouted ‘Long live the intifada’ and stormed out of the room,” Kadisha recalled. “That was extremely disturbing.”
After the resolution passed, more than 150 current and former faculty members and researchers signed an open letter condemning the “single-minded ferocity” of the divest-from-Israel campaign on their campus. Its goal, the letter claimed, “wasn’t to open up discussion on these complex matters but to dictate simple, outright excoriation.”
Steven Zipperstein, a Stanford professor of Jewish culture and history, helped craft the letter, telling J. in March that the tenor of the campus debate on Israel was worrying.
“I understand why Israeli politics would enrage,” he said in March. “I’m enraged by many of the politics in Israel. But the fact that outrage against Israeli politics is the one issue that captured more attention at Stanford than any other political issue in the last 30 years, as stated by our president — that’s bizarre.”
Anti-Semitic incidents 
Something bad is happening on American campuses, and it’s not unrelated to the anti-Israel boycott, divestment and sanctions movement. A survey by the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law found that 54 percent of Jewish college students experienced or witnessed anti-Semitism on their campuses during the 2013-14 school year, including incidents of harassment, violence or a “hostile environment.”
Incidents can range from swastikas scrawled on frat houses to student committees questioning whether Jewish students are fit to serve in student government. The latter occurred earlier this year at UCLA as well as Stanford, though university administrators immediately intervened in both cases and the inquisitorial students apologized.
It could be worse. At a university in Durban, South Africa, one student government body called for the expulsion of all Jewish students on the chance they could be Zionists.
In this country, experts agree, such incidents tend to occur on campuses with an active BDS presence.
BDS' true aim?
On its face, the BDS movement formally organized in 2005 to oppose Israel’s policies toward the Palestinians. The idea is to put political and economic pressure on Israel, publicly, in order to force an end to the occupation, among other stated goals. Tactics include  boycotting goods made in Israel or the settlements; barring Israeli academics from international conferences and pressuring international artists and scholars not to visit Israel; and, on campus, putting forward student resolutions asking universities to divest holdings in companies that do business with Israel.
However, BDS critics — including some who are critical of Israeli government policies — believe the movement’s true aim is not to pressure Israel, but to eradicate it.
As former Harvard President Larry Summers once said of BDS, it is “anti-Semitic in effect if not intent.”
“[BDS] is a concerted campaign by people who seek the elimination of the State of Israel,” said Rabbi Doug Khan, executive director of the S.F.-based Jewish Community Relations Council. “At the very least, it’s a nonviolent means to a violent end.”
Critics of BDS link the movement to overtly anti-Semitic activity, pointing, for example, to swastika graffiti that emerges after divestment bills are passed — or not passed. Jewish supporters of BDS dismiss these charges, calling them desperation tactics by pro-Israel advocates who want to shut down any criticism of Israel.
“There’s no evidence of any kind that [swastika graffiti] has anything to do with the Palestinian solidarity movement,” said Rabbi Alissa Wise, co-director of organizing for the Oakland-based Jewish Voice for Peace, which endorses BDS. “It’s sloppy and unethical to suggest a connection. [Pro-Israel activists] use [anti-Semitism] to deflect a conversation about what is happening inside Israel, over policies that are discriminatory, violent and deny basic human rights to Palestinians.”
It is true that the vandals who scrawled swastikas at Stanford last month and on the walls of a Jewish fraternity at U.C. Davis in January have never been caught, and no one knows their motives.
But sentinels on the lookout for anti-Semitism believe the BDS movement must accept its share of blame for the increase in incidents and overheated rhetoric. They say the movement hides its true agenda, which they contend is anti-Semitic at its core.
Correlation is not causation. But when it comes to BDS and anti-Jewish rhetoric, some Jewish community watchdogs see the two overlapping too often.
'Zionist Nazis'
Seth Brysk, Central Pacific regional director of the Anti-Defamation League, makes his living detecting anti-Semitism. The ADL does not level the charge or use the term lightly, he says, but BDS matches the description.
“The positions of BDS leaders advocating the unqualified right of return of all Palestinian refugees [to Israel], a one-state solution, would lead to the demise of Israel as a Jewish state,” Brysk said. “People who advocate that promote an idea that at its core is anti-Semitic.”
Though he concedes that not everyone involved in BDS is anti-Semitic, Brysk cites examples of supporters using incendiary rhetoric, expropriating Nazi terminology to describe Israel and Israelis. For example, he says, some BDS adherents charge Israel with perpetrating a “holocaust” against Palestinians, and he points to a new anti-Israel term du jour — Zizis, short for Zionist Nazis, used to describe Israelis and their supporters.
Even when activists temper their rhetoric, Brysk says the BDS movement makes anti-Semitic acts and speech “acceptable and more inevitable,” creating an atmosphere that normalizes anti-Jewish behavior.
“It takes an extremely one-sided approach to a complex problem,” he added, “and rather than really engage in peaceful protest, it’s a disingenuous and prejudiced movement.” Roz Rothstein, founder and director of the pro-Israel nonprofit StandWithUs, employs a litmus test to determine whether criticism of Israel veers into anti-Semitic speech: the “three Ds” of delegitimization, demonization and double standard. Those are key parts of the State Department’s official definition of anti-Semitism.
“If you apply the three Ds, you can see that [BDS] does qualify,” Rothstein said. “The movement targets [only] Israel, blaming it for the lack of peace. The movement conveniently does not discuss its goal, which is not peaceful coexistence."
Rothstein points to some of the more extreme examples of imagery seen in anti-Israel protests: posters that replace the six-pointed Jewish star with a swastika, blood-spattered Israeli flags, or political cartoons that contort Israeli leaders into hook-nosed ghouls out of the pages of the Nazi propaganda sheet Der Stürmer.
“The Jewish star to the Jewish people signifies their religion,” she said. “It’s very scary. People don’t understand how egregious this is.”
Such imagery may disturb, but the First Amendment protects anti-Jewish speech, no matter how hateful. And there is little university administrators can do to stop it, one of them notes.
“I’m a First Amendment maven,” said Mark Yudof, the former president of the University of California and a professor of constitutional law. An ardent supporter of Israel who is active in the Bay Area Jewish community, Yudof says that in no way diminishes his stance on this issue. “I believe in free speech. I honestly believe people can be highly critical of Israel and not be anti-Semitic. It’s painting with too broad a brush to say everyone who doesn’t agree with you on policy toward Israel is tarred and feathered with anti-Semitism.”
Still, though he defended free speech and peaceful protest during his tenure as U.C. president, Yudof always found the BDS movement and its agenda contemptible.
“You get suspicious sometimes,” he said. “I’ve listened to the narratives. Sometimes it’s not that Israel is wrong or it should do this or that. The [BDS] narrative is that Jews are too powerful, too privileged, have too much influence with Congress and the media. It strikes me as containing an anti-Semitic element.”
Yudof once met with indignant pro-Palestinian students, who told him he was wrong to defend the free speech rights of Israel supporters because “the First Amendment is only for marginalized people, and not privileged people like Jews.”
The danger of being pro-Israel
If anyone is marginalized, Tammi Rossman-Benjamin would say it is the pro-Israel college student. The U.C. Santa Cruz Jewish studies lecturer and co-founder of the Amcha Initiative, which combats anti-Semitism on campus, believes that sticking up for Israel has grown dangerous.
The nonprofit’s website has a tracker monitoring anti-Semitic incidents on campus. Since January 2014, the tracker has logged 29 incidents of swastika graffiti on or near American campuses, among them U.C. Berkeley, U.C. Davis and Stanford.
“It’s becoming more clear, more explicit every day,” she said of the link between BDS and anti-Semitism. “What used to be Israel Apartheid Week is now called Anti-Zionism Week. No more ‘Let’s criticize the policies of the government of Israel.’ Now it becomes opposition to Israel’s very existence.”
And since making Israel disappear would require the disappearance of seven million Israeli Jews, that would amount to anti-Semitism, Rossman-Benjamin argues.
“There is a certain hostile environment for Jewish students who identify with the Jewish state,” she said. “So when there are divestment resolutions, you have a climate that is actually toxic. It spills over into acts against Jews. In the minds of those carrying out BDS activities, it’s about the Jews, the Jewish state, and the Jews who support the Jewish state. It can’t be a coincidence.”
Pro-BDS Jews
Jews who are active in BDS say their very presence in the movement disproves the charges of anti-Semitism.
“You have StandWithUs and Amcha that use a claim of anti-Semitism as a political weapon,” said JVP’s Wise. “That desensitizes people to actual incidents of anti-Semitism and makes it harder for those of us concerned with Jewish safety and anti-Jewish oppression to counteract and address it. To me it reads as a last-gasp attempt to maintain the status quo of Israeli right-wing policy.
”Gabi Kirk, 24, echoes Wise’s sentiments. A San Jose native and former counselor at Camp Tawonga, Kirk most recently served as the campus liaison for JVP. Though she left the organization last month, she still agrees with its criticism of Israeli policy and considers BDS a legitimate tactic.
Not only does she believe BDS is not inherently anti-Semitic, she thinks the status quo the Israeli government maintains in the Palestinian territories incites anti-Jewish sentiment more than any campus campaign could do.
“We believe ultimately that occupation, militarization and systems of apartheid harm everyone,” Kirk said. “They harm Jews by eroding moral values and pitting people against each other.”
Kirk said any time she encounters anti-Semitism from within the BDS movement on campus, she calls it out. When someone spouts anti-Semitic tropes, she tries to explain that their actions are no different from Islamophobia and other forms of bigotry. “Anti-Semitism exists,” she added. “We don’t deny that.”
Kahn says JCRC works to combat BDS on campus. But the organization also wages the fight in other arenas, such as liberal Protestant denominations, labor unions, and even grocery stores.
He cites past victories, such as persuading Sonoma County not to cancel a contract for buses made by a company that does business with Israel, and convincing San Francisco’s Rainbow Grocery co-op to resume stocking Israeli goods, which had been targeted for boycott.
But he concedes the battle is growing tougher. Kahn estimates the number of pro-BDS organizations in the Bay Area has risen from 60 to 130 in the past five years. Outside some campus actions, Kahn says one of the most notorious local anti-Semitic incidents was last summer’s Block the Boat campaign at the Port of Oakland, which turned away an Israeli-owned cargo ship under the banner “Zionism is not welcome in Oakland.”
A thin line
To Kahn it’s a short hop, skip and jump to a banner that one day could read “Zionists not welcome in Oakland.”
The JCRC counter-strategy has been to expose extremism. In 2010, the pro-Palestinian Christian organization Sabeel, which promotes church divestment from Israel and companies that work with Israel, held its biennial in San Anselmo, with more than 450 attendees and dozens of sponsors. Kahn says the thrust of the conference was to advocate for BDS.
“They had many speakers who wanted to see no Israel,” he recalled. “We sent a large delegation, not to make waves but to attend every session.” JCRC then shared what it heard at those sessions with sponsors, which led to many pulling their sponsorships from the next conference after “we exposed how extreme [the organization] was.”
As for BDS on campus, Kahn acknowledges that anti-Semitism likely does not animate a majority of activists, but he worries anyway. As a textbook case he points to the chain of events at U.C. Davis, which passed an Israel divestment resolution in January, immediately followed by a Facebook posting from one of the bill’s proponents claiming “Sharia law has come to Davis” and the swastika scrawled on a Jewish fraternity.
“The vitriol injected by the BDS movement, the repetitious espousal of hate for Israel and its supporters, potentially creates an atmosphere in which an individual may get his or her wires crossed and engage in a blatantly anti-Semitic act, such as painting a swastika,” Kahn said.
“Whoever perpetrated the act ultimately bears responsibility. By the same token, people who so readily create a hostile atmosphere for pro-Israel and Jewish students on campus cannot ultimately absolve themselves of responsibility, either.”
By aligning with BDS, Kahn says, Jews such as Wise and Kirk and organizations such as JVP merely provide the movement with a veneer of diversity.
Wise counters by noting that JVP has grown in the last few years to 30 chapters, with 200,000 supporters who donate or take action of some sort. That adds up to many Jews who, presumably, do not consider themselves anti-Semites.
“I would never advocate anything that I think would do harm to Jews,” Wise declared. “One of my biggest pet peeves is when people accuse me of that. If I believed the work I was doing was putting my family and friends in Israel in harm’s way, I wouldn’t do it.”
Growing pushback
Even as the BDS movement gains strength on many campuses, particularly in California, pro-Israel activists note examples of growing pushback.
Student councils at UCLA, U.C. Berkeley and U.C. Santa Barbara have adopted the State Department’s definition of anti-Semitism (including the three Ds), though how it might be enforced on campus is unknown. Supporters of BDS, furthermore, believe this definition would silence legitimate criticism of Israel.
A biennial global forum for combating anti-Semitism just wrapped up in Jerusalem, recommending that governments and websites around the world adopt new, more stringent standards for hate speech.
The ADL has launched a program, Words to Action, to push back against anti-Semitism and inoculate younger generations against it. It is designed to teach high school and college students how to differentiate between legitimate criticism of Israel and anti-Semitic speech, actions and symbols, and how to respond.
Yudof has been consulting with organizations such as the Charles and Lynn Schusterman Foundation to devise strategies to combat BDS. He urges a more aggressive, national approach. That’s the StandWithUs modus operandi, with its marked presence on campuses in terms of student volunteers, staff and educational materials.
The tide may be turning.
In recent weeks, divestment was rejected at Bowdoin College in Maine, Princeton University, San Diego State University, the University of New Mexico, University of Texas at Austin and U.C. Santa Barbara, as well as the general assembly of the Student Senate for California Community Colleges (resolutions did pass at Oglethorpe University in Georgia and Earlham College in Indiana).
In California this month, 57 rabbis from across the state joined 23 Jewish organizations in writing to U.C. President Janet Napolitano, drawing her attention to “anti-Semitism on U.C. campuses” and urging the system to adopt the State Department definition of anti-Semitism.
Kahn believes the majority of college students are not very engaged in Middle East politics, but says that with enough effort, a convincing pro-Israel message might sway the persuadables.
“Increasingly [students] know that a tiny fringe is trying to push the campus in a direction that is both divisive and embarrassing when it engages in this blatantly biased beating up of Israel,” Kahn said. “There’s an opportunity for Jewish students to build coalitions that may address anti-Semitism and this broader challenge around anti-Israel activity.”
At Stanford, even though the divestment resolution passed, pro-Israel activists took heart from the backlash that followed — not only the open faculty letter opposing the resolution, but a petition signed by thousands of students concerned over what they felt the resolution, and the BDS movement, might portend.
“There’s a small but very strong group of Israel supporters on campus,” said Kadisha, the Stanford senior who formed Coalition for Peace to work against future divestment efforts. “I have total faith that they will continue to educate the campus and have this conversation in the best way possible going forward. Instead of pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian students fighting each other, there should be a place where their interests are one and the same.”
This story originally appeared on Jweekly.com

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African official threatens to punish students who visited Israel</title>
<date>Wed Jul 15 18:15:49 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Jewish groups in South Africa condemned a government official for threatening to punish students who visited Israel.
Obed Bapela, a deputy minister in President Jacob Zuma’s office, charged the students, who visited Israel recently under the auspices of the South Africa Israel Forum, with bringing the ruling African National Congress into “disrepute” and said the party would “summon” them to an investigation.
The director of the South Africa Israel Forum, Dan Brotman, told Haaretz that “some of the participants, who will be future leaders in South Africa, were under enormous pressure not to come or received threats over being kicked out of their political parties.”“The goal is not to make them pro-Israel, but to expose them to a narrative they really don’t hear in South Africa,” he said.
Bapela said Israel was “offering free trips and holidays to embarrass the ANC,” adding that it was a “campaign by Israel to distort our stand on Palestine. We have a clear position that supports Palestinian freedom. No leader of the ANC in a private capacity or for the party will visit Israel. It will be putting the ANC in disrepute.”
No official ban has been placed on members of the government or ANC traveling to Israel.
Denis Goldberg, a South African social activist who was imprisoned with Nelson Mandela over the anti-apartheid movement, issued a statement last week slamming “Israeli propaganda holiday trips.”
The South African Zionist Federation and the South African Jewish Board of Deputies in a joint statement said it was “deeply disturbing that a member of the South African government should condemn and threaten to punish those who have simply exercised their democratic right to freedom of thought and association. What is so wrong – either legally or morally – about a group of young South Africans travelling to another country in order to broaden their knowledge about the situation there? Is Mr. Bapela afraid that by being exposed to information and opinions that differ from his own, they might end up coming to the ‘wrong’ conclusions?”
The groups charged that Bapela’s attitude goes against South Africa’s approach to engagement with other countries, noting that groups from South Africa have traveled consistently to all parts of the world, “including to countries where serious human rights abuses are taking place. Why is it only Israel that they should not be allowed to visit?”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. industrial union votes to endorse BDS</title>
<date>Sun Aug 30 06:19:37 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
One of the more prominent industrial unions in the U.S. voted to endorse the goals of the worldwide boycott, divestment and sanction (BDS) movement against Israel, citing "its long history of violating the human rights of the Palestinians," thus purportedly becoming the first nationwide union to do so.
The United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers' national convention met in Baltimore last week and voted on a string of foreign and as well as domestic policy issues, including the call to boycott Israel and support the nuclear deal with Iran.
According to a statement on the UE's website, the union voted in favor of the "Justice and Peace for the Peoples of Palestine and Israel", and cited Israel’s sordid human rights record: "starting with the ethnic cleansing of 750,000 Palestinians in 1947-48 that turned most of Palestine into the State of Israel."
The move's goal, the union said, was "to pressure Israel to end its apartheid over the Palestinians just as similar tactics helped to end South African apartheid in the 1980s." The union further called for the U.S. aid to Israel to be cut off and expressed support for "the right to return."
The union also voted on a number of other foreign policy issues, including the demand to end U.S. military intervention in the Middle East and other regions.
"We (need) to get rid of this culture of war,” said Mike Ferritto, a local delegate. “We have done enough damage. We need to get out of the Middle East," said Brandon Dutton, another delegate.
The vote on Israel was prompted by an encounter with Palestinian trade unionists during the World Social Forum in Tunisia. Delegate Autumn Martinez, who cosponsored the resolution and participated in the meet, said: “It’s absolutely disgusting what is going on. Free Palestine!”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Poll: British Jews are pro-Israel but critical of its government</title>
<date>Thu Nov 12 18:17:39 IST 2015</date>
<content>
The first major survey in five years on British Jews’ attitudes toward Israel shows them overwhelmingly to be pro-Israel and Zionist (though not all of them seem to actually like to be described as such). A large majority is also very critical of Israeli policies, particularly the expansion of settlements. The poll broadly confirms the findings of the 2010 Israel Survey by Britain’s Institute for Jewish Policy Research.
The new survey was commissioned and funded by Yachad, a British “pro-Israel, pro-peace” advocacy organization, designed by City University London and carried out by the IPSOS Mori market research firm.
It found that 90 percent of British Jews support Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state, 84 percent feel a “deep sense of pride” in its achievements in art, science and technology and 93 percent say Israel plays a part in their Jewish identity (73 percent say an “important” or “central” part).
But their deep-felt support for Israel does not extend to its current government and policies, with 75 percent agreeing that the expansion of West Bank settlements is a “major obstacle to peace” and 47 percent agreeing that the government is “constantly creating obstacles to avoid engaging in peace negotiations.”
This nuanced support is also seen in their opinions on the regarding the military conflict in the Gaza Strip in the summer of 2014. While 93 percent say Israel was entitled to respond to Hamas rockets and infiltration tunnels with military action, 37 percent say the scale of the Israeli response was “disproportionate” (though 78 percent believe that those condemning Israel’s military actions are guilty of “double standards”).
A majority of respondents — 58 percent — agreed with the statement that “Israel will be seen as an ‘apartheid state’ if it tries to retain control over borders which include more Arabs than Jews” and 24 percent said they would support “some sanctions against Israel if I thought they would encourage the Israeli government to engage in the peace process.”
The results of the survey were similar to those of the JPR survey from five years ago — that British Jews are deeply supportive of Israel as the Jewish state but highly critical of its politics and on the issue of the Israel-Palestine conflict, to the left of both the Israeli mainstream and of the traditional positions espoused by most of the British-Jewish leadership and large communal organizations.
In addition, older and more religious Jews are less critical than younger and secular Jews, who are also less likely to be heavily involved in communal activity. Interestingly, while 72 percent five years ago described themselves as “Zionist,” in the new survey that is down to 59 percent, though the level of support and identification with Israel remains the same. This is probably due to how public perceptions of the definition of Zionism have changed and it is now increasingly seen as meaning right-wing as well.
Some of the newspapers in Britain that have reported the survey highlighted the widespread criticism of Israel’s policies among British Jews, as if it should be surprising. But why should it be? Believing in the necessity and justice of the Jewish state while deploring the actions of its elected government is the most moral and sensible position to take. Assuming that a majority of British Jews does not hold such a position is an insult to their intelligence. In a sense, the results should come as a surprise only to those who are not really acquainted with a wide range of British Jews or those who simply don’t think they are capable of nuanced political thinking. It also contradicts the view that while on all evidence, Jews have been drifting rightward on the British political scale, away from the Labour Party (in line with Labour’s general decline in popularity), this isn’t necessarily connected to Israeli issues, on which the majority remains left-of-center.
The press release accompanying the publication of the survey was headlined “Three quarters of British Jews think Israel’s approach to peace is ‘damaging to its world standing.’” Choosing that particular statistic, as if it was unexpected, does the Jews of Britain a disservice. Just as a headline saying that 90 percent of them believe the world is not flat would be. Of course Israel’s approach to peace is damaging its standing in the world, why should any honest person say otherwise? To assume that, you would have to think that British Jews are some Pavlovian mass of idiots who swoon in admiration as soon as a blue-and-white flag is waved in front of them. That was never the case and this survey should surprise only those who had a dim view of British Jews to begin with.
The survey is valuable of course for groups, like Yachad, that have been fighting the community establishment for legitimacy. It proves that those who are prepared to be openly critical of Israel’s government while remaining within the Zionist camp are the mainstream and not the community’s largely self-appointed spokesmen trying to stifle dissent, including the more noisy advocacy groups and some prominent Jewish media pundits. This however puts the onus on those groups to better articulate their views and motivate their potential supporters, who may be in the majority but seem less inclined to voice their positions. Right-wingers can hardly be blamed for monopolizing the discourse when they are often the only ones present. This survey will be wasted if Yachad’s leadership doesn’t face the deeper implication — that is has failed to make the silent majority visible and voluble.
What should be noteworthy about the survey is that despite the deep unease over Israel’s policies, love and attachment for Israel remain extraordinarily strong and while the right-wingers are a minority, it is the anti-Zionists who are the real fringe. British Jews are basically sensible liberal Zionists, their critical faculties undiminished.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Boston public transit to display ads calling to 'end U.S. support for Israeli apartheid'</title>
<date>Sun Nov 15 18:13:06 IST 2015</date>
<content>
The Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority approved the display of an anti-Israel ad it had previously rejected.
The poster, which features a large photograph of a child and the word “violence” in large, bold letters, accuses Israel’s military of using U.S. tax dollars to kill 2,000 Palestinian children since September 2000, and calls for the end of US military aid to Israel.
It is one of three ads that was initially approved by the MBTA in June 2014, but later removed. At the time, the governing body of the state’s public transportation system said the ads violated its policy against language that demeans or disparages individuals or groups.
The American Civil Liberties Union challenged the rejection on behalf of the Palestinian rights organization, Palestine Advocacy Project. The group, formerly called Ads Against Apartheid, asserts that the poster is a form of protected First Amendment speech and should be allowed in a public space.
The agency’s decision to approve came after the ACLU persuaded it that the ad does not violate the MBTA’s policy against demeaning ads, according to Sarah Wunsch, deputy legal director of the ACLU’s Massachusetts branch.
In a statement to JTA, a spokesman for the MBTA said these advertisements comply with its guidelines, that it described as “viewpoint neutral standards for all advertising displayed on MBTA property.”
“To reduce unnecessary litigation which can arise from issue-based ads of this nature, the MBTA is currently considering whether to amend its advertising guidelines and in the future will not accept ads concerning political issues or matters of public debate,” the statement continued.
Jeremy Burton, executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Boston said in a statement provided to JTA: “We do not believe that the MBTA nor any other government authority should regularly be in the business of banning speech. However, spreading distortions and inaccuracies about a complex political situation will achieve no positive benefit in the search for a lasting end to the conflict in the region, a cause to which we and all reasonable people are committed.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Famed Holocaust documentarian tackles the occupation in new film </title>
<date>Thu Nov 19 23:57:22 IST 2015</date>
<content>
JTA - Ophuls is perhaps best known for his 1969 Academy Award-nominated film “The Sorrow and the Pity," which raised questions of French collaboration during the Nazi occupation, along with his monumental 1988 biopic “Hôtel Terminus: The Life and Times of Klaus Barbie,” which explored the actions of the notorious Nazi as well as the human condition.
Given his track record, news of the award-winning director’s next film may come as a surprise.
Ophuls —whose father, Max, was a prominent Jewish director, and who fled Nazi Europe as a child — announced last month that he will title his forthcoming film “Let My People Go.” Although the iconic phrase resonates deeply with anyone who has attended a Passover seder, Ophuls said he will use the familiar imperative to support the Palestinians.
“The title is going to be ‘Let My People Go,’ which means that the Israelis should let the Palestinians go,” Ophuls, 88, said at the 38th annual Mill Valley Film Festival, an increasingly prominent awards platform. The statement garnered applause from the audience. When this reporter asked specifically where Israel should let the Palestinians go, Ophuls offered just one word: “Anywhere.”
At the festival — where Ophuls received a tribute for his contributions to cinema — the filmmaker announced plans to film in Syria and Israel in the near future, eyeing a possible debut at the Cannes Film Festival in May.
“There are only 10 days of shooting left and a few months of editing, of course,” he said. “And if we can make the film, finish the film, it will probably go to Cannes next spring.”
The project gained media attention from a report in The New York Times, which noted its original working title, “Unpleasant Truths.” Late last year, Ophuls sought to raise 50,000 euros, then about $62,000. The film is a joint project with Eyal Sivan, an Israeli documentarian who left Israel for Paris in 1985.
Sivan told the NYT they seek to answer the questions such as “Is Israel provoking anti-Semitism?” and “whether Islamophobia is the new anti-Semitism."
A 12-minute clip of the work in progress, which is available on YouTube under its former title, opens with Ophuls failing to persuade the famed French director Jean-Luc Godard — who previously released a book and film on Jewish identity — to join him on a collaborative scouting trip to Israel. (According to the NYT, the directors began discussing a collaboration on the topic more than 10 years ago. Whether Godard, a vocal supporter of Palestinian rights, is also an anti-Semite is a question that has garnered media attention.)
Ophuls also interviews Michel Warschawski, described as an “anti-colonial activist"; Abraham Burg, a former speaker of the Israeli Knesset, and Rabbi Shlomo Aviner, whom he describes as the spiritual leader of the settlers. The clip includes footage of a rally of Israelis against Jews marrying Arabs. And at one point, Sivan says that in the territories, the water ratio is “one liter of water for the Palestinians to 10 liters for the Jews.”
In another scene, Ophuls travels on the road between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. In a phone call, he describes the route with “barbed wires everywhere. A prison for Palestinians on one side. It’s apartheid, really.”
“I’m going to tell you why Max Ophuls wasn’t a Zionist,” Ophuls says on camera of his famous father’s lack of support for the Jewish state. “Not really anti-Zionist but certainly not Zionist. Because he thought the Jews’ destiny in the 20th century was to be cosmopolites — against nationalism.”
Ophuls’ notable body of documentary work includes  "A Sense of Loss" (1972), about the conflict in Northern Ireland; an examination of the Nuremberg Trials titled "The Memory of Justice" (1973-76); an investigation into the fall of communism in East Germany and its repercussions called "November Days" (1992), and a look at war correspondents titled "The Trouble We've Seen" (1994).
His 2013 film, “Ain’t Misbehavin’: A Marcel Ophuls Journey,” is a rambling exploration of his life and career. The documentary details how his family fled Nazi Germany for France in 1933, then in 1941, following the German invasion of France, fled to Los Angeles. (Ophul’s mother is the non-Jewish actress Hildegard Wall.)
At the Mill Valley Film Festival event, an audience member asked Ophuls during a question-and-answer session how he develops concepts for his films.
“Ideas come when they come," he said. "My father, because he spoke German, called it ‘Einfallen.' They start in heaven and then they may come down. ... Some days you have no ideas at all, for weeks or more. They don’t want to come. And you’ve got to work for them. Some people are more creative than others. Talent is not given to everyone.”
Notably, Ophuls said he doesn’t write scripts.
“That, to me, is the essential difference between documentaries and movies and real movies,” he said. “I only script in the editing room when I have maybe 120 hours of rushes [raw footage]. And I work on those, and by and by, idea by idea, sometimes they’re good and sometimes they’re not so good, it all comes together.”
His "organic" style of filmmaking allows a “big story” to fill “a big space in time.” With no preconceived notions about how long a film should be, his run famously long. “The Sorrow and the Pity” is nearly 4 1/2 hours, as is “Hotel Terminus.”
Initially produced for television, “The Sorrow and the Pity” was notoriously banned from French TV, although it eventually aired in 1981. The film gained even more attention after director Woody Allen featured it twice in his Oscar-winning “Annie Hall.” In what became a classic scene, Allen’s character, Alvy Singer, invites Diane Keaton’s Annie to view the film. She responds, "I'm not in the mood to see a four-hour documentary on Nazis."
At the film’s close, however, Alvy bumps into Annie as she takes a date to see the documentary. Alvy calls it "a personal triumph."
Ophuls, in turn, briefly excerpts “Annie Hall” in “Ain’t Misbehavin'," and reads a laudatory letter from Allen that he shows in a close-up.
Still, some writers leveled criticism at the pic, saying the story of Ophuls’ life might have benefited from another director.
The same might be said for Ophuls' upcoming film. Applying an ancient Exodus narrative to the Palestinian cause, and accusing Israel of apartheid, may cause Ophuls’ Jewish fans no choice but to let him go -- at the box office.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Can Jews support 
BlackLivesMatter and be Pro-Israel?</title>
<date>Mon Dec 21 14:40:56 IST 2015</date>
<content>
In less than three minutes, flanked by President Obama and Israel’s president, Reuven Rivlin, Can Jews support 
BlackLivesMatter and be Pro-Israel distilled the sprawling interests of American Jewish liberals into a passionate manifesto while leading a White House Hanukkah menorah lighting before a bevy of communal leaders.
Anti-Semitism, racism, Islamophobia, homophobia, transphobia, gun control, nuclear waste, Middle East peace, justice for Palestinians, Women of the Wall and Black Lives Matter — Talve called them all out in her invocation before turning to bless the candles in the White House East Room. “Like the Maccabees of old, we too will win,” she declared.
“That’s how I always talk; I always mention these things,” the 63-year-old rabbi of St. Louis Central Reform Congregation said in an interview the next day. “I always add a kavana, an intention, that will help us let the prayers inspire us to action.”
But in the eyes of some on the left, the activist rabbi’s intentions on the streets with the Black Lives Matter movement are not sufficient. A week before officiating at the White House Hanukkah ceremony, Talve was targeted in an open letter from Jewish pro-Palestinian activists in that movement, questioning her place within it. The reason: her outspoken support for Israel.
“To whitewash the lived alliances between Ferguson and Palestine is to silence the very voices we seek to hear,” read the letter, sponsored by the St. Louis chapter of Jewish Voice for Peace.
Months earlier, other activists spread on the Internet photos of Talve, describing her in the caption as a “supporter of genocide and international apartheid,” and adding the hashtag 
realterrorist.
The sharp criticism reflects the efforts of some in the Black Lives Matter movement to establish solidarity and cooperation between their cause and those of others who are fighting oppression. In the process of this effort, Talve has become, to a great extent, the face of progressive Jewish activists’ struggle with “intersectionality,” the concept that binds together a variety of causes that share an experience of oppression.
In this case, the oppression experience of black Americans is linked to that of the Palestinians, leaving pro-Israel activists such as Talve having to defend their support for the movement.
It’s an experience shared by a number of other Jews who have supported Black Lives Matter, particularly students. “I don’t always feel that my pro-Israel views were welcome in those communities,” Chantelle Moghadam said, referring to the social movements she has voiced support for at the University of Missouri, including Black Lives Matter. But she added, “I express my opinions anyways.”
Moghadam, who is the co-founder of her school’s chapter of Students Supporting Israel, supports progressive movements, but said that anti-Israeli sentiment translates to anti-Semitism, a concept she thinks is lost among her peers.
Other students rejected this equation. Sophia Goodfriend, a senior and a member of the JVP chapter at Tufts University, said many of the pro-Israel Jewish students on her campus don’t attend the Black Lives Matter rallies because they understand they might be criticized. But Goodfriend is not too sympathetic.
“Students who support movements like 
blacklivesmatter,” need to ask themselves “why they are complicit in supporting racist governments,” she said.
Talve, who moved to St. Louis 35 years ago after being ordained at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Cincinnati, founded the Central Reform Congregation after first sharing a congregation with her husband. It is the only synagogue within the St. Louis city limits. An activist involved in all facets of social justice, Talve was drawn to the Black Lives Matter movement that emerged in the city after the August 2014 killing of Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, by police in nearby Ferguson.
“What pulled me into the movement,” she said, was seeing African-American women call out to the policemen and say, “Look at me, see me for what I am,” she told the Forward, recalling her time standing outside in Ferguson alongside black activists. This, Talve said, struck a chord with her: “Don’t we get that as Jews?”
In the hours and days she spent with the protesters, she discovered commonality with members of the local African-American community and with local clergy. Conversations about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict were rare. But at times, Talve found herself explaining her view as a Zionist that Jews are just as indigenous as Arabs to the Land of Israel.
The necessity she felt to do so reflects the gravitation by some in the Black Lives Matter movement toward other struggles where they perceive commonalities.
In January, a group of 14 activists, including Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors, traveled to the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories in the West Bank to explore the possibilities for increasing solidarity between the two movements. Cullors described in an interview with Ebony magazine what she saw there as “an apartheid state,” adding that those who denied this fact were “part of the Zionist violence.”
The report in Ebony quoted one of the delegation participants, community organizer Cherrell Brown, who found similarities between the way Israel treats Palestinians and how U.S. authorities treat African Americans. “So many parallels exist between how U.S. polices incarcerate [African Americans] and perpetuate violence on the black community, and how the Zionist state that exists in Israel perpetuates the same on Palestinians,” Brown said.
Now, some — though far from all — involved in Black Lives Matter question whether pro-Israel activists can remain part of the movement.
The 
realterrorist online meme depicting Talve as a supporter of apartheid was the harshest expression of mistrust, but not the only one. Black Lives Matter activists took issue with Talve’s involvement in the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the mainstream Washington-based lobby that is widely seen as taking an uncritical stance toward the Jewish state’s policies, in line with its hard-line government.
Talve rejects these activists’ assertions of necessary linkage with the Palestinian struggle, and in particular with those among the Palestinians calling for boycott, divestment and sanctioning of Israel, a movement known as BDS.
But her critics say they cannot silently abide her insertions of support for Israel in contexts where Black Lives Matter activists are asserting their connections with the Palestinian struggle. In their open letter to her, activists with the St. Louis JVP chapter cited Talve’s alleged response to a Palestinian speaker at a vigil “to mourn state violence” in America and Israel who told “a heart-wrenching story about his friend being killed by an Israeli soldier.”
“It brought deep pain to Murad and our entire community when you reacted by saying: ‘What do we have to learn from the Palestinians — to strap bombs to ourselves?’” they wrote.
Talve told the Forward the alleged remark referred to a “private conversation I had with a student who was at that vigil [that] had nothing to do with the story that Murad told.” “It had nothing to do with the terrible story of the tragedy of his family,” she wrote in an email. “It was a conversation about [using] nonviolence versus violence to be heard and achieve one’s goals. The Black Lives Matter is a nonviolent movement. It was so out of context and so misleading to connect it to a tragic story.”
Talve stressed, “People need to understand that racism in America is different than the experience of Israelis and Palestinians.” Some on what she describes as the fringe of the Black Lives Matter movement “oversimplify” the issues, she argued, explaining: “This often happens in movements where people are struggling. It’s a very sad thing.”
In its letter to her, JVP, which is active in the Black Lives Matter movement and also supports applying BDS to Israel to pressure it to change its policies, expressed admiration for Talve’s “courageous and outspoken stand” in support of Black Lives Matter and “many other social justice issues.” But they wrote: “Solidarity from Ferguson to Palestine has become a central tenet of the movement in St. Louis. Because Israeli and U.S. state oppression are deeply interconnected.”
“It’s hypocritical to support one [issue] and not the other,” said Jeff Ordower, a St. Louis community organizer who was among the activists who approached Talve. Talve rejects this dichotomy. “People on the fringe who try to turn this into an either/or conversation leave out so many people who don’t agree to exactly everything they want,” she said. Talve also argued that voices wishing to exclude pro-Israel Jews from Black Lives Matter are ignoring the reality of black and brown American Jews who also need protection.
K.B. Frazier, a Jewish African American who not only participates in most of the movement’s protests in Ferguson and St. Louis, but also does so armed with his drum to provide rhythm and beat to the demonstrations, said that calls to exclude Talve and supporters of Israel from the protests serve only those seeking to divide the movement. “No way are we going to allow anyone to divide the movement by creating some kind of litmus test,” he said.
Frazier, like other activists, did not rule out a tie among Ferguson, Palestine and other battlegrounds. But the only way to discuss what he views as “systematic racism” is to create a respectful dialogue within the movement.
Over the course of the past year, Talve and her critics sought to establish such a dialogue. JVP members spoke at Talve’s synagogue and presented their case to congregants. Later, Talve invited an AIPAC representative to offer a counter-narrative, an appearance that the JVP activists objected to in their letter.
At the end of the day, the dialogue was deemed unfruitful. The breach between the sides seemed to widen, and JVP published its open letter in early December.
“Our choice to protect you, to give you time, to give you the benefit of the doubt, has placed the burden on Palestinians and black leaders to voice and grapple with the painful ways you have brought Zionist oppression into this beautiful movement,” the letter stated. “How much longer can we wait for you?”
Talve proudly defines herself as a supporter of Israel who has visited the Jewish state on a rabbinical tour sponsored by AIPAC. But she has made clear that she supports a two-state solution to the conflict. In her public statements, including her call to the White House for “justice for Palestinians,” she clearly acknowledges that Palestinians are being oppressed.
But asked just who or what entity is oppressing them, Talve told the Forward that in the case of both black males in the inner city and Palestinians in the territories occupied by Israel, “there are systems that are in place that make it hard [for] them to succeed and to be their best self.”
“I don’t want to get more specific than that,” she said. “Things are being twisted in ways that I haven’t meant. I think it’s enough to say there are systems of oppression in many of our societies where many people have privilege and many don’t.” But though the oppression suffered by American blacks and by Palestinians are both “wrongs that we need to act against,” she stressed, “they are not the same thing.”
Talve declares the experience will not deter her from remaining active in the Black Lives Matter movement. But she admits that her “biggest fear” is the impact that intersectionality might have on other Jews — especially Jewish students who identify with the struggle.
“I don’t have to choose. I can be pro-Israel and I can have empathy and work for justice for the Palestinians, and I can be part of the Black Lives Matter movement,” Talve said. “That’s a message I want Jews to know about.”
As she battles critics from the left, the rabbi’s progressive message has also gotten pushback from the right wing of the Jewish community. “Her behavior was deeply insulting to the religious Jewish community,” Daniel Greenfield accused on Frontpage, a right-wing website. He called her White House address a “crazed rant.”
Talve also received what she described as a “quite rude” note, complaining about her use of the Arabic blessing “inshallah,” or “God willing,” during her speech. Talve said she heard Rivlin utter the phrase after her call for peace and justice, and decided to repeat the blessing. “It was the same word my Turkish grandfather used to use,” she explained.
For more stories, go to www.forward.com. Sign up for the Forward’s daily newsletter at http://forward.com/newsletter/signup/

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Dr. Maher Hathout, father of Muslim-American identity, dies at 79</title>
<date>Wed Jan 07 11:26:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	Dr. Maher Hathout, a prominent interfaith leader hailed as the father of the Muslim American identity, has died. He was 79.
	Hathout, who was born in Egypt but became a steady and insistent voice for Muslim American civic engagement over four decades, died Friday at the City of Hope in Duarte after a yearlong battle with liver cancer, said Salam al-Marayati, president of the Muslim Public Affairs Council, which Hathout co-founded in 1988.
	Hathout, also a practicing cardiologist, spoke passionately of the need for Muslim Americans to create an identity that did not rely on Middle Eastern cultural interpretations of Islam. He encouraged Muslims in the U.S. to embrace their dual identity and advocated participation in American politics, volunteerism and interfaith work. Deeply religious and deeply patriotic, he often reminded colleagues that "home is not where my grandparents are buried, but where my grandchildren will be raised."
	His work, particularly the foundation of MPAC, cultivated a unique sense of identity that sustained Muslim Americans as they weathered the backlash from the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
	"He helped bring together Muslim Americans in a way that no one had before. He provided the infrastructure, the space and the language for this community to think about itself as both Muslim and American," said Varun Soni, dean of religious life at the University of Southern California. "It gave them a seat at the table."
	Hathout also worked tirelessly over four decades to build interfaith bridges and was close friends with many prominent Christian, Jewish and other leaders, including Rick Warren, the best-selling author of "The Purpose Driven Life" and founder of Saddleback Church.
	His passion for interfaith dialogue cut through long-standing assumptions and won him friends and gave him credibility in the most unlikely of places, said the Rev. Dr. Gwynne Guibord, an Episcopal priest who invited Hathout to sit on the advisory council of the Guibord Center-Inside Out.
	"His was a voice that was steady, although passionate. I think that's what made him so great, not only great as a Muslim but great as a human being. He had the innate ability to embrace a lot of people who many people wouldn't have embraced because of that ability to see something good and powerful in someone else," she said. "His willingness to be available fully was a gift, a tremendous gift."
	After moving to Los Angeles from Buffalo, New York, in 1970, Hathout began working as spokesman and chairman at the Islamic Center of Southern California, one of the most progressive mosques in the U.S.
	That work led to some pioneering projects to redefine the American Muslim experience and connect with youth, including the first-ever co-ed Muslim Youth Group, the Islamic Information Service that produced a nationally televised weekly program on Islam, The Minaret magazine and the New Horizon School system. He also consulted frequently with the U.S. government, authored several books and was the first Muslim invited to give the invocation prayer at the Democratic National Convention in 2000.
	Hathout was honored with an interfaith award on the Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations despite strong objections from Jewish organizations who criticized him for comments made about Israel.
	Speaking at a 2000 Jerusalem Day rally, Hathout said: "We did not come here to condemn the condemned atrocities committed by the apartheid brutal state of Israel because butchers do what butchers do and because what is expected from a racist apartheid is what is happening now."
	Hathout said in 2006 that his remarks had been "harsh." He said they sprang from anger over the way Israeli authorities were treating Palestinian protesters in the West Bank and Gaza Strip during the second intifada.
	Hathout is survived by his wife, Dr. Ragaa Hathout, two children and four grandchildren.
	He was buried Monday and the city of Los Angeles will hold a ceremony in his honor Saturday.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Netanyahu responds to Ehud Barak's Haaretz interview: He's still an irresponsible leftist</title>
<date>Thu Jan 08 00:05:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu slammed Ehud Barak on Thursday, in a response to a Haaretz interview with Barak, who served as a defense minister in Netanyahu's previous government and as prime minister between 1999 and 2001.
	"This is my response to the interview with Ehud Barak, which you will not see tomorrow (Friday) in Haaretz: Former Defense Minister Ehud Barak has done much for Israel's security. Under my leadership, we both worked closely to keep the state secure, out of responsibility and with a level-head," Netanyahu said over his Facebook and Twitter accounts.
	"However, regarding the diplomatic issue Barak has yet to come to his senses and keeps presenting irresponsible leftist stances just like his friends on the left, Tzipi and Bougie (Tzipi Livni and Isaac Herzog). Despite the rise of radical Islam in our region, and around the world, as we've seen this week in the murderous attack in France, the leftists Barak, Tzipi and Bougie are still trying to peddle to the public the dream of the new Middle East that has turned into a nightmare a long time ago."
	According to Netanyahu, "if the delusions of the Labor party across time were realized, ISIS men would today be dipping their toes in the Sea of Galilee. While the Palestinians are trying to drag IDF soldiers to the International Criminal Court, the left's leaders are still hanging on to Abu Mazen (Mahmoud Abbas) and seek to bring Israel back to a policy of concessions and retreats."
	Netanyahu added: "I, as prime minister, will continue to promote the backchannel with moderates in the Arab world, those who can forces the Palestinians reach a diplomatic agreement that will ensure Israel's security."
	In the Haaretz interview, Barak criticized Netanyahu's conduct regarding the peace process and said, among other things, that "his open leadership manifests a very strong element of pessimism, passivity, a preference to refrain from taking action. Many times I said to Bibi and Lieberman: Your rhetoric has a backbone of stainless steel, but what you do in practice is like living proof of the statement that the nation can be taken out of the Diaspora – but it’s far more difficult to take the Diaspora out of the nation.
	"In the end, when we reach the critical junctions where decisions have to be made – maybe the most important decisions since the state’s establishment – you behave as though you prefer to be dragged there by a situation that will be forced on you. Two things are happening during your waiting. First, no divine promise or paradise awaits at the end of the road, rather something very grave. And second, a great many people are being killed along the way there.”
	When asked where does he think Netanyahu's passivity on the Palestinian front is leading, Barak replied: "“In the end, passivity and avoidance of taking action lead to something being imposed on you that is far less good than what you could have achieved. And there is always the considerable danger that you will cross, without sensing it, the point of no return, and when you snap out of it and really want the previous situation back, it will simply not be possible, you will slide down a slippery slope. We saw examples of this in the last century in a neighboring continent – in South Africa during the apartheid years. It may have been Mark Twain who once said, ‘History doesn’t repeat itself, but it does rhyme.’"	 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Clegg condemns party MP for anti-Netanyahu tweet</title>
<date>Thu Jan 15 16:30:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	Nick Clegg, the British deputy prime minister, condemned an anti-Netanyahu tweet by one of his party's MPs as "crass, stupid and insensitive," The Guardian reported Thursday. However, he declined to call the remarks racist, according to the British paper.
	After Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took part in solidarity march in Paris on Sunday, following last week's terror attacks in the French capital, Liberal Democrat MP David Ward tweeted, “
Netanyahu in Paris march – what!!! Makes me feel sick” and “Je suis 
Palestinian.”
	Clegg said on a phone-in show Thursday that Ward “clearly doesn’t speak for the party on this at all and I cannot be more unambiguous in condemning what I think is a highly insensitive way of behaving.”
	He asserted it was stupid to say he doesn't want to see Netanyahu because regardless of what one thinks of his politics the Israeli prime minister has the right to participate in such a demonstration. "But do I think it was a racist thing to say?" asked Clegg rhetorically. "No.”
	Earlier Thursday, the Israeli ambassador to Britain expressed his abhorrence at Ward's "offensive and shocking" comments to Clegg, The Guardian reported.
	“At a time when leaders were united in condemnation of extremist atrocities, Mr Ward’s statement is a disgraceful attempt to politicize suffering, de-legitimize Israel, and justify acts of terror," wrote Ambassador Daniel Taub to the deputy prime minister.
	Ward stirred controversy in 2013 when he compared Israel's treatment of Palestinians to the Holocaust. His party reprimanded him for his "use of language," according to The Guardian. The Lib Dems suspended him later in 2013 for tweeting, “Am I wrong or am I right? At long last the Zionists are losing the battle – how long can the apartheid State of Israel last?”
	Ward issued an apology in July after his party threatened him with disciplinary action for saying he would likely fire a rocket at Israel if he lived in Gaza, noted The Guardian.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Over 100 U.K. artists announce cultural boycott of Israel</title>
<date>Sat Feb 14 19:02:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
Over 100 British artists announced on Friday that they are launching a cultural boycott of Israel, along with hundreds of others who have also signed up to the initiative. 
“Along with more than 600 other fellow artists, we are announcing today that we will not engage in business-as-usual cultural relations with Israel,” the group wrote in a letter published by Britain’s Guardian newspaper. 
According to the letter, this includes accepting professional invitations to Israel or funding from any institutions linked to the Israeli government.
“Since the summer war on Gaza, Palestinians have enjoyed no respite from Israel’s unrelenting attack on their land, their livelihood, their right to political existence,” read the letter, noting that the Israeli human rights organisation B’Tselem has called 2014 “one of the cruellest and deadliest in the history of the occupation.”
Notable signatories of the letter include film directors Ken Loach and Mike Leigh, legendary musician Brian Eno and art theorist John Berger. Roger Waters, well known for his criticism of Israel, also signed on. The full list of over 700 supporters appears on the Artists for Palestine U.K. website.   
The artists wrote that “Israel’s wars are fought on the cultural front too. Its army targets Palestinian cultural institutions for attack, and prevents the free movement of cultural workers. Its own theatre companies perform to settler audiences on the West Bank – and those same companies tour the globe as cultural diplomats, in support of ‘Brand Israel.’
During South African apartheid, musicians announced they weren’t going to ‘play Sun City.’ Now we are saying, in Tel Aviv, Netanya, Ashkelon or Ariel, we won’t play music, accept awards, attend exhibitions, festivals or conferences, run masterclasses or workshops, until Israel respects international law and ends its colonial oppression of the Palestinians.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. pro-Palestinian group's latest bus ad to target Netanyahu speech to Congress</title>
<date>Thu Feb 26 01:07:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	The Washington D.C.-based American Muslims for Palestine on Wednesday unveiled their latest ad, which targets Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's controversial upcoming speech to Congress, and which the group intends to run on buses.
	The ad excepts a statement Netanyahu, unaware he was being filmed, made to West Bank settlers in 2001, reading, "America is a thing you can move very easily." The ad then states: "Stop the disrespect – End U.S. aid to Israel."
	It also shows Netanyahu making his "cartoon bomb" speech to the United Nations, but the placard he's holding shows not the cartoon, but rather a checklist he's presenting to Congress, with "Israel agenda" checked off and an X next to "U.S. agenda."  
	In 2013, American Muslims for Palestine put up poster ads in New York train stations reading, "Americans give Israel $3 billion per year! End apartheid now! Stop U.S. aid to Israel."
	It was part of a duel with right-wing pro-Israel groups, one of which put up ads in New York train stations reading, "It's not Islamophobia, it's Islamorealism."
		Analytics say our new ad has reached nearly 18 million people online 
EndTheDisrespect pic.twitter.com/kMe55qNUPQ

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Election Updates / Abbas: We welcome Arab Joint List, wish them great success</title>
<date>Wed Mar 04 14:35:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
 Latest opinion and analysis: Netanyahu hopes to ride rhetoric to electoral victory (Yossi Verter) | Who is a Zionist? (Salman Masalha) | Digital media is the big winner in Israel's election campaign (Nati Tucker)
 Latest updates:
 1:15 P.M. Abbas: We wish Joint List much luck in Israeli election
	Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas came out in support of the joint Arab electoral list for the upcoming Knesset elections, saying, “We welcome the Joint List and wish them much success. This is not interference [in domestic Israeli politics]… it is our right as members of the same nation to [endorse] them.” Abbas made the remarks at the opening of the Palestinian Central Council, one of the institutions of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
	“We identify with every political force in Israel that recognizes the establishment of a Palestinian state on the 1967 borders and opposes racism, discrimination and apartheid,” the Palestinian president said.
	Abbas also said he supports “popular resistance not only in the Palestinian Authority but all of the world in the name of justice for Palestinians,” adding that “the existing resistance is not enough and needs to be strengthened.” (Jack Khoury)	 
 11:30 A.M. Israeli diplomats set to cast first ballots in election
	The first ballots of Israel’s upcoming national election were set to be cast some two weeks before the election date.
	Israeli representatives stationed in 98 diplomatic missions throughout the world were due to begin voting Wednesday evening Israel time in elections for the 20th Knesset, according to a statement issued by the Knesset.
	Some 6,250 representatives abroad are eligible to vote in the elections. Other Israelis working or living abroad cannot cast absentee ballots. Israeli citizens must be in the country on the day of the election in order to vote.
	The first votes are set to be cast at the Israeli consulate in Wellington, New Zealand, at 11 P.M. Wednesday in Israel, which is morning there, and the last 36 hours later in San Francisco. The consulate in New York has the highest number of eligible voters, with about 600. (JTA)
 10 A.M. Israeli TV swamped with political campaign ads
	Day One of the TV campaign ads was disappointing – no party came out with a surprising new message or with an item that would evoke public discussion after its screening. In an era of social media, no clips were shown that had not been widely viewed previously on Facebook or Whatsapp. It’s doubtful whether televised electioneering such as was shown yesterday will actually impact the public agenda or the results of the elections.
	Thus, as provided for by the law, the political system took over valuable screen time to broadcast the election messages of the different parties. These will be shown daily on all three TV channels for the next two weeks.
	The only party that attempted to address the public agenda was the Zionist Camp, which scoffed at Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to the U.S. Congress shortly after the speech was delivered. The clip stated that in contrast to the bombing of the Iraqi reactor ordered by Menachem Begin and the Syrian one by Ehud Olmert, Netanyahu bombarded Congress with words while destroying relations with the United States. (Jonathin Lis) Read the full article
 5:20 A.M. Herzog: Even after Netanyahu's speech, Israel is still isolated
	Opposition leader Isaac Herzog criticized Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's speech before Congress on Tuesday, saying that despite the impressive rhetoric, his words did not slow Iran's quest for nuclear weapons.
	Speaking in a southern community not far from the Gaza border, Herzog, who is seeking to unseat Netanyahu in the March 17 Knesset elections, told the audience that their problems worry him no less than the Iranian nuclear threat.
	"Netanyahu knows how to deliver a speech," he said, "but [his] speech did not put a halt to a nuclear agreement and didn't influence it." Herzog added: "No Israeli leader will countenance a nuclear Iran."
	Herzog also addressed the Israel-U.S. relations following the speech. "The painful truth is that after the applause, Netanyahu was left alone," he said. "Israel was left isolated. And the negotiations with Iran will continue without any Israeli involvement. This speech badly damaged U.S.-Israel relations. It won’t change the administration's stance but will only widen the rift with our greatest friend and strategic ally." (Jonathan Lis) Read the full article

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Erekat: International community to blame for Netanyahu reelection</title>
<date>Wed Mar 18 13:48:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
	Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat on Wednesday blamed the international community for Israel's election results and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's reelection.
	"Such a result would not have been possible had the international community held Israel to account for its systematic violations of international law," Erekat said in a statement.
	Erekat said that results show "the success of a campaign platform based on settlements, racism, apartheid and the denial of the fundamental human rights of the Palestinian people."
	He implored the international community to act, urging it to "rally behind Palestinian efforts to internationalize our struggle for dignity and freedom through the International Criminal Court and through all other peaceful means."
	Earlier Wednesday, senior officials in the Palestinian Authority told Haaretz that Netanyahu's reelection, after declaring during his campaign that a Palestinian state would not be created and the settlements would remain largely in place, proves that there is no partner in Israel.
	The international community must understand that and not defend Netanyahu or his policies, the officials said. If Netanyahu does form a right-wing government, the officials said, it will make it easier for the Palestinians to succeed in the international arena, with the picture of Israel's policies so much clearer.
	Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority have not yet released an official response to the election results, and sources close to Abbas said that he would until the final results were in and the coalition was assembled before doing so.
	Haaretz reported Tuesday that according to Palestinian officials who spoke with officials in the Obama administration, the White House prefers to see a national unity government formed in Israel to stand behind a diplomatic arrangement.
	The Palestine Liberation Organization's Executive Committee will meet Thursday to discuss the decision made two weeks in ago in the Palestinian central committee regarding a halt in security coordination with Israel. The final decision on whether to implement that operationally will likely be left to Abbas.
	Hamas, meanwhile, said that the re-election of Netanyahu "who doesn't believe in a solution" obligates the PA to "cut off contact with the occupying authorities."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Habayit Hayehudi MK says 'extreme Israeli left' is like bacteria</title>
<date>Sun Apr 12 22:16:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
	Habayit Hayehudi MK Yinon Magal criticized on Sunday what he termed "the extreme left" and blasted columns of Haaretz columnist Gideon Levy, saying they are "like a bacteria that harms the brain."
	On his Facebook page, Magal – former editor-in-chief of the Israeli news portal Walla – wrote: "Now that it has finished inciting Europe against Israel, the Israeli extreme left is working to do the same in the U.S. The people who invented a people, who decided [those people] need a state (on Israeli land, of course), encourage boycotts against the Zionist state, hatched false accusations, falsely determined that there is apartheid here, pushed condemnations of Israel, flew around the world to slander us at every conference on the globe (great job) … are now intent on damaging our relationship with the U.S."
	According to Magal, "one must read Gideon Levy's latest columns published by Haaretz to understand how far the madness has come. Like a bacteria that targets the brain." Magal attached a photograph of Levy's article (Hebrew) from April 9. The article also ran in English.
	"These columns are translated into English every day and are read in capitals around the world," added Magal. "It's hard to gauge the damage that this milieu did and does to Israel. Actually, you can see our situation diplomatically and in terms of security. The extreme Israeli left has a lot of responsibility for it."  
 To read Gideon Levy's articles, click here

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians clash with IDF during Prisoners Day demonstrations</title>
<date>Fri Apr 17 19:05:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
	Israel Defense Forces soldiers clashed with Palestinian protesters in the West Bank village of Bilin on Friday during annual demonstrations marking Palestinian Prisoners Day, AFP reported.
	One protester was reportedly wounded as over 100 Palestinians, some throwing stones, rallied near the separation barrier at the village. Security forces fired tear gas to disperse the crowd. 	Prisoners Day is marked every year in solidarity with the more than 6,000 Palestinians currently in Israeli jails. 	Fourteen Palestinian members of parliament and 20 journalists are among those detained and over 450 Palestinians are being held without trial for indeterminate periods under administrative detention provisions.
	Since Israel's 1967 occupation of the West Bank, East Jerusalem and Gaza, over 800,000 Palestinians have been detained by Israel's military, while over 60 Palestinians have died in Israeli jails, according to data provided by the PLO.
	Over 70 percent of Palestinian families have had at least one relative detained at some point, according to the UN.
	The current number of Palestinian prisoners is the highest for at least five years, according to figures from Palestinian human rights groups.
	In Gaza City, hundreds of Palestinians performed Friday prayers in front of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to mark Palestinian Prisoner's Day. 	"Today, we honor and express our solidarity with all Palestinians who have been and continue to be imprisoned in Israeli jails," senior PLO official Hanan Ashrawi said in a statement.
	"We commend their steadfastness, courage and determination in defiance of Israel's military occupation and system of enslavement and apartheid."
	"We call on all members of the international community to act on the basis of justice and human rights and bring Israel to compliance for its willful breach of the rights and lives of Palestinian political prisoners," Ashrawi added. 	President Mahmoud Abbas marked Palestinian Prisoner's Day by saying that any future peace agreement must free all Palestinian prisoners.
	"It is time for decision holders in Israel to realize that jails, settlement, confiscating lands and withholding holding PA tax funds will only lead to more extremism and keep us from reaching what we seek, which is a just peace based on ending occupation," Abbas said in a televised statement on Thursday.
	In Hebron on Wednesday, hundreds of Palestinians marched through the streets in a Prisoners' Day demonstration, calling for an end to child detainees, an end to administrative detention and the military court system, the release of prisoners in bad health and the release of women prisoners.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K.'s Green Party leader backs Israel boycott</title>
<date>Sat Apr 18 17:38:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
The leader of the U.K.'s Green Party says she backs a boycott of Israel, which is official party policy since before Natalie Bennett became leader in 2012. 
In an interview with the Jewish Chronicle ahead of general elections on May 7, Bennett said, “We need to get the message across to the Israeli state. It needs to comply with international law and human rights…The boycott of Israel is Green Party policy. It is a really difficult area, but I would support the policy."
The Green Party is the only mainstream U.K. party that supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement.  The party's 2015 manifesto, which was made public this week, calls for suspending the EU-Israel Association Agreement, the legal basis for EU trade with Israel which has been in force since 2,000, and is worth more than nearly 1.5 billion dollars year, according to the Jewish Chronicle.
Bennett, an Australian-born former journalist, told the newspaper that the agreement "should be contingent on respecting human rights and international law. Until Israel is in compliance with international law, I don’t think we should have that trade deal."
She added, “I believe we should stop arms sale to Israel. I believe that we should be using diplomatic pressure to push Israel to respect international law and UN resolutions," and said she also thinks the U.K. should stop arms sales to Saudi Arabia.
The stance of some of the party's candidates on Israel has drawn some criticism from some Jewish groups. In one incident earlier this week, Green Party candidate Tanya Williams, called Israel “a racist and apartheid state,” and in a YouTube video uploaded in January, the deputy leader of the party, Sharer Ali, is heard telling a pro-Palestinian rally in London that, “Just because you observe the niceties of Holocaust Memorial Day it does not mean you have learned the lessons of history.”
Referring to his comments, Bennett told the Jewish Chronicle, " When I am talking about the situation between Palestine and Israel, I focus on the behaviour of the Israeli government." She added that, “Britain’s place in the world should be as a champion of human rights and democracy.”
The Green Party leader has never visited Israel or the West Bank, and told the newspaper she has no plans to visit.  “I have sort of lost my travel lust to be honest,” she said. “I am Australian, I travelled a lot, I came to Europe and I travelled around Asia. These days, when I have holidays, I tend to sit somewhere very quiet in a bit of nature and not move.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ex-U.S. President Jimmy Carter says situation in Gaza is 'intolerable' </title>
<date>Sat May 02 21:24:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
	Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter says that eight months after the 50-day  hostilities between Israel and Hamas, the situation in the Gaza Strip is "intolerable."
	Carter's delegation called off a planned visit to Gaza earlier this week, giving no explanation. Speaking Saturday in the West Bank city of Ramallah, however, Carter said he is still determined to work for a Palestinian state. But he lamented that "not one destroyed house has been rebuilt" in Gaza since the war.
	At a press conference with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, Carter, 90, also urged the Palestinians to hold elections. "We hope that sometime we'll see elections all over the Palestinian area and east Jerusalem and Gaza and also in the West Bank," AFP reported.
	Carter said that elections were "very important" for "full implementation of the agreement reached between Hamas and Fatah," referring to a reconciliation deal the two sides agreed on last year. There been no election in Gaza or the West Bank for nearly a decade. Though Abbas was meant to leave office in 2009, he has stayed put because there has yet to be an election. The last time the Palestinian parliament met was in 2007, and the last legislative elections were held in 2006.
	Though Carter visited Abbas, he was shunned by Israeli leaders who long have considered him hostile to Israel.
	Although he brokered the first Israeli-Arab peace treaty during his presidency, Carter outraged many Israelis with his 2006 book "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid." He's also repeatedly reached out to Gaza's Islamic Hamas leaders, considered terrorists by much of the West.
	Carter was also accompanied by former Norwegian prime minister Gro Harlem Brundtland.
	Carter is a member of The Elders Group, an independent group of global leaders who describe themselves as working together for peace and human rights. The Group said ahead of Carter and Brundtland's trip that they were visiting "in a renewed push to promote the two-state solution and to address the root causes of the conflict" in the Mideast.	 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel suspends plan to segregate Israelis, Palestinians on West Bank buses following criticism</title>
<date>Wed May 20 15:25:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon decided Wednesday to suspend a program to separate Israeli and Palestinian bus travel in the West Bank.  
The program, launched Tuesday, stipulated that Palestinian workers would have to return from Israel to the West Bank via the same checkpoint they left and will not be allowed to ride Israeli bus lines.
Deputy Minister of Defense MK Eli Ben-Dahan (Habayit Hayehudi) said on Wednesday in the Knesset that he was "surprised" by the suspension of the program. Responding to a parliamentary question submitted by MK Ofer Shelah, Ben-Dahan said: "I didn't know. I wasn't updated. I only began serving as deputy minister this morning, it's not appropriate to send me to give an answer without me being aware of it." 
President Reuven Rivlin welcomed the suspension of a move that "could have led to an unthinkable separation between bus lines for Jews and Arabs."
"As one who loves the Land of Israel, I have nothing but regret for the discordant voices that we heard this morning, supporting the separation between Jews and Arabs on the basis of ideas that have no place being heard or said," he said.
"Such statements go against the very foundations of the State of Israel, and impact upon our very ability to establish here a Jewish and democratic state," Rivlin added. "Such statements cause great damage to the State of Israel, and to the settlement movement.  It is important we remember that our sovereignty obligates us to prove our ability to live side by side."
Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein also welcomed the decision, saying the program would have presented legal challenges.
Earlier on Wednesday, Zionist Union leader and opposition head Isaac Herzog said "separating Palestinians and Jews on public buses is a warrantless humiliation and a stain on… the country and its citizens." In a Facebook post, Herzog added that the move will fan the flames "of hatred toward Israel around the world."
'This is what apartheid looks like'
"This is another mistake by the prime minister, who… is giving in to a miserable decision that has nothing to do with the country's security," Herzog said, adding that such steps – which "cause unnecessary harm to Israel's image at such a sensitive time" – should have been avoided. "At this time, Israel needs cool-headed and responsible leadership, not haphazard, capitulating steps," he said.
Former Likud Minister of Interior Gideon Sa'ar also criticized the program. The decision, he said, "causes great harm to the settlement [enterprise] in Judea and Samaria and to Israel's image around the world. It cannot remain in place." Sa'ar added that "since it's obvious this decision will be canceled" the program should be promptly scrapped to "minimize the grave damage to Israel and to the settlements."
Zionist Union MK Shelly Yacimovich lashed out at what she called a "chilling" program: "There is no explanation that can erase the stain it casts on Israel," she said. "Dealing with security-related challenges is difficult, but such a blatant separation between Jews and Arabs is a violation of every international moral norm and will exact a heavy toll on Israel."
Meretz leader Zehava Galon said that Ya'alon "gave in to pressure exerted by Jewish settlers, who complained over the large number of Palestinians on the buses." Ethnic separation on buses, she said, is "unacceptable in a democratic country."
"This is what apartheid looks like," said Galon. "Separate bus lines for Palestinians and Jews prove that democracy and occupation cannot coexist."
On the other side of political spectrum, Habayit Hayehudi MK Moti Yogev – who also chairs the subcommittee on Judea and Samaria in the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee – welcomed the launch, saying it provides "better service and security to both populations."
Yogev said Wednesday that the previous decision to allow Palestinians laborers to ride the buses used by West Bank settlers "caused sexual harassment, theft and even feelings of insecurity," while the overcrowded buses made it impossible "for the elderly and the young [passengers] who require public transit."  Yogev added that those who criticize the program "don't know the reality and their statements are "hypocritical, disingenuous and irresponsible."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The 'Blatt, Blatter & Blattest' Edition / The Promised Podcast</title>
<date>Fri Jun 05 07:33:49 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
For more Promised Podcast episodes, click here
Allison, Don, and Noah discuss three topics of incomparable importance, and end with an anecdote each about something in Israel that made them smile this week.FIFA = “Frankly, Israel Foments Apartheid”?We discuss the brouhaha over a Palestinian proposal to expel Israel from the international football association, FIFA, and the suggestion of some leftists that Israel deserves to be expelled. Do they have a point or are they just spoiled sports?IDF = “Impeding Democracy Fulsomely”?We discuss two recent trials of IDF soldiers, one charged with mouthing off against the occupation on German TV, and the other charged with – wait for it – eating a ham sandwich. Is the army enforcing the ideological agenda of the new government?BFF = “(You) Better F*cking Fail”?We discuss an intriguing essay by Ari Shavit, pointing out that when Cleveland Cavaliers coach, American-Israeli David Blatt, coached in Israel, we couldn’t have been meaner to the guy. Are we Israelis unable to appreciate each other’s achievements?

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>WATCH: Livni, 'BDS movement is not for two states for two people'</title>
<date>Thu Jun 18 16:55:45 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Short transcript:
(Scroll down for the full clip)
Livni: There is a huge gap between criticizing a policy or having a debate or asking Israel questions and boycotting and putting sanctions against Israel, which is basically a collective punishment.
David: Did you agree with the sanctions, the equivalent BDS movement against apartheid South Africa?
Livni: If I may, we have sanctions on Iran and I am here to say they should be kept and to remove it at once.
David: What about the South African ones?
Livni: Yes, I did that, but there is a difference because there is no apartheid in Israel.  
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Last president of apartheid South Africa: Sanctions no way to solve Israeli-Palestinian conflict</title>
<date>Sun Jun 21 16:21:08 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Frederik Willem de Klerk, the last president of South Africa under apartheid, said in an interview with an Israeli radio channel that he is firmly opposed to international sanctions against Israel as a means to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and that he finds comparisons of Israel to apartheid South Africa "odious."
"I think sanctions are more counterproductive than helpful to change any country on the course it is taking," de Klerk said, according to excerpts from the interview released on Israel Radio's website on Sunday.  
"In the case of South Africa our experience has been that sanctions sometimes delayed the reforms, it had the effect of driving the white population, who at that stage had all the power, into a corner, and they resisted it fiercely," de Klerk told Israel Radio.
According to de Klerk, the sanctions against South Africa hurt the black population much more than it did the white population it was targeting.
Regarding comparisons between the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and the policy of racial segregation in South Africa, known as apartheid, de Klerk said: "I think comparisons are odious and wouldn't like to draw direct comparisons. I prefer dialogue and negotiation as a way to get governments to change their attitudes."
De Klerk also conveyed his concerns about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, saying it can "explode into something that can cause big waves far beyond the borders of Israel itself." De Klerk added that he would like to see a resolution to the conflict, but said that he does not believe sanctions would be a productive means to that end. 
De Klerk served as South Africa president from 1989 to May 1994 and brokered the end of apartheid. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 along with Nelson Mandela for his role in the transformation of the country into a multi-racial democracy. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Haaretz publisher Amos Schocken: Israel’s settlers have won</title>
<date>Wed Jun 24 08:44:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
It's not easy being Amos Schocken, the publisher of Haaretz, in present-day Israel. The Israeli bon ton is distancing itself from him, and he and his newspaper have become a target for the barbs of right-wing organizations, who portray the newspaper as anti-Zionist and as a fifth column. And those are some of the milder descriptions.
For Schocken, 70, everything began with family. His German-born grandfather, Salman Schocken, began his career as an uneducated shopkeeper and became an economic phenomenon. Along with his varied business interests and the chain of department stores that he built and managed, he was an impressive autodidact who read books on philosophy, history, the humanities and Judaism. He provided financial support for quite a number of Jewish philosophers and intellectuals, and was the patron of Israel's Nobel laureate for literature, S.Y. Agnon.
In 1934, when the Nazi party came to power, Salman Schocken, an ardent Zionist, decided to immigrate to Palestine. There he became a member of the board of the Jewish National Fund, and helped to purchase land in Haifa Bay. In 1935, he added to his publishing empire a local newspaper that he purchased for 23,000 pounds sterling. It was called Haaretz.
"My father told me a story," says Amos Schocken. "My grandfather participated in meetings of the JNF board of directors. The representatives of the 'settlers' of that time, the settlement movement that wanted to establish kibbutzim and moshavim, would come to ask for money for their projects. Some of the requests were approved, some rejected. Suddenly my grandfather realized that what had been rejected at one meeting would reappear at the next one.
"Dr. Arthur Ruppin (a leader of the Jewish settlement movement in Palestine) was sitting beside him. So my grandfather asks: 'Dr. Ruppin, I don't understand. At the last meeting we decided we were not approving this settlement. Why has it come up again?' And Ruppin answered: 'Mr. Schocken, you don't understand. In Palestine there's no such thing as no. No just means it's been put off until the next meeting.'" Some might say that Amos Schocken also doesn't understand that there's no such thing as 'no,' especially when it comes to peace plans and withdrawals.
Grandfather Salman gave the newspaper to Amos' father, Gershom Schocken, who was chief editor and publisher from 1939. After his death, in 1990, Amos became the publisher. The paper's guiding principles have remained clearly leftist (Amos Schocken told me he only once vote for Likud – in 1973, after the Yom Kippur War, because he felt Prime Minister Golda Meir had unleashed a catastrophe).
Haaretz opposes Israel’s continued occupation of the West Bank. It is critical of official bodies in Israel – including the Israel Defense Forces. This often elicits anger from the Israeli public, as happened last year during Operation Protective Edge, when Haaretz published a piece by Gideon Levy ("Lowest deeds from the loftiest heights") that called the Israel Air Force a “death squadron”.
I met Schocken, who is also one of Israel’s most important art collectors, at the Haaretz offices in south Tel Aviv.
Amos Schocken, as the publisher of Haaretz, do you still believe in peace?
"Of course, there's no other option."
After such a long period when peace efforts have failed time after time, isn't that messianic blindness?
"Not at all. On the contrary, I think that there's messianic blindness in Israel's decision to prevent peace at all costs, by continuing the settlement enterprise rather than giving it up. That, in effect, is the strategy of the Israeli government."
Was the evacuation of Gush Katif [Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip] justified in the way in was carried out?
"Yes, every evacuation is justified. Settlement in the occupied territories is like theft – you come, take territory that isn't yours and settle there. It's not recognized by international law, but they look for all kinds of ways to make this theft kosher."
Jewish settlers cry before Israeli police remove them from the Neve Dekalim settlement in the Gush Katif bloc of Jewish settlements, in the southern Gaza Strip, August 17, 2005. (Reuters)
Why do you consider it ethical to accept the occupation when it comes to Sheikh Munis [now part of Ramat Aviv where Tel Aviv University stands] and not when it comes to Ariel [in the West Bank]?
"Because it received international recognition, and the Arabs recognized it too. The Jordanians and the Egyptians recognized it, and even Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas recognizes it." Bear in mind that even Israel recognizes Ariel only as an Apartheid presence. Its territory is not part of Israel, its Israeli population is under Israeli law, but its Palestinian neighbors are under Israeli martial law.
Do you really think they believe that? You must have seen the heated interview between Dan Margalit and MK Jamal Zahalka (Balad), when Zahalka shouted at him: "This is Sheikh Munis; you won't throw me out of here."
"So let's test them. We'll tell them: 'Look, this is our offer, these are the borders, and these are the security arrangements.' Let's assume that in any case they won't agree and they'll say they also want Abu Kabir and Sheikh Munis, Israel will then say: 'Friends, that's our limit. We can't come to an agreement.'"
And you'll agree to say, "That's our limit"?
"I think so. After all, the Jews' right to this land is a somewhat strange right. Someone comes and says: 'In some history from 2,000 years ago I was here, and therefore it's mine and I have rights.' According to this logic, our rights in Hebron are no less than our rights in Yavne (a city in proper Israel). That's clear to me. But we cannot deny the Arabs' rights to Sheikh Munis and Abu Kabir. Our way not to deny their rights and simultaneously to protect our rights is to say: 'Okay, in a situation where everyone has rights in the region – let's share.' We'll give up the right to Hebron, and they'll give up the right to Sheikh Munis."
Going back to Ariel University for a minute, would you hire someone who studied there?
"Of course. We also have settlers who work here."
Do you consider Ariel University legitimate?
"Everything that's there shouldn't be there. I was visiting Chancellor Yigal Cohen-Orgad at the university. I said to him: 'Great, but why here?'"
About two years ago, at a panel discussion, you said that the settlers have won. Do you still believe that?
"When Ayelet Shaked [Habayit Hayehudi] is appointed justice minister – there's no greater victory than that. It's clear that the settlers have won; the settlers are running the country. They are only a handful. Count all the people who live in the territories ­– they are not a significant percentage of the country's inhabitants. But their influence is not insignificant at all."
But the most recent election proved that the majority of Israelis thinks like settlers even if they don’t all live in the territories.
"I don't think so. I think that the public wants peace, but doesn't believe it's possible. The public isn't interested in the settlements; they're not on its agenda and I don't think people travel there much. On the other hand, all the heirs of Gush Emunim [the settlement movement] are highly talented people who are very focused on maintaining constant growth in the settlement enterprise. I can understand the attraction of the settlers, because it seems that while all the others are interested in a career, in money and in their private life, these are people who are determined to implement a significant strategic and diplomatic step. They have a vision."
Gush Emunim settlers in front of tents put up in an attempt to establish the Elon Moreh settlement at Sebastia, 1975. This community became an icon for the settlement movement. (Moshe Milner/GPO)
Do you envy the right for its vision?
"The Zionist vision before the establishment of the state was also a very significant motivating force, and this movement became important within a few decades. It’s good that there's a vision for the country, but to say that I envy this cannibalistic vision – not at all."
Does the left still have a chance of winning an election in Israel?
"I have no idea. It depends on a lot of things, among them it depends on leadership."
Is there something they should have done in the past election?
"You could say that what Labor leader Isaac Herzog should have done is to hang signs reading 'Herzog will divide Jerusalem,' to tell the truth. You have to tell the truth rather than be vague."
Would that have helped him?
"I don't know. If not this time, maybe next time. If not next time, then the time after that. Jerusalem is already divided – there are entire areas that Israelis don't enter, except for settlers who are trying slowly but surely to expel the Arab population."
How did you feel about the atmosphere here before the election – the tension, the hatred?
"Maybe because I don't hate anyone, I don't understand why they keep discussing the issue of hatred. It's true that the comments on Facebook and the comments on the Internet are sometimes shocking, but I must say I don't feel hatred toward the settlers, or toward the ultra-Orthodox, or toward anyone. I also hope that the newspaper doesn't convey hatred. Hatred is not a tool that Haaretz should use."
So what do you think about the comments of artist Yair Garbuz, actress Anat Waxman et al.?
"They're not important."
Garbuz railed against those who kiss amulets. Your grandfather was also attracted to Jewish mysticism.
"Yes, that's true. But let's put it this way: The mysticism that my grandfather was interested in is on a higher level than the people who have never read a book in this field. Still, I'm not impressed by what Garbuz said. I think that the way in which someone expresses his faith and his feelings is entirely personal, and one person can't judge another. It's a personal matter."
Do you think that Garbuz's comments are legitimate?
"Comments are legitimate, but are they helpful? Are they wise? That's quite another question."
Schocken believes that Israel's political strategy in recent years has been to empower the settlements. He also believes Israel’s recent attempts at peacemaking have not been in good faith. "Maybe late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin did think about that, but even Ehud Barak, when he was prime minister, bragged about the fact that he didn't give back any territory during his term. Today, Habayit Hayehudi Chairman Naftali Bennett, says 'Not even one centimeter.' So it's clear that Israel isn't interested in peace. Israel's behavior is not that of a country that wants peace."
Do the Palestinians in Gaza want peace?
"This line of arguing, in which we reject something in advance by saying, 'They won't agree so there's no point' is dishonest in my opinion. And why is it dishonest? Because they aren't saying, 'We'll wait until they agree, and until then we won't build settlements.' They're saying the opposite: 'We'll build settlements, we don't care.' Then we can't come with complaints against the Palestinians, when every day, every hour, we're preventing any possibility of peace."
Should we ignore Hamas' calls against making peace?
"We could reach an agreement with Abbas. Hamas doesn't want to reach an agreement? So after a while, either we'll reach an agreement with Hamas too, or we won't. But by then you'll establish a state in the West Bank. After all, we can't use Hamas as an excuse to prevent an agreement in the West Bank. When Hamas and the PA formed a national unity government, we might have thought that Hamas would join the framework of the PA. But Netanyahu rejected that. He wanted the opposite."
Maybe he was right. Six months later there was a war.
"He made it happen. The war broke out because Israel pushed them into a corner, with the siege and the intolerable situation in Gaza. After all, what happened when the three boys, Eyal Yifrah, Gilad Shaar and Naftali Fraenkel were kidnapped? Israel exploited the opportunity during the search for them, and re-arrested Palestinians released in the Gilad Shalit prisoner exchange. They acted against Hamas members that had nothing to do with the search. What could Hamas have done in Gaza other than what it did?
Palestinians ride a horse cart pass apartment buildings that were destroyed in the 2014 Israel-Gaza war, in Beit Lahiya, northern Gaza Strip, June 2, 2015. (AP)
"Let's go further back, to the peace initiative of U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. The prime minister never came to the Israeli public and said it was important. Throughout the entire Kerry initiative he torpedoed it until he finally destroyed it by not releasing the fourth round of prisoners as he had promised. When that happens, I can understand why Hamas asks, 'Why is Abbas talking with that man, who has no intention of making peace? The Jews understand only force, regardless of whether we give up our historic viewpoint.' After all, Abbas is not saying what Hamas says, that the PA wants to eliminate the State of Israel. He says, 'I want to make do with 22 percent of the territory.'"
So according to you, first we'll reach an agreement with the Palestinians and give up 22 percent of the territory. But the conflict still won't be over, because Gaza is home to a population of 1.7 million people who presumably say no to peace.
"You could have said that about the peace with Egypt, too: 'If we make peace with Egypt, that still doesn't solve the problem with Syria.' We could have reached an agreement that wouldn't threaten Israel's security. And we can make security arrangements that differ from when we evacuated Gaza without an agreement."
What do you think of the situation on the Temple Mount?
"I think that we have to reach a situation in which after peace they'll find an arrangement that will enable everyone to pray."
And now, in the present situation?
"I think we have to be very careful."
Isn't the State of Israel discriminating against the Jews in this connection?
"To hear that Jews are discriminated against in Israel is something that has to be rejected out of hand. The Jews rule, the Jews decide what will happen, the Jews tell a Palestinian student whether or not he will get to university, whether or not a Palestinian artist can travel to an exhibition that he was invited to take part in at a New York museum.
"First let's allow the Arabs, the Palestinians, to go from place to place, and then we'll talk about these rights. The fact that Jews are whining about discrimination against them? Give me a break..."
Masked Palestinian protesters during clashes on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem's Old City. (Reuters)
Aren't they being denied a basic right of freedom of worship?
"And at the same time pushing Palestinian families out of Silwan [in East Jerusalem]? It's one versus the other. These things inflame the situation and turn their ascent to the Temple Mount into something explosive. If relations were normal we could ask: What would happen if we were to go to Rachel's Tomb and pay $10 a ticket to the PA Tourism Ministry? Nothing. They would earn $10, we would enter Rachel's Tomb, and everything would be fine. And when they come here to the mosque they would pay $10. You can find solutions if you want to. But when the Jews say, 'It's all mine and nothing is yours,' then let's not discuss some place where they claim they're discriminated against.
Several controversial articles have been published in recent years in Haaretz, including one, from April 2013, by Amira Hass, a Haaretz journalist who covers the Palestinians living in the West Bank. Her piece began with the sentence: “Throwing stones is the birthright and duty of anyone subject to foreign rule,” and it outraged Israelis. Opponents of the newspaper claimed that it was granting a license to kill, and some people demanded that the authorities "restrict the newspaper's ability to publish such incitement."
Do you define Hamas as a terror organization?
"Any killing of civilians, children and women is terror. When you act to kill people who are not involved, that's terror."
Is there another way for a minority to confront a majority?
At this point Schocken presents an article in Haaretz by Yitzhak Laor, who quotes philosopher Frantz Fanon, known for his writing on colonialism and the confrontation between Third World countries and the European powers that occupied them. "Fanon in effect says: There's no choice but to silence the arrogance of the settler, because capitalism didn't allow its subjects to become free," says Schocken.
"When you apply this to Israel you say: We aren't allowing them to become free. According to that theory, terror is a solution that you can condemn and you can disagree with, but it's an inevitable solution."
The right's main accusation against Haaretz is that you have abandoned the Zionist consensus and become anti-Zionist.
"I think that the opposite is true: The right has changed the definition of Zionism. My definition of Zionism is a viewpoint or an ideology that sees the establishment of a national home in the Land of Israel, in the context of a Jewish and democratic state, as a solution for the Jewish people. That is Haaretz's viewpoint. The viewpoint of those who call themselves 'Zionists' today, and whom I consider anti-Zionists, is 'the Land of Israel for Am Israel (the Jewish people).' While the establishment of a Jewish home for the Jewish people in the Land of Israel doesn't eliminate the possibility of Arabs living anywhere in the country, and does not preclude a Palestinian state, the Zionism of the settlers is the Land of Israel for the Jewish people – and there is no place for Arabs."
Did the State of Israel undermine the newspaper's freedom of expression, in your opinion?
"I think so. For example, I think the Boycott Law [the law allowing a lawsuit for damages against anyone who calls for a boycott against Israel] is a real blow to freedom of expression."
Are you pleased with Haaretz's image?
"I think that our image among people who read Haaretz is good. People who don't read it, or here and there see some part that annoys them, have an incorrect image of the newspaper. I think people who read Haaretz know that what Haaretz says it says because it believes in good faith that it's the right thing for Israel, and not because it's serving some agenda against Israel or in favor of anyone else.
"Both Herzog and [Meretz leader Zehava] Galon complained to us that we were critical of them. It's true that in terms of politics we think that Netanyahu's leadership is dangerous for Israel, and we thought that a different leadership could bring about a change, but that still doesn't grant the other side immunity from criticism."
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyanu.(Olivier Fitoussi)
How many subscriptions were canceled after Gideon Levy's article "Lowest deeds from loftiest heights"?
"I think we had 800 cancellations of daily subscriptions, and a similar number of Friday subscriptions."
Is that a serious blow?
"Yes."
‘We're okay financially’
The newspaper industry in Israel has undergone a shake-up, and that includes Haaretz. Schocken was criticized quite a bit for letting two new foreign partners join the newspaper during his tenure: oligarch Leonid Nevzlin and German media mogul Alfred DuMont, who passed away recently.
What is Haaretz's situation at present?
"All in all it's doing all right. We implemented several capital-related moves in recent years that eliminated our bank debts. In 2006 and 2011 we took on partners, and then we also realized our holding in [Israeli Web portal] Walla!, so that financially we're okay. Still it's hard, because advertising revenues keep eroding, and we have to keep taking care of expenditures. I can't say that we weren't hurt by all these cuts, but the alternative would be for the newspaper to cease to exist. We made several strategic decisions, like charging for the digital edition, which also brings us income. We are now approaching 21,000 digital subscribers in Hebrew and almost 20,000 in English."
Why do you continue to operate the paper if profitability is uncertain?
"First of all, there is profit. And I also think, unfortunately, it is a dual purpose business. I think Haaretz is an important institution in Israeli society, and if ceases to exist things will be worse. It's important that there will be newspapers like Haaretz and like TheMarker (Haaretz' business daily) in Israel."
One of your partners is the German DuMont family, whose patriarch was a member of the Nazi party. And the second, Leonid Nevzlin, is an oligarch who some might say represents things TheMarker fights.
"I don't see any fault in the fact that Israel does business with someone whose parents were Nazis. In the case of Alfred Neven DuMont's father, there's also a difference between being a Nazi who believes in that ideology and promotes it, and being a Nazi in Germany, at a time when if you weren't one it can be assumed you may not have survived – especially if you were the owner of a newspaper. There's a difference between doing business with someone who was an active Nazi and someone who was a party member, operated a newspaper and published what Goebbels allowed him to publish.
"But in any case, I made this deal with a man who was 18 years old when the war ended, who was not in the Hitler Youth Movement, who wasn't in the army, whose family actually smuggled him out, and who is a true friend of Israel. [The interview was conducted before Alfred DuMont passed away at the beginning of June.] I don't think that anyway sons should be punished for the sins of their fathers; that seems unreasonable to me."
And what about Nevzlin? He was harshly criticized in Russia at the time.
"We had to learn the entire story, so we thoroughly examined those incidents. We read all the paperwork of the court decisions in Russia, and we saw that there was no judicial procedure there. It was like a Stalinist court. When Russia submitted an extradition request for Nevzlin, Israel’s State Prosecutor's Office said that there was no basis for extradition. The Russians actually brought no proof of their claims. The Israeli Supreme Court approved the State Prosecutor’s decision that there was no basis for extradition and for an indictment."
‘It’s hard to detach yourself from Israel’
Being a publisher is a heavy burden.
"Yes, it's a burden. And in Israel sometimes it means being in the trenches."
Are you afraid that if Haaretz shutters on your watch, you'll feel you were unable to safeguard the family project?
"I really don't know what the future of this industry is, so I don't look at it that way at all. When I was 26 years old, I finished my master's degree in the United States and I stayed there to work for almost two more years. After a year my father came to visit me and said: 'I'll soon have to appoint a new CEO for the newspaper, so decide whether you're coming back. If so – then it's you.' So I came back. My two children recently completed their studies in the United States and are working there. I wouldn’t want to come to my son, Roni, and say what my father said then. Although he religiously follows events in Israel and has opinions, and I do think that he could have a job here."
So what are the options?
"I don't know. At The Wall Street Journal the owners were not the operators most of the time, but were on the board of directors."
Why wouldn't you want to put him in charge?
"I don't know. Freedom."
How do you think Israel will look 50 years from now?
"I'm very concerned."
Are you afraid of the present leadership?
"Yes. I think that if the court in Israel gradually becomes a political court, that would be a catastrophe."
Are you in despair?
"Not in despair, we're in battle. I think that if this government lasts and advances its programs, this step of undermining freedom of speech will progress to other things. You can't have an apartheid regime, a discriminatory regime, an oppressive regime, without controlling the media."
Would you advise a relative to stay in the country?
"Listen, it's very hard to detach yourself from Israel."
What's hard?
"Israeli-ness. After all, there is such a thing. It's possible that I experience it very differently from the way it's experienced in other places because Tel Aviv, as we saw in the election, is something entirely different from other parts of the country, or from some parts. But Israeli-ness is language, Israeli-ness is culture.
Do you like Israeli-ness?
"I live in it, don't I?"
This interview was first published in Ariella, the student newspaper of Ariel University, and in Makor Rishon, a weekly newspaper.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Clinton 'alarmed' over calls for Israel boycott, urges bi-partisan action</title>
<date>Mon Jul 06 20:01:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton expressed her alarm last week over the anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment and Sanction movement, and said countering it was a priority that stretches "across party lines," vowing to always "stand up for Israel" if she becomes president.
In a July 2 letter sent to Israeli-American businessman Haim Saban – a major donor and fundraiser for Clinton – she stressed the need to counter the BDS campaign "with information and advocacy" and to "fight back against further attempts to delegitimize Israel."
In the letter, the former secretary of state asked Saban for his advice "on how leaders and communities across America can work together to counter BDS."
"From Congress and state legislature to boardrooms and classrooms, we need to engage all people of good faith," she wrote, in order to explain "why the BDS campaign is counterproductive to the pursuit of peace and harmful to Israelis and Palestinians alike."
According to Clinton, the BDS movement dictates to both Israelis and Palestinians how to resolve the conflict, while seeking to "punish" Israel. And while she reiterated her support for the two-state solution, Clinton said the BDS campaign "is not the path to peace," which can only be reached through direct negotiations.
Clinton also said she was concerned by "attempts to compare Israel to South African apartheid," particularly at a time when anti-Semitism is on the rise. Israel, she noted, "is a vibrant democracy in a region dominated by autocracy, and it faces existential threats to its survival."
Citing her tenure as senator and as secretary of state, Clinton mentioned she had opposed "dozens of anti-Israel resolutions at the UN, the Human Rights Council, and other organizations," and has stood by Israel in the wake of the Goldstone Report and when the Palestinians tried to make unilateral moves at the UN. "Time after time," she concluded, "I have made it clear that America will always stand up for Israel – and that's what I’ll always do as President."
Ending on a personal note, Clinton recalled her first visit to Israel and her emotional attachment to the country: "The Jewish state is a modern day miracle – a vibrant bloom in the middle of the desert. We must nurture and protect it."
Saban, an Israeli-American businessman, is considered one of the biggest donors to the Clintons over the years. Last month, Saban and casino mogul Sheldon Adelson hosted a summit in Las Vegas that brought together representatives from various Jewish organizations to discuss ways of countering BDS on U.S. campuses.
Clinton's letter to Saban – and it's dissemination by Saban's spokespeople and Clinton's election headquarters – are meant to garner support among the American Jewish community, in particular Jewish voters who are unhappy about President Barack Obama's policy towards Israel and are considering voting for a Republican nominee.


</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Growing BDS movement raises alarm among Israeli leaders</title>
<date>Tue Jul 07 14:28:38 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
AP — Ten years ago, a small group of Palestinian activists had a novel idea: inspired by the anti-apartheid movement, they called for a global boycott movement against Israel as a nonviolent method to promote the Palestinian struggle for independence.
Long confined to the sidelines, the so-called BDS movement appears to be gaining momentum - so much so that Israel has identified it as a strategic threat on a par with Palestinian militant groups and the Iranian nuclear program. While Israel says the movement is rooted in anti-Semitism, its decentralized organization and language calling for universal human rights have proven difficult to counter, resulting in a string of recent victories that have alarmed Israeli leaders.
"We are now beginning to harvest the fruits of 10 years of strategic, morally consistent and undeniably effective BDS campaigning," said Omar Barghouti, one of the group's co-founders. "BDS is winning the battles for hearts and minds across the world, despite Israel's still hegemonic influence among governments in the U.S. and Europe."
The BDS movement - named for its call for boycotts, divestment and sanctions against Israel - began as an idea by 170 Palestinian civil society groups worldwide in 2005. It has grown into a worldwide network of thousands of volunteers lobbying corporations, artists and academic institutions to sever ties with Israel.
Its members include campus activists, church groups and even liberal American Jews disillusioned by Israeli policies.
Most worrying for Israel, some of the group's core positions toward products made in West Bank settlements are starting to be embraced by European governments. Although the EU says it opposes boycotts of Israel, it is exploring guidelines for labeling settlement products, which many in Israel fear could be a precursor to a full-fledged ban.
At a time when peace efforts are frozen and show no sign of getting back on track under a new hardline government, Israelis fear such sentiment will increase.
"The concern is that there will be a spillover to a much wider phenomenon that will become mainstream and erode support for Israel," said Emmanuel Nahshon of Israel's Foreign Ministry.
The BDS movement has three goals: to end Israel's occupation of territories captured in the 1967 Mideast war, to end discrimination suffered by Arab citizens of Israel, and to promote the rights of Palestinian refugees to return to family properties lost in the war surrounding Israel's creation in 1948.
For Israel, this last position is nothing less than a call for its destruction. Israel opposes the Palestinian "right of return," saying a massive influx of refugees would mean the end of the country as a Jewish state. The international community favors a "two-state solution" creating a Palestinian state alongside Israel, and even Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has indicated willingness to compromise on the refugee issue under a final peace deal.
Barghouti, a U.S.-educated engineer who also holds a graduate degree at Israel's Tel Aviv University, said the BDS movement is "completely neutral" on the political solution to the conflict. But he said he represents the Palestinian "consensus," and any deal that "undermines our basic rights under international law and perpetuates the colonial oppression" is unacceptable.
As for his attendance at a university he asks others to boycott, he said Palestinians "cannot possibly observe the same boycott guidelines as asked of internationals," adding that the "indigenous population" is entitled to all services they can get from the system.
Israeli leaders consider the movement to be the latest in a history of antagonists out to destroy the Jewish people.
"We are in the midst of a great struggle being waged against the state of Israel, an international campaign to blacken its name," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said recently. "It is not connected to our actions. It is connected to our very existence."
The BDS movement is led by a West Bank-based national committee with representatives from around the world, which sets guidelines but allows local branches to decide their own strategy. It focuses on battles with a reasonable chance of success. So some of the biggest companies active in Israel, such as Microsoft and Intel, have not been targeted.
Battles have taken place in U.S. food co-ops and city councils. The movement has helped organize several boycotts by U.S. and British academic unions and has made inroads on American campuses. Roughly a dozen student governments have approved divestment proposals.
Entertainers, including Roger Waters, Elvis Costello and Lauryn Hill have refused to perform in Israel. The BDS movement also claims responsibility for pressuring some large companies to stop or alter operations in Israel, including carbonated drink maker SodaStream, French construction company Veolia and international security firm G4S.
Last month, Britain's national student union joined the movement. Last week, the top legislative body of the United Church of Christ voted to divest from companies with business in the Israeli-occupied territories, following a similar move by the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) last year. The Episcopal Church and Mennonite Church USA also considered divestment proposals recently, with the Episcopals rejecting it and the Mennonites deferring action for two years.
Perhaps the biggest blow was last month's announcement by the chief executive of French mobile phone giant Orange that he wanted to end his partnership with Israeli carrier Partner Communications. He cited his desire to improve business in the Arab world. Although CEO Stephane Richard later traveled to Israel to apologize, Orange and Partner announced plans to unwind their deal.
The idea of boycotts is extremely sensitive in Israel. The Nazis launched a nationwide boycott of Jewish businesses and artists - often accompanied by acts of violence and anti-Semitic slogans - in the 1930s Germany ahead of the Holocaust. In the 1970s and 1980s, Arab countries pressured companies doing business with them to shun Israel. Currently, Israel is fending off attempts by the boycotters to compare Israeli policies in the West Bank to South African apartheid.
"The attacks on the Jews were always preceded by the slander of the Jews," Netanyahu recently said.
BDS activists deny being fueled by anti-Semitism, saying their battle is against Israel, not Jews. They point to a small but growing number of Jewish supporters, including the "Jewish Voice for Peace," whose 9,000 dues-paying members support a boycott of Israel.
Naomi Dann, JVP's media coordinator, said the stance stems from frustration over failed U.S.-backed peace efforts. She said that while the group recognizes the Jewish attachment to Israel, it can't come at the expense of Palestinians.
"It's not about destroying Israel," she said. "But full equal rights and a democratic society are more important than preserving the Jewish character of the state."
It remains difficult to quantify the BDS movement's actual achievements.
Leading global companies, including Microsoft, Google, Apple and Intel, maintain operations in Israel. Major entertainers, including Paul McCartney, Lady Gaga, Madonna and Rihanna, have performed in Israel in recent years.
A February report by Israel's Finance Ministry concluded the BDS movement has had a negligible economic impact. But it outlined some worst-case scenarios, including EU government-led boycotts or cancellation of free-trade agreements. Likewise, a recent study by the Rand Corp. said that while the BDS movement "has not yet had a significant negative effect" on Israel, it is growing. It noted Israeli leaders' fears it could have "substantial detrimental effects" on the economy.
Last month, Jewish billionaires Sheldon Adelson and Haim Saban led a Las Vegas fundraiser to fight the BDS movement at U.S. universities. Israel's justice minister, Ayeled Shaked, instructed her ministry to prepare "legal steps" against the movement. This week, Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton said she opposed the BDS movement.
David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Policy for Near East Policy and former member of U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry's peace team, said Israel must show it is serious about the creation of a Palestinian state to slow the momentum.
"You can reduce its scope, its impact by making clear when the prime minister ... says he supports two states for two people that he is not then going to say Israel will settle in what will be a future Palestinian state," he said.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pioneer Jewish South African freedom fighter calls Israel 'apartheid state'</title>
<date>Tue Jul 28 17:58:21 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Veteran Jewish anti-apartheid activist Denis Goldberg, whose release after two decades in a South African prison was aided by Israel, and who then lived briefly in the Jewish state before leaving in protest, told a Johannesburg gathering that Israel is an apartheid state, the Middle East Monitor reported on Tuesday.
Noting that critics of this view protest that Palestinian citizens of Israel, unlike blacks in apartheid South Africa, vote and serve in their country's parliament, Goldberg said, "You don't need to be like South Africa to be an apartheid state, there is a definition in international law through the UNESCO declaration on apartheid," he said.
Apartheid exists, he said, in states that enforce laws and policies that discriminate between people on the basis of race or religion, and this holds true in Israel proper as well as in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. He was one of a panel of anti-apartheid activists discussing the lessons that struggle holds for the Palestinian cause.
Goldberg, 82, one of the original members of Umkhonto we Sizwe, the armed wing of the African National Congress, was sentenced with Nelson Mandela and other activists to life in prison in the 1964 Rivonia treason trial. He was released in 1985 with Israel's intercession, then went to live on a kibbutz, but moved to London months later, denouncing Israel's war in Lebanon, its occupation of the Palestinian territories, and its close ties with South Africa.
"There is no doubt in my mind that Israel is an apartheid state," Goldberg told the gathering. "Having lived through apartheid in South Africa, I cannot allow in my name the same kind of oppression to go on."
He added, "I have to be an opponent of the exclusionist policies of Zionism, but let me say straight away that I have to be opposed to the exclusionary policies of the feudal Arab states of the Middle East as well."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Roger Waters sets the record straight: I hate apartheid, not Israel</title>
<date>Sun Aug 02 02:30:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
The tires of the taxicab crunch softly along the gravel driveway leading up to the house. The gray building, hidden from the street like all the houses here, isn’t so large for Southampton, this very affluent suburb on Long Island, New York. A tiny house-number sign, by the side of the entrance to the driveway, is the only way you know you’ve reached your destination. The taxi driver who picked me up at the local bus station tells me Paris Hilton has a house nearby. He doesn’t know who lives in the gray house.
I ring the doorbell at the appointed time, and hear a dog barking. Roger Waters opens the door, barefoot, in shorts and a faded polo shirt. His cheeks are covered with white stubble, his blue-gray eyes seem a little weary and his gray hair is disheveled. He shuffles a little as he walks, but his body is youthful and his smile endearing. Hours of wavering over whether to greet this idol of my youth with a handshake or a hug are dispensed with instantly: He embraces me. We’ve never met before.
I follow him back into the two-story house. An American home with paintings on the walls and broad carpets on the floors, a grand piano in the living room. Outside is a heated swimming pool, whose water is kept surprisingly warm, even early on a chilly morning. Next to the pool is a small gym. There are a number of bedrooms, some just for guests. And, of course, a recording studio.
The garden is impeccably maintained, and vases of freshly cut blue flowers can be found throughout the house. Every window looks out on a gorgeous view: a big pond with wide green marshes behind it and, beyond that, the ocean, whose waves can be heard clearly. The closest house is a good distance away, and the tennis court of the Swedish neighbor lies in between. On the two-hour bus ride from Manhattan, people were talking about the new helicopter service to the town: just $400 each way, a real bargain.
Laurie Durning, Waters’ fourth wife, welcomes me with a friendly handshake and we sit down on the garden patio, their 11-year-old white dog joining us too. Laurie is very knowledgeable about what’s happening in the Middle East, and she accompanied Roger on his unforgettable concert in Israel in the summer of 2006. She says she could feel the audience’s love, maybe even more than her husband did.
A lot of chickpeas have since grown in the fields of Neve Shalom, where the concert took place before a crowd of 54,000 Israelis. Waters says he remembers all the lavish goodies that producer Shuki Weiss arranged to have backstage. I remember that incredible, magical night, but it’s difficult to tell Waters that – he doesn’t like hearing fans gush about “How you changed my life, blah, blah, blah.”
To him, Pink Floyd – the band responsible for the mysterious and legendary soundtrack of our youth, the greatest-band-of-all-time, in my view – is primarily a job he left behind 30 years ago. His 20 years with the band, especially the latter ones, became a nightmare for him, mainly due to a rancorous relationship with guitarist David Gilmour.
The masterpiece “Shine on You Crazy Diamond,” about initial lead singer, Syd Barrett, is a heartbreaking tale of mental illness and the drugs that precipitated it. Waters says that if Barrett hadn’t become ill and stopped writing, he may never have started writing songs himself. Barrett’s premature retirement spurred Roger to write what became the bulk of Pink Floyd’s work.
An Englishman in New York
On his right hand, Waters wears a ring he hasn’t taken off since 1968. The wedding band on his other hand has been replaced several times over the years. He has three children from two of his previous marriages (his first wife died). Durning, with whom he does not have children, is a film producer from New York.
For many years now, Waters has been an Englishman in New York, as Sting once sang. I tell him this as he leads me upstairs to my room, and he smiles. The couple is currently building a new summer house, not far from this one. It will be much larger, in the hope that the kids and grandkids will come to visit more often.
The man who once sang “Money, it’s a crime” lives well. He also has a townhouse in midtown Manhattan and a vacation home in England, which he doesn’t use much. Two shiny black Mercedes sedans are parked out front; one is a convertible. Still, he comes across as a modest guy, devoid of rock-star pretensions. Here at home, at least.
He has a British personal manager, Mark Fenwick, who’s been working with him since he left Pink Floyd, and a Hungarian butler, Csaba Kralik, who’s been with him for 15 years. The latter doesn’t live with the couple, but attends to all their needs and accompanies them on their travels.
Peace activist Nurit Peled-Elhanan, daughter of the late Israeli Maj. Gen. Matti Peled, keeps Waters regularly updated on what’s happening with the occupation. He also has a friend in Bil’in who sends him weekly pictures from the protests there. After the Neve Shalom concert, he visited Israel and the territories once more as a guest of UNRWA, and made a point of putting his signature on the West Bank separation barrier. He feels that “The Wall” is Pink Floyd’s best album.
In recent years, Waters has devoted a lot of his time to the boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) movement. Every artist who wants to perform in Israel receives a letter of rebuke from him. Neil Young ended up canceling during last summer’s Gaza war, but Waters says no artist ever admits they canceled because of him. Cyndi Lauper, Robbie Williams and even Pink Floyd’s old sound engineer, Alan Parsons – to name a few – did not heed his entreaties and performed in Israel. But there’s no question he’s created a new international mood.
Waters’ involvement in the struggle against Israel actually began after his performance here nine years ago. At the time, he, too, received letters urging him not to perform, but he ignored them. Initially, he was supposed to perform in Tel Aviv, but then he shifted the venue to Neve Shalom, with the idea that it would be an Arab and Jewish audience. But the Arabs didn’t come, and he was disappointed. Today, he would refuse to perform anywhere in Israel.
“I was so unaware then,” he says. “Artists today are more aware.”
Some of the artists he addresses think he’s off his rocker; others are worried about hurting their livelihood, while some say politics and music should be kept separate. Waters doesn’t accept this. He’s determined to fight the occupation and what he sees as an apartheid state.
Believe whatever you like, but Waters does not hate Israel. He’s deeply outraged at the injustices it perpetrates. When he talks about Israel, it’s with pain, criticism and anger, but not hatred. And anti-Semitism is not part of the picture here, despite the show in which he placed a pig on a Star of David, along with other religious symbols, during his 2013 European tour, which raised that suspicion.
Waters has Jewish grandchildren from his Jewish daughter-in-law. The number tattooed on the forearm of a friend of his mother’s, a French-Jewish Holocaust survivor, left a strong impression on him as a child. He recalls her constant anxiety: “I remember she was terrified for her children. Her kids were not allowed to come out in a canoe with us. You can imagine. Well, you can’t, none of us can imagine. But I remember that, I remember thinking, Why is this woman scared of the river? You know, she was scared of everything; she was scared of her own shadow.”
Why Israel?
It’s hard not to believe him, with his candidness and openness. His house is unlocked; even late at night the doors are wide open. He feels strongly that the injustice done to the Palestinians must be remedied, and he believes he is toiling on behalf of this cause. By doing so, he believes he is also working for the sake of Israelis.
Why this particular injustice and not other, even worse ones? Waters says that during the apartheid era in South Africa, there were plenty of other atrocities happening in the world, but no one asked, why South Africa. Why Israel? Because things can be remedied and changed there, just like in South Africa.
Maybe it all began with his father, a communist and pacifist who was a volunteer ambulance driver during the London Blitz, eventually enlisted in the British Army to fight the Nazis, and was killed by a tank shell in Italy. His body was never found.
In a new film debuting in September, “Roger Waters: The Wall,” Waters is seen playing the trumpet at the spot in southern Italy where his father died, next to a memorial tablet there. From letters his father wrote to his grandmother, Waters learned that his father studied in Jerusalem for two years. His grandfather was also a casualty of war: He was killed in World War I and is buried in France.
Waters never met his father, Eric Fletcher Waters; he was just five and a half months old when Eric was killed in 1944. His mother, Mary, raised him and his brother as a single mother in Cambridge. She was also a communist – and taught her children to pursue justice. His brother is a retired cab driver; their mother died six years ago at 96. Roger would sometimes bring her to Pink Floyd concerts, and says the other band members used to bring their parents, too.
Waters will turn 72 in September. As a child, he thought about becoming a veterinarian, and later studied architecture. He’s a very warm and charming fellow, and fond of drinking white wine. When he does so, he opens up even more and becomes very amusing: You have to see his imitation of Mikhail Gorbachev, whom he once met. He loves to cook, and does so every day. The linguine he made for lunch was spicy enough to make the eyes water. In the evening, he baked a superb tarte tatin. He attached a little yellow note to the baking pan, “Caution, hot. Don’t touch.”
For dinner, which was prepared by two young cooks, he invited a dozen or so friends, many of them Jewish. One, a relative of Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal, mistakenly thought the meal was going to take place in Manhattan. When he realized his error, he simply hired a helicopter to bring him to The Hamptons. A senior American television reporter also joined us.
Antiwar songs
Everything Waters has written in the last few years has a political, mainly antiwar, aspect to it. In one of the new songs he’s still working on, Waters sings in French: “Je suis Charlie, Je suis Juif.” The song was written after the terror attacks in Paris last January. That’s what happens when your father and grandfather were both killed in war.
We sat in the studio until 2 A.M., listening to his new songs. His desk in the studio is piled with papers – new songs with lots of notes and revisions. Late in the morning – he’s a late riser – I saw him sitting in the kitchen half-dressed, writing down lines on a little scrap of paper. In the studio itself, there’s no trace of Pink Floyd. Waters is not nostalgic or sentimental. He’s not a collector of memorabilia. He doesn’t even have a guitar from those days.
He’s in the process of writing an autobiography, played at the Newport Folk Festival last week, and plans to go on another world tour next year. He’s a busy and active man. Once in a while, he plays golf. He also has a pool table in his studio; the Hungarian butler says Waters beats all his guests.
I told Waters that back in my student days, my roommate and I had a strict rule: When one of us was playing Pink Floyd, the other had to stay out of the house. “Dark Side of the Moon” was the soundtrack to many nights of new loves, heart-to-heart talks and personal confessions.
In the hotel back in Manhattan, before setting out for The Hamptons, I had listened to the album once more and found that the magic was still there, even after all these years.
Over the two days I was a guest in his home, we went up to his recording studio twice for long interview sessions. Waters willingly answered every question. At one point, we stopped to watch several fawns that had pranced into the garden to graze.
When and how did your political involvement in the Middle East begin? 
“I got an offer to play in Israel, and that’s where it really started. It really started for me without thinking – because this is how naïve I was in 2006. I didn’t think about it. When my agent did the deal with Shuki Weiss and accepted the gig in [Hayarkon Park] in Tel Aviv, I was engaged in other things, to my eternal shame … but then I started getting emails.”
From whom?
“There were hundreds of different organizations, mainly from the Middle East and North Africa. But there were other places, Europeans, and people saying, ‘Are you sure about this? Do you know about this new organization?’ Because it was new in 2006, BDS. But their voice was very measured and persuasive, and I engaged in a dialogue with them.”
They were telling you not to go?
“Yes, telling me not to come. They said I’d be enabling the occupation. How naïve I must’ve been … Certainly living here in the United States – and presumably it’s the same in the U.K. – the hasbara [Israeli public diplomacy] is extremely powerful.
Eventually, I canceled that gig but went to Neve Shalom instead.”
Who suggested Neve Shalom? Whose idea was that?
“I have no idea. I can’t remember. But I must’ve done a lot of research and I heard about this place – where Jewish people and Christians and Muslims try to live together in an agricultural community, and they educate their children together through all the trials and tribulations that that kind of inclusive society necessarily demands of its citizens. It was and still is a beautiful experiment, and should be encouraged in all possible ways.
“The gig was fantastic. But – and it’s a big ‘but’ – at the end, I made a short political speech, and suddenly it was as if I was from Mars when I suggested this was the generation of young Israelis that should make peace with their neighbors. They went very, very quiet. Afterward, I thought about the implications of travel restrictions and realized it was pretty unlikely that there were any Palestinians or Arabs in the audience, and I felt really bad about that.”
But during the concert itself, what did you feel?
“Concerts are very seductive, especially if you’re standing on the stage with people going ‘Whoa, how cool are you!’”
Did you feel all the love directed at you?
“Yes, it was fantastic, I could feel it. Maybe I shouldn’t tell you this story, but I will. When I visited Jenin [in 2009], I met Ismail, the father whose son was at the center of the movie ‘The Heart of Jenin,’ about the Palestinian boy who was shot…”
And his organs were donated to Israelis.
“And they donated his organs, so it was very emotional. And then they said to me in Jerusalem, ‘Will you come and talk to the students at the film school?’ And I thought: What a great opportunity.
“So I turn up one day, and everyone’s all bubbling and there’s a room with about 150 young people and all their teachers standing around, and it couldn’t have been more welcoming. I thanked them for having me and asked what we should talk about. And they were silent, so I said, ‘Alright, I’ll tell you what we should talk about. How many of you have seen the documentary ‘Heart of Jenin’? And they might just as well have had stainless-steel shutters behind their eyelids.
“I started to talk about it, but it was like I had turned into a Martian or something. Suddenly, you could see the distaste and horror that I would be mentioning this. And I got quite angry. I didn’t shout at them but I said: ‘There is something wrong with this picture.’ So as wonderful and as full of love as playing to that audience of young people was, this was horrific.”
‘I’m not a prophet’
Do you think you’ve found the truth concerning the Middle East?
“I don’t know, I’m not a prophet. Nobody’s handed me a bunch of tablets and said, ‘This is the truth.’ I’m having to figure this out for myself. What I do know is, whosoever it might be, from any side of any war, if anybody is dropping bombs and killing children – I know I’m on the other side. So, I live in the United States and I could not be more passionately opposed to the War on Terror – drone warfare in particular.”
And here we get to the core of the issue, because in Israel many people ask: Why Israel, when there are so many other countries that do the same?
“Well, if you’re determined to stand on the side of truth, justice, liberty, human rights, individual freedoms, political equality, and freedom to worship whatever you want, all of that – from time to time, situations crop up that demand your attention more than other situations, because they’re blatant and they’ve been going on for a very long time. People also complain about anybody making comparisons between apartheid South Africa and Israel. But particularly in the occupied territories – but also in Israel, in my view – the comparisons are valid.
“In the 1970s and ’80s, there was no question – we all focused on South Africa because it was the obvious place to focus. It was a place where it looked like all of us who took part in the Anti-Apartheid Movement, as it was called then, might have an effect, and might cause changes in policy in that small part of the world. Israel is that bit of the world now. Whether Israelis or anyone else like it or not, it just is.”
In Israel, you are described as not listening to both sides. Do you listen to the Israeli side?
“Okay, tell me what it is and I’ll listen. I mean, you’re the perfect person to tell me what it is, because I’ve read your work and I sense we have a great deal in common. In a way, though, maybe I shouldn’t be talking to you; maybe I should be talking to [Prime Minister Benjamin] Netanyahu. Well, obviously not. I couldn’t. Once I was put on the phone with [Israeli ambassador to the U.S.] Ron Dermer. Maybe he thought he could turn me. It was like having a conversation with a pit bull.”
What did Dermer say to you?
“He just went, ‘Hey, we all want peace,’ and I said if we can make peace then that would be fantastic. He told me peace would happen instantaneously if there was a single person on the other side he could speak to.”
And what did you say to him?
“Nothing. That’s not a conversation I should have. Where can the conversation happen? Because it’s a very difficult conversation to have. We saw the news recently with Hillary Clinton’s letter [to Haim Saban] promising to help destroy the BDS movement if she’s elected president. I said, ‘What? Is this democracy at work?! You give me money and then I destroy BDS?’ Where might there be a sensible conversation? Nobody knows what’s going to happen. But what we do know is that throwing more armaments at it is not going to help anybody.”
So maybe BDS should be aimed at the United States, and you should stop performing at Carnegie Hall?
“At some point, it might become the correct thing to try to start a boycott movement of some sort in the United States. But that time is not now. I’m part of this BDS movement, which is spreading fast through the universities – which is why people are pouring millions of dollars into the universities to try to buy [the students]. You can’t buy them! They’re young people. They’re not for sale.
“In an article I wrote a year ago, I was talking about [pro-Israel lobby] AIPAC: When Netanyahu spoke to AIPAC two years ago, he mentioned BDS 17 times in his speech. The year before that, it was never mentioned to anyone, anywhere. That’s a huge change.”
Isn’t there a danger that BDS will unite Israelis and make them even more nationalistic?
“I don’t think so. I think it will give power to Israeli people who are not happy with their domestic and foreign policy, knowing that they have friends and supporters outside the country who are standing with them and applauding them, admiring the bravery it takes to be an Israeli and to stand up for what is right and proper, humane and full of value.
“I’m not religious, but my suspicion is that, what actually relates much more to Judaism and the humane principles Judaism is based upon, is that those people are not insignificant. It is a small number, but it is a significant number. They are at least being active in some way.
“What is our alternative? Will someone give me an alternative to nonviolent protest, if we believe that the occupation is wrong and if we believe that the Palestinian citizens of Israel should operate under the same laws as Jewish citizens of Israel.”
Ending the occupation
Here we come to the question of the goals of BDS, which are presented in Israel in a vague way by the Israeli government.
Will the end of occupation mean the dismantling of BDS? Is this enough of a goal?
“Yeah, we’re talking about equality under the law.”
And the [Palestinian] Right of Return – it also includes this, correct?
“Yeah, of course.”
On the basis of equality?
“Yeah, on the basis of equality. I would say to people like Ron Dermer: ‘What’s your solution? What would you do?’ Well, we know they have one, but they still can’t quite get it out. A Greater Israel – I suspect that’s their solution, to preserve the apartheid.”
A two-state solution or a one-state solution? Do you have a preference?
“Because I’m a radical atheist, my personal preference would be a democratic, secular state with equal rights for all its citizens with a universal franchise, equal property rights, freedom to practice whatever religion you want. I’m very against theocracies.”
But it hasn’t worked in many parts of the world, including Northern Ireland.
“Okay, that’s an interesting point. I agree with you that a divided Ireland may never work. But we don’t know what is going to work. At a certain point, it was decided it was going to be a two-state solution. That that little bit [in the north] was going to stay part of the United Kingdom, and the rest was going to be a democratic republic.
“If there were two secular states, why not? I care just as much about Jewish children as I do about Arab children. I care about people not having a future where they can work, earn a living, sit around a table with their family and plan for the future, and make decisions about water or the things that are really starting to crop up all over the world with what we’re doing with the oceans. Or broader questions of conservation and ecology or global warming, or this and that. You can’t focus on any of that stuff when you’re lobbing bombs at each other over a wall. There’s no time to do anything sensible or grown-up.
“So, I don’t know what the answer is – but I know this isn’t the answer. This status quo is not the answer and you cannot, in my view, maintain a status quo that is built on the idea that it’s okay to expel people from their homes – whether it’s people’s homes in East Jerusalem now, or people who lived in villages during the Nakba [the Palestinian term for the creation of Israel in 1948]. Both things are wrong, and it’s very difficult to sustain a country based upon invasion and colonization.”
Do you understand the sentiment of many Israelis that the Jewish people have the right to their own country after everything they have gone through? And that the one-state solution for them means extermination?
“Well that’s just nonsense! People are always saying, ‘BDS is trying to delegitimize Israel.’ No, it’s not. It’s trying to stop the oppression of the Palestinian, Bedouin and other Arab peoples of the region you are oppressing. It’s trying to stop you oppressing your fellow human beings. It’s not trying to delegitimize Israel.”
An Israeli de Klerk?
So give me the scenario where you come back to perform in Israel again. What has to happen – and I mean this symbolically.
“When you and I can sit down together over a glass of wine and look each other in the eye and hold each other’s hands and go, ‘Wow! We, they, us – everybody did it.’ We can see that we did it: Everyone has equal rights, nobody is killing anybody. Then I promise you I will come and play ‘The Wall’ in its entirety.”
Will we ever reach that moment?
“I had conversations with [Mikhail] Gorbachev in 2002 or 2003. If in the mid-1980s you and I had asked, ‘Are we going to see the Berlin Wall come down within our lifetime?’ – it would have been a very difficult question to answer. But we didn’t know Gorbachev then. He is the most remarkable man – my two huge heroes since Gandhi are Nelson Mandela and Gorbachev. So who would’ve known? Things can happen. Maybe there’s a Mandela somewhere in an Israeli prison.”
Maybe we need a F.W. de Klerk?
“If you look through one of my recent op-eds, it says, ‘It may be far easier to find the Palestinian Mandela than it will be to find the Israeli De Klerk.’ But we cannot give up hope. We cannot say it’s too difficult, because even to abandon one child is one child too many. And the pictures we see coming out of Gaza are so disgusting and so heart-wrenching that those people … and I’m not saying it’s not heart-wrenching if a suicide bomber blows themselves up on a bus in Tel Aviv or Jerusalem – of course it is, it’s equally horrific.”
Should artists and academic institutions really be at the top of the boycott list?
“No. There are a number of Israeli politicians – [Shimon] Peres might well be one – who can’t come to England because they’ll be arrested the second they step foot there, as war criminals. Because there is a legal apparatus that, once you define an act as a war crime, even in the opinion of the International Criminal Court, then you have grounds for detaining somebody. There have been a number of Israeli politicians who’ve had to turn around and go home because they didn’t want to risk being sent to prison in the United Kingdom.”
Should Khaled Meshal, the political head of Hamas, be arrested if he comes to the U.K.?
“I don’t know. I would need to be legally advised to know if there is evidence that Meshal has committed war crimes. I haven’t seen evidence to that effect.”
But you’ve seen Shimon Peres commit war crimes?
“We all saw the massacres from South Lebanon.”
An Israeli music critic I know, a huge expert on Pink Floyd, wanted me to ask you this: Why don’t you criticize Hamas, too? And also, do you know what it feels like to be under the constant threat of Qassam rockets? That it’s like being in London during the Blitz?
“Absolute nonsense. I know something of the Blitz in London. Both my parents were there and worked on through the whole thing, and we’ve seen the damage. Bits of London looked a bit like Gaza does now. You can’t show me anywhere in the State of Israel that looks even faintly like that, because rockets never hit anything – or very occasionally they blow a few chunks out of a tree somewhere.
“They [the rockets] are completely useless, everybody knows it. They’re a gesture of resistance, that’s all. They might hit something, but they won’t. And if they do, they might kill one person, or two people, and very occasionally they do. But it can’t be compared with the Blitz in London. That was thousands of bombers dropping hundreds of tons of high-explosive bombs. Every night.
“But the thing about Hamas is, yeah, I condemn that. In fact, I’ve written about it often. I’ve said it is wrong, no matter how ineffective they [the missiles] are – that’s no defense for lobbing them out of Gaza. If they were directional and if they knew where they were going to land, then it would have every justification for firing them at Israeli military targets – they have been attacked, they are continuing to be attacked all the time, and they have an absolute right and duty to resist by military force. It’s explicitly defined in the Geneva Conventions and all normal laws of war: that an occupied people has an absolute right and responsibility to resist the military of the invader. Israel is the invader.”
‘Frittering away the goodwill’
What would you like to say to Israelis?
“I would like to say that in 1945, or ’47-’48, you had the goodwill, the sympathy and good wishes of the rest of the world. You were a bit like the United States after 9/11. But you’ve sadly frittered away that goodwill and you need to look at what happened in ‘47-’48, and what has happened since. But for the sake of your country and your countrymen, you need to accept that you’ve made mistakes. And you need to find the courage to live with your neighbors. You need courage. It takes courage to look at the reality, rather than trying to maintain the image of a false reality.”
But when you see what Israel is doing, don’t you feel hateful toward Israel as a whole?
“You have a very strong armament industry in Israel, it’s one of your biggest things. I hate that. But so do the United States and the U.K., and so do Belgium and Russia – and so will China, given half a chance. So the fact we’re pouring technology and investment into an arms race, it’s disgusting and is something Israel should be just as ashamed of as the U.S. Don’t start making drones and laser-guided weapons, and all that. I’m not singling Israel out, obviously.
“Israelis are just people. I can’t hate people. There are some individuals, some politicians, who crop up from time to time that are sort of hateful. But even then, somebody like your prime minister – you feel sort of sorry for him, because he looks to me like he’s the product of so much bullshit. I don’t mean to sound arrogant. I’m not holy – but I’m a lot holier than he is, that’s for sure. He made that speech in Congress, and they were all going up and down like bloody yo-yos. Talk about a response Pavlov would have been proud of.”
What do you say to those who think it’s enough to boycott the settlement project but not Israel?
“I think the more visible BDS becomes, the more likely it is to have a good effect on the eventual outcome of the situation that exists between the Israeli people and the Palestinian people. For instance, things that I’m involved in, like the cultural boycott, if I tried to persuade people not to do gigs – absolutely on the anti-apartheid model – it wouldn’t be much use for me to say to people, ‘Don’t go and do gigs in settlements.’ The settlements are a huge problem, annexing the occupied territory – or some of it – as they do. But the pressure needs to be brought to bear upon the government of Israel. And anything that shines a light on that need is good. In my view, broader is better. Restricting it just to settlement projects isn’t enough.”
What about those artists who come to Israel to perform and say, “Let’s separate music from politics”?
“They’re not actually saying, ‘Let’s separate politics from music.’ They’re actually saying, ‘I care more about my work and career than I care about these oppressed people. I’m very happy to care about the oppressed people, but not to the point where I’ll let it interfere with my career.’ That’s what they’re saying. So they’re showing themselves to be people who actually don’t care. They have no care for what’s going on in Gaza.”
What about those who say, “I’ll go and play there, and I’ll try to convince the Israelis”?
“I can look them in the eye and say, ‘You’re on a false errand, that’s not going to happen. You’re not going to change the minds of the people in the Knesset and get them to behave in a legal, proper and humane way toward the occupied Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank.’ It will not work. It doesn’t work. It didn’t help the situation in South Africa back in the 1980s and ‘90s with Rod Stewart and Elton John and Dionne Warwick, and whoever the few others were – there were very few of them – like Queen, going and playing in Sun City.
“It helped not one jot to change the politics. What did help was that we wouldn’t go and play rugby against them. And they couldn’t come and play rugby against us. And they couldn’t compete in the Olympics. And most artists refused to go even to Sun City, and nobody went to South Africa itself. And that made a huge difference, and eventually it changed things in a big way.
“No, it has to be a political movement, and it has to grow, and it has to be thousands and thousands of people, and they have to be from all over the world – and they have to all stand together in solidarity with the occupied people. And in solidarity with the Israeli people as well, because that’s not a life any of them should be leading. It’s unhealthy for everybody. Nobody’s winning.”
What would you say to an Israeli who thinks outside intervention is anti-democratic, who says, “We should get to decide our future for ourselves”?
“What would I tell such a person? I would say to them, ‘If you actually had a democracy within the State of Israel – if there was such a thing within the Green Line, within the ’67 borders, within the whatever – if you reinstate all those houses you’ve demolished in East Jerusalem, and let the people who were living there before you threw them out come back; and if it was a democracy, and if you weren’t occupying all this other land, and so on and so forth, and if you weren’t trying to reduce the numbers of the other indigenous people who are not Jewish people in the area – if all those things pertained, well, I would absolutely applaud you and your state.’
“But that is not happening. And I suppose you could make the case for it being a Jewish state – I personally think it’s hugely dangerous to give any religion the power to control an entire country and all the people in it.”
Israelis talk about the Jewish people, not only the Jewish religion.
“Well, I’m not one of them, so it’s really none of my business, if you know what I mean. It would be like talking about Scotland – ‘Oh, we’re the Scots!’ Okay, well fine, good, okay. Obviously, the Scots at the moment are talking about whether to remain part of the United Kingdom, but they’re not going to suddenly start introducing laws where people who aren’t Scottish are going to be removed from the place or are not allowed to own property. Or, ‘I have two sets of laws: one for people who are Scots; and one for people who aren’t.’ That is not a democracy. That is an apartheid state where people are treated differently and subject to different laws, based upon their race or their religion.
“When you see the images, and you see the children’s faces, and you see the injuries, and you look at the rubble, and the filth, and the squalor, and the open sewers – you just think: I have to keep working on it.”
‘We took the music quite seriously’
Let’s talk about Pink Floyd.
“Why not?”
It seems that this chapter is totally over for you. Do you listen to Pink Floyd from time to time? To the old records? When was the last time you listened to “Dark Side of the Moon,” for example?
“Probably before I took it on the road for the last time. Just to remember exactly what the arrangements were and how we put the songs together.”
No nostalgia?
“Nostalgia? Oh yeah, of course. I mean, the work we did together from 1965 until when I left – which was 1985, so it’s 20 years – it was a lot of work, and I think a lot of it was very good. And it was certainly great fun to do the work. Work is more fun than fun. Work is the real play, certainly for me. I’m never happier than when I’m working.”
There was no way it could go on?
“No, people grow apart, you know. We were four different people – well, after Syd went crazy and then David joined the group, and then there were four of us – and we’re very different people. I made one friend in the group, who’s Nick Mason; I was never really that close to Rick Wright and David Gilmour, and we grew apart philosophically and politically – and even musically. And David and I started to really butt heads after ‘Dark Side of the Moon.’ There was a lot of this going on all the way through ‘Wish You Were Here,’ ‘Animals,’ ‘The Wall’ and ‘The Final Cut.’ So it became the only thing to do, for me to stop doing it.”
And it’s irreversible, you think?
“Yeah, of course.”
Though you did reunite that one time for Live 8, in 2005.
“Yeah, but we just about got through it. And the performance was pretty good, there was a good feeling. But it absolutely reinforced the fact that, 23 years before [when they recorded ‘The Final Cut], I’d made absolutely the right decision not to have anything to do with them ever again.”
So when did you and David Gilmour last talk?
“We were in touch last year.”
You’ve said some very tough things about him in the past. Any regrets?
“No, why should I have? I mean, after I’d left and they were going touring the three of them, that was a difficult period because they obviously were hugely successful and I confess that I never thought they’d get away with it – but they did.”
Could it be that your political activity is a kind of way to cover it up?
“Cover what up?”
The pain of being less successful than you were before. Is this a way to compensate yourself?
“I went on the road – I’ve actually been way more successful than we ever were from Pink Floyd, and certainly more than they were when they went out on the road. So there isn’t a big burden of failure floating around, and there is also that warm blanket of the love that people have for the work that we do – and that blanket covers me as well as David and Rick.”
The common sentiment is that people want to see you together again.
“Well, I find that very understandable and also supremely irritating, because I’m not attached to it and I was in it. That’s what I did for a living for 20 years, but it was a living lie for the last few years. It was no longer a healthy working relationship.”
But in the beginning, at least – was it as romantic as it seemed from the outside?
“It was just four or five young men scrabbling to try to make a few grand and get laid, like any other group. That’s what it was. We took the music quite seriously.”
Was Pink Floyd the best band of all time?
“I have no idea. I’m not interested in that.”
Can you define any other group as the most important one? As the best? The most influential?
“No I can’t. There are certain groups whose names you can just pluck out of the air, and songwriters. Like you can say John Lennon is an important songwriter, as is Paul McCartney. So is Neil Young, Bob Dylan, so is John Prine. I could probably go on for 20 minutes and then I would run out of names. Who else? There aren’t many rock ‘n roll acts I would ever listen to or care about.”
So what do you listen to?
“Nothing really, I don’t listen to music. When I’m playing gin rummy with Laurie, we listen to Chet Baker. That’s all we listen to – the same five CDs. Except the CD player’s broken now. I couldn’t get it working yesterday.”
So you’re not even up to date?
“No.”
How come there aren’t iconic groups any more like Pink Floyd, The Beatles or The Rolling Stones?
“It’s an area I don’t know anything about, because I’m not interested in it, never have been. Well, maybe when I was a young teenager I was interested in pop music a little bit. Like when I was 12, and ‘Hound Dog’ came out. There was something about the romance of the instant world of fame and being a celebrity that’s appealing to small children. It very soon loses its glitter and becomes about something else.”
And then he picked up a guitar, sat down on the striped sofa in the studio, barefoot. Oblivious to the rest of the world, he began to sing “Wish You Were Here”:
So, so you think you can tell, Heaven from Hell, blue skies from pain.Can you tell a green field from a cold steel rail?A smile from a veil?Do you think you can tell?Did they get you to trade your heroes for ghosts?Hot ashes for trees?Hot air for a cool breeze?Cold comfort for change? …How I wish, how I wish you were here.
And I was left speechless.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. pop star Pharrell Williams faces BDS backlash during South African tour</title>
<date>Tue Aug 04 18:03:38 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
REUTERS - Concerts scheduled by U.S. pop star Pharrell Williams in South Africa next month face disruptions from pro-Palestinian protesters over a promotional deal he has with major retailer Woolworths, which has trade ties with Israel.
The Grammy award-winning producer and performer has been targeted by the South African branch of the international Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel (BDS) movement. It objects to Israel's 48-year-old occupation of territories where Palestinians seek an independent state.
Williams is collaborating with Woolworths on its “Are You With Us” campaign, acting as style director on several sustainability-focused projects encompassing fashion and fundraising for education.
“He is about to face the biggest backlash any artist has faced in South Africa in over 30 years, since the days of apartheid,” said Braam Hanekom, a BDS South Africa board member.
“He is walking into a very angry, unhappy environment because he has chosen to walk with Woolworths,” Hanekom told Reuters after the City of Cape Town denied an application by thousands to protest at Pharrell's first concert on September 21.
He said protesters could block roads on concert nights, potentially delaying proceedings, or even rally inside venues.
Pharrell's representatives did not respond immediately for comment. Grand West Casino, where the Cape Town concert will take place, said they would not allow any protests on their property. The second concert is in Johannesburg.
Pro-Palestinian marches in South Africa often attract large crowds, especially in Cape Town with its large Muslim community.
Woolworths said in a statement that it did not source produce from the occupied territories, less than 0.1 percent of its food came from Israel and that it clearly labeled every product's country of origin.
The global BDS movement has also campaigned against British security firm G4S over its Israel links. It says its pleas have prompted musicians including Irish rocker Sinead O'Connor and hip hop star Lauryn Hill to support its cause.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter: Zero chance for two-state solution</title>
<date>Thu Aug 13 18:35:53 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter said there is no chance of seeing the two-state solution realized "at this moment," accusing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of pursuing a one-state solution without equal rights for Palestinians.
“At this moment, there is zero chance of the two-state solution,” Carter, 90, told Prospect Magazine, in an interview published on Thursday.
Carter added that after the failure of the last negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians in 2014, brokered by Secretary of State John Kerry, the U.S. "has withdrawn" from the issue.
Carter said Netanyahu "does not now and has never sincerely believed in a two-state solution for Israel and Palestine,” and  accused him of deciding "early on to adopt a one-state solution, but without giving them [the Palestinians] equal rights."
Carter told Prospect that while he is "reluctant" to use the word apartheid in a news article, claims that the term applies to Israel have real force because of the growing number of Palestinians who live in lands controlled by Israel.
Carter, who served as president from 1977 to 1981, founded the Carter Center for peace and health, and is a member of The Elders Group, an independent group of global leaders who describe themselves as working together for peace and human rights.
Although he brokered the first Israeli-Arab peace treaty during his presidency, Carter outraged many Israelis with his 2006 book "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid." He's also repeatedly reached out to Gaza's Islamic Hamas leaders, considered terrorists by much of the West.
In the interview, given shortly before Carter was diagnosed with cancer, he also voiced his support for the "superb" nuclear deal reached with Iran in July, and said he believes Democrats will support the deal in Congress.
Carter also said that even though Hillary Clinton is "not proven" as a politician, he and his family still intend to vote for her if she will be the Democrat contender for the White House.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>LISTEN: Bradley Burston discusses his article saying Israeli policy is apartheid on BBC</title>
<date>Wed Aug 19 15:39:32 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Haaretz's Bradley Burston said his recent use of the term "apartheid" to describe the Israeli occupation of the West Bank is justified, in a panel discussion on the BBC World Service on Tuesday.
Burston, whose article "It's Time to Admit It. Israeli Policy Is What It Is: Apartheid" was published on Monday, said recent events underscored the situation in the West Bank in which Israel operates different sets of laws for Jews and Arabs.
"It is [...] the policies that underwrite that situation and enshrine it that lay behind this whole piece," Burston said.
"The wall we’ve built from the West Bank is not only concrete. It also had to do with not being able to see or feel what’s going on there. So I think the idea of an emotive word is not necessarily a bad idea when the situation is horrible […] and getting worse," Burston said.
In response, Ran Bar Yoshafat, project manager for the Israeli Jewish Congress, said the term "apartheid" distracts from the real issue at hand:
"The branding of Israel as an apartheid state was created in order to make people not think about the morality of the issue. It just makes you say 'Israel is apartheid. Apartheid is bad, therefore Israel is bad.' This is not a discourse of building relationships, but rather ending them," he said.
Benjamin Pogrund, Haaretz contributor and author of “Drawing Fire - Investigating the Accusations of Apartheid in Israel,” said the use of the word is "is both wrong factually and politically unwise."
"The firebombing and - so far not automatic aid - for victims. Well, there’s a simple answer for that. They’re Palestinian, they’re not Israeli. Israelis get automatic compensation. He [Bradley] said 'all Israelis.' What he didn’t say is that includes Israeli Arabs. So it’s not a racial thing, it’s a matter of a different group of people," he said. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The 'Israel and the 'A Word'' Edition /   The Promised Podcast</title>
<date>Fri Aug 21 11:15:25 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Click here for more episodes of the Promised Podcast
Allison, Don, and Noah discuss three topics of incomparable importance, and end with an anecdote about something in Israel that made them smile this week.
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
 
Israel and the “A Word”
Haaretz columnist and mensch Bradley Burston wrote an essay entitled “It’s Time to Admit it. Israeli Policy is What it Is: Apartheid.” It went viral. We ask if it makes sense – factually and politically – to use the “A word” to describe Israel.The wages of politicizationThe newly more-politicized “Judicial Appointment Committee” met this week, and Likud MK Nurit Koren proposed advancing a judge because she is a woman of Yeminite descent, like Koren herself. We ask if Koren was really that off-base.The Way Home (Road Trip!)Social protest leader Daphni Leef and singer-songwriter Yael Deckelbaum are planning to load up a van with all manner of stuff and travel cross country for a month, listening to people describe their vision for the country. Is Daphni and Yael’s fantabulous journey a political act of meaning? 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Iceland's capital adopts motion to boycott Israeli goods </title>
<date>Wed Sep 16 18:59:05 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
The city council of Iceland's capital, Reykjavik, has adoped a motion to boycott Israeli-made goods. 
Reykjavik City Council voted in favor of the motion, put by Björk Vilhelmsdóttir, councilwoman for the Social Democratic Alliance, on Tuesday.
The boycott will be in place “as long as the occupation of Palestinian territories continues,” the motion said.
According to the motion, it is "a symbolic act," intended to show the city council's support for the Palestinian statehood and its condemnation of “the Israeli policy of apartheid," according to a report in Iceland Magazine.
A member of the governing coalition at the city hall, Sóley Tómasdóttir, told a local radio station that the  boycott is intended to pressure Israel to stop the occupation. She also said the city might follow it up with boycotts of other countries that violate human rights.
Not everyone is in favour, however. Einar Gautur Steingrímsson, a lawyer, said it goes against Iceland's constitution. “This is as illegal as refusing to do business with red haired people and it makes no difference whether they justify their decision with references to some alleged actions by the Israelis,” he told a local news site, Iceland Magazine said. 
According to Ynet, Israel's Foreign Ministry’s spokesman, Emanuel Nachson said in response that, “A volcano of hate is currently exploding in Reykjavik’s city council building. There is no reason or justification for this move, besides hate itself, which is being heard in the form of calls for a boycott against Israel, the Jewish state. We hope that someone in Iceland will wake up and stop this blindness and one sidedness which is aimed against the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS protesters picket Pharrell Williams concert in South Africa</title>
<date>Tue Sep 22 05:52:52 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
About 500 people demonstrated outside a Cape Town venue where Pharrell Williams was due to perform on Monday, in protest against the U.S. pop star's promotional deal with South African retailer Woolworths and its trade ties with Israel.
The Grammy award-winning producer and performer's concert was scheduled to go ahead despite the protest, launched by the South African branch of the international Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel (BDS) movement.
"By working with Woolworths, Pharrell supports Israel, a country that supports the oppression of Palestine, a country that is the new apartheid state," said Ashraf Salie, standing amongst a crowd waving Palestinian flags at the entrance to the GrandWest Casino where Williams was performing.
Pro-Palestinian marches often attract large crowds in South Africa, especially in Cape Town which has a large Muslim community.
Some passing motorists hooted support to protesters, who held up placards saying "Pharrell is welcome if Gaza is free" and "Pharrell and Woolworths have blood on their hands" as local musicians and artists entertained the crowd from a stage.
Protesters were allowed to gather under a heavy police presence after the City of Cape Town lost a court case seeking to limit attendance to 150 protesters.
Williams is collaborating with Woolworths as its style director on several fashion projects as well as fundraising for education.
Woolworths has said it does not source produce from the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories, less than 0.1 percent of its food comes from Israel and that it clearly labels every product's country of origin.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Abbas says PA not bound by agreements with Israel </title>
<date>Wed Sep 30 19:28:16 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
NEW YORK – The Palestinian Authority will no longer uphold the agreements it has signed with Israel over the last 20 years, PA President Mahmoud Abbas told the UN General Assembly on Wednesday.
Terming this decision a response to Israel’s policies in the West Bank, Abbas said Israel “must assume all of its responsibilities as an occupying power.”
Abbas used the speech to assail Israel, accusing it of systematically violating all its agreements with the Palestinians and of trying to destroy the two-state solution.
“Thus, we declare that as long as Israel refuses to commit to the agreements signed with us, which render us an authority without real powers, and as long as Israel refuses to cease settlement activities and to release the fourth group of Palestinian prisoners in accordance with our agreements, they leave us no choice but to insist that we will not remain the only ones committed to the implementation of these agreements, while Israel continuously violates them,” he said, according to the advance copy of the PA’s official translation of his Arabic-language speech. 
“We therefore declare that we cannot continue to be bound by these agreements and that Israel must assume all of its responsibilities as an occupying power, because the status quo cannot continue,” Abbas said.
“The State of Palestine, based on the 4th of June 1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its capital, is a state under occupation,” Abbas continued. He urged the United Nations to grant the Palestinians international protection and said any country that hasn’t yet recognized Palestine should do so forthwith.
It’s not clear what practical significance Abbas’ declaration has or what exactly will happen the day after, though he said the decision would be implemented immediately. But he did note that in a 2012 resolution recognizing Palestine as a nonmember observer state, the United Nations also recognized the PLO Executive Committee as Palestine’s temporary government and the Palestinian National Council as its parliament. 
A response to the speech issued by the Prime Minister’s Office didn’t relate directly to Abbas’ statement.  
“We expect and call on the [Palestinian] Authority and its leader to act responsibly and accede to the proposal of the prime minister of Israel and enter into direct negotiations with Israel without preconditions,” the PMO said. “The fact that he – time and again – has refused to do so is the best possible proof of the fact he does not intend to reach a peace agreement.”
Abbas began his speech by attacking Israel’s policy on the Temple Mount, accusing the government of trying to alter the status quo there. 
“I come before you today ... to sound the alarm about the grave dangers of what is happening in Jerusalem, where extremist Israeli groups are committing repeated, systematic incursions upon Al-Aqsa mosque, aimed at imposing a new reality and dividing [it],” he said. 
These groups, “under the protection of Israeli occupying forces and accompanying ministers and Knesset members ... enter the mosque at certain times,” he charged, while “preventing Muslim worshippers” from doing so. 
“I call on the Israeli government, before it is too late, to cease its use of brutal force to impose its plans to undermine the Islamic and Christian sanctities in Jerusalem, particularly its actions at Al-Aqsa mosque, for such actions will convert the conflict from a political to [a] religious one, creating an explosive [situation] in Jerusalem and in the rest of the occupied Palestinian territory,” he concluded.
The PMO’s statement vehemently rejected these assertions, saying Abbas’ speech “was deceitful and encourages incitement and lawlessness in the Middle East. In contrast to the Palestinians, Israel is strictly maintaining the status quo on the Temple Mount and is committed to continuing to do so in accordance with the agreements between us and the Jordanians and the Waqf.”
Abbas also dwelled at length on hate crimes perpetrated by Jews against Palestinians and accused Israel of protecting the perpetrators rather than catching them. He also accused Israel of establishing an apartheid regime in the West Bank.
“How can a state claiming to be an oasis of democracy and claiming that its courts and security apparatus function according to the law accept the existence of so-called ‘price tag’ gangs and other terrorist organizations that terrorize our people, their property and holy sites, all under the sight of the Israeli army and police, which do not deter or punish, but rather provide them with protection?” he demanded.
Responding to speeches by other world leaders, including U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin, which focused mainly on the battle against ISIS, Abbas declared that any war on terror must begin with solving the Palestinian problem.
Immediately after his speech, Abbas attended a festive ceremony in which the Palestinian flag was raised at UN headquarters for the first time. UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and many foreign ministers were in attendance.
Shortly after that, representatives of the PA’s donor states met at UN headquarters. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told the gathering that he doesn’t consider Israeli-Palestinian peace an “impossible dream” and that Washington remains committed to peace talks.
​

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Netanyahu responds to Abbas: Israel expects Palestinians to honor their commitments </title>
<date>Thu Oct 01 19:26:00 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
UNITED NATIONS — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took advantage of his speech to the UN General Assembly on Thursday to declare, “Israel expects the Palestinian Authority to abide by its commitments.” He was responding to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’ speech the day before, in which Abbas announced that in light of Israel’s policies in the West Bank, the Palestinians would no longer fulfill its agreements with Israel.
“I remain committed to a vision of two states for two peoples,” Netanyahu said. “Israelis know the price of war. I know the price of war. I was nearly killed in battle. I lost many friends. I lost my beloved brother Yoni. Those who know the price of war can best appreciate what the blessings of peace would mean — for ourselves, our children, our grandchildren. I am prepared to immediately, immediately, resume direct peace negotiations with the Palestinian Authority without any preconditions whatsoever. Unfortunately, President Abbas said yesterday that he is not prepared to do this.”
Read the full transcript of Prime Minister Netanyahu's address to the UN General Assembly
About an hour after Netanyahu’s speech, an Israeli couple were shot to death driving near the West Bank settlement of Itamar.
Netanyahu claimed that in the 20 years since the peace process began, six Israeli prime ministers tried to achieve peace with the Palestinians, who rejected every offer. “You heard that rejectionism again only yesterday from President Abbas. How can Israel make peace with a Palestinian partner who refuses to even sit at the negotiating table?” he said. 
Addressing the PA president, Netanyahu said: “President Abbas, I know it’s not easy. I know it’s hard. But we owe it to our peoples to try, to continue to try, because together, if we actually negotiate and stop negotiating about the negotiation, if we actually sit down and try to resolve this conflict between us, recognize each other, not use a Palestinian state as a stepping stone for another Islamist dictatorship in the Middle East, but something that will live at peace next to the Jewish state, if we actually do that, we can do remarkable things for our peoples.”
PLO Secretary General Saeb Erekat issued a statement in response to Netanyahu’s speech, saying it was full of inaccuracies. “The Palestinians have never placed conditions on peace.  Palestinians have demanded that Israel abide by the obligations it has already made to the Palestinians, which Israel has yet to fulfill,” Erekat said.
“As Mr. Netanyahu tells the world he wants to negotiate for two states, he has built the largest illegal settlement enterprise seen in modern history,” Erekat added.
The day before Netanyahu’s speech, Abbas told the General Assembly that in light of Israeli policy in the West Bank, the PA would not keep the agreements it signed with Israel over the past 20 years. However, the practical application of Abbas’ statements was unclear. He did not set a timetable for ending implementation of the agreements but said the Palestinians would begin carrying out the decisions immediately, using legal means, not violence.
Most of Netanyahu’s speech focused on the nuclear agreement with Iran, which he called “a very bad deal.” He said that over the past six months Iran had increased its support for terror groups, its undermining of various regimes in the Middle East and its support for the regime of Bashar Assad in Syria. ”Israel will continue to respond forcefully to any attacks against it from Syria,” Netanyahu said.
He told the General Assembly that the deal with Iran “does place several constraints on Iran’s nuclear program. And rightly so, because the international community recognizes that Iran is so dangerous. … If Iran doesn’t change its behavior, in fact if it becomes even more dangerous in the years to come, the most important constraints will still be automatically lifted by year 10 and by year 15.
“That would place a militant Islamic terror regime weeks away from having the fissile material for an entire arsenal of nuclear bombs,” Netanyahu said.
He chided the diplomats in the hall and said that even 70 years after the Holocaust, the world remains silent in the face of threats against the Jewish people. At that point, the prime minister fell silent for 44 seconds, and then said: “Believe me, it would be far easier to remain silent. But throughout our history, the Jewish people have learned the heavy price of silence. And as the prime minister of the Jewish state, as someone who knows that history, I refuse to be silent.” His silence and this statement were greeted by stormy applause from dozens of his supporters in the assembly hall visitors’ gallery.
Netanyahu presented a series of actions he said the international community should take following the agreement with Iran: “Make sure that the snapback sanctions actually snap back. And make sure that Iran’s violations aren’t swept under the Persian rug,” adding, “Israel will be watching closely.”
With regard to Israel’s ties with the United States, Netanyahu said: “President Obama and I agree on the need to keep arms out of the hands of Iran’s terror proxies… Israel deeply appreciates President Obama’s willingness to bolster our security, help Israel maintain its qualitative military edge and help Israel confront the enormous challenges we face. President Obama and I have both said that our differences over the nuclear deal are a disagreement within the family. But we have no disagreement about the need to work together to secure our common future.”
'Arrogance, bravado, recycled clichés and useless gimmicks'
The political opposition reacted critically to Netanyahu’s address.
“While Netanyahu addresses the UN, the government is approving illegal outposts, the deputy foreign minister is arrogantly confronting and insulting the Jordanian foreign minister, and Israel is doing things that are going in the wrong direction,” said Oppostion Leader leader Isaac Herzog (Zionist Union). “I’m here to replace Netanyahu.”
MK Shelly Yacimovich (Zionist Union) called Netanyahu’s speech, “A model of arrogance, bravado, recycled clichés and useless gimmicks.” Netanyahu and his speeches, she said, “Are the direct cause of Israel being sidelined from any position of influence on the issue of Iran."
“His remarks about the Jewish people not remaining passive as in the past are a farce in and of themselves,” she said. “Israel under Netanyahu has been totally passive, both before Iran and the Palestinians, and is allowing reality to unfold without any initiative on our part.”
MK Tzipi Livni (Zionist Union) praised Netanyahu for “An eloquent speech that moves every Jewish soul,” but added, however, "There’s a huge gap between the good feeling he creates in Israel and the reception and status of Israel in the world.”
“History proves that Netanyahu’s speeches have changed nothing," Livni said. "While Israeli citizens are moved by his speech, the world sees someone who speaks about peace and two states for two peoples, but isn’t prepared to pay even the smallest political price for it.”
MK Yousef Jabareen (Joint List) said that while Netanyahu makes an effort to express himself diplomatically, “the world already knows that he doesn’t accept the two-state solution along the 1967 lines." Jabareen added: Netanyahu is leading Israel toward an apartheid regime, in which the State of Israel controls the fate of five million Palestinians and denies them the right to freedom and self-determination. Netanyahu practices the politics of fear and intimidation, and endangers the future of the entire region.”

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Olmert blasts Netanyahu's foreign policy, warns of risk of apartheid in Israel</title>
<date>Fri Oct 02 22:37:53 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
Former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert criticized incumbent leader Benjamin Netanyahu's foreign policy on Friday in an interview with Al Jazeera English, saying that Israel is at risk of becoming an apartheid state.
The television interview, which Al Jazeera described as Olmert's first international interview since he was sentenced for eight months in jail for fraud and breach of trust this past May, aired on Friday evening.
According to excerpts released before the interview aired, Olmert rejected Netanyahu's claim at the UN that Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas isn't interested in negotiations with Israel. "[Abbas] certainly is a partner for peace. There is no other," Olmert was quoted as saying. “He is the president of the Palestinian Authority and he, time and again, proved that he’s against terror and that he is ready to spell it out in the strongest possible terms.”
Olmert repeated his past warning that Israel could become an apartheid state should the Israeli-Palestinian peace process remain stalled.
 “I still make this warning," he said. "I think that this warning is a serious one and we have to address ourselves to this in a very serious [way] and to expedite the [peace] process.”
Prime Minister Netanyahu said in his UN General Assembly address on Thursday that he is prepared to resume direct peace negotiations with the Palestinians "immediately," but asserted that Abbas is not willing to do so. "Well, I hope he changes his mind," Netanyahu said. "Because I remain committed to a vision of two states for two peoples, in which a demilitarized Palestinian state recognizes the Jewish state." 
In the interview, Olmert called Netanyahu's speech a "great performance."
Olmert further criticized the prime minister's vocal opposition to the nuclear deal between the world powers and Iran. He said that while the agreement isn't ideal, "it's a done deal," and called on Netanyahu to work with the U.S. rather than fight it over the accord.
Most of Netanyahu’s UN address focused on the nuclear agreement with Iran, which he called “a very bad deal." On Friday, U.S. officials told Haaretz that the prime minister has indicated that the speech would be his swan song on his public fight against the accord.
Messages from Netanyahu's aides gave senior officials the impression that the prime minister is ready to discuss how the United States and Israel will jointly deal with Iran and its subversive activities in the region.
Olmert was sentenced in May to eight months in prison for receiving hundreds of thousands of shekels in cash-filled envelopes from Jewish-American businessman Morris Talansky and failing to report the donations to either the tax authorities or the state comptroller. His jailing has been postponed due to an appeal.  
Olmert is also fighting a six-year sentence and a one million shekel fine meted out after he was found guilty of taking bribes in a different case, known as the Holyland scandal, which involved the construction of a housing complex in Jerusalem. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>This isn't an intifada, this is what binational Israel looks like</title>
<date>Thu Oct 15 03:51:54 IDT 2015</date>
<content>
A very partial list of things that happened in the last few days: In Jerusalem, a Palestinian 13-year-old, aided by a 15-year-old, stabbed and almost killed a 13-year-old Israeli boy. Hours before, a 16-year-old Palestinian girl was shot after stabbing a police officer. Most of the attacks against Israelis since the last round of  violence began have been carried out by teenagers and women (or both). 
Israelis are being attacked by Palestinian minors wielding kitchen cutlery, vegetable peelers and screwdrivers. In Jerusalem, a 31-year-old Palestinian woman shouting Allahu akbar tried, unsuccessfully, to ignite a gas balloon in her car.
Fearing for their safety, and encouraged to do so by politicians like Jerusalem mayor Nir Barkat, ordinary Israelis have begun carrying weapons. Barkat himself was caught on camera walking around in the streets of Jerusalem with an unholstered gun in his hand. Also in Jerusalem, a man helped subdue a Palestinian terrorist using nunchaks.
In all the chaos, there have been cases of 'vigilantism'. Three Palestinians and a Bedouin were stabbed by a mentally ill Jewish man in Dimona. In Kiryat Ata, a Jewish man stabbed another Jewish man, thinking he was Palestinian.
With violence in Israel and the West Bank steadily increasing, many are asking: Is this an intifada? Is this truly the beginning of yet another, years-long, bloody chapter in the saga of Israel-Palestine, or is this just another footnote, like the so-called “firecracker intifada” of 2014? The Economist thinks this is not an Intifada. Zionist Union leader Isaac Herzog thinks it is.
Based on the volume of violent incidents and, more importantly, the identity of the people behind them, it’s easy to say: this isn't an intifada. It's something far worse.
Negotiating with screwdrivers
Intifada (the Arabic term for “uprising”) is by definition political. The last two Palestinian intifadas were led by political factions, and were at least somewhat organized. The present wave of violence, on the other hand, is being perpetrated by ordinary young people operating on their own.
It is a new, and terrifying, type of horizontal terror: random, leaderless, and uncoordinated.
Unlike the suicide bombers of yore, recent attackers didn’t leave behind video wills explaining their motives. None were affiliated with any terrorist organization or political group. Most had lives, jobs, studies they abruptly halted.
Asraa Zidan Tawfik Abed, the 30-year-old neophyte terrorist who tried to stab a soldier in Afula and was gunned down last week, is a mother of three who holds a degree from Israel's Technion University and was pursuing a master’s degree.
All of this has Israeli leaders stumped and bewildered, casting about frantically for unorthodox solutions.
Opposition leader Isaac Herzog and Habayit Hayehudi leader Naftali Bennett both suggested imposing blockades, closures and, newly, curfews on the residents of the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Habayit Hayehudi MK Yinon Magal tweeted: “Stop them from leaving their homes.” Former foreign affairs minister Avigdor Lieberman suggested restoring martial law regarding Palestinians in East Jerusalem and Israeli Arabs in the Triangle (Israel had previously lifted military rule in 1966.)
In a way, it’s easy to understand why Israeli politicians are confused. Intifadas usually end with a massive military campaign: Operation Defensive Shield ended the Second Intifada; or a massive peace effort - the Madrid Conference and the Oslo Accords ended the First Intifada.
But this time it isn't a conflict for armies or diplomats. You can't send a tank to fight a mother with a master’s degree wielding a knife. You can't negotiate with a hate-filled 15-year-old armed with a screwdriver.
Diplomacy and force won't work this time because despite the kneejerk appellation of intifada, this is not an intifada.This is something far more sinister: A terrifying preview to a binational, one-state Israel that already exists to a large degree on the ground.
When Big Ideas die
After the unceremonious death of the two-state solution, with pessimism among Israelis and Palestinians at an all-time high, this is what we’re left with: Two hostile peoples reluctantly sharing one piece of land, butchering each other with whatever they can get their hands on, just as they have done for the past 100 years, but now with even less hope for a peaceful future or even co-existence.
One cannot separate the wanton abandon with which Israelis and Palestinians have been battering one another from the political vacuum. Netanyahu, Abbas, Herzog – none have any plan for the future. None know how to bring progress.
After the death of Big Ideas, the only thing left is the reality in which Israelis and Palestinians are hopelessly entangled. The binational state that the architects of the two-state solution warned us about looks very much like the one transpiring before our very eyes, with ordinary Palestinians resorting to terrorist acts in their desperation and Israel taking on more and more dimensions of an apartheid state.
This scenario is worse than an intifada: For one, intifadas end. But this, there is no way to end this stage of the conflict - no peace negotiations, no magic “process”, no state-in-waiting. A fully equal binational state might stop it, but the chances of that happening are slim. 
However this current wave of violence plays out, Israelis and Palestinians have now seen the future. What’s happening in Israel-Palestine in the last few days is not an anomaly. It is the reality we have created, driven to its bleakest conclusion.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel turning conflict into a religious one, warns Abbas, with disastrous consequences</title>
<date>Wed Oct 28 20:44:00 IST 2015</date>
<content>
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Wednesday called for international protection for the Palestinians, saying the human rights situation under Israeli occupation is the worst it has ever been, and accused Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of exploiting the Holocaust to attack the Palestinians.
The fiery speech by Abbas to a special session of the UN-backed Human Rights Council in Geneva threatened to stir up new tensions with Israel, just as U.S.-led efforts to calm the situation in the region are getting under way.
Abbas blamed Israel for turning its political conflict with the Palestinians into a religious conflict and threatened that there would be "destructive repercussions."
Netanyahu has previously said the violence is the result of incitement by Palestinian leaders, including Abbas, as well as social media. The Palestinians say it is the result of frustration stemming from nearly 50 years of Israeli occupation, repeated failed peace efforts and a lack of hope in gaining independence anytime soon.
Abbas said Wednesday the human rights situation in the Palestinian territories is at its "worst and most critical since 1948" — the year of Israel's independence — and insisted "it is no longer useful to waste time in negotiations for the sake of negotiations. What is required is the end of the occupation in accordance with international legitimacy."
He called on the Security Council to "shoulder its responsibilities" and set up a "special regime of international protection for our Palestinian people. We want your protection — we want the protection of the world." He did not elaborate.
Abbas said that regional peace, security and stability would not be reached until the Israeli occupation ends and a Palestinian state is established along the 1967 borders with Jerusalem as its capital.
"I warned for years about what has been happening in Jerusalem and its environs, about the vice around it and the harm to Palestinian human, civil, economic and social rights," said Abbas, who added that he had also warned about what successive Israeli governments have done since 2000, changing Jerusalem's demographic balance, expanding settlements, digging under al-Aqsa and building fences to divide Palestinian neighborhoods. He also accused Israel of closing Palestinian national institutions.
"Israeli policy turned the political conflict into a religious conflict, which will have destructive repercussions," he added.
"Israel is behaving like a country that is above the law without any deterrence or accounting," asserted Abbas. "It continues a policy of controlling Palestinians on the ground, stealing their natural resources and building fences for settlers, paving roads and establishing a transportation system for them to create facts on the ground, based on Apartheid."
Abbas said that Israel was using military cover to let settlers commit crimes against Palestinians and damage their property and holy sites in Palestinian towns and villages.
"The situation has reached the point of armed gangs going by the name of 'price tag' committing crimes of murder and incitement," he said. "The terrorists from recent incidents – the burning of the Dawabsheh family home and the murder and burning of Mouhamad Abu Khdeir – have yet to be brought to justice."
Abbas attributed the recent Palestinian violence directly to the Israeli "policy we warned of, which is expressed in Israeli crimes against the Palestinian people and the failure of the international community to stop them."
The Palestinian president added that the current situation cannot go on and said, "I have come from Palestine with a message of a people that yearns for liberty and independence, and I ask you until when will this occupation continue? Has the time not arrived for the Palestinian people to win its independence? We are waiting to create the institutions and establish the rule of law."
Abbas then declared, "I call on the leadership in Israel – the time has come for you to recognize a Palestinian state and perhaps this is the last chance because we don't know what will happen given the winds of change blowing in the region."
He warned that if the "Palestinian people don't enjoy peace, security and stability on its land, no one will enjoy peace and stability because the Palestinian people won't sit with its hands folded." He said his people had grown up on principles of respect and its right to protect itself in all nonviolent ways and within the framework of international law.
'Mufti comments untrue and baseless'
Abbas also criticized Netanyahu for comments a week earlier suggesting that a World War II-era Palestinian religious leader had persuaded the Nazis to carry out a policy that exterminated 6 million Jews. The remarks about Nazi sympathizer Haj Amin al-Husseini, a former grand mufti of Jerusalem, aimed to illustrate Netanyahu's claim that Palestinian incitement at Jerusalem's most sensitive holy site goes back decades. Instead, it set off an uproar as Israeli historians accused him of bending historical facts for political gain.
Abbas said Netanyahu's allegations manipulate the sentiments of Jews about "the most horrendous crime known in modern history committed by the Nazis."
"He prefers to blame Palestinians for everything — even the Holocaust. You all know that this is totally false. It is untrue and baseless," he said.
"When the Israeli prime minister tries to absolve Adolf Hitler from his ugly crimes, against the Jews, and blame Palestinians for these crimes, he is trying thereby to justify the crimes committed against the Palestinian people," he said, according to an official translation of his remarks, which were delivered in Arabic.
Abbas accused Israel of carrying out "extrajudicial killings" during the latest violence — a reference to the shootings of Palestinians accused in stabbings.
He did not condemn the stabbings or mention that many of those killed were shot while carrying out stabbing attacks. Palestinians have accused Israel of using excessive force, claiming that alleged assailants were either unarmed or could have been stopped without being killed. Netanyahu has called on Abbas to condemn the stabbings.
Abbas called for "peaceful popular resistance" amid the alleged violations of Palestinian rights, lashed out at Israel's "oppressive war machine," and said "the criminal acts of settlers must be stopped."
The New York Times reported that Israel’s ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, Eviatar Manor, condemned Abbas over for the speech, and the Human Rights Council for holding a “scandalous special meeting” and allowing itself to be used as a stage for propaganda and “fanning the flames of conflict.”
“What we have witnessed today is the glorification of terror and violence,” Manor said following Abbas’ speech. “What the council allowed today is the banalization of the spilling of Jewish blood.”
After days of talks with Israel, Palestinian and Jordanian leaders, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry announced over the weekend that surveillance cameras would soon be installed at the sensitive Jerusalem holy site that has been at the heart of the unrest.
The hilltop compound in Jerusalem's Old City, revered by Jews as the Temple Mount, is the holiest site in Judaism. Known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary, it houses the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the gold-topped Dome of the Rock. It is the third-holiest site in Islam and a key Palestinian national symbol.
Israel and Jordan are working out the details of the cameras, and expect to install them in a matter of days.
The Palestinians have expressed disappointment over Kerry's camera plan, saying it does nothing to address the deeper issues at the heart of the conflict.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS movement targets top chefs visiting Israel</title>
<date>Fri Oct 30 03:41:11 IST 2015</date>
<content>
The BDS movement is targeting an event scheduled to bring nine top chefs from around the world to Tel Aviv next week.
As part of the event, Round Tables, eight chefs from acclaimed restaurants in Europe and the United States are scheduled to arrive with their restaurant staffs in order to dish up their flagship dishes to diners in Tel Aviv. Some of the restaurants have Michelin stars.
Now, the boycott, sanctions and divestment movement has teamed up with some 130 organizations in calling on the chefs not to participate. The petition states “Take apartheid off the menu” and describes the event as “gastro diplomacy” courtesy of the Israeli government that seeks to improve international trade and cultural relations.
“The initiative is even more tasteless as it comes on the heels of brutal Israeli repression against Palestinians protesting for their rights and freedom in the Occupied Territories and inside Israel,” states the BDS movement in its letter, published Tuesday.
So far, none of the participants have agreed to cancel, the BDS movement admitted.
Round Tables stated in response: “The initiative is being held as planned. All the guest restaurants and chefs are on their way to Israel. Some have already landed and started operations at the host restaurants. All the chefs have said they’re happy to take part in the initiative while recognizing Tel Aviv and Israel as international culinary powerhouses.”
Participating international restaurants include Craft in London, the Fat Radish in New York, the Cinnamon Kitchen in London, Ron Gastrobar in Amsterdam, Fruhsammers in Berlin, Tragaluz in Barcelona, Estiatorio Milos in Athens, Stazione di Posta in Rome, and Osteria Mozza in Los Angeles. Hosting restaurants in Tel Aviv include Coffee Bar, Yaffo Tel Aviv, Taizu, Herbert Samuel and Cafe Italia. Diners pay a fixed price of 269 shekels ($70).

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Roger Waters would rebuild 'The Wall' in Israel if gov't changed its policies</title>
<date>Mon Nov 16 23:56:36 IST 2015</date>
<content>
Pink Floyd star Roger Waters surprised many when he told Rolling Stone Magazine in an interview that he would be willing to rebuild his "The Wall" stageshow and perform it in Israel once again - but of course Waters, one of the most outspoken critics of Israel and a strong backer of the BDS movement against the Jewish State, had conditions.
"If Israel works toward equality and actual, real, genuine democracy, with no apartheid or racism infecting the society, then I will go over there and play The Wall again. I have the bits and pieces of the stage stored, and the ones I haven’t got stored, I will rebuild," Waters told Rolling Stone two weeks ago.
Waters is said to have written “The Wall” in 1979 as a metaphor for his internal isolation. But in recent years, he has increasingly politicized the seminal album, particularly to criticize Israel’s polices toward the Palestinians.
Waters said the message of “The Wall,” on which he wrote most of the songs, is: “Do you want a voice? And if you do, you better bloody well go out and get it because it’s not going to be handed to you on a plate.”
In 2006, Waters was slated to perform in Tel Aviv, but after visiting the security barrier, he decided to move his show to Neve Shalom, a cooperative village founded by both Arabs and Jews. He spray-painted the words “We don’t need no thought control” – lyrics from the song “Another Brick in the Wall” – on the security barrier.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Everything you need to know ahead of Jonathan Pollard's release</title>
<date>Tue Nov 17 13:05:44 IST 2015</date>
<content>
JTA - Jonathan Pollard, the American spy for Israel sentenced to life in prison in 1987, is due to be released on parole on Saturday, 30 years after his arrest.
The former U.S. Navy analyst’s exit from a federal prison in Butner, North Carolina (where he reportedly befriended Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff), follows three decades of intrigue that have included charges of anti-Semitism against top U.S. officials, allegations that Pollard offered his services to other countries and his becoming a card in Middle East peace talks.
While those close to Pollard, 61, say security considerations keep them from revealing details of his release -- and U.S. government officials are not returning calls about it -- an examination of recent interviews with Pollard’s lawyers reveals some tangible details about the life Pollard will lead outside of the prison walls.
Pollard could be out by Shabbat.
According to the website of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Pollard is slated to be released on November 21. But that falls on a Saturday – Shabbat – and Pollard is now a Sabbath observer. Pollard’s lawyers have suggested in interviews that they have secured the parole commission’s agreement to allow Pollard to leave the day before.
His dream is to make aliyah
Eliot Lauer, a Pollard lawyer, told the Israeli daily Yedioth Acharonot last month that Pollard’s dream is to immigrate to Israel. But he'll need President Barack Obama’s say-so, and that’s not happening in the near term.
“The president has the authority, as a goodwill gesture, to limit the sentence to 30 years and thereby end it completely, allowing Pollard to become a free man and to fulfill the dream he has told me about many times — to make aliyah to Israel,” Lauer said.
On Monday, two Jewish congressmen from New York -- Reps. Eliot Engel and Jerrold Nadler, both Democrats -- wrote to Loretta Lynch, the U.S. attorney general, saying Pollard was ready to give up his U.S. citizenship in order to be allowed to travel immediately to Israel.
In a separate interview this month, Lauer told the Times of Israel that Pollard “wants to make a contribution” to Israel. “He has a lot of significant ideas.”
In any case, Pollard’s Israel plans will likely have to wait, given the parole commission's restrictions on his movements and requirements that he report to a probation officer for at least a year.
Pollard has a job
Pollard’s lawyers said in July that they had “secured employment and housing for Mr. Pollard in the New York area.” Lauer, in an email to JTA, declined to be more specific. The New York Observer reported this week, quoting “sources,” that Pollard would live in Manhattan.
More recently, Lauer told the Times of Israel that the “Orthodox or semi-Orthodox community” has been most helpful in securing employment and residence for Pollard while he is in New York.
Whatever Pollard does, it will not be too strenuous. He has endured multiple hospital visits in recent years, at times to address kidney and liver ailments, according to his supporters. (A Knesset bill under consideration would have Israel paying for his medical and residential expenses, as well as providing him with a monthly stipend, The Jerusalem Post reported earlier this month.)
He is remarried
Pollard and his second wife, Esther, will enjoy freedom together for the first time. Pollard divorced his first wife, Anne, who served three years on the espionage charges, in part so she could forge a new and separate life. He married Esther, a Canadian who had been advocating for his release, in 1994, his ninth year in prison.
There's no love lost between Pollard and Jewish communal leaders
Though he's looking forward to being active in the “Jewish community,” he’ll likely steer clear of mainstream Jewish communal officials.
“During the course of this initiative, we got to know an awful lot of Jewish leaders here in the United States,” Pollard told journalist Edwin Black in an extensive 2002 interview. “And they seem to fall into one of several groups in their response to me. Some ran away from it ... others promised to do things but basically didn’t … and others did harm.”
The feeling is mutual. Pollard has alleged that his interrogators asked him to implicate a list of American Jewish leaders in his espionage; he refused to do so. The Jewish leaders told Black they believed the list was Pollard’s invention, a ploy to stir sympathy for his cause.
Competing narratives will endure ...
Don’t expect the competing narratives between Pollard’s defenders and accusers to be reconciled. Was Pollard a reluctant recruit driven to divulge to Israel a narrow set of data that would save Jewish lives but that the Americans, despite pledges to share such information, were keeping secret? Or was he, as his accusers have charged, greedy, delivering mountains of documents to Israel in exchange for a lavish lifestyle, and peddling his services to other nations, including apartheid South Africa? But the terms of Pollard's parole will likely keep him quiet.
... And so, too, will the rancor
When it comes to “with us or against us,” Pollard and his defenders make George W. Bush look like a pushover. For a time, the Washington Post reported in 1998, Pollard cut off his family, despite their years of dedication to his release. He has alienated some of his most ardent supporters. And pity the journalists who stray even slightly from their narrative that Pollard is a heroic victim of a massive injustice – the recriminations come fast and furious.
Pity also David Luchins, the much-lauded longtime Orthodox Jewish activist who in 1993 organized an appeal to President Bill Clinton to commute Pollard’s sentence. The appeal included a letter of remorse from Pollard, in which Pollard admitted that his crimes had violated not just U.S. but Jewish law. Pollard, according to Black, later had regrets about the admission, and Pollard’s followers blamed Luchins. Black reported that Luchins suffered death threats and required federal protection for a period.
Pollard's accusers at times, too, seem susceptible to a delusional apoplexy
Seymour Hersh, writing for the New Yorker on the case in 1999, probed intelligence officials to explain how they knew information Pollard handed Israel reached the Soviets. The officials acknowledged that they had no hard evidence, and the accusation — key to perceiving Pollard as someone who posed a threat to national security — seems more an article of faith than of fact.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The top Haaretz scoops of 2015</title>
<date>Tue Dec 29 14:47:50 IST 2015</date>
<content>
How closely did you follow the news in 2015? Catch up on the biggest Haaretz investigations, exposés and special reports that set the news agenda this year.
1. Settlement Dollars
Private U.S. donors are massively funding Israeli settlements by using a network of tax-exempt nonprofits, which funneled more than $220 million (about 850 million shekels) to Jewish communities in the West Bank in 2009-2013 alone, a Haaretz investigation found. In a series of reports, Uri Blau follows the money trail from Israeli and American donors to the settlements.
2. Anti-Semitism in Europe
Is it time for the Jews to leave Europe? After terror struck Paris in January and Copenhagen in February, many asked that question. Haaretz's Anshel Pfeffer traveled the continent to ask European Jews themselves. He found vibrant and engaged communities largely unafraid to be openly Jewish, and who aren't going anywhere. His trip was documented in the 11-part series, "The Cossacks Aren't Coming."
3. 'Lost Tribes'
Though little, if any, proof exists of their Jewish lineage, the Bnei Menashe of northeastern India are moving to Israel in large numbers thanks to an unprecedented government decision. Haaretz's Judy Maltz investigated how this unusual operation came about.
4. Hitler-Mufti Debacle
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sparked public uproar when he claimed that the Mufti of Jerusalem, Haj Amin al-Husseini, was the one who planted the idea of the extermination of European Jewry in Adolf Hitler's mind. The Nazi ruler, Netanyahu told the World Zionist Congress in Jerusalem, had no intention of killing the Jews, but only to expel them. A Haaretz report brought the utterance to light, sparking a global debate that ultimately led Netanyahu to backtrack, clarifying that he never meant to "absolve [Adolf] Hitler of his responsibility for the Holocaust."
5. One Year Since War
June marked one year to the kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenage boys in the West Bank that sparked Operation Protective Edge. In a special report, Amos Harel and Chaim Levinson revealed the mistakes that lined Israel's frantic search for the teenagers. In August, Haaretz published a nine-part series on the Israel-Gaza war, examining what had changed in the year since the 50-day conflict ended, and to ask whether – or when – the next war will erupt.
6. Ripples Through Modern Orthodoxy
Has Modern Orthodoxy in America reached its breaking point? Haaretz's Yair Ettinger traveled to New York to write a special report on the deep crisis facing the wealthiest and most influential Jewish community in the United States.
7. Jewish Terrorism
After an arson attack on a Palestinian family's house in the West Bank town of Duma, the Shin Bet security services raised the threat level of a group of Jewish radicals called "The Revolt." Haaretz's Chaim Levinson revealed who the group's key members are, how it operated and what it seeks to achieve.
8. Donald Trump in High Heels
Who is Miri Regev? The firebrand culture minister is constantly in the media – and the more controversy she stirs up, the more popular she gets. Danna Harman wrote an in-depth profile on the woman Haaretz coined Israel's Donald Trump in high heels.
9. Apartheid or Israel
Roger Waters, one of the leading lights in the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement, set the record straight, telling Haaretz he hates apartheid, not Israel. In an exclusive interview with Gideon Levy, the former Pink Floyd singer spoke about his political views, tragic family history – and when the rock star-turned-activist will be happy to play in Israel again.
10. Silvan Shalom
Yaniv Kubovich's article on a woman alleging Silvan Shalom sexually assaulted her prompted several other women to make similar claims. The allegations ultimately led to the interior minister's resignation from public office, after 23 years as a Knesset Member and several ministerial positions.
11. Labeling Settlement Goods
The foreign ministers from 16 out of 28 European Union countries sent a letter in April to the European Union's foreign policy chief asking to push forward the process of labeling goods produced in Israeli settlements that are sold in grocery chains across the continent. Haaretz's Barak Ravid obtained a copy of that letter, and published it in an exclusive report. Ravid followed the story closely throughout the year, including when the European Commission adopted guidelines in November for labeling products from Israeli settlements.
12. Netanyahu and Walla!
Gidi Weitz, Haaretz’s chief investigative reporter, showed how the popular Hebrew news portal Walla has developed an appetite for positive stories about Benjamin and Sara Netanyahu, and revealed the links between politicians and tycoons. 

</content>
</article>
