<article>
<title>Anshel Pfeffer / Israeli and Jewish leaders tend to forgive 'our' racists</title>
<date>Fri May 28 00:52:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
The treasure trove of documents revealed by Sasha Polakow-Suransky in his new book on the secret relations between Israel and South Africa during the dark years of apartheid is fascinating and deeply troubling. But as much as he would like to convince us that they prove that then Defense Minister and now President Shimon Peres actually offered Pretoria Israeli nuclear weapons, there simply is no proof of that.
Polakow-Suransky's extrapolations between the different minutes and memos are convoluted and tenuous at best. There are much more plausible explanations to Peres' cryptic reference to "three sizes" of missile payloads, if that is indeed what he said in those secret meetings 35 years ago. You don't have to take my word for it. Professor Avner Cohen, the undisputed expert on Israel's nuclear capabilities and certainly no darling of the defense establishment for his efforts to scatter the clouds over Dimona, also dismisses the claims. He wrote this week that "there is no proof whatsoever that Israel ultimately officially OFFERED those weapons to SA. In fact, I know that Israel did not ... At the end of the day South Africa did not ask and Israel did not offer the 'correct payloads.' Israel did behave as a responsible nuclear state."
Professor Cohen is a brave researcher and writer with impeccable sources, and has never shied away from criticism of the nuclear program where it is due. Even before I read his judgment, the Polakow-Suransky theory simply did not make any sense to me. Shimon Peres went to such lengths over decades to built Israel's nuclear capability and safeguard it, that to picture him blithely offering this most valuable strategic asset to another country simply beggars belief.
But the justified outrage at this shoddy detail in Polakow-Suransky's book and the way in which The Guardian trumpeted it over its front page without a shred of skepticism, using it as proof that Israel's nuclear program was no different to that of Iran, just serves to deflect attention from the much more important and credible content of the book: The way in which successive Israeli governments dealt with an overtly racist regime, which shared many values and roots with Nazi Germany. This is not a new story of course, but the details of the shameful alliance in which the two countries developed numerous weapons systems together, usually with Israel supplying the knowhow, and its defense industry continued arming of South Africa's military, long after most western nations ceased doing so, are breathtaking.
I know all the excuses. An isolated and embattled country with limited resources cannot be too picky when it comes to choosing its allies. As the staunchly anti-communist Churchill said after war broke out between Germany and the Soviet Union, "If Hitler invaded Hell, I would at least make a favorable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons." But the ties with South Africa continued well into the 1980s, when Israel's strategic alliance with the United States was already well-established. Only in 1987 did Israel agree to join the sanctions on the apartheid state, and even that was after Yossi Beilin spent three years as director general of the Foreign Ministry trying to convince his boss, Peres, that Israel's policy was untenable. Old habits die hard.
Too many Israeli and Jewish leaders seem to have a disturbing tendency of forgiving, or at the very least condoning the actions of racists, as long as they are "our" racists. You can see that tendency at almost every level. The Israeli government resisted for decades any attempt to officially mark the Armenian genocide, for fear of harming the strategic alliance with the Turkish government. In the United States, the Anti-Defamation League eradicated any attempt to recognize the Armenian genocide within its own ranks. Supporting Israel's foreign policy was more important than keeping to its charter. This effort to cover up the genocide that inspired the Nazis,  (the quote "after all, who remembers the Armenians," is ascribed, perhaps apocryphally, to Hitler ) seems particularly ridiculous now that Turkey has become Iran's best friend in the region.
The Israeli right wing, from Benjamin Netanyahu downward and significant portions of the Jewish-American community, feel very comfortable cozying up to some of the most racist elements of the fundamental Christian movement in the United States. In return for their multimillion donations and political support in Washington, they conveniently overlook their belief that all the Jews who do not recognize Christ will be burned in Armageddon.
Support for Israel, and other political and diplomatic considerations, can always serve to whitewash racism and even anti-Semitism. The Jewish American establishment led by the Wiesenthal Center founder, Rabbi Marvin Hier, has clasped California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to its bosom, his problematic friendship with Kurt Waldheim buried deep in the past. American Jewish leaders have also defended senior Republican Party official, Fred Malek, despite the fact that he carried out an anti-Semitic witch-hunt in the Bureau of Labor Statistics on behalf of Richard Nixon.
British Jewish leaders, in their anxiety to rub shoulders with the new prime minister David Cameron, have forgiven his alliance in the European Parliament with the Polish Law and Justice Party, despite that party's umbilical ties with a virulently anti-Semitic Catholic movement. But then why should we blame Cameron, Israel also enjoys a "healthy" relationship with the same party, as senior Jewish figures in the Conservative Party have pointed out.
Many Jewish oligarchs and the Chief Rabbi of Russia, Berel Lazar, have steadfastly defended Vladimir's Putin's record, despite the increasing authoritarianism of the regime in Russia. "He is good for the Jews," is their constant refrain. But Russia's continuing ties with Iran, Syria and Hamas prove what a fickle friend it remains.
Ties with racists and dictators bring temporary strategic, political and financial benefits, but they are rarely justified by history. Israel may have never offered apartheid South Africa nuclear weapons, but its close relationship with Pretoria has tainted it for a generation and made it much harder to defend its record, even against absurd allegations.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Canada students counter 'Israel Apartheid Week' with controversial campaign </title>
<date>Tue Mar 02 23:15:09 IST 2010</date>
<content>
A controversial pro-Israel campaign was launched in universities across Canada last week, in an attempt to counter the global pro-Palestinian campaign, "Israel Apartheid Week," launched on Sunday.
The campaign, named "Size Doesn't Matter," was initiated by the Canadian Federation of Jewish Students, and is taking place in 23 universities across Canada, according the official "Size Doesn't Matter" website.
An especially peppery video ad posted on the campaign website
Organizers said that the campaign was aimed at "highlighting the multitude of Israeli accomplishments and contributions," saying it was the "result of the combined efforts by the Canadian Federation of Jewish Students (CFJS), local Hillels, Jewish Student Associations, and Israel on Campus organizations across Canada."
The campaign website indicated that renowned speakers will be discussing Mideast-related issues, including Khaled Abu Toameh, Dr. Joel Kotek, Dr. Mohammed Wattad, and Ismael Khaldi.
"We are very excited about this campaign," said Rebecca Cherniak, Israel Affairs Chair for the Canadian Federation of Jewish Students.
"On many Canadian campuses, Israel is often vilified by anti-Israel proponents. The "Size Doesn't Matter" campaign will showcase an Israel that many students have never seen before," Cherniak said.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Diaspora Jews beware: Stay away from bigots, no matter how friendly they seem</title>
<date>Tue Jun 29 16:38:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Israel needs friends in Europe, but there are some friends that it could do without.
In June, the English Defence League, a thuggish anti-Muslim group known for its raucous (and sometimes violent) street protests, launched a Jewish division, attracting at least a handful of Jews among the 500 fans on its “Jewish Division” Facebook page.
The EDL had previously brandished Israeli flags at demonstrations to taunt its Muslim opponents, and even announced its intent to join a pro-Israel rally organized by Britain’s Zionist Federation following the recent Gaza flotilla crisis. (The rally’s organizers distanced themselves from the EDL, which has been condemned by mainstream Jewish communal groups; ultimately, EDL members weren’t much in evidence at the rally.)
While the EDL may be a fringe group, its embrace of Israel activism is part of a growing trend. Over the past few years, a string of politicians and factions on Europe’s far right, particularly those with anti-Muslim agendas, have taken to expressing strong support for the Jewish state.
The most prominent example is Dutch politician Geert Wilders, who led his Freedom Party to stunning success in Holland’s recent national elections, more than doubling its number of seats to become the third-largest party in parliament.
While Holland’s mainstream parties talked about the economy, Wilders campaigned on an explicitly anti-Islam platform. He has called for a ban on the Quran (which he calls a “fascist book”), an immediate end to Muslim immigration to Holland and a special tax on women who wear headscarves.
At the same time, Wilders is a flamboyant philosemite, who is passionate in his support for Israel — recently, for example, deriding critics of Israel’s flotilla raid as “wolves” who are “howling in the woods.” Israel, he says repeatedly, is the West’s most important bulwark against jihadism. 
Wilders’s brand of politics holds particular appeal in a country that is under considerable demographic pressure from its growing Muslim immigrant population. While Muslims form just 6% of Holland’s population, according to Statistics Netherlands, they are a much larger presence in major cities: In Amsterdam they are 24% of residents; in The Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht they are more than 13%. Many of the country’s non-Muslim residents feel that their own, liberal way of life is under threat, particularly since the 2004 murder of filmmaker Theo Van Gogh by an Islamic extremist.Holland’s mainstream political parties have struggled to assuage these concerns, hampered in part by a hesitance to talk honestly about the repercussions of Muslim immigration out of fear of being seen as bigots. Wilders has no such compunctions.
Similarly, the EDL — formed last year after an Islamist protest against British troops returning home from Iraq — has capitalized upon the perception that it is taboo to raise questions about Islamic extremism and immigration in polite society.
While more straight-talk about immigration and extremism would be welcome in both countries, Wilders and the EDL go much further. Though both claim otherwise, they seem unable (or unwilling) to distinguish between Islamists — radicals with a political agenda — and plain old Muslims. On a continent in which a large Muslim presence is now a fact of life, such sweeping antagonism does nothing to solve real problems and serves only to inflame interreligious and interethnic tensions.
Observers believe that Wilders didn’t actually do any better among Dutch Jews than he did among the general population, notwithstanding his outspoken support for Israel.
Still, facing rising hostility toward Israel in Europe and anti-Semitic violence perpetrated by elements within the Muslim community, some European Jews may be tempted to reciprocate the far-right’s embrace. When it comes to the far-right, however, Jews have plenty of reasons to be wary.For starters, it’s worth recalling that those on the far-right often have their own — usually far-from-admirable — motives for wrapping themselves in the Israeli flag.
Last year, for instance, Nick Griffin, leader of the British National Party (which until this past February only accepted whites as members), boasted on prime-time television that his party was the only one that “stood foursquare behind Israel’s right to deal with Hamas terrorists” during Operation Cast Lead.
This was, presumably, part of his ongoing effort to gain electoral respectability by distancing himself and his party from their history of anti-Semitism. (Griffin once called the Shoah the “HoloHoax.”)Meanwhile, the EDL’s interest in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict seems to be mostly about goading its Muslim foes.
Granted, there are distinctions that can be drawn regarding motives. Wilders’s affection for Israel seems to be sincere. As a teen he worked for two years on a moshav, and he claims to have visited Israel 40 times since.
At the end of the day, however, for Israel and its supporters, these are distinctions that shouldn’t make much of a difference. Israel is currently battling systematic attempts to delegitimize it.
A favored tactic of its opponents is to paint Israel as a racist, apartheid country that discriminates against its Arab citizens and Palestinian neighbors. Israel simply cannot afford to be linked to real bigots, no matter how friendly they appear to be.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>His good name was everything to him</title>
<date>Thu Feb 04 18:15:15 IST 2010</date>
<content>
The King of Oil: The Secret Lives of Marc Rich, by Daniel AmmannSt. Martin's Press, 320 pages, $27
Is Marc Rich a brazen tax evader and a traitor to his adoptive nation, the United States? Or is this Jewish trader extraordinaire merely an adherent of Ayn Rand-style capitalism and an honest broker who adhered to the letter of the law, aiding whole nations and also law enforcement agencies (at least when the matter didn't pertain directly to him )?
Reading "The King of Oil" will leave you none the wiser about whether Rich technically broke any laws in the United States. The prosecutors insist to this day that he did; he disagrees, along with some top American officials. Daniel Ammann lays out the facts in masterly form and shreds the prosecution, charging that it chose to ignore key arguments in Rich's favor. But even after lengthy interviews with the man himself, his prosecutors and his friends and family, Ammann can offer no conclusion about the justice of the dogged prosecution of the commodities trader who reinvented the oil market and rescued Jamaica, South Africa and Israel.
So you will have to decide for yourself. Reading this book, you will be widely informed. Yet any judgment you reach will be based on no more than your personal ethics. Your reaction to Marc Rich's story will be as emotional as that of the U.S. law enforcers who in 1983 charged him with 51 crimes, including tax evasion, racketeering, conspiracy and trading with the enemy, charges that could have carried up to 325 years in prison. Or you may believe him when says, "I am innocent." They overreacted, Rich charges.
To this day Rich, once the world's most successful commodities trader and inventor of the spot oil market, remains in exile in Switzerland even after his controversial presidential pardon from Bill Clinton.
With crystal-clear writing that avoids the distraction of maudlinism, Ammann, the business editor of the Swiss weekly magazine Weltwoche, draws a timeline helpfully studded with sub-heads that serve as signposts through the convoluted story. But even though Rich submitted to multiple interviews with the author, glimpses into his soul are rare, and the legality of his actions remains unclear, or certainly, open to different interpretations. Rich is an enigmatic man and remains so, and Ammann's promise to unveil his "Secret Lives" is not delivered.
Marcell David Reich was born not of one era, but into the history of Jewish persecution over the ages. As a child his father, David Reich, had fled pogroms in his native Galicia, for Frankfurt. As an adult, David, a merchant, abandoned Germany with his wife Paula, heeding the lessons of generations -- "It's starting again." In this case, "it" was the rise of Hitler and Nazism. 
Marcell was born in Antwerp in 1934. When "it started again," the family escaped to France, in 1940. As the Nazi scourge started to spread across Europe, they abandoned Marseilles and caught a ship to Australia. But the ship was stopped and the Reichs found themselves interned instead in Morocco. In 1941, David's sister, a naturalized American, managed to bring the family to the United States.
Understanding what made Marc Rich who he is therefore requires an understanding of Jewish history and of World War II, a litany of horrors that Ammann describes concisely and unemotionally. Even as the story avoids dramatics, we learn of the shifting land beneath Rich's feet during his formative years: In the United States, the boy renamed Marc Rich changed schools almost on a yearly basis. From New York the family moved to Philadelphia, Kansas City, then back to New York, where they lived in several locations. Rich recalls attending 12 schools in as many years. He became a loner, an outsider, left to his own devices, and he developed a mechanism for handling defeats: "You cry a little and then you move on," he told Ammann.
In his travels as a lad, Rich developed a talent for languages, and could speak English, German and French. Yet later in life, he remained silent as the media attacked him, eschewing defense of his most important asset: his good name. He was skewered by a dilemma: For a trader, reputation is everything. But the best traders don't talk. They stay on the sidelines, explains Ammann, and Rich was as secretive as they get.
Reinventing the world of oil
As the child of a trader fast on his feet, Rich was itching from the get-go to start a life in business in his new home. At 19, he left New York University to intern, at $40 a week, in the mailroom of Philipp Brothers, then the world's largest commodities trading company. He was a hard worker in a cutthroat environment and he stood out. Promoted to the traffic department, he learned to be a commodities trader from scratch: "I handled shipments of merchandise and metals, covered insurance, and arranged for payments with letters of credit," Rich told the author.
His subsequent rise at Philipp Brothers was rapid. Rich pulled off a coup while still a junior trader: "creating a market," in his case in mercury, in the mid-1950s. He predicted a surge in demand for mercury, located sources of the liquid metal and developed a network of buyers and sellers. When indeed demand for mercury spiked, as he had predicted, Philipp Brothers made a killing. "To see the opportunity is the most important thing as a trader," Rich says, and by all accounts he was a master of the art. Soon sent to Bolivia for six months to be acting manager of the company's regional office, Rich learned Spanish and the art of doing business in politically volatile countries, both talents that would stand him in good stead.
Early on, Rich formulated the guideline that establishing long-term relationships based on trust, with individuals and whole regimes, supersedes short-term gains. One long-term relationship he forged while at Philipp Brothers was with Fidel Castro's regime. Philipp management was horrified by the Communists' nationalization of mines and industries, but Rich, 24, saw opportunity. He flew to Cuba in 1958, shortly after the revolution, and spent six months negotiating with the new leaders. Another guiding principle was born: Negotiations can only succeed when both parties profit. He walked out with long-term contracts for the island country's minerals. Did he admire the Communists? Not at all. "It was so bad for people," he says with his usual brevity. So why deal with them? It was just business, he explains. His opponents find that detached stance amoral, at best.
Neutral or amoral?
The Cuba deal propelled Rich skyward at Philipp Brothers and he spent years globetrotting. In 1964 he moved to Madrid. "It was love at first sight," writes Ammann.
General Franco's Spain had supported Nazi Germany and was anti-Israeli, Ammann points out. Yet in life as in business, it seems Rich did not judge. He lived, and he did business, leaving politics to others. He spoke Spanish with his family, not that he saw them much -- workaholic is a mild term for Rich, though this did not cause his much-publicized split from his first wife, Denise, later on, or from his second wife, Giselle, who had played a role in his first divorce.
Recognized by his peers as "a genius in the metals market," Rich turned his attention to oil. He is credited with inventing the oil spot market (in which a commodity is bought or sold for immediate or imminent delivery ).
Until 1970, oil was not traded on the open market. Rich thought it should be. The oil embargo in 1967, the first time that key oil-producing Arab nations threatened to stop selling petroleum to countries supporting Israel, created opportunity. The Arab nations might declare that they would boycott anybody connected to Israel, but if they sold their oil to an independent trader, who then sold it to Israel's friends or even Israel itself, well, that wasn't their fault, was it? In other words, an independent trader could serve all -- for a price of course.
The market then was dominated by the "Seven Sisters" oil companies, which bought 95 percent of the volume of the producing countries, then sold the fuel onwards. Rich wanted to buy directly from the producers.
In 1971 those producing countries were hurting from the weakness of the dollar, following president Richard Nixon's decision to have the United States abandon the gold standard. Their response was to nationalize their oil industries. Then they bogged down. "They didn't have the marketing knowhow, the established distribution channels, contacts to the refineries," Ammann writes. Rich realized they'd need traders, and mediators, like him.
He knew how to trade, but to handle logistics, he roped in Philipp Brothers colleague Pincus Green, a genius said to have a photographic memory. "At any given moment, Green always knew who was offering the best shipping rates or where a shipment was currently located during transport," Ammann wrote. Together they would revolutionize the global commodities trade, changing the way oil is traded forever.
After 20 years, in 1974, Rich walked out of Philipp Brothers over a pay dispute, taking Green and others with him. They formed Marc Rich + Co, a partnership based on raw talent, aggressive tactics, long-term relations based on trust, and a readiness to assume risks that other companies wouldn't dream of undertaking.
If Marc Rich + Co flourished, it was in part because it traded with pariahs such as Fidel Castro's Cuba and apartheid South Africa. Ever the business visionary, Rich had a knack for arranging transactions between "improbable" partners. For example, through him, Israel purchased oil from the ayatollahs of Iran.
The ayatollahs abided by contracts that had been signed by the Shah before his overthrow, in 1978. How did Rich get them to agree to that? "His laconic answer helps to explain why traders such as Rich exist in the first place and why they are in such great demand. 'We performed a service for them,' Rich explains. 'We bought the oil, we handled the transport, and we sold it. They couldn't do it themselves, so we were able to do it.'" Oh.
Big in Tehran
The fact that Rich did business with Iran even after extremists seized the American embassy in Tehran in 1979 was one of the reasons Rudolph Giuliani, then U.S. attorney for the southern district of New York, and others bayed for his blood. In 1983 Rich fled the United States. He was never to return.
Rich insists he obeyed the letter of the law. He carried out the transactions through his Swiss company, not any American entity. "[The hostage crisis] was a political development which did not affect the business," Rich told Ammann. "It was very unpleasant and tragic for the hostages and humiliating for the Americans, but it didn't affect the business." Asked if he feels any remorse about dealing with dictators and ugly regimes, he says, "No, no."
Rich is a man of contradictions. A handsome man, as pictured on the cover with a Havana cigar in his mouth, he is described as brilliant and courageous -- as well as modest and, mainly, understated. He talks about money, but there's more to him than that. "Israel's salvation came from none other than Marc Rich -- a fact that has remained largely unknown to this day," Ammann quotes Avner Azulay, former Mossad agent and longtime right-hand man to Rich, whose instincts and experience helped Rich evade the multi-agency task force chasing him. For 20 years, starting in 1973, Rich would be Israel's most important oil supplier. "It was perhaps the ideal trade for Rich," Ammann writes. "He earned a lot of money while at the same time helping guarantee Israel's survival." Guess where the oil came from.
Trading with the enemy aside, America's prosecutors also wanted him for evading taxes on gains that Rich argues were made legitimately. Ammann does not answer the question of whether his financial manipulations were licit or not. Why didn't he return to face trial? The prosecutors were seeking 325 years in prison plus financial penalties. "Marc was thoroughly demonized," says his lawyer Robert Fink: He felt he couldn't get a fair trial.
As to how he succeeded in keeping clear of the U.S. agents who were effectively attempting to kidnap him, there were evidently leaks from the American side over the years that also helped Rich evade capture. There were people on his side. Not least, ultimately, was his ex-wife Denise, who was persuaded to plead for the controversial pardon Rich received in 2001 from president Bill Clinton on his last day in office, after 17 years on the lam. Israeli contacts may have been crucial too. Calls came from Ehud Barak and Shimon Peres, among others.
Long-term relationships and loyalty did well by Marc Rich. Some American prosecutors remain convinced he didn't return the favor. That is precisely why Rich will never step foot in the United States again.
He had hoped Clinton's pardon would pave the way for his return. Six weeks after the pardon, the New York tax assessor sent Rich a bill for $138 million. He negotiated a settlement, though he won't say for how much, and contests owing so much as a cent. Rich understood the way the wind was blowing.
The pardon boomeranged, Ammann writes, ever cautious in his choice of words: "He had hoped to be able to liberate himself from many of the false accusations. He had hoped he would be given the freedom to return unmolested to the United States ... The reality was the exact opposite ... Marc Rich had hoped the pardon would allow him to regain his reputation. Now he had again lost control over his own name. Once and for all."
Rich was not only the world's greatest, if most controversial trader, he was also a philanthropist, secretly (and otherwise ) donating vast sums of money through more than one foundation. After his second daughter Gabrielle died of leukemia in 1996, he set up a foundation to find a cure to the disease. He has contributed to science, medicine, culture and much more, and in 2007 was awarded honorary doctorates from Bar-Ilan University and the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev for his philanthropic work.
So is Marc Rich an unethical man making amoral choices?
"A trader who had dealt in virtually every metal for Marc Rich illustrated [the ethics] to me quite clearly. I was speaking to him about commodities trading in a bar in a wintry midtown Manhattan. 'Ethics.' He laughed. Then he pointed at my Diet Coke. 'Your coke can is made of aluminum. The bauxite that is needed to make it probably comes from Guinea-Conakry. A terrible dictatorship, believe me ... The oil that is used to heat this room probably comes from Saudi Arabia. These good friends of the USA hack the hands off thieves just like in the Middle Ages. Your cellphone? Without coltan there wouldn't be any cellphones. Let's not pretend. Coltan was used to finance the civil war in the Congo.'" If Marc Rich is guilty of amoral trading, then so, evidently, are we all.
Ruth Schuster is senior business editor for Haaretz-TheMarker in English. 
Haaretz Books, February 2010, haaretzbooks@gmail.com

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>How European Zionism has corrupted 'Jewish Arabs'</title>
<date>Sun Nov 14 02:23:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Carmel Shama was fed up, so the lawmaker decided it was time to reconnect with his ethnic roots. Responding to all the confusion over his identity, he asked the Interior Ministry to add an appendage to his name so that he could officially become MK "Shama-Hacohen."
Many people had mistakenly taken him for a Druze. Indeed, when he visited Auschwitz, MKs praised him for showing "solidarity with the Jewish people." He has also frequently been asked to voice his opinion "on Arab matters as a member of that community." Apparently, that was a bit too much for him to handle.
Here, then, is a blatant example of how "Ashkenazi Zionism," from Europe, has corrupted the souls of those referred to as "members of the Mizrahi group," from the Middle East and North Africa.
It bears noting that the original reason Israelis were required to list their national ethno-religious identities on official documents was to help Ashkenazi institutions distinguish between Jews and Arabs, since many Jews who came from Arab countries had Arab names. At first there were only two categories listed: Jews and Arabs. At a later stage, "Druze" was added as a separate category.
Because Interior Minister Eli Yishai refused to implement a High Court ruling to list Israelis who have undergone Reform conversions as Jews, in recent years, information on nationality appears merely as a series of asterisks on identity cards. But other identifying marks that distinguish between "Jews" and Arabs are still there.
Take, for example, a name like "Yosef Hadad." Based on the name alone, it is impossible to know if the bearer of this name is an Arab or Jew. Trained policemen, however, can instantly spot the difference. To promote the "worthy" goal of separating Arab and Jewish citizens, officials at the Interior Ministry were willing to waive the requirement to list the name of the "Jewish grandfather." So supposing that this Yosef Hadad is a Jew, his grandfather's name will not appear on his identity card. But if he is an Arab, his grandfather's name will be displayed proudly. Isn't that a rather elegant form of apartheid registration?
As years went by, nationalist tensions motivated many "Jewish Arabs" to try to distance themselves from their ethnic identity. Yet how could they when their outward appearances, musical tastes, favorite foods and lifestyles were so much a part of the cultural milieu from which they emerged?
The only way for them to make this break was to adopt conspicuous Jewish religious identity markers, prominent among them skullcaps and Magen David pendants. Indeed, the extent to which Magen David chains dangle on their necks and skullcaps cover their heads corresponds directly to the extent that they deny their Arab ethno-nationality. The most grotesque expression of such denial is the Hasidic clothing and hats worn by Shas members. To put it another way, a hat burns on the head of every self-denier.
Ethnic separation has, and continues to be, alive and kicking among citizens of this country. MK Shama-Hacohen can take it easy though. We can even seize the opportunity to give him a gift of two Druze MKs, MK Ayoob Kara  (Likud ) and MK Hamad Amar  (Yisrael Beiteinu ) - who together sound more hard-line than Avigdor Lieberman and Rabbi Eliezer Shach put together. In fact, if they listed "Hacohen" next to their surnames, they could kill two birds with one stone: first, they would stop shaming the Druze; second, the name change would drive MK Shama-Hacohen crazy.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jewish state won't exist without a Palestinian counterpart</title>
<date>Tue Apr 13 02:46:18 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
In an column headlined "Crime Without Punishment" (Haaretz, April 6) Moshe Arens proposes a two-pronged policy for dealing with Israel's Arabs: an uncompromising fight against the Islamic Movement's radical northern branch and strenuous action to integrate the minority into the fabric of Israeli society. In innumerable other columns, Arens has voiced his total opposition to the establishment of a Palestinian state.  
Calls for integration of Israel's Arabs have become increasing popular recently, peaking in the "economic leadership bus tour" of the Arab sector organized by President Shimon Peres and a meeting between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Arab and Jewish industrialists.  
Other right-wingers, like Minister Benny Begin, have also expressed support for the integration and equality of Israeli Arabs. Even though this trend has appeared late, it is of course welcome. But there can be no integration and equality for Israel's Arabs as long as there is no Palestinian state.  
Even if the government were to consistently implement all of the proposals - raising education levels, increasing employment, improving infrastructure, offering incentives for military or national service, and an emergency plan for the Negev Bedouin - it would at the same time continue to function according to the conflict-management ideology that Arens and Begin and others advocate, consistently thwarting the chances for the foundation of a Palestinian state.  
Such a two-pronged policy is doomed to fail for two main reasons. Firstly, Israel's Palestinian citizens, the people known as "Israeli Arabs," feel a sense of common destiny with their brethren who are subject to Israeli military occupation.  
Many have relatives living over the Green Line. Every day they envision the occupying forces repressing those relatives. Is there any chance that those Palestinians who are Israeli citizens will willingly integrate in the society that maintains said occupation and repression? Would they want to serve in the army that implements these policies? Even if the state makes an honest effort to integrate them, would they be able to be an integral part of it and what it represents?  
The second reason is a result of the effects that the prolonged conflict with the Palestinians has had on Israeli Jewish society, making large sectors of it regard the entire Palestinian people as an enemy. They are unable and unwilling to distinguish between those who are Israeli citizens and those living on the other side of the Green Line.  
Everyday reality in the territories legitimizes violence, repression of freedom of expression, and racism toward Palestinians. This is evident even in the Knesset, where bizarre measures are enacted to prohibit Arabs from commemorating their personal and national disaster, which took the form of the loss of their homes and communities. The Knesset also gives legal validity to measures that bar Arabs from living in Israeli communities. The amendment to the law that institutionalizes discrimination against Arab citizens in admission to communities, thereby ensuring the implementation of an intentional policy of apartheid, illustrates the rise in steps that have been taken to block Arab integration into the fabric of Israeli society.  
As long as we continue to prolong and intensify the conflict with the Palestinians, we can never create a reality of integration and equality.  
The policy of thwarting progress toward a Palestinian state is leading us steadily and directly toward a bi-national state and indirectly toward the end of Israel as a Jewish entity. Anyone who wants a state that is both a home for the Jewish people and a democracy has to fill both of those elements with content, and activate a different two-pronged policy: For Israel to be the Jewish national homeland, we must act to establish a Palestinian state, and for Israel to be a democracy, we must act to integrate and bestow equality upon the Palestinians who are Israeli citizens.  
The writer is co-chairman of the Abraham Fund Initiatives, which advances coexistence and equality between Arabs and Jews in Israel. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Montreal Jews fear 'gang atmosphere' amid rise in anti-Semitic incidents</title>
<date>Wed May 05 12:14:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
 
Many in Montreal's Orthodox Jewish community say they are afraid to leave their homes, due to the "gang atmosphere" that has taken over their neighborhood amid renewed anti-Semitic activity.The Chabad community in the city's Côte des Neiges district has experienced a number of violent incidences against it over the past few weeks, including the mugging of a visibly pregnant woman.
In addition, swastikas have been sprayed in at least three locations in the Montreal suburb of Outremont – home to a large segment of Hasidic Jews who wear traditional garb.
According to B’nai Brith Canada, which compiles the country’s figures on anti-Semitic incidents, reports of vandalism targeting Jewish schools, synagogues and businesses have accelerated rate in the last month.
"Some community members now reportedly think twice before they leave their homes. The ongoing fear and intimidation suffered by our community is an unacceptable situation in a free and democratic society like Quebec," a spokesperson for the Quebec branch of B’nai Brith said.
“There have also been and anti Semitic slurs in educational and workplace settings and web-based hate activity is also on the increase,” the spokesperson added.In March, the Ahavas Yisroel Viznitz synagogue in Outremont was broken into and two swastikas were drawn inside the synagogue. Vandals also threw prayer shawls and holy books onto the floor.
The rabbi of the synagogue met with police following that incident, but the perpetrators have still not been found.Rabbi Mendel Marasow, executive director of Beth Rivkah Academy in Côte des Neiges, told a local paper. “I live in the area and if I compare the situation now to five years ago there is a serious problem.“There is a gang atmosphere, with tough individuals walking the streets. It is uncomfortable and unsafe out there. Is it anti Semitic? Listen, all I can say is that Jews make good targets.”One local Jewish café owner who had a swastika painted on the sidewalk in front of his business said he was worried about the “media attention” being given to anti-Semitic incidents.“The Jewish community in Outremont has been getting a lot of media attention,” he told the Jewish Tribune. “I don’t want to see these incidents get too much publicity because it is only going to stir things up more. I did not even report this. Someone else did."Quebec is the latest region to fall prey to Canada’s growing anti-Semitism, registering the largest rise in incidents in a city over the course of the year - 373 incidents in 2009, compared to 245 in 2008.  The province holds 90,000 Jews - around a quarter of Canada’s Jewish community.In total, 1,264 incidents were reported in Canada throughout 2009, representing a 12% increase over the 1,135 cases in 2008, and a more than five-fold increase in incidents over the past decade. Last year there were 884 cases of harassment, 348 of vandalism and a doubling from 2008 in the incidents of violence to 32.. The anti-Semitic daubing seen in Montreal is nothing new in Canada. Calgary, Toronto, Oshawa, Woodstock, and Barrie have recently seen anti Semitic incidents including swastikas and slogans, such as "Kill Jews" and "six million more," spray-painted on Jewish community property, community centers, Holocaust memorials, Jewish-owned residential property and vehicles.B'nai Brith's audit into anti Semitic incidents identified “anti-Israel agitators” fuelled by opposition to Operation Cast Lead as the trigger for the spike in attacks.“Anti-Israel agitators, far-left-wing groups, and more recently Islamists, have latched onto Nazi motifs and age old anti-Jewish stereotypes, in an attempt to bolster their campaigns against the Jewish State, while the far-right-wing camp has eagerly embraced anti-Israel propaganda to give an updated appearance to its traditional hate material.”According to Frank Dimant, Executive Vice President of B’nai Brith Canada, “Anti Semitism is a serious and ongoing problem here in Canada. We have encountered everything from harassment and vandalism to physical assaults on individuals. "B’nai Birth’s community Anti-Hate Hotline is available 24-hours a day, seven days a week, to provide assistance and consultation but the organization is apprehensive about whether they are investigated as hate crimes. “We hope that the law enforcement officials across the nation investigate these crimes as hate-crimes from the outset – hesitation to designate as a hate crime is simply unacceptable.   We also urge that these crimes are treated seriously, and that proper resources are dedicated to ensure that perpetrators are brought to justice," said Dimant.Although vandalism causes on-going fear in the street, the theme of anti-Israel agitation has reached boiling point, particularly on Campuses.  This came to a head three weeks ago after an alleged machete attack on pro-Israel students. Two Ottawa students, both well-known for their pro-Israel views, were assaulted when they left a local lounge in the early hours of the morning, by a large group of anti-Israel agitators, one of whom was wielding a machete.The Jewish student, who along with his friend was called numerous derogatory and anti Semitic slurs during the assault, was a local organizer of B’nai Brith’s recent Imagine With Us pro-Israel campus initiative – an initiative which was banned by York University, a university which last year saw Jewish Hillel students verbally abused by an anti-Israel group while trying to convene a press conference.Actions like this are leading to calls for a ban on anti-Israel campaigns on campus, such as those witnessed during Israel Apartheid Week.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pro-Israel groups face off with campus 'apartheid week'</title>
<date>Sun Mar 07 18:34:04 IST 2010</date>
<content>
"Do you suffer from ANIS?"
That's ANti-ISrael Fixation Syndrome, according to a caustic poster produced by one pro-Israel group in response to Israel Apartheid Week, a global pro-Palestinian event that began on March 1 and featured events on some 14 university campuses across the United States.
The poster showed a drawing of a human posterior and a list of symptoms, asking readers if they, "Project a bloated sense of victimization?" or "Ignore the persecution of non-Arabs in Arab countries?"
The poster, which has appeared around campus at the University of California, Berkeley and is being made available to other schools, was produced by BlueStarPR, an affiliate member of the Israel on Campus Coalition (ICC). It is one of a variety of disparate responses to Apartheid Week being offered by the member organizations of the ICC, a Hillel-sponsored coordinating body of pro-Israel campus organizations, even as the coalition itself advises against directly engaging Apartheid Week and its supporters.
"Israel Apartheid Week is a tired retread at this point," said Stephen Kuperberg, the ICC's executive director. "Rather than throw a spotlight on the lunatic fringe, we would rather have a coordinated approach to promoting Israel in a positive way."
Apartheid Week, whose name implies a moral equivalence between Israel and apartheid South Africa, supports the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement, which aims to discredit Israel in the international community and has raised serious concern within the Jewish community. The Week, now in its sixth year, takes place around the same time each year and focuses in particular on college campuses. Speakers at campus Apartheid Week events include Israel critics Norman Finkelstein and Noam Chomsky, as well as anti-Israel boycott advocate Omar Barghouti.
A spokesman for one ICC member organization questioned the usefulness of direct efforts to counter Israel Apartheid Week's campaign.
"Putting out 10 reasons why Israel is not an apartheid state when the Israeli defense minister said in the last several weeks that Israel is in danger of becoming an apartheid regime may not be successful," said Noam Shelef, strategic communications director of Americans for Peace Now and its liaison with the ICC. Shelef was referring to a February 2 speech in which Ehud Barak said that Israel "will be an apartheid state" if no peace deal is reached and Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza do not gain citizenship rights in their own state.
"I think we need to have a real discussion about what the policies are that are problematic - that put Israel in danger of becoming an apartheid state," Shelef said.
But StandWithUs, another ICC member, took a different stand, in favor of confronting the Apartheid Week advocates directly and going on the offensive. A booklet it produced to help pro-Israel activists respond to Israel Apartheid Week bore an image on its cover of Neda Soltani, the Iranian woman whose videotaped death at a Tehran election protest last June was seen worldwide. The booklet argues that the term "apartheid" should be applied not to Israel, but rather to Muslim societies in the Middle East, based on what it describes as gender inequality, political repression and discrimination against gay men and non-Muslims in Saudi Arabia and other Arab states.
"Unfortunately, the [Palestinian Authority] still uses many of the apartheid practices described in this booklet on their own people," the booklet states.
"I personally don't think that's helpful at all," said Yahel Matalon, a student at Barnard College and a leader of a J Street-affiliated student group at Columbia University called Just Peace, of the StandWithUs document. Referring to the abuses by Arab states described in the booklet, Matalon said: "Okay, so that's horrible, but that doesn't excuse the treatment of Palestinians in Israel today. If what we're talking about is peace in Israel, it doesn't matter what Saudi Arabia is doing."
StandWithUs CEO Roz Rothstein disagreed, arguing that abuses in Muslim countries are germane because they generally escape notice. "What you've got is Islamist governments in the Middle East that are actually operating in legally sanctioned apartheid, and nobody's talking about it," she said. "Students, if they want to fight for human rights, should be fighting for these issues of the real apartheid today."
One student who distributed the StandWithUs brochure at Columbia University's campus March 1 said that some students objected to the brochure.
"There were some reactions from people that that wasn't the right message to send, but that the right message would be focusing on the vibrant multicultural society that Israel has built," said Jacob Shapiro, a member of the Columbia pro-Israel group LionPAC. Shapiro added that the brochure was one of many that his group handed out.
Like the students who confronted Shapiro, Kuperberg supports efforts that counter Israel Apartheid Week indirectly by portraying Israel in a better light. He praised one such program, dubbed Israel Peace Week, founded this year by graduates of Aish HaTorah?s Hasbara Fellowships and funded by small grants from a number of Zionist groups. The program runs concurrently with Apartheid Week on what organizers claim to be more than 40 campuses in North America and Australia.
Organizers of Israel Peace Week offered prepackaged programs to participating campuses. One is a "cafe poetry night to promote democracy and peace in Israel," according to Anna Richlin, a sophomore at the University of Rochester and a co-founder of Israel Peace Week. Students involved in putting on the night are given a packet of poems to be read during the event. In an e-mail, Richlin explained how one of the poems, titled "From Haifa to Near Faraway Cairo," promoted democracy and peace: "This poem demonstrates how Israel is a peaceful Democratic nation as it demonstrates how the Jew [in the poem] is yearning for the time when she and the Egyptian [in the poem] could be together as friends in peace. This portrays how Israel has [established] a foundation for peace, yet she has no partner for peace."
J Street and its student movement, which is not currently a member of the ICC, published a joint statement condemning Israel Apartheid Week. "Few events better exemplify the counterproductive polarization on campus than 'Israel Apartheid Week,'" the statement read. "J Street and J Street U are committed to an open, honest and civilized debate that allows students to work constructively towards adopting positions and actions that can help resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict."
J Street U offered no new materials or programs to counter Apartheid Week, but it did reiterate an older program titled "Invest, Don't Divest," which is designed to encourage donations to a Palestinian micro-finance group.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African Jewish community prepares for homecoming at World Cup </title>
<date>Fri Jun 04 02:02:16 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
 Hundreds of Israeli soccer fans who are expected to descend upon South Africa for this month's World Cup - including more than a few expats from Israel - will have a chance to see much more than just soccer. The Israeli embassy in Pretoria and the local Jewish community are making extensive preparations to entertain the hordes of Jewish visitors from all over the world on the sidelines of global soccer's most important event, which starts next Friday. 
 The South African Jewish Board of Deputies has created a website that besides information about security, kosher food and religious services, lists a number of places of Jewish interest  (www.jewish2010.com ). Chabad will provide various hospitality services in "welcome centers" in three cities, while Cape Town's Astra community center will host special buffet lunches with a soccer theme on or close to matches played in the city. 
 Visitors interested in "sightseeing with a difference" are invited to contact country communities' "traveling rabbi" Moshe Silberhaft, who helps former South Africans trace their family roots, or to visit a township development program with prominent South African sports journalist Graeme Joffe. 
 Tararam, the South Africa-Israel Culture Fund, will hold a film festival in conjunction with the Israeli embassy featuring eight Israeli movies, an exhibition called "The Story of Israel" and the Israeli play "The Time Keepers" in numerous venues across the country. 
 "You don't have to be a soccer fan to want to go to the World Cup - it's an amazing event and I'm sure South Africa 2010 is going to be a fantastic experience," said Jonathan Pollen, a Johannesburg-born Jerusalemite. The 52-year-old software engineer, who has tickets for nine World Cup games, already has one World Cup under his belt: the 2006 tournament hosted by Germany. "The minute I knew it was going to be in South Africa I planned to go back for the World Cup," he told Anglo File, adding he will lodge in his mother's apartment in Johannesburg. Most Israeli South Africans interviewed for this article said they would stay with family or friends. 
 Besides catering to tourists who visit the country for the first time, the South African Jewish community is making a special effort to welcome home emigres. Many Jewish schools are hosting reunions and other events for their former students. The King David Schools Foundation - the alumni network of King David and Hillel schools - for example, will offer accommodation, day trips and a "mega reunion party" for alumni. 
 "We have asked local former Davidians to open their homes to other Davidians coming home for the World Cup," said Ronel Zeff, the foundation's marketing manager. "We often find that when expat South Africans come home, they want to come see the schools they attended, see how they've changed, show them to their families," he added. The June 10 reunion party in Johannesburg for King David and Hillel alumni, to which the general public is invited, will feature games, food and several performances by Jewish-South African bands. Zeff said he expects some 1,000 people to attend the event. 
 "Most members of the South African Jewish community are ardent soccer fans and I think they will support the local team," said Mel Cohen, who last year moved from Johannesburg to Ra'anana and will attend a quarterfinal in his former hometown. 
 "The only problem is that Bafana Bafana doesn't have a good track record," the 69-year-old added, using the squad's nickname. "We would like to seem them do well, but realistically we know they aren't as good as the other teams."  (South Africa is ranked 90th in the world by FIFA. Israel, which did not qualify, is ranked 26th. ) 
 Josh Levenstein, a 17-year-old from Ra'anana, roots for South Africa - the country he left about two years ago - but thinks Holland will take the trophy. A diehard Arsenal fan, Levenstein will attend nine games in four cities, including the opener and final. "It's not just the World Cup - it's the World Cup in your country," he said. "There's going to be a feeling like there's never been before in South Africa." 
 His father Brian attended the 1966 tournament in England when he was 10, but is staying in Israel this time, his son added. "He said [the 1966 event] was amazing. But it's always different when it's in your own country." 
 Too big a challenge? 
 Howard Tolkien, who commutes between Johannesburg and Modi'in and will attend a quarterfinal, agrees. "There is certainly a tremendous positive vibe, positive energy and patriotic fever in the country at the moment," he said. 
 Despite the enthusiasm, however, concerns remain about South Africa's ability to successfully carry out a World Cup tournament, a logistical challenge on a scale the young democracy has yet to face. "Many ... think South Africa cannot handle this big challenge, that they cannot take care of security and don't have organizing abilities," says Alon Liel, a former Israeli ambassador to Pretoria. Liel, who was in South Africa when the apartheid regime crumbled and Nelson Mandela took power, will attend 10 World Cup matches. "I hope this skepticism is wrong and that the games will be a success," he told Anglo File. "It's much more than another World Cup. It's the ultimate test of South African democracy." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African Jews open their doors to World Cup fans</title>
<date>Wed Apr 21 16:26:54 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
South Africa's Jewish population is gearing up for a once-in-a lifetime opportunity to play host to thousands of Jewish soccer fans from around the world, during this summer's World Cup.
The five week soccer festival, which sees 32 teams compete for the famous golden  trophy this June and July, is seen by Jewish community leaders  as a chance to display its own colours within the spectrum of South Africa's "Rainbow Nation".  
According to Kathy Kaler, the founder and director of Johannesburg -based  Jewish radio station Chai FM, '2010 fever' is already in evidence among the 90,000 Jews in South Africa: 
"It's not uncommon to see a car with three flags proudly displayed; the South African, Israeli and Bafana Bafana (the name of the SA team) driving around the local 'Jewish' areas of Glenhazel in Johannesburg. That's how it is. We are proudly Jewish and we are proudly South African."
She added that Chai FM were "participating in the countdown, covering soccer stories, tickets sales, focusing on transport into and around South Africa as well as providing information about hospitality and security  arrangements."  
The station, which has around 40, 000 listeners as well as more than  100,000  internationally via  its website, hopes to  showcase "the uniqueness and warmth of the South African Jewish community during the world cup, which includes a great commitment to Zionism."
In the 2005 Kaplan Survey into the Jews of South Africa, 53 per cent of respondents had a "strong attachment? to Israel and 33 per cent a "moderate attachment", something which Kaler says is born out by the community?s active support of Israel:
"There is a large attendance at all Israel related functions and the community expresses strong support for Israel.  There is emerging an anti-Israel lobby more recently, that while very vocal is quite small,"  says Kaler.
And any comparisons  between the policies of the Israeli government and Apartheid draw angry responses from the community, many of whom actively opposed Apartheid policies in South Africa.
"This analogy generates outrage and indignation from South African Jews.  All this simplistic analogy accomplishes to do is malign Israel and minimize the realities of Apartheid," she says, before  citing Morris Ostroff, a former anti-Apartheid activist, who stated that this analogy makes a mockery of the true anti-Apartheid struggle.
As well as sharing a warm  rapport with Israelis who are familiar with South African ex-pats in their home country, the South African Jewish community is opening up to Diaspora Jewry, through  the  website Jewish2010.com. According to Wendy Khan,   director of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies,   the website - run under its auspices- "allows us to market Jewish South Africa to international Jewry".
The site offers accommodation in kosher B&B;'s and guesthouses, information about kosher products, restaurants and shops, Jewish tours and Jewish museums. 
One couple in Cape Town are looking to undercut the hotel market and rent out a four-bedroom house with a swimming pool, plus a chauffer for a total of $200 US  a week and dozens more Jewish families are operating through lettings agencies, to try and cash in on the traveler boom, with many tourists struggling to  find suitable hotel accommodation.
According to Khan, based on website clicks , "15 per cent of Jewish tourists will be from Israel", with most of the others from North America, Britain, France, Argentina and Australia.
Rabbi Mendel Polpack of Chabad in Cape Town, said he is receiving three times as many emails as usual concerning their services in that city: ? We are normally popular in  June to August with tourists, but the interest this year is unprecedented. 
"We are already getting around 15 to twenty emails a week  just concerning our services in Cape Town."
Information on the Chabad Cape Town website includes where to get Friday night meals and how to obtain kosher flats. There are also provisions to drop off kosher meals at local hotels including in Sea Point where  Chabad have set up links to over twenty hotels, which will host Jewish travelers from all over the world.
There will also be a Chabad presence at all nine host cities, including offering   help to people in the event of a crisis, which is reassuring for those who venture outside of Johannesburg, which has 60,000 Jews and Cape Town (20,000).
"By calling a number we can send someone to offer help and reassurance," said Rabbi Polpack who has lived in Cape Town for 34 years.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>SPORTS / A greater goal</title>
<date>Mon Dec 20 20:54:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Goals for Galilee: The Triumphs and Traumas of the Sons of Sakhnin, Israel’s Arab Football Club, by Jerrold Kessel and Pierre KlochendlerJR Books, 320 pages, 19 pounds sterling
“What’s the deal with rooting for a sports team?” Jerry Seinfeld asks in one of his monologues. After all, since players regularly change teams, fans are basically “cheering for a shirt.” Moreover, non-fans insist, “it’s only a game,” a parallel universe divorced from the “real” world, so why even care about it at all?
Still, competitive team sports, as just about everyone on the planet knows by now, are a big deal for a whole lot of people. Passionate fans live and die by the fortunes of their favorite clubs. Multinational corporations depend heavily on the endorsements of celebrity athletes, team sponsorships and advertising to create and maintain their brand.
Owner/moguls brandish their teams like trophies. Electronic and print media provide endless amounts of game coverage, analysis and gossip. Politicians seek advantage by supporting particular teams, especially national squads, while governments and societies desire the prestige and recognition conferred by the hosting of reputable international competitions. These, and particularly the quadrennial World Cup football frenzy, often seem to be a substitute for war, as nationalist passions are unleashed, albeit in a ‏(usually‏) controlled fashion.
Embarrassingly, a standard rhythmic chant in Israeli sports arenas is “Mil-kha-ma” ‏(“war”‏).
Indeed, like other large-scale social phenomena, sports offers a window into societies and their political systems, providing much grist for the mill of sociologists, political scientists, novelists and cultural critics of various stripes. They also frequently serve as playing fields for some of a society’s larger conflicts, for good or for ill. Take the Red Star Belgrade football club, whose supporters constituted some of the shock troops for Slobodan Milosevic’s fascist head-bashers and ethnic cleansers, as Franklin Foer described in his eye-opening book “How Soccer Explains the World” (2004‏).
Conversely, the revolutionary racial integration of Major League Baseball in 1947 by Jackie Robinson was a seminal event in African Americans’ long struggle for equality, while the 1995 Rugby World Cup provided Nelson Mandela with the perfect platform to promote his vision of healing and reconciliation in post-apartheid South Africa, a story memorably dramatized in the film “Invictus.”
What does all this have to do with an Arab town in the north of Israel, whose local football team, Ihud Bnei Sakhnin ‏(United Sons of Sakhnin‏), inhabits, in good years, the lower end of the table of Israel’s Premier League? Actually, plenty, as documented in “Goals for Galilee,” Jerrold Kessel and Pierre Klochendler’s empathetic and breezily entertaining account of the team’s triumphs and tribulations.
Veteran independent reporters and filmmakers the authors, both former longtime journalists with CNN ‏(Kessel also writes a weekly sport column for this paper‏), embedded themselves with the team and fans of Bnei Sakhnin for a number of seasons, in order to probe the special passion and commitment generated by the club and, by extension, some of the larger political, social and historical issues and forces shaping Israeli society. Along the way, readers become more familiar with how members of Israel’s Arab minority negotiate the tensions inherent in life on the periphery of both the Jewish state and the Arab world.
Alternative platform
“Goals for Galilee” opens with the night of Bnei Sakhnin’s most glorious moment of recognition − winning the 2004 State Cup final, in the Ramat Gan national stadium before 40,000 people, including Israel’s president, a victory that landed the team a place in the European UEFA Cup tournament, and ignited an ecstatic all-night celebration in Sakhnin, as thousands of neighboring Arabs and Jews streamed in to join the wild celebration. Finally, club spokesman Mundar Haleileh declared at the time, “we’ve earned respect and an alternative platform from which to win over the hearts of our Jewish brothers to score the goal politicians have failed to score − equality.”
But, as the authors rightly ask, can the cardinal issues of identity, discrimination, equality, acceptance and coexistence really find their resolution by way of soccer?Moreover, the morning after ecstasy can often be a rude, headache-filled return to earth. “Nothing, nothing, nothing, that’s what we have here ... only soccer,” declared primary school teacher Wurrod Miari in a breathless monologue, as she shepherded her 8-year-old charges through Sakhnin’s chaotic streets, which lack basic safety features such as traffic lights and pedestrian crossings.
Still, one can’t help think of Theodor Herzl when she adds: “We have to beat the nothing, to beat the impossible .... And if we believe in ourselves, we’ll make lots possible ... a revolution − not only in Sakhnin, but in the whole world.” Clearly, the team’s success served as a metaphor for the teacher and her still-innocent students.
Living on the geographical and societal periphery of the country often generates an inferiority complex. At the same time, it may also create a tough-mindedness, in order to survive as well as to bring about change, both psychological and material. That process is never linear, and it is never-ending. These themes crop up repeatedly as the reader follows the fortunes of Bnei Sakhnin, in the months and years after the big bang of the State Cup triumph.
Poignant vignettes abound throughout the book. The team, a mixture of Arab and Jewish Israelis plus a sprinkling of foreign players, along with club chairman Mazen Ghanaim and the man who was then the team’s take-no-prisoners Jewish manager Eyal Lachman, celebrate an ecumenical, bond-building Rosh Hashanah meal 48 hours before taking on mighty Newcastle in UEFA Cup action, in 2004. Predictably, the hoped-for miracle of victory doesn’t materialize, but the team gives a respectable performance and returns to its main mission − playing well enough to avoid being knocked out of the Premier League.
The next day, Sakhnin the town switched abruptly from celebrating soccer to commemorating the events of October 2000, when 12 Arab Israelis, two of them from Sakhnin, and a Palestinian Arab, were killed during confrontations with Israeli police. Ibrahim Bushnaq, the team’s foreign liaison official and an uncle of one of the two Sakhnin residents who were killed, asked visiting Israeli Jews to recognize the Arabs’ pain, distributing Hebrew-language stickers bearing the motto “Everyone Has a Name” ‏(a central theme of Israel’s annual Holocaust commemorations‏). He derided the term “coexistence,” saying that while a horse and rider coexist perfectly, one is on top and the other is on the bottom. What Bushnaq wants, he declared, is not to be ridden, but to exist together.
If winning the State Cup provided one feel-good moment for those who dream of Jewish-Arab reconciliation, the performance of Bnei Sakhnin’s captain and leader, Abbas Suan, during the Israeli national team’s 2005 campaign for a World Cup berth provided another. Facing certain defeat as the clock wound down against Ireland, Suan provided a miraculous, last-minute goal, making him a national hero and inspiring many Arabs and Jews to think that a new era of Jewish-Arab comity was dawning. Another Arab player, Walid Budeir, then provided a similar equalizing goal for Israel against France, prompting MK Ahmed Tibi to coin the pithy dictum “No Arabs, no goals,” a play on the anti-Arab Kahanist slogan, “No Arabs, no terror attacks.”
But again, the euphoria quickly dissipated, when anti-Arab ultra-nationalist fans of Beitar Jerusalem, Bnei Sakhnin’s bitter rival, unfolded a banner at the two teams’ next encounter proclaiming, “Abbas Suan: You don’t represent us.”
Still, the balm for bitterness, for promoting hope, remains the emerald-green pitch of a soccer stadium. The problem was that, in 2004, Sakhnin didn’t have one that met the standards of Premier League and international competition. We thus follow an ongoing saga, which sometimes has a theater-of-the-absurd feel to it: Can a diehard Sakhnin supporter named Abdullah Ghanaim demolish the concrete tribunes surrounding the old field all by himself, with his single jackhammer, in time to make way for a new stadium that might never actually get built? Will Ariel Sharon, who was prime minister at the time, come through with the funds he has promised? We are present for the joyous Id hadeshe ‏(“Lawn Day”‏), when the first clumps of new turf are laid. We can almost taste the birthday cakes for Sakhnin children, made in the shape of a soccer field, baked daily by Hamzeh Bros. Ultimately, in the summer of 2005, the emir of Qatar provided enough money to complete what henceforth would be called Doha Stadium, although we never learn precisely how this came about.
Unlike most conventional sports stories, this one, appropriately, doesn’t conclude on a ringing note of victory. Bnei Sakhnin has continued to struggle to maintain its place in the Premier League, falling out and then climbing back in. As the new season starts, it is ensconced at the bottom of the standings, facing another long battle to survive. Meanwhile, there have been new manifestations of anti-Arab racism in the soccer stands, this time emanating from the fans of Maccabi Tel Aviv. Soccer, particularly in Sakhnin, is more than just a game, and will undoubtedly continue to intersect with the larger issues surrounding Jewish-Arab relations and the Arab-Israeli conflict.The authors’ ultimate hope is that one day their children, together with the children of Sakhnin, will be able to celebrate “the real Sakhnin goal − a draw between majority and minority.” To that, one can only say, “Amen.”
Bruce Maddy-Weitzman is the Marcia Israel Senior Research Fellow at the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies, Tel Aviv University. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Tensions over Israel high on Canada campuses</title>
<date>Thu Apr 15 08:24:36 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Anti-Israel agitation has come to light in Canada following  an alleged machete attack on pro-Israel students in Ottawa last week.  
The students, both well-known for their pro-Israel views, were reportedly assaulted after leaving local lounge in the early hours of the morning on April 5. The alleged assaulters included a large group of anti-Israel agitators, one of whom was wielding a machete.
One of the alleged victims, who said he and his friend were subject to derogatory and anti-Semitic slurs during the assault, was a local organizer of B'nai Brith's recent Imagine With Us pro-Israel campus initiative - a movement already banned by York University in Toronto.
Last year, students from York's Hillel were verbally abused by an anti-Israel group while trying to convene a press conference.
Actions like these have lead to calls to ban anti-Israel campaigns on campus, such as those witnessed during the recent Israel Apartheid Week. 
Last year , the LSE student union in London succesfully passed a student law in which  rhetoric comparing the actions of the State of Israel with those of Nazi Germany was declared a contravention of the EU definition of anti-Semitism; explicit tensions at LSE have since been alleviated.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The New Israel Fund for Deepening the Jewish-Arab Rift</title>
<date>Thu Feb 11 02:52:26 IST 2010</date>
<content>
The Im Tirtzu organization accuses the New Israel Fund of financing Israeli organizations which Judge Richard Goldstone used for information to accuse the Israel Defense Forces of "war crimes." 
The fund's response, as is the wont of radical leftist organizations under fire, was to smear its critics  as  "fascists".Granted, the NIF's president, Naomi Chazan, signed a petition that defined the IDF's operations in Gaza as "terror against civilians" and demanded that Israel abide by "all UN resolutions relating to the conflict" (including 194, which Palestinians interpret as granting them a "right of return"). Nevertheless, the personal campaign against her is a mistake.  
The NIF's many supporters in the media and among political organizations (which benefit from the fund, both directly and indirectly) have used this personal campaign to divert the debate from the fund's subversive goal (a "new Israel," not Jewish or Zionist), which it has furthered by donating more than $200 million thus far to hundreds of anti-Zionist organizations (I have a list, if anyone is interested).  
Adalah - The Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel - has used its NIF funding to submit dozens of petitions to the High Court of Justice that seek to reduce and even abolish Israel's identity as a Jewish state.  
"Israel must recognize the [Palestinian] refugees' right of return, on the basis of UN Resolution 194," declares the introduction to a proposed constitution that Adalah authored. And this proposal would also abolish the Law of Return for Jews.  
The NIF also finances Jewish-led groups that seek to undermine Israel's Jewish identity, such as the Association for Civil Rights in Israel.  
"The proposal to define Israel as a Jewish state," ACRI declared (in response to a draft constitution prepared by the Israel Democracy Institute, not, heaven forbid, the one presented by the Institute for Zionist Strategies), "is problematic both in principle and in practice."  
Mada al Carmel, another group funded by the NIF, authored the "Haifa Declaration." Here are a few gems from that document: "Towards the end of the 19th century, the Zionist movement initiated its colonial-settler project in Palestine. Subsequently, in concert with world imperialism ... it succeeded in carrying out its project, which aimed at occupying our homeland ... The Zionist movement committed massacres against our people ... the State of Israel enacted racist land, immigration, and citizenship laws [a reference to the Law of Return] ... Israel carried out policies of subjugation and oppression in excess of those of the apartheid regime in South Africa."  
The document subsequently demands the repeal of the Law of Return and of Israel's definition as a Jewish state.  
The Haifa Declaration, and other similar "vision documents," were signed by prominent members of Israel's Arab community, including the leaders of dozens of other organizations that are also funded by the NIF.  
Similar statements, for instance, appear in the "Future Vision" produced by the Higher Arab Monitoring Committee, another NIF grantee.  
Thus in funding organizations that work to deepen the rift between Jews and Arabs in Israel, the NIF has racked up noteworthy successes. Astonishingly, however, these successes are not proudly displayed to the fund's philanthropists.  
These donors, most of them Jews who support Israel as a Jewish and democratic state, are asked to contribute to the fund's praiseworthy - but as it turns out, not primary - activities: improving welfare, education and human rights in Israel.  
Many NIF donors do not know that their money is being used to fund dozens of organizations committed to inflaming the Arab street, intensifying its nationalist tendencies and deepening the rift between Jews and Arabs.  
These philanthropists would almost certainly object to their money being used to undermine Israel's Jewish identity and to lay a theoretical, legal and political framework for establishing another Arab state, on top of the proposed Palestinian state, in place of the State of Israel.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K. Jewish leader's rebuke of Netanyahu sparks ire of British Zionists</title>
<date>Wed Nov 24 16:40:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
A top leader in the British Jewish community stirred a wave of strong reactions this week among the U.K. Jewish community, after publically criticizing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for the waning peace talks and insisting that the Anglo-Zionists begin to voice their opinions on the matter.
Mick Davis, chairman of the UJIA and executive of the Jewish Leadership Council, warned in front of more than 160 people at the London Jewish Cultural Center that Israel could become an apartheid stateunless there was a two-state solution with the Palestinians, "because we then have the majority going to be governed by the minority".
Davis said Netanyahu lacked the courage and the strategy to take the steps to lead to peace in the Middle East.
For years the Jewish community not in Israel has avoided expressing moral reservations regarding the Israeli government's decisions and policies.
Davis said that the British leaders felt they could not voice their opinions for fear of their ideas being used by Israel's enemies.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Want to delegitimize Israel? Be careful who you mess with</title>
<date>Tue Apr 13 18:53:22 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Delegitimization - it's the new buzzword in the world of pro-Israel activism.
The term, used to describe a broad spectrum of anti-Israel protests, has become a major rallying point for the American Jewish community and is the up-and-coming cause for Jewish organizations.
In particular, supporters of this emerging advocacy effort point to the campaign to boycott, divest from and sanction - BDS - Israel as a primary marker distinguishing "delegitimizers" from genuine critics. It's a campaign that has gained traction on the left in recent years. And in the past few months, pro-Israel advocates have begun to mobilize against what they perceive to be efforts to delegitimize Israel as a Jewish state, whether via BDS or other means.
"The delegitimization and BDS movement is nationally coordinated, and it requires a national response," said William Daroff, the Jewish Federations of North America's vice president for public policy. "We need to move forward as a community to counter this cancerous growth."
But while supporters of Israel see the fight against delegitimization of the Jewish state as a new frontier in the pro-Israel battle, critics believe that the term is used mostly to discredit opposition to Israeli policies.
"To be frank, the 'de-legitimization' issue is a fraud," historian Tony Judt, director of New York University's Remarque Institute, wrote in an e-mail to the Forward. Judt, a harsh critic of Israel, said: "I know no one in the professional world of political commentary, however angry about Israel's behavior, who thinks that the country has no right to exist... 'De-legitimization' is just another way to invoke antisemitism as a silencer, but sounds better because [it's] less exploitative of emotional pain.?
Judt has written that he believes Israel's settlement policies have made a binational one-state outcome to the Israel-Palestinian conflict all but inevitable - a stand that has led Israel advocates to label Judt himself a delegitimizer.
In the past year, JFNA and the Jewish Council for Public Affairs adopted resolutions calling for communitywide action against delegitimization. And the American Israel Public Affairs Committee?s executive director, Howard Kohr, outlined a plan to fight Israel's delegitimization by demanding the state?s admission into international bodies, such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
A March 10 meeting in New York marked the most significant attempt yet to formulate a communitywide response to this perception of delegitimization. Israeli officials and participants from major Jewish organizations and federations discussed the possibility of creating and funding a mechanism to track and respond to what they see as delegitimization efforts.
As a first order of business, participants raised the need to educate the Jewish community about the issue.
"Members of our community need to be knowledgeable and need to be able to answer to these allegations," said Martin Raffel, JCPA's senior vice president. "There is no one-size-fits-all solution. We will have to have tailored responses for each constituency."
But seeking a response to delegitimization requires a clear definition of the problem. An in-depth study released in March by the Reut Institute, a Tel Aviv-based think tank, identifies delegitimization as an organized movement and goes to great lengths to define the elusive term in a way that draws a line between what authors of the 92-page report see as legitimate criticism of Israel and forms of protest that fall under the delegitimization category.
"We are asking people to go into the nuances. We need to keep in mind that not everyone is an Israel hater, but not everything is Israel's fault," said Gidi Grinstein, Reut's founder and president.
The think tank's paper defines delegitimization as criticism that "exhibits blatant double standards, singles out Israel, denies its right to exist as the embodiment of the self-determination right of the Jewish people, or demonizes the state."
But, as Grinstein pointed out, identifying Israel's delegitimizers can be tricky, since most do not see themselves as denying Israel?s right to exist.
"The effectiveness of Israel's de-legitimizers, who represent a relatively marginal political and societal force in Europe and North America, stems from their ability to engage and mobilize others by blurring the lines with Israel?s critics," the Reut paper states.
Would the students who disrupted the February 9 speech of Israeli ambassador Michael Oren at University of California, Irvine be delegitimizers? For most activists in the Jewish community, the answer is clear.
"They definitely are," said Michael Kotzin, executive vice president of Chicago's Jewish federation. "Instead of asking [Oren] about Israel?s policy, they are denying him the right to speak."
Kotzin said that many of those pursuing the delegitimization agenda are naive and are exploited by activists who deny Israel's right to exist.
According to Israel supporters dealing with the issue, the key is focusing not on the protesters' actions but on their intentions, even if they do not acknowledge these intentions publicly.
"You need to dig under the surface and see what drives them," Grinstein said. "Most of the students who protested Oren's speech don't understand the subtleties and believe they are not engaged in delegitimization, but those organizing them are."
Nancy Kricorian of CODEPINK, a women's anti-war group, might be seen as such an organizer. Kricorian coordinates CODEPINK?s boycott campaign against Ahava cosmetic products because the products are manufactured on a Jewish settlement in the occupied West Bank. But she rejected the thought that she was seeking to delegitimize the state. "This is only a way of changing the subject," said Kricorian. "All we want is [for] Israel to respect human rights and international law. I don't see how that delegitimizes Israel."
At the same time, the broad-based coalition of Palestinian civil society groups that launched the BDS movement in 2005 declares that one of its goals is to promote the right of Palestinian refugees to return to the homes they lost - sometimes through mass expulsion - during Israel's 1948 War of Independence. A 1948 United Nations Security Council Resolution endorsed this right, but Israel rejects it on the grounds that the flood of returnees would spell the end of Israel as a Jewish state.
Reut and advocates for Israel argue that singling out Israel and demanding that it adhere to higher human rights standards than its adversaries is another form of delegitimization.
Yet, a higher standard for Israel is something that Judt, for one, unapologetically upholds. "People will say, 'Why are we picking on Israel? What about Libya, Yemen? Burma? China?'" he writes in the March 25 issue of the London Review of Books. "Fine. [But] Israel describes itself as a democracy, and so it should be compared with democracies, not with dictatorships."
As a country in "a difficult relationship" with its neighbors, Israel should be allowed a "certain margin of behavior," Judt acknowledged in his email. But Israel's relative strength compared to other regional nations gives it "even less excuse for criminality, law-breaking or violence than they do," he said.
Amos Guiora, a law professor and former Israeli army senior military counsel, objected that Israel is judged by double standards even when compared with other Western democracies. Guiora, noted that attacks by German and American forces in Afghanistan that caused heavy civilian deaths received less censure from the international community.
"By what standard does Israel want to be judged?" Guiora asked. His reply was, "By a standard in which you judge countries that are in a very, very special situation."
Those seeking to distinguish legitimate criticism of Israel from delegitimization cite another criterion: the labeling of Israeli policies as "apartheid."
Yet, in recent years mainstream Israeli leaders have used the word to describe the danger the country faces if it does not resolve its conflict with Palestinians.
Recently, Ehud Barak, Israel's defense minister and Labor Party leader, said bluntly, "If millions of Palestinians cannot vote, that will be an apartheid state."
Grinstein warned that fighting delegitimization must not devolve into hasbara, or public relations. The struggle, he said, is both about confronting those who question Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state and making sure Israel pursues a path of seeking peace and an end to the occupation.
The Reut document states, "Clearly, an Israeli and Palestinian comprehensive Permanent Status Agreement that establishes a Palestinian state and brings about an 'end of conflict'... would weaken the grounds of Israel's de-legitimization."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why must Israel studies be laden with politics?</title>
<date>Mon May 17 19:49:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
TORONTO — Is it inevitable and altogether obvious that a scholarly conference devoted to Israel studies should be laden with politics? Academia, in its most classical Platonic ideal, confines itself to description and analysis, not to the prescriptive and hypothetical. And yet here, in Toronto, where the annual gathering of the Association for Israel Studies is taking place, politics intrudes at every moment. The language might be more lofty — “empirical” or “normalized” — but the debates at their core are that same old slugfest of left versus right.
There are roughly 300 professors and graduate students gathered at Toronto University, a sprawling Oxfordian campus of ivy-covered towers, tree-sheltered esplanades and grassy quads.
It’s the association’s 26th annual meeting, and there is an impressive collection of scholars, mostly American and Israeli. You can tell the difference between the two, because the Israelis are more casually dressed and can more often be found outside, smoking cigarettes. Both groups can be seen fiddling with their cell phones, but the Americans’ look more advanced.
Yet the stars of the conference are not academics. At the end of the first day, at the gala dinner at which Princeton University political philosopher and public intellectual Michael Walzer was to speak, I found myself standing a few feet away from the two figures who are, if anyone is, the celebrities of this event: Gerald Steinberg, the fierce critic of Israeli human rights and civil rights groups, and Naomi Chazan, president of the liberal New Israel Fund, one of Steinberg’s primary targets.
Yes, both can put “professor” in front of their names. Steinberg is at Bar-Ilan University, and Chazan wrote and taught about African politics. But their standing here has to do with their roles as political actors and, recently, antagonists.
As disheveled-looking professors and eager graduate students milled about and sipped red wine outside the gala dinner, Chazan paced, nervously chain-smoking through a plastic filter. A few feet away stood Steinberg, a tall, mustachioed man who bears an uncanny resemblance to Thomas Friedman, the New York Times columnist (and, according to his detractors, a deceptively congenial personality). Each scholar was surrounded by a group listening to them expound on the most discussed session of the day: “Human Rights, the Politics of Advocacy and Israel’s Security.”
Steinberg had used the session to justify his work as president of NGO Monitor — an organization devoted to exposing what he sees as the nefarious influence of nongovernmental organizations supposedly concerned with upholding international law and human rights. In addition to Steinberg’s criticisms of her, Chazan has been the target of ugly ad hominem attacks in Israel by a group that believes she has somehow contributed to the creation of the Goldstone Report. Ads depicted her with a horn coming out of her head.
The session, in one of the university’s lecture halls, was packed. Steinberg smiled and kept referring magnanimously to “my friend Naomi,” who sat in the back of the room. But he also described NGOs as “superpowers” with dubious sources of funding and base ulterior motives guilty of a “cynical exploitation” of human rights. He didn’t go unchallenged. Another member of the panel, Gad Barzilai, a professor at University of Washington, asked Steinberg why he wasn’t equally disparaging of right-wing NGOs. 
“You don’t like the NGOs on the left, and to that I say, so what?” Barzilai said, to which the 100 or so observers let out an almost audible sigh. From the other presentations I had observed that day, it was clear that most of the audience probably agreed with Barzilai’s attack. Someone else in the audience reminded Steinberg that the Zionist movement had started off as an NGO, to which he also didn’t have a good response.
Another person asked if Steinberg planned on scrutinizing the millions of dollars that flow into Israel from unknown charities in support of the settler movement. 
Chazan didn’t say anything. She sat quietly in the audience with her arms folded. Once the session was over, she rushed out to smoke a cigarette. In the evening, she told me that Janice Gross Stein, a University of Toronto professor who sat on the panel, had defended her position well. She argued that the “international law,” frequently attacked by Steinberg, could not be seen as a monolithic set of well-defined rules. The field is fluid enough that it demanded a more nuanced critique than the often bombastic one launched by Steinberg and those who would defend Israel against Goldstone and others.
Chazan had the last word on this. In a plenary session on the conference’s second night, she gave a rousing defense of Israel’s democratic values, which she described as being under real and serious attack. “We are in the grips of a growing paranoia that does not distinguish between real existential threats and imagined threats,” she said, to the loudest applause of the evening.
And not just applause. During the question-and-answer period, Yoram Perri, director of the University of Maryland’s Institute for Israel Studies, stood up and, full of emotion, accused his colleagues of not doing enough to back Chazan.
“We should be praising her for the life-threatening work she does everyday,” Peri exclaimed. “If no one is standing behind you, I will. I am Naomi Chazan!”
But it wasn’t just in discussions of international law that politics intruded. On the conference’s opening day, my first session, called “State-Minority Relations,” moderated by longtime Haaretz journalist Zvi Bar’el, consisted of three professors, each painting a dire picture of the situation of Israeli Arabs and offering their ideas about how it might or might not be improved.
The most dramatic and depressing presentation was Amal Jamal’s. A professor at Tel Aviv University, he is one of only two scholars of Palestinian origin at the conference. He said there was no mystery why more Arabs weren’t in attendance. He had received angry e-mails from many friends, imploring him not to stand behind a podium that said “Israel Studies.” He called the conference a piece of Israel’s “public diplomacy.” But he was there, and he took the opportunity to paint the various options for Israel’s Arab population if nothing changes: As he put it, “apartheid, expulsion or genocide.”
“A professor friend, a Zionist, recently told me that ‘what’s going on in Israel now reminds me of Germany in the 1920s,’” Jamal said. It was a line I was sure would get the room riled up, but nobody raised an eyebrow. Only Steinberg, sitting behind me and fiddling with his computer in a desperate attempt to get Wi-Fi, later whispered in my ear: “See, they all agree with each other. There is no other viewpoint on that panel.” 
A talk by Michael Walzer came at the end of the first evening, at the gala dinner held in the cavernous Hart House building. Amid an interior of carved wood beams and walls covered in medieval coats of arms and paintings of past university presidents, Walzer issued an eloquent call for Jewish ethical engagement with the challenges of having a state. Unlike the day’s proceedings, Walzer’s talk did stay away from any political reference more recent than that of David Ben-Gurion: “We never had to deal with questions of what is just or unjust in war, until 1948.” This, it should be said, has been Walzer’s main theme for the past three decades. In some ways, it was an extended plug for the continued relevance of his 1977 seminal book, “Just and Unjust Wars.” But even if he was phoning it in, there was a level of erudition, of being elevated a few inches above the fray, that was refreshing after a day that seemed only slightly different from observing a series of smart people standing on soap boxes.
His opening words were his only concession to the particular mood of the moment. He offered a disclaimer of sorts. His talk was going to be full of “anxiety and self-criticism.” But this, he said, was very much a “Jewish tradition.” I’d say.
Contact Gal Beckerman at beckerman@forward.com  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why should Israel care what the rest of the world thinks?</title>
<date>Tue Feb 16 11:02:58 IST 2010</date>
<content>
"First, let me tell you one thing: It's not important what the world says about Israel. It's not important what they say about us anywhere else. The only thing that's important is that we can live here on the land of our ancestors. And if we don't show the Arabs that they have to pay a high price for killing Jews, we won't continue living."
These words, spoken to a young Ariel Sharon by David Ben-Gurion, exemplify the realist strand that dominated and still dominates the thinking and discourse of many Israelis.  However, these days, in the wake of the Goldstone report and international efforts to delegitimize Israel, it has become increasingly apparent that in order to "live here on the land of our ancestors" Israel must also pay heed to the opinion of the international community.
Netanyahu articulated Israel's new realism in a December speech to the Knesset where he outlined the major challenges that Israel faces today: "The nuclear threat, the missile threat and what I call the Goldstone threat." Regarding the latter, the prime minister said, "Goldstone has become code for a much broader phenomenon: the attempt to negate the legitimacy of our right to self-defense." 
Ignoring for a moment Netanyahu's conflation of the Goldstone report with general efforts to delegitimize Israel, there is no doubt that the growing practice of questioning or denying Israel's right to exist is a concern the government must address head-on. I can attest from personal experience as an Israeli living and studying abroad that the content of discourse in the United States (especially in academia) has become worrisome. Never in my life have I had to defend the right of Israel to exist as the nation-state of the Jewish people as much I have done in the last year. 
Like it or not, Israel has become (or is quickly becoming) a pariah state. The new apartheid South Africa. Certainly some of this image is deserved, but an equal amount is a consequence of selective information, ignorance and/or hatred. More and more people have internalized the model of Israel as demonized nation. This means that every action by the state (or those identified with the state) is interpreted in a matter that is congruent with that model - in other words, in the worst possible way.
Of course diagnosing and treating the problem are two separate operations. The question that now needs to be posed is: How should Israel respond? How can we prevent Zionism from officially becoming a dirty word?  One popular opinion is to do a better job at Hasbarah - making our case to the world.  If we could only churn up an army of Alan Dershowitzes, the argument goes, things will improve.  Another version of this response is to rebrand Israel's image by focusing on the country?s positive qualities.    
While these approaches are important, alone they are wholly insufficient.  I am reminded of a story about a police officer who sees a man down on all four looking for something on the street.  When the officer asks the man if he lost something, the man replies, "Yes, my keys."  "You lost them here?" asks the officer.  "No," replies the man, with slurred speech, "I lost them in the alley, but the light is much better here."   
If we really want to take the problem of delegitimization seriously, we need to do more than just change the way we talk about Israel. We need to venture into the dark alley where we originally lost our way. Otherwise, we are no different, and will have no better luck, than the drunken man in the story.  
According to organizational psychologists, when there is a significant gap between what people expect and what they actually get, two types of learning can take place: single-loop and double-loop learning. Single-loop learning refers to efforts to reduce this gap by modifying the strategy originally employed - improving Hasbarah skills, for example.  Double-loop learning, on the other hand, requires us to question the assumption, values and actions that brought us to this problem in the first place.  
There are no shortcuts here. Double-loop learning means we need to radically transform our relationship with the Palestinians. This is not to say Israel deserves to be delegitimized, but when it chooses an overall course of action - yes, the occupation, blockade and settlements are choices - it significantly contributes to the problem. Of course peace also depends on the Palestinians undergoing some double-loop learning of their own.  
While it is probably true that certain anti-Israel groups will continue seeking to delegitimize Israel even in a post-two-state solution world, the key point is that their power to attract support will be significantly weakened.  And without the support of major international organizations, media outlets, academics or laypeople in the public sphere, these groups will be relegated to the dustbin of history where they legitimately belong.  
Roi Ben-Yehuda is an Israeli writer based in the United States. He is a regular contributor to Haaretz and a doctoral student at the Institute of Conflict Analysis and Resolution at George Mason University. Roi?s blog, RoiWord, can be read here (insert link: http://roiword.wordpress.com)

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Abbas: Our wounded hands still capable of holding olive branch</title>
<date>Sat Sep 25 19:19:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
In an address before the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas waged harsh criticism against Israel, adding that the Palestinians were still determined to make recently relaunched peace talks with Israel a success.
"Despite the historic injustice that has been inflicted upon our people, their desire to achieve a just peace which guarantees the achievement of their national rights in freedom and independence has not and will not diminish, and our wounded hands are still able to carry the olive branch from the rubble of the trees that the occupation uproots every day," Abbas told the UN.
Declaring that Israeli mentality was controlled by expansionism and domination, Abbas said that Israel must choose between its settlement policy and peace, one day before the expiration of a temporary freeze on Israeli settlement construction.
Abbas, and other Palestinian negotiators have threatened to walk out on peace talks if Israel resumes construction in the West Bank settlements.
Abbas' long list of grievances against Israel, termed the "abuse of the occupation", included the "unjust blockade" on the Gaza Strip, the "flouting" of international law, UN resolutions and basic human rights, the demolition of homes, the destruction and usurpation of property, and the detention of "thousands of Palestinian freedom fighters" in Israeli jails.
"The occupying power continues to occupy our land and has made non-compliance with resolutions of international legitimacy including UN General Assembly and Security Council resolutions its prevailing policy. Such disrespect has rendered ineffective those resolutions, denigrating the credibility of the United Nations and deepening the predominant view that there is a policy of double standards, especially with regard to the cause of the Palestinian people and that Israel is a state above the law," the Palestinian president said.
"Israel has been flouting all these resolutions and relentlessly carrying out oppression, arrests and detentions, killings, destruction, demolition of homes, siege, settlement expansion, apartheid wall, violating and undermining the rights of our people and presence in their homeland without consequence," he added.
He went on to accuse Israel of destroying 25 percent of the homes in Gaza and eliminating the livelihood of 75 percent of the Strip's inhabitants, causing widespread unemployment and dependence on foreign aid. "This blockade against the Gaza Strip must be lifted completely and fully and the tragedy and suffering of our people there must be ended."
"We are willing and ready to reach a comprehensive, just and lasting peace settlement, which would lead to the withdrawal of Israel, the occupying power, from all the Arab and Palestinian territories occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem as their capital, to enjoy the independence and sovereignty and for peace to prevail in the Middle East as a whole," Abbas said.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>After denied entry to West Bank, Chomsky likens Israel to 'Stalinist regime'</title>
<date>Mon May 17 02:52:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
The Interior Ministry refused to let linguist Noam Chomsky into Israel and the West Bank on Sunday. Chomsky, who aligns himself with the radical left, had been scheduled to lecture at Bir Zeit University near Ramallah, and visit Bil'in and Hebron, as well as meet with Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and various Palestinian activists.
In a telephone conversation last night from Amman, Chomsky told Haaretz that he concluded from the questions of the Israeli official that the fact that he came to lecture at a Palestinian and not an Israeli university led to the decision to deny him entry.
"I find it hard to think of a similar case, in which entry to a person is denied because he is not lecturing in Tel Aviv. Perhaps only in Stalinist regimes," Chomsky told Haaretz.
Sabine Haddad, a spokesperson for the Interior Ministry, confirmed to Haaretz that the officials at the border were from the ministry.
"Because he entered the Palestinian Authority territory only, his entry is the responsibility of the Office of the Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories at the Defense Ministry. There was a misunderstanding on our side, and the matter was not brought to the attention of the COGAT."
Haddad told Haaretz that "the minute the COGAT says that they do not object, Chomsky's entry would have been permitted."
Chomsky, a Jewish professor of linguistics and philosophy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, had spent several months at Kibbutz Hazore'a during the 1950s and had considered a longer stay in Israel. He had been invited by the Department of Philosophy at Bir Zeit.
He planned to spend four days in the West Bank and give two lectures.
On Sunday, at about 1:30 P.M. he came to the Israeli side of the border with Jordan. After three hours of questioning, during which the border officer repeatedly called the Interior Ministry for instructions, Chomsky's passport was stamped with "Denied Entry."
With Chomsky, 81, were his daughter Aviva, and a couple of old friends of his and his late wife.
Entry was also denied to his daughter.
Their friends, one of whom is a Palestinian who grew up in Beirut, were allowed in, but they opted to return with Chomsky to Amman.
Chomsky told Haaretz that it was clear that his arrival had been known to the authorities, because the minute he entered the passport control room the official told him that he was honored to see him and that he had read his works.
The professor concluded that the officer was a student, and said he looked embarrassed at the task at hand, especially when he began reading from text the questions that had been dictated to him, and which were also told to him later by telephone.
Chomsky told Haaretz about the questions.
"The official asked me why I was lecturing only at Bir Zeit and not an Israeli  university," Chomsky recalled. "I told him that I have lectured a great deal in Israel. The official read the following statement: 'Israel does not like what you say.'"
Chomsky replied: "Find one government in the world which does."
"The young man asked me whether I had ever been denied entry into other countries. I told him that once, to Czechoslovakia, after the Soviet invasion in 1968," he said, adding that he had gone to visit ousted Czechoslovak leader Alexander Dubcek, whose reforms the Soviets crushed.
In response to the official's question, Chomsky said that the subjects of his lectures were "America and the world," and "America at home."
The official asked him whether he would speak on Israel and Chomsky said that because he would talk of U.S. policy he would also comment on Israel and its policies.
He was then told by the official: "You have spoken with [Hassan] Nasrallah."
"True," Chomsky told him. "When I was in Lebanon [prior to the war in 2006] I spoke with people from the entire political spectrum there, as in Israel I also spoke with people on the right."
"At the time I read reports of my visit in the Israeli press, and the articles in the Israeli press had no connection with reality," Chomsky told the border official.
The official asked Chomsky why he did not have an Israeli passport.
"I replied I am an American citizen," Chomsky said.
Chomsky said that he asked the man at border control for an official written explanation for the reason his entry was denied and that "it would help the Interior Ministry because this way my version will not be the only one given to the media."
The official called the ministry and then told Chomsky that he would be able to find the official statement at the U.S. Embassy.
The last time Chomsky visited Israel and the West Bank was in 1997, when he lectured on both sides of the Green Line. He had also planned a visit to the Gaza strip, but because the Palestinian Authority insisted that he be escorted by Palestinian guards, he canceled that part of the visit.
To Haaretz, Chomsky said Sunday that preventing him entry is tantamount to boycotting Bir Zeit University. Chomsky is known to oppose a general boycott on Israel. "I was against a boycott of apartheid South Africa as well. If we are going to boycott, why not the United States, whose record is even worse? I'm in favor of boycotting American companies which collaborate with the occupation," he said. "But if we are to boycott Tel Aviv University, why not MIT?"
Chomsky told Haaretz that he supports a two-state solution, but not the solution proposed by Jerusalem, "pieces of land that will be called a state."
He said that Israel's behavior today reminds him of that of South Africa in the 1960s, when it realized that it was already considered a pariah, but thought that it would resolve the problem with better public relations.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Annul order allowing expulsions of Arabs, groups urge Barak </title>
<date>Mon Apr 12 02:08:08 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Ten Israeli human rights organizations sent a letter to Defense Minister Ehud Barak yesterday, asking him to rescind two military orders permitting the immediate expulsion from the West Bank of thousands of Palestinians and others defined as "infiltrators" from the West Bank.  
The orders are supposed to take effect on Wednesday.  
The organizations, including the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, Rabbis for Human Rights and Adalah - the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel, called the orders illegal, and said they permit arbitrary, extreme harm to a huge number of people.  
As Haaretz reported yesterday, six months ago then-Israel Defense Forces West Bank commander Gadi Shamni signed one order designed to prevent infiltration, and another regarding security directives.  
The letter to Barak states that under the orders, "any Palestinian in the West Bank is at risk of facing criminal charges as well as expulsion, and could be be expelled without [recourse] to appeal or oversight, as required by law."  
It notes that in March, the Moked Center for the Defense of the Individual sent a letter to GOC Central Commander Maj. Gen. Avi Mizrahi, stating the orders had grave implications. That letter did not receive a response.  
The organizations sent copies of yesterday's letter to Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein and to military justice officials as well.  
Publication of the matter has aroused major concern among those whom the orders would affect: People with Gaza addresses who live in the West Bank, and foreigners with family in the West Bank whom Israel has not allowed to obtain residency through family unification. As a result of the media interest, the IDF spokesman issued a clarification stating: "The law in Judea and Samaria [the West Bank] permitted the expulsion of illegal residents in the past, too. The aim of the amendment to the order on infiltration is to enable a judicial review process for the expulsion proceedings ... by a committee headed by a judge, and therefore to provide additional oversight."  
Lawyers Elad Kahana and Ido Blum of the Moked Center said the IDF response fails to address the primary order regarding infiltrators, which does address judicial oversight at all. They told Haaretz that the change now permits almost anyone in the West Bank to be defined as an illegal infiltrator and be subject to expulsion. They say the other order actually thwarts judicial oversight, because it allows for expulsion within three days or less, while judicial oversight would apply only after eight days.  
Urgent meetings were convened in Ramallah yesterday, and social activists and people at risk from the orders are planning an urgent meeting today, to demand that the Palestinian Authority and the diplomatic community take action.  
The international media also has taken great interest in the story.  
The head of the Palestine Liberation Organization's negotiating team, Saeb Erekat, issued an official statement of condemnation, saying the military orders come from an apartheid state and turn Palestinians into criminals in their own homes, directly harming the Palestinians' ability to manage their internal affairs.  
Officials in Ramallah said they will report on the matter to Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, who will be in Germany today on his way a Madrid conference of donor countries. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Anti-Israel group could cost Toronto Gay Pride parade its funding</title>
<date>Thu Apr 22 18:19:33 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
The City of Toronto this month threatened to cut funding for its main gay pride event, following complaints by Canadian and Israeli gay rights activists who documented what they call acrimonious anti-Israel propaganda at the event.
Jewish gay rights activists from Toronto and Tel Aviv lauded the move, but the Toronto Jewish community's main body noted the city is yet to take any concrete action. Others, including prominent Canadian gays and pro-Palestinian campaigners, condemned the move as interference with free speech. 
The municipality's general manager of culture, Mike Williams, told the Toronto Star this week that the city has received complaints following the use of the phrase "Israeli apartheid" at Pride Toronto. T-shirt slogans equating Israel to Nazi Germany were also reported, with some complaints coming from Israel.
He added the complaints pertained to the group Queers Against Israeli Apartheid - or QuAIA - which may have violated the city's anti-discrimination policy in previous parades, and may do so again if allowed to participate this summer. This, he said, would have "very serious" repercussions for organizers. 
"We have the right to disqualify [parade organizers] from future grants, so we certainly would look at that," he warned. In 2009, the city funded Pride Toronto to the tune of $175,000. Funding for 2010 has already been pledged, but the city may halt it in 2011.
Elle Flanders, the spokesperson for Queers Against Israeli Apartheid, commented that the T-shirts in question were not anti-Israel but rather anti-racist. ?There were no Nazi symbols?there were T-shirts that were worn by anti-racist activists with a NO to fascism sign (crossed out swastika) who marched with us, who have been marching in Pride for years,? said Flanders in an e-mail to Haaretz..
The decision by the city - which is among the world's gay-friendliest - came after repeated complaints by Martin Gladstone, a Toronto lawyer and gay rights activist, who made a film about QuAIA entitled "Reclaiming our Pride." In the film, activists at a Pride Tononto 2009 parade call Israel an "apartheid state" and one of them wears a T-shirt with a crossed-out swastika. 
"How does demonizing Israel celebrate gay rights?" Gladstone said, adding: "It creates a hateful and exclusionary environment." Jonathan Danilowitz, a prominent, South Africa-born gay rights activist from Tel Aviv, praised the city's stand, which he defined as "going against hypocrisy."
Flanders, a Jewish filmmaker and artist who is also a PhD candidate in Toronto, rejected these accusations, adding that they were meant to "shut down the debate" and that she will "start a defamation suit against the next person who attempts to call us anti-Semitic."
Born in Montreal, Flanders, 44, said that she grew up in Israel with her parents before returning to Canada after her first year at Hebrew University. "Many of us in the group are Jews, many with long histories of Jewish activism and human rights work," she said. 
Gladstone, the pro-Israel film maker, responded by saying that groups like Flanders' "always put the Jews in front to deflect the accusation." 
Pro-Israel groups such as StandWithUs have in the past few years been mounting a concentrated effort to advertise Israel as a gay-friendly society in stark contradiction to its neighbors, where homosexuality is illegal and gays are often persecuted.
Flanders said that "when Israel flaunts its record on gay rights achievements, it does not excuse the occupation and/or other human rights abuses and war crimes."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Arab MK: U.S. beginning to question Israeli policy on Palestinians </title>
<date>Fri Mar 12 20:18:28 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Knesset Member Ahmed Tibi has lashed out over the treatment of American lawmakers brought to Israel by the J Street organization, warning that unconditional U.S. support for Israel is on the wane. 
Writing in an opinion piece
"The visiting members of Congress, though staunch supporters of Israel not yet questioning American aid, are beginning to raise questions about Israel's actions against the Palestinians."
The visit by members of Congress in February was apparently subject to an attempted boycott by a senior Israeli official due to the involvement of J Street. 
Rep. William Delahunt (D-Massachusetts), who headed the delegation, said at the time that Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon had "apparently attempted to block our meetings with senior officials in the Prime Minister's office and Foreign Ministry".
Tibi also had harsh words for what he branded Israel's apartheid policies, saying: "Israel's policies are putting it in league with the West's most notoriously racist governments of the past five decades." 
He went on to quote Defense Minister Ehud Barak, who told the prestigious Herzliya Conference earlier this year that Israel was in danger of becoming "an apartheid state". 
For Palestinians, this was already a reality, Tibi said, with "the separation wall running through the West Bank and East Jerusalem," and "different Israeli laws for Jews and Palestinians in the occupied territories".
The Arab lawmaker, who is also the deputy speaker of the Knesset, slammed Israel for responding to growing international criticism with a lackluster "propaganda" campaign to boost its image abroad, rather than tackling "the fundamental injustices meted out to Palestinians every day". 
Tibi concluded: "Members of Congress don't need another decade of complicity with Israel's occupation, but the political courage to tell an ally and its associated lobbyists that continued domination of the Palestinians is simply not acceptable in the 21st century."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Army and art as the same </title>
<date>Sun Aug 29 00:56:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Israeli theater directors made a big mistake by committing to stage their plays at the cultural center in the settlement of Ariel. They made this commitment without speaking first to the playwrights and artists, creating a fact on the ground. This fact needs to be overturned. The directors will pay dearly for the almighty row about to erupt.
The row started Saturday, in fact, with the publication of statements by the culture minister and Ariel's mayor. The directors never imagined what a hole they've dug up for themselves with their hasty decision.
The campaign waged recently against the universities will pale compared to what will be done to the theaters. The artists can't be dragged to Ariel in blunt contradiction of their political beliefs; they can't be driven on our Jewish-only apartheid roads.
For if plays are staged in Ariel, why not Hebron? A curfew will fall on the Palestinian residents as the curtain goes up. The checkpoints will be removed for the honored guests; only collaborators  travel through checkpoints without hassle.
Do you need to be paranoid to hear a threat in Culture Minister Limor Livnat's demand yesterday for an immediate "enlistment to take care of the emerging crisis," as if the directors were being called up to the army and were being tested by the authorities?
The "crisis" has only just begun and already the signatories are being accused of "dividing Israeli society." But artists and actors are not soldiers marching in formation. No one can force them to perform, unless his name is Zhdanov.
It's not the artists who are divisive, but those who decided to build the settlements, including the culture minister. Her most laughable argument was the need to "leave the political debate outside cultural and artistic life." This may sound familiar because the sacrosanct, virtuous IDF too is supposed to remain outside politics. The minister sees army and art as the same.
The settlers have proved they have a good sense of drama. The have lived for decades without stage plays coming from Israel proper, and they might wait a little longer until an agreement determining their fate is signed and stick to their own productions. After all, the prime minister says an agreement will be signed "within a year." Bibi is well known for keeping his promises, and who but the settlers should know that?
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Barak: Turkish intel head's ties to Tehran 'disturbing' </title>
<date>Mon Aug 02 00:59:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Defense Minister Ehud Barak yesterday voiced concern that the appointment of a Turkish intelligence chief who is close to Iran could result in Tehran gaining access to Israeli secrets.
Barak's unguarded comments came at a closed conference of the Labor Party's kibbutz committee, where he apparently did not realize his remarks were being recorded. His statements were aired yesterday on Army Radio.
"In recent weeks a man who is a supporter of Iran was appointed to head Turkey's Mossad. There are a fair number of our secrets that are in [Turkish] hands. The thought that in the past two months they could have been open to the Iranians is quite disturbing," Barak said.
In the past two months Barak has attempted to defuse some of the tensions between Jerusalem and Ankara, which peaked with the Gaza flotilla incident at the end of May, but in closed forums he has said it will be very difficult to halt Turkey's growing ties to Islamic extremist organizations in the region.
The name of the game 
The Reut Institute released last week a devastating report on the fallout from the flotilla incident. According to the experts from the nonpartisan Israeli research institute, the flotilla was a "political-strategic terror attack" that was planned, undisturbed, over the course of more than a year, succeeded beyond its organizers' expectations and caused significant damage to Israel.
The report's authors state that the crux of the incident was the alliance forged among Hamas, various Islamic organizations and leftist organizations operating in places like London, Paris, Brussels, Madrid, Toronto and San Francisco. They write that the planning of the flotilla was carried out openly over the Internet and in public conferences, and that Ankara's decision to make Gaza a main sticking point with Israel was apparent months in advance.
The researchers point to a broad, global, constantly changing campaign for the delegitimization of Israel that began several years ago and whose ultimate purpose is to bring about the dissolution of Israel, a la South African apartheid and the Soviet Union.
It's possible, said Reut founder and president Gidi Grinstein, that the flotilla is "already yesterday's war and Hamas and its partners will search for other avenues. The name of the game is delegitimization. The problem is that Israel is not prepared to deal with this war. If it's a strategic problem then it must be dealt with accordingly. A broad coalition of organizations that work against us and cause us enormous damage in terms of global public opinion has been created, but it is still a war that can be won."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter in new book: Obama turned back on settlement freeze</title>
<date>Sat Sep 18 11:12:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
In his new book, former United States president Jimmy Carter criticizes President Barack Obama over his policy on Israel's settlement freeze, writing that the President has backed away from his initial commitment to a complete halt to building in West Bank settlements.
The Associated Press purchased a copy of Carter's book, White House  Diary, on Friday, ahead of its release Monday.
Carter also criticizes fellow Democrat and former president Bill Clinton over his policy on Israel settlement expansion, writing that settlement building was especially rapid during Clinton's administration.
This past week, the newspaper Asharq Al Awsat reported that the Obama administration has suggested Israel extend the current moratorium on construction in West Bank settlements, which is set to expire on September 26, for an additional three months.
The expiration date for the settlement freeze has loomed over the recently re-launched direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. The Palestinians have threatened to walk away from the talks if the freeze is not extended.
On Thursday, the European Union called on Israel to extend the settlement freeze in light of the peace talks which began this month.
"The European Union deems it indispensable that both parties observe calm and restraint and refrain from actions that could affect negatively the progress of the negotiation," the group stated following a meeting in Brussels. "In this regard, it recalls that settlements are illegal under international law and, with a view to ensure that these talks continue in a constructive manner, calls for an extension of the moratorium decided by Israel."
The former president's views on Israel have caused controversy in the past, such as when he likened Israeli policy in the West Bank to apartheid South Africa in his book "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid".

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Declare Independence. Free Israel. End the Occupation.</title>
<date>Mon Apr 19 12:07:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Click here for more articles by Bradley Burston 
Shimon the Tzadik, the righteous, the just, the saintly, was one of the last of the Great Knesset. He used to say: The world continues to exist because of three things: Torah, Worship, and Acts of Lovingkindness. 
Talmud, Pirkeh Avot
SHEIKH JARRAH, East Jerusalem - It's taken us years and years, but we've finally realized the dream of every Israeli.
It was my wife who noticed. "I really like this," she said one Friday as we left the house, "getting out and going to a foreign country every weekend."
Our fellow Israeli Jews, inveterate world travelers that they are, literally go out of their way to avoid this place, which is called East Jerusalem. Some steer clear because it scares them, others simply because it feels so, well, foreign.
In the end, what they miss out on, is the view from here. If just once they'd make the trip. On a clear day, they could see their own future.
This is not just any neighborhood of East Jerusalem. Just as the settlers here, with their Baruch Goldstein celebrants, are not just any settlers, nor the anti-settlement protest held here each Friday, a demonstration like any other.
More than any other area of the Holy Land, this is the place where Israelis gather regularly to declare their independence from Occupation.
Here, because Sheikh Jarrah is where the settlement movement has come to die. The settlement named for Shimon the Just, is where the Occupation has begun to write its own ending.
Even the pro-settlement right has begun to realize that there is something different and dangerous here. That the circumstances of the creation of this settlement not only have the effect of turning all of Jerusalem into the status of a settlement, but of turning all of Israel into the status of Occupied Territory.
"The entrance of Jews to Sheikh Jarrah is a crazy and irresponsible act," rightist Jerusalem City Councilman Yakir Segev was quoted as telling a Hebrew University panel discussion last week.
"It's a terrible and crazy idea to open the question of ownership of properties from before 1948. It may open up a Pandora's box," Segev told Ynet, referring to the fact that Palestinians - even the families expelled to make way for the Sheikh Jarrah settlers - could reasonably ask courts to return them to land they owned until 1948 and had to flee, to homes which are now the homes of Jews in places like Jaffa and West Jerusalem.
"There are very wide-reaching repercussions and a reverse precedent may be set."
Occupation is an ugly word. That is why people who support the idea of a Jewish state should use the term, and use it often. Because, on this, Israel's 62nd independence day, the Occupation has to be identified for what it has become: Israel's worst enemy.
Not Iran. Not Hamas or Hezbollah. All three would like to see Israel cease to exist. But our government has tools to fight them. Against the Occupation, though, the government is powerless. 
For much of the last decade, this city was engulfed in fire. The pro-settlement right - let us, for once, call it what it is: the Movement for a Permanent Occupation - taught anyone who would listen, that it is peace moves that provoke terrorism; that it is the peace process that has led us, time and again, to war; that to question the act of settlement is to be anti-Israeli.
No more. This is where it has to stop. There is a name for the systematic burning of our bridges with the world, with our friends, with the majority of world Jewry, all for the sake of the settlements, all for the sake of permanent Occupation: Suicide.
Years past on Independence Day, I used to wonder if my generation would survive the Occupation.
Now I wonder if Israel will.
This is perhaps Israel's most dismal Independence Day in memory. Not because of war. Nor terrorism, nor economic crisis.
In a country where polls show that nearly two-thirds of the population would cede the West Bank under a future peace deal, Israelis are hostages to the nightmare scenario of permanent Occupation.
Today, after 62 years of furious effort, Israelis and Palestinians are in many respects farther from true independence than ever before. The reason becomes clearer by the year. Both peoples are prisoners of the Occupation.
These people, my friends, the Israelis, now face the most difficult challenge in the history of their country. Their country is still young as nations go, but is aging dangerously with every passing year that the Occupation terrorizes us, invades us, roots itself, spreads, poisons the spirit and the soul.
Most of all, the Occupation has blinded smart people to its own dangers. The Occupation exploits our fears even as it magnifies the real threats against us. The Occupation feeds and fosters those who hate us. It is their secret weapon. It is our Achilles heel.
We know now that our government, our prime minister and defense minister, are prisoners of the Occupation as well, unable or unwilling to do what they know they must to safeguard Israel's future.
That is why individual Israelis are going to have to do what they do best: Take action on their own.
It is not a large group that demonstrates here. But it is persistent, and growing. There are no speeches, and no hurled rocks. Only something which, thanks to the Occupation, is all but gone everywhere else in Israel: hope.
Will a serious battle against Occupation cause a deep rift in the Jewish People? Will it drive a wedge between all those who believe that the Jews, like other peoples, deserve a state of their own?
Too late. The Occupation has already been there, and done precisely that.
The Occupation has become the greatest single threat to the social fabric of the Jewish state. The Occupation causes division, strife, tension and alienation in Jewish families and Jewish communities the world over. Nothing causes Israel more diplomatic damage than the Occupation, and its outrider, the siege of Gaza.
Nothing delegitimizes Israel more in the eyes of the world - and in the eyes of many Jews - than the nation's unwillingness or inability to dismantle and end the Occupation.
You don't have to take the short jaunt to Sheikh Jarrah to understand that Israelis must put an end to the Occupation before the Occupation puts an end to Israel.
What will permanent occupation mean for Israel? Not only that the nation will cease to be a democratic state, disenfranchising millions of Palestinians. In the end, permanent Occupation will see to it that Israel will cease to be a Jewish state as well. Israel will have delegitimized itself out of existence.
It will have knowingly opted for and adopted apartheid, and, in the end, either through democracy or through fire, and, thanks to the Occupation, the world community will see to it that an Arab-ruled Palestine from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River will finally come into existence.
That, in the end, may explain why the demonstrations here in Sheikh Jarrah, which are not massive in scale, have managed to set in motion a chain of events which has not only affected Washington's view of settlement in the Holy City, but - in the manner of the settlers' disproportionate leverage over the rest of us - has managed to paralyze, at least for now, the inroads of militant settlers into several points across East Jerusalem.
After our most recent visit to the foreign country that may one day be called Palestine, I've refined my goals as far as the future is concerned. This, then, is my mission statement for this Independence Day: Let the Occupation end with me.
May it end here. Let it end soon.
May Jews and Arabs become again what they once were: Neighbors. True cousins.
May this be the generation that outlives the Occupation.
May we find ways to cripple it, take it apart. End it.
This is Independence Day. Free Israel. End the Occupation.
Addendum. As I was writing this, the Im Tirtzu organization, which promotes the Occupation through division, libel and graphic and verbal obscenity, distributed pamphlets in synagogues aimed at changing the Yizkor memorial prayer for fallen soldiers on Memorial Day, to include an attack on leftist Israelis. I will respond at length to this next week, but suffice it to say that the corrupting effect of the Occupation on the concepts of Torah, Worship, and Lovingkindness, has never been more evident. 
Bradley Burston, Sgt., res., IDF Serial 
3369089.
 
Follow Bradley Burston on Twitter
 
Previous Blogs: How to tell when a Mideast Expert is lying Berkeley's Israel boycott: The occupation's new friend Passover Seder, Cup 4: Obama, this year in Jerusalem Israel's Titanic moment: Does Obama want Bibi's head?? A warning to Mr. Biden: We negotiate like we drive When Israelis degrade Israel by humiliating Joe Biden Jews who want to see Jews leave Israel I envy the people who hate Israel Pro-Mideast in America: Getting past 'Pro-Israel' and 'Pro-Palestine' Israel needs Goldstone Fear of peace will be the death of Israel 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Dispatch from an Israeli journalist in Istanbul</title>
<date>Fri Jun 04 10:52:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
The special welcome begins at Attaturk airport. The line to purchase  visas snakes down the corridor and halfway to Iran. I stand dejectedly  in it for a moment and then notice that while Americans and Europeans,  along with almost every national I can make out, need the visas --  Israelis inexplicably sweep right through. I am thrilled, march up to  the clerk on the shorter line and smile brightly.
"We don't need to buy visas?" I ask. "How wonderful!"
"For now, No," he replies, slowly, even for a clerk, and looks me  over. "But next time we wont even let you folks in."
And so begins my trip to Istanbul in the aftermath of the Israeli  raid on the humanitarian flotilla organized by the Turks.
Popular here, we are not.
My first port of call is the Israeli consulate in the Levent  neighborhood. It is shut and locked, and the square leading to it is  barricaded off -- but there is no lack of activity.  "God is Great,"  yell the bearded demonstrators, climbing on the barricades and waving  Palestinians flags. "We are ready to fight," they chant. "Israel is a  terrorist state," they sing.
The signs, of course, are all in Turkish, a language I find  completely incomprehensible, and so I ask a young woman in an abaya to  translate for me. "Die Jews," she explains, and then squints her eyes,  closes one, and reconsiders. "No, no, it's 'Die Israelis.'" Her friend  pipes in to help. "I think it's 'Kill Israel,' or maybe 'Die Killers.'"  They debate. I understand the principal. They are from Bursa, they tell  me, and have taken a bus here to join in the demonstration. Each has  bought a green headbands -- two Turkish Lira each -- which they now  wrap, lopsided, over their head coverings. "We are all Palestinians,"  they read. "How do I look?" they ask each other.
I head to the heart of town, Taksim Square, to observe a larger  demonstration, organized by the Communist party. "What do your signs  say?" I ask some protestors, students from Italy, as it turns out. They  are not exactly sure. Turns out they don't read Turkish either. "Israel  is an Apartheid State," a fellow protestor explains to us, and, pointing  to another: "Die Jews." Oh, so, that's what is says.  I must revert  back to the Bursa girls later.
By 10 P.M. I have filed a story and am exhausted and rather depressed  by the situation, on various levels. I remember coming to Turkey with  my family in far better times. "Hello Israeli cowboy," the merchants  would yell out, back then, to my mom, who has a penchant for Panama  hats. "We love Israel!," "Shalom."
My friends, the girls from Bursa, text me: Another demonstration  is taking place at the consulate, much bigger, they say. I should  probably go check it out. But to schlep all the way back there?  Oh, how  I would like to sit and have a shishkabab or watch TV. I flick it on in  my room -- it's all in Turkish, and it's all about Israel and while,  again, I cannot understand the words, the images are clear enough. I  push myself out the door and decide to head to the demonstration by  metro, which is cheaper (take note Haaretz finance department)  and faster.
But not, however, more pleasant. The metro tunnels are echoing with  the screams of thousands of youngsters, mainly young men, chanting and  pushing their way into the trains. With kafiyyas draped over their heads  and shoulders and Palestinian flags in their hands they call back and  forth to each other. "Takrir, Allah." "Takrir Allah." God is Great. I  feel slightly uncomfortable for the first time, as I get swept up in the  throng.
"Where are you from? Where are you from?" the youngsters ask me. This  might not be the time to discuss the nuances, be they what they may, of  the Israeli-Palestinian, or the Israeli-Turkish, relationship, I  figure. "I am a journalist," I suggest by way of diversion and mime some  writing and photo snapping actions with my hands. "Ahhh!" they say,  satisfied. "America." "The Celtics. Good." So be it.
Emerging from the metro near the consulate with my latest pals, I  find myself in the midst of  tens of thousands of people. It's a  carnival atmosphere. Kids are sitting on their parents' shoulders, and  cotton candy and corn on the cob is being sold along with Palestinian  flags and headbands. The chants and the signs are all familiar, but here  there is a new energy in the air. The traffic is completely blocked in  both directions but drivers don't even seem to mind. They blare their  horns in solidarity with the marchers and wave out their windows.
As the night goes on, the crowds only seem to swell. Not being the  tallest person around, I can't see a thing, and somehow find myself  climbing over a few fences and being hoisted up on top of a bus hired by  the Islamic movement for VIPs. "Takrir" comes a voice from a  loudspeaker right beside me. "Allah," respond the masses. An Israeli  flag is burnt directly beneath. My mother, ringing my mobile from  Jerusalem, is whispering to me as if the Islamic militants could hear  her on Shamryahu Levin street. I now can see, but can barely hear a  thing. "Don't go out on the streets alone," she suggests to her  journalist child. "And don't drink anything anyone gives you," she  adds. "What? I cant hear a thing!" I yell. "Takrir" "Allah" Just then  someone in offers me some water.
I start day two looking for Israelis. "Any hints on where will I find  them?" I ask my editor. Try the breakfast room, she suggests. Obvious. I  slowly walk around the dining room in my hotel, and then in the hotel  next door, scanning the buffet bar for faces of my countrymen and women.  'Is that an Israeli or an Iraqi?" I think to myself. 'An Iranian or an  Israeli?' 'Italian or Israeli?' My radar zooms in on one likely couple. I  sidle alongside their table. "Do you speak Hebrew," I ask, in Hebrew,  under my breath, as if on some secret Mossad mission. "Of course,  Motek-Luvie- come have breakfast with us," they offer. Success.
A mother and her daughter-in-law from Ramat Hasharon on a roots trip.  "That's so sweet," I say, as I dip my cucumber into their Tehini. "So  nice to see an Israeli," they admit. I feel the same. "Why don't you  come with us to Topkapi Palace," they offer. I'm a little busy, I say,  wistfully. "Be careful," they warn me. "Don't talk in Hebrew," they  insist. "Don't drink anything suspicious!" Are all Jewish mothers  exactly alike? I have to wonder.
I head to the offices of IHH, the controversial Islamic charity that  funded a great part of the flotilla -- chartering three of the ships and  recruiting and paying the way for all of the Turkish passengers. Israel  has banned the charity, claiming they are humanitarian only in name,  and in fact are a militant body supporting Hamas and other terror  organizations. I am not going to lie about who I am, I decide, and give the friendly  secretary with blood shot eyes my Haaretz business card. "You  are Israeli?" he says loudly. I feel like telling him to keep it down,  but just nod. "Yes." I ask to speak to one of the senior officers and am  told to wait. It takes about 15 minutes for the other Turkish reporters  present, with little else to do, to train their video cameras on me.  "You are Israeli?" they ask. "We would like you to explain to us the  position of your government." Oh dear.
I am saved by a press conference, called by the leaders of the IHH to  say that their comrades being held in Israel are being given water in  prison they believe is poisoned. "We have told our people to not drink  anything," they explain. I see we have more in common with these guys  than might first meet the eye and wonder what is going on with the  poisoned water theme. I spend the rest of the afternoon basically just  hanging out at this headquarters, trying to communicate in Turkish (not  easy) and trying to piece together information (harder still) about what  is happening next. Families of those on the flotilla wander in and out  of the offices, worried, wanting to know who is injured, who is dead.  Some are crying.
Finally, I get my interview. "Sorry to keep you waiting, says senior  IHH board member Umar Farooq, "...but because of you Israelis we are  very busy these days." I feel the organization has made an effort to  talk to me because, and not despite of where I am from. "Provocation?"  he shrugs his shoulders. "Metal bars?" "We did not start this fight, he  says, "...but we have won it." It seems he is keen to express himself to  an Israeli paper. The interview is sobering. I am increasingly tired.  "Let's not talk again until Israel changes her ways," he suggests in  parting, ever courteous.
On my last night in Istanbul, yet another demonstration is raging,  now back in Taksim square. I wander the streets. It feels like Miami  Beach meets Nablus. One street filled with Karaoke bars teeming with  women in high heels and tank tops flirting with muscle men, the next  street filled with thousands women in abbayas yelling for the  destruction of Israel and radical looking types shaking their fists in  the air. I notice a new style of black headband reading "Hail to Hamas."  Music praising Sheikh Ahmed Yassin is piped over the loud speakers. The  police - in full riot gear - seem to be enjoying the balmy night out on  the town, and some have popped into Jimmy's Chicken for some fast food.   Tourists, meanwhile, a street or two away, go about their business,  bargaining for fake leather wallets and evil eye key chains.
On my flight back to London I am sitting, lo and behold, near one of  the flotilla passengers, who, released to Turkey, is now going home to  give a press conference, and, she explains, start planning her next  flotilla mission. "Israelis are animals," she tells me. "Everyone now  knows this." I tune out. It has been a long three days.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Egypt: World should push toward establishment of Palestinian state</title>
<date>Wed Dec 08 16:17:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Major powers should push Israel and the Palestinians to agree a deadline for establishing an independent Palestinian state before a two-state solution becomes impossible to achieve, Egypt said on Wednesday.
Israelis and Palestinians held three rounds of U.S.-backed talks in September. Palestinians pulled out when a 10-month freeze on Jewish settlement building in the West Bank and East Jerusalem ended on Sept. 26.
In some of Egypt's strongest language since the talks ended, Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said discussions should shift to an "end-game for a Palestinian settlement" after Washington had failed to push Israel to halt building work.
"The Americans have been informing all of us that their efforts did not succeed. They wanted to reach a moratorium on settlement activities with Israel. That came to an end now."
He said Egypt's concern was that "we continue haggling without (making) any breakthrough, then in few years there would not be a possibility of two states living side by side."
The Palestinians on Wednesday said "Israeli obstinacy" made Washington give up on efforts to freeze Jewish settlements and questioned whether the United States could ever help them attain independence.
Egypt became the first Arab state to reach peace with Israel when it signed a deal in 1979.
"You have a bi-national state or you have occupation or apartheid. The ... option which we are all preferring is to have two states instead of one state based on apartheid," Aboul Gheit said at a briefing during a visit to Bulgaria.
He said the quartet of the United States, European Union, United Nations and Russian Federation should devise a framework agreement that fixes a Palestinian state's borders and the status of East Jerusalem while ensuring Israel's security.
"If there would be an exchange of territories it has to be minimal," the minister said.
He said the agreement "can be drafted by the Americans, by the quartet, by a group of experts, two or three pages of a grand understanding to be offered by the international community to both parties" with a specific time for a deal to be reached.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Embraces, warm and cool </title>
<date>Mon Apr 26 14:40:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad delayed a working trip abroad in order to open the fifth Bil'in International Conference on the Popular Struggle that took place from April 21-23. He also brought with him a bountiful dowry: representatives of 23 foreign consulates and diplomatic missions.
They sat in the giant tent set up in the village's schoolyard, among activists from Bil'in and other villages, as well as children who had come along with their parents and were wandering around with cooked beans and za'atar, women who sat behind tables laden with embroidered handicrafts for sale, a handful of Israelis and dozens of activists from abroad.
In addition to speeches, the conference included tours of various local sites and participation in the weekly demonstration against the separation fence, whose construction is ongoing and continues to wound the land and eat away at the rocks and the fields.
On one side stood a row of white chairs bearing the photographs of 15 men - a representative sample of the dozens of popular struggle activists from the Palestinian villages who had been jailed or are still serving time in Israeli prisons. Opposite them and behind the dais was a picture of Bassem Abu Rahma, who was killed in a demonstration on April 17, 2009 by a tear-gas grenade fired directly at him at a high velocity by an Israel Defense Forces soldier.
Activists of the popular committees who lead the struggle against the separation fence and the settlements are well aware of the criticism that the "embrace" they are receiving from the Palestinian Authority is too strong and too tight. They are aware of the suspicious remarks to the effect that the PA is interested in regulating and adjusting the popular struggle, and that it exploits its well-publicized support for it to thwart public criticism of its policies. The activists' solution to this problem is to maintain their political and partisan independence, to distance themselves from the schismatic arguments that characterize the political arena, to continue to plan popular activities, and to put pressure on Hamas and Fatah so that they will reconcile.
In any case, the Israeli security forces make sure that the activists will not turn into the "spoiled children" of the PA and ensure that the popular struggle will continue to spread.
In the dark of night, a few hours before Fayyad's speech at the three-day conference, an army unit raided the village of Bil'in.
This is a routine occurrence in villages that have turned into symbols of unarmed struggle against the occupation, constituting a kind of routine that no one really becomes accustomed to. This time the soldiers had been sent to arrest a 17-year-old youth, designated as the prosecution's witness and due to appear at the Ofer military court (located on the lands of the village of Bitunia) last Wednesday. For the Israeli taxpayer, this is an expensive substitute for a written summons or a telephone call. The youth was not home but he knew he had to give testimony. And indeed, he did appear the next morning at the trial of Abdullah Abu Rahma who has been held since December 10, 2009, International Human Rights Day, on charges of incitement, throwing stones and organizing and participating in a demonstration without a permit.
Wind in the sails
According to a list supplied to journalists by the spokeswoman of the conference, attendees included representatives of Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey, the United States, the European Union, Spain, France, Italy, Malta, England, Romania, the Czech republic, Sweden, Belgium, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Holland, Austria and Hungary, plus the special envoy of the United Nations secretary general in the region.
The participants did not need a tent in Bil'in to hear Fayyad's doctrine, according to which the struggle for independence involves three paths, which are intertwined and interdependent: the popular (and unarmed) struggle, the building of state institutions, and the political-diplomatic struggle led by the Palestine Liberation Organization. Those present are also familiar with his views about Area C, which he also reiterated at the opening of the conference: It should be opened and projects (which cost money) should be developed there regardless of Israeli policy that forbids this.
The attendees have also heard from him before what he stated there: that his government is demanding that Israel rescind military order No. 1650 concerning the prevention of infiltration (despite the calming words of Hussein a-Sheikh, a senior Fatah activist, who is responsible for the Department of Civilian Affairs in the PA - the Palestinian counterpart of the Israeli Civil administration, which mediates between Palestinian civilians and the military authorities.
By the way, this military order - which the Palestinians consider an expression of Israel's ever-enduring plans for expulsion - has succeeded for the first time in many years in uniting political forces in Gaza. On the day that the Bil'in conference opened, representatives of all the organizations, including Fatah and Hamas, held a rally in Beit Hanun against the order. Senior Fatah official Hisham Abdel Razek and senior Hamas official Ayman Taha made speeches and marched together.
The foreign dignitaries did not stay to hear the other sessions of the conference where words like "apartheid" and "racism" were frequently uttered in the speeches about Israeli policies. They also missed the session broadcast by video from Gaza. There, too, small but determined groups of unarmed activists are trying to challenge the IDF, which constantly fires at a swathe of several hundred meters along the security fence stretching along the border, to keep farmers from working their lands. The Gazan activists insist on going to cultivate the forbidden lands, endangering their lives and health and at the same time adding yet another chapter to the experience of the unarmed Palestinian struggle.
It is possible to interpret the presence, even if it was somewhat brief, of the foreign diplomats at Bil'in as evidencing a kind of support for the popular and unarmed Palestinian struggle, whose declared aims are bringing down the separation fence and dismantling all the settlements.
The declarative combination of Fayyad (who is also finance minister) and representatives from the donor countries is also a sort of answer to the IDF's threats - as were mentioned in a report by Yaakov Katz in The Jerusalem Post last week - to the effect that the army will act to thwart the financial support of the PA for the popular struggle. The IDF, it transpires, is breathing wind into the sails of that very struggle that it is trying by various other means to suppress.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Erekat to Meridor: Without two-state solution by year's end, 'you will sweat' </title>
<date>Sat Jun 26 08:09:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Palestinian Chief Negotiator Saeb Erekat warned Friday that if by the end of this year there was no two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinian Authority then Israel will "sweat."
"If by the end of this year we do not have a two-state solution, you will sweat, you will sweat," Erekat told Deputy Prime Minister Dan Meridor who met with him at the International Peace Institute in New York.
The two officials insisted that their appearance was neither an indirect nor a direct negotiation - but it did show the more than 100 United Nations ambassadors, academics, journalists and others in the room how wide the gap still is between the two sides.
Israel has three options, Erekat said. A two-state solution, a single state including Jews and Palestinians, or what he called "a continuation of Israel's racism and apartheid system in the West Bank where Arabs and Christians can't use roads reserved only for Israelis."
"This government of Israel has a choice: settlements or peace," he said. "They can't have both."
He explained that the Palestinian Authority was founded to establish the institutions for a Palestinian state, not to keep Israel as a source of authority forever. "If Israel insists on maintaining control," he said, "the Palestinian Authority cannot stand - it's irrelevant," and he indicated it might be dissolved.
Erekat accused Meridor and the Netanyahu government of refusing to answer key questions: Will Israel begin negotiations where they left off in December 2008, accept East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine and accept the 1967 border as a baseline for a two-state solution?
Meridor said Israel wants to return to direct negotiations with the Palestinians and indicated the talks with U.S. special Middle East envoy George Mitchell were making progress.
"I do hope in the coming weeks negotiations will skip over this strange proximity talks into real talks," he said. "We need to talk to each other and make the tough decisions needed, and if this is done we'll see progress this coming year."
Meridor said, however, that "if there is no full agreement on the outstanding issues of Jerusalem, refugees, final borders and security we will not let the negotiation collapse.It should not be all or nothing. We all wish for all, but if we can't get it, we should be very cautious not to risk everything on that," he said.
"The future of Palestinian refugees is the most crucial issue for Israel," he added. "Any peace agreement that did not settle the refugee issue would mean there is no end to the conflict."
Meridor said Erekat's statement that the Palestinian Authority has no right to negotiate the right of return of the refugees - that the refugees themselves will have to make the choice and they have the right both to return and to compensation - raised major problems.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ex-U.S. President Carter to start Mideast peace tour </title>
<date>Thu Oct 14 22:53:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter will start a tour of the Middle East on Saturday to build support for a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians.Carter, 86, will visit Egypt, Syria, Jordan, Israel and the Palestinian territories with a delegation called The Elders, to be led by former Irish President Mary Robinson and including former UN envoy Lakhdar Brahimi."The aim of their visit is to encourage support across the region for the current final status negotiations with emphasis on the need to reach a just and secure peace," said a statement by The Elders, a group set up by South Africa's Nelson Mandela in 2007.The Palestinians called off direct peace talks with Israel just a few weeks after they began last month after Israel refused to extend a 10-month moratorium on housing starts in Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank.Carter has been active in international diplomacy since serving as president from 1977 to 1981. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002, in part for his contribution to the 1978 Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt.Jewish groups sharply criticized a book he published on the Middle East in 2006 in which he described Israeli policy in the occupied territories as a "system of apartheid."Carter spent two nights in an Ohio hospital last month for treatment of an upset stomach. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fayyad to Barak: Israel must show that it is rolling back occupation</title>
<date>Tue Feb 02 22:06:17 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and Defense Minister Ehud Barak made a rare joint appearance at the Herzliya Conference on Tuesday.
Fayyad, the widely respected leader who is credited with the economic turnaround in the West Bank, said ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the only path to security for Israel.
"The roughness of this neighborhood can be reduced if not eliminated if [Israeli] occupation comes to an end," Fayyad said. "I do not believe that there can be permanent peace unless the concept of Palestinian statehood is accepted."
Peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority have stalled since Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu assumed power last year.
While Netanyahu says his government is prepared to resume talks without preconditions, the Palestinians are insistent that Israel cease all construction in settlements that lie beyond the 1967 armistice lines.
"We are now at state of impasse," Fayyad said. "Everyone knows that. It would appear as though progress had been impeded because there is no formal political process."
"What is required is negotiations based on settled principles," the Palestinian prime minister said.
Fayyad said Israel must demonstrate its seriousness about a two-state solution. "We need to begin to see things that suggest to our people that indeed the occupation is on its way to being rolled back," he said.
The Palestinian leader pointed to his government's institutional build-up as proof that it is cognizant of the burdens inherent in managing the state-in-the-making.
"We Palestinians have resolved to shoulder responsibility of getting ready for statehood," Fayyad said.
The prime minister said West Bank stability was contingent upon an increased security presence in more Palestinian towns.
"In the context of the occupation being rolled back, us Palestinians need to have formal security presence on population centers outside of Area A," Fayyad said, referring to West Bank territories that are under exclusive security and administrative Palestinian control.
Fayyad said one shortcoming of the Oslo Accords was that it failed to recognize the principle of eventual Palestinian statehood.
"The road map is one document that makes a great deal of sense [because] it takes as a given the emergence of a Palestinian state and an end of Israeli occupation," the prime minister said. 
Fayyad said the terms of the road map call for a complete freeze of construction in Israeli settlements, an issue that threatens to prejudice the results of a final-status agreement.
"If settlements continue, the political question is how confident can we be that once relaunched, the political process will be able to deliver on permanent status issues," he said.
Barak said on Tuesday that "if the Palestinians living in the West Bank could, in the future, vote in the Israeli elections, Israel will become a bi-national country." 
"But if they are not allowed to vote," he added, "we will become an apartheid country." 
Barak stated at the Herzliya conference, speaking alongside Palestinian Prime Minster Salam Fayyad, that "the alternatives force us to uphold a border where on one side is a Jewish majority, and on the other side a Palestinian state" 
The defense minister praised the Palestinian Prime Minister for his work, and said that he lead towards practical political thought in the Palestinian Authority.
"We are witness to the fact that the security situation in the West Bank is in good shape, which hasn?t been true for many years, and even the Jewish leaders admit to it," Barak said. 
Commenting on the stagnant negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians Barak said "the negotiations will take time, perhaps a year of two, and a final status agreement could take three years, but it is time to enter negotiations and stop playing games." 
Barak added that "we have accepted the road map and a two state solution." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fear of peace will be the death of Israel</title>
<date>Wed Feb 03 12:48:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
 
 
Click here for more articles by Bradley Burston 
 
 
SHEIKH JARRAH, Jerusalem - As the grandson of anarchists, I've always had a soft spot in my heart for fanatics. Expressions of extremism, and passionately reasoned, exquisitely twisted world views make me feel, how shall I put this, at home.
So it was with a certain relish that I approached the cover story of a recent issue of Commentary, "The Deadly Price of Pursuing Peace," written as it was by a talented colleague and friend, Evelyn Gordon. 
The thrust of the piece, which Commentary Editor John Podhoretz understandably calls "groundbreaking," is that Israel's international standing has plummeted to an unprecedented low - and the number of Palestinians killed by Israel has concurrently soared - specifically because of Israel's having done much too much for peace.
"The answer is unpleasant to contemplate, but the mounting evidence makes it inescapable," she writes. "It was Israel's very willingness to make concessions for the sake of peace that has produced its current near-pariah status."
The essay has the seamless, compellingly elegant, hyper-lucid, parallel universe logic of a hallucination - or a settlement rooted in the craw of the West Bank. Until I read it, it was difficult for me to comprehend the current runaway-freight recklessness of Israeli authorities and a certain segment of the hard right, bolstered by shady funding from abroad.
It was hard to fathom why Israeli police in this quiet hollow of the Arab half of Jerusalem, would choose to openly flout and violate the rulings of an Israeli court. I was unable to grasp why they would manhandle and arrest non-violent demonstrators - among them the executive director of the Association for Civil Rights in Israel - for protesting the official expulsion from their homes of more than two dozen Palestinian families here, driven out and into the street, so that subsidized and sheltered settlers could move in.
It was beyond my understanding why an Israeli government which views the idea of a Palestinian Right of Return as tantamount to annihilation of the Jewish state, would set a legal precedent that paves the way for just such a right. 
Just as I was clueless as to why the Knesset was to vote Wednesday on a bill that would make aiding asylum seekers fleeing African genocide, granting them shelter, medical care, food, a crime subject to up to 20 years in prison.
Or why there were vigorous new campaigns to increase gender segregation at the Western Wall and on public buses, and why women have been arrested and interrogated on suspicion of having worn prayer shawls while praying on their side of a barrier raised so that they would no longer be able to watch their sons' bar mitzvah on the mens' side.
Or why a sudden and ferocious campaign against human rights organizations and charity work agencies in Israel is coinciding with new human rights outrages against Palestinians and foreigners, some of them unable to leave, others forced to.
It was not until I saw the title of the Commentary piece that it all made sense.
The right is terrified of peace. And, in the end, the right's fear of peace will be the death of Israel.
They are afraid of peace, in part, because it threatens the core of what has come to replace other values as the goal of Judaism: permanent settlement of the West Bank. But that is only a part of it.
They are afraid of peace because they are afraid of the world. They dismiss fellow Jews who want to see a two-state solution - a majority of Israelis - as unrealistic, as living in a bubble. The name of the bubble these moderates live in, however, is planet Earth.
The right, meanwhile, wants to wall off Israel as the world's last remaining legally mandated Jewish ghetto. A place where all the rules are different, exit and entry, citizenship and human rights, because the residents within are Jews. A place where non-Jews, dehumanized as congenital Jew-haters, are rendered invisible. A place which, if suffocating and insufferable, still seems safer than the scary world outside.
A place which, because of its walls and its politics and its cowardice, is losing its ability to function as a part of the world, reveling in cheap-shot humiliations of key foreign ambassadors, deliriously proud of its sense that of all the world, including most of its Jews and Israelis - only the right sees the real truth.
This braid of thought was venomously endorsed this week both by an uncharacteristically Kahane-sounding Alan Dershowitz, and the obscenely infantile Im Tirtzu movement. According to them, where Cast Lead was concerned, the real war criminals are Richard Goldstone and Naomi Chazan - two people who are open about their love of Israel, and who have worked their whole adult lives for its well-being.
The fears of the right are not mere devices of rhetoric. The risks of making peace are real. Every bit as real as the risks of failing to make peace.
It all comes down to belief. It comes down to the kind of country the believer wants Israel to be. And for that reason, there is a civil war going on for Israel's soul.
It will not be weaponry that decides this war, but courage. People who care about the direction that Israel is moving, and whose watchword is moderation, would do well to choose one facet of the fight, and join. One place to start, is to support the New Israel Fund and the groups it supports.
Another place to start is this one. At the weekend, challenging the threats of rightist thugs and law-scorning police, the weekly demonstration on behalf of the Palestinian residents of Sheikh Jarrah doubled in size. The police backed down on their vow to break up the protest, and the Kahanists barely showed.
If non-violent peace activism scares the right to this extent, there must be a great deal of power in it.
After all, most Israelis can sense that if peace is to be the enemy, more dangerous even than the threat of war, this is one doomed ghetto.
Things have reached such a devastating point, that for the first time in recent memory, even Ehud Barak is beginning to get it: "The simple truth is, if there is one state" including Israel, the West Bank and Gaza, "it will have to be either binational or undemocratic," Barak told the Herzliya Conference Tuesday.
"If this bloc of millions of Palestinians cannot vote, that will be an apartheid state."
The fear of peace has left Israel as a country which is prepared for nuclear warfare but not for non-violent protest on behalf of Palestinians. The fear of peace, and the blackmail of the right on behalf of settlement, has contorted Israel into a body which, unable to countenance the perils of treating the sickness of occupation, will eventually be killed by it.
Israel's defense minister, for one, is convinced: "The lack of a solution to the problem of border demarcation within the historic Land of Israel - and not an Iranian bomb - is the most serious threat to Israel's future." Follow Bradley Burston on Twitter 

 
Previous Blogs: Bashing Israel for saving Haitians A prayer for the people of Haiti Israel's looming war in Gaza: Can Obama stop it before it starts? Israel's 10 worst errors of the decade I refuse to be your enemy Trust the settlers to lose the West Bank Peace Plan - Trading settler Israelis for refugee Palestinians A Palestinian peace plan Israelis can live with Why do Israelis dislike Barack Obama? Dovish Jews? They love Israel? Excommunicate them 
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Founders' descendants fight to keep city from converting former Tel Aviv religious center </title>
<date>Wed Oct 27 02:10:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Eighty-one years after its founding, the Ohel Shem house in central Tel Aviv is embroiled in litigation, with claimants demanding that the municipality's trusteeship of the asset, which is considered consecrated property designated for religious needs  ("hekdesh" ), be revoked.
Parties responsible for the facility's status as a publicly or religiously beneficial asset are demanding that the municipality's connection to it be severed - the municipality has plans to convert the facility into a theater, whereas the claimants demand that its original purpose as a center for the study of Torah and Jewish religious sources, and of Hebrew literature, be preserved.
"The court is asked in this matter to uphold historical justice, and honor the lifelong purposes and heritage of the late Shmuel and Rivka Blum by nullifying the plans of the Tel Aviv municipality," attorneys David Shoob and Aviad Hacohen wrote on behalf of the claimants. Shoob and Hacohen submitted their clients' claims to the Tel Aviv District Court yesterday.
The litigation relates to an asset whose past is richly intertwined in the city's history. The claimants want to prevent the municipality from allowing the Ohel Shem house, on 30 Balfour Street, to be used by the Orna Porat Theater for Children and Youth.
They argue that such use would violate the facility's designation, and its status as a religiously and publicly endowed asset.
Though this is ostensibly a local conflict about the use of a specific asset, Shoob and Hacohen formulate the claim in a broad manner, as though the litigation is part of a campaign to rectify perceived anti-religious bias in municipal preservation policies.
"The Tel Aviv municipality invests many millions of dollars in projects for the preservation of 'trees and stones,' and yet willingly and knowingly persists with a policy of cultural apartheid that erases entire, splendid chapters in the city's cultural [history]," the claimants argue.
The claimants are Yael Rosenberg, 27, a descendant of the late Rivka and Shmuel Blum, and the Public Committee for the Preservation of Hekdeshot in Tel Aviv.
Shmuel Blum built the Ohel Shem house in 1929 in memory of his wife. At the facility's 1928 dedication, he declared that it would a "permanent center of culture in Tel Aviv, particularly for the dissemination of knowledge of Judaism in all its branches."
Blum promised that the facility would remain open all days of the year, including Sabbath days and Jewish holidays.
The facility's study activities drew an array of participants, including the poet Hayim Nahman Bialik; at its dedication ceremony, Bialik stressed Ohel Shem's special purpose of "sanctifying the Shabbat ... Like the Torah, which is Israel's covenantal book, so too does the Shabbat signify Israel's covenant with God; this house is being established to serve these two holy topics [the Shabbat and Torah]."
Nobody at this dedication ceremony, the claimants' attorneys wrote, "would have imagined in his wildest dreams that several decades later this holy vision would be subverted and eradicated in such a vulgar, brutal and thoughtless fashion by, of all things, a public body, the Tel Aviv municipality, which was entrusted with the house's preservation."
Due to economic problems, the house was registered with the municipality in the 1960s, but the municipality promised to protect its original purposes, which it defined officially as "restoring the glory of the Shabbat." The building remained abandoned for many years, until the municipality started in recent years to make it available to the Orna Porat Theater.
The claimant's father, Zvi Rosenberg, told Haaretz that "this facility was designed to preserve a certain kind of Jewish culture in a framework that existed 70 years ago - this was not exactly a religious or scrupulously Shabbat-observant culture. Its proper use would feature the continued honoring of Jewish tradition. In our view, the relevance of this institution's purpose has not eroded over the years; on the contrary. The desire to be connected with Judaism, with Jewish roots, is increasing. The Shabbat does not belong exclusively to the religious, and this facility should serve a wide public, via lessons devoted to the Hebrew Bible and Jewish philosophy. Since there is such great thirst for such learning, and if the facility was donated for this relevant purpose, why is it being taken and converted for other purposes?"
The Tel Aviv municipality relayed that this is a municipal asset which was allotted eight years ago to the Habima theater but for various reasons, including safety, Habima left the facility. Since then it has remained idle. Recently, it was allotted to the Orna Porat Theater; for the past five months, the facility has been renovated at the theater's expense, and the theater expects to begin using the facility in January. The claim has no substantive basis, and the municipality will respond to it in court."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Free Barghouti Now</title>
<date>Mon Jan 04 15:08:49 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Click here for more articles by Bradley Burston
It's a spellbinding opal of a Saturday afternoon in winter. A number of close friends are tackling the Haaretz weekend quiz, the Hebrew edition of 20 maddeningly arcane and demanding questions. 
They manage to get 16 right. No small feat. The talk then turns to Israeli politics. At last, the question is a  simple one. If there were an election now, who would get your vote? There are 10 people present. Not one of them manages to come up with a single answer.
Moral: If Benjamin Netanyahu plays his cards right, he could be prime minister indefinitely. Not because he's done so well. Rather, because there's no one at all to vote for, and thus, no reason for Israelis to vote. 
Corollary: This may, in fact, be Netanyahu's big chance. In vacuum, there is opportunity. In this context, the time may never be more auspicious for a move that, in its boldness, changes the Mideast subject overnight.
It's time, in short, for Netanyahu to give the Palestinians someone to vote for. Marwan Barghouti.
The Palestinians are at least as deeply disenchanted with their current leadership as Israelis are. Polls show Hamas' popularity continuing to decline. Even in its power base of Gaza, Hamas is no longer viewed by Palestinians as the disciplined, fearless, corruption-free organization which valiantly and efficiently sees to their social welfare and to their personal defense. In an era of  shattered futures, it appears that hatred of Israel's policies can no longer be reliably equated with love of Hamas.
Hamas' blood rival Fatah, meanwhile, has political problems which run even deeper. It is dogged by an aging, graft-tainted, calcified hierarchy, woefully unable to heal the disunity which has crippled the Palestinian drive for statehood.
The decline and death of Yasser Arafat left Palestinians with only one unifying figure, Barghouti. His credibility with his people was established in his role both as a central architect of both Palestinian uprisings, and in his spearheading of drives within Fatah to combat corruption and human rights violations on the part of Arafat's own people. Now, more than ever, Palestinians need Barghouti.
But Israel needs Barghouti as well. He is the key to the future of the two-state solution, and therefore, to an Israel which is democratic without qualification, peaceable without biennial war, demographically Jewish without apartheid, a true neighbor to its neighbors - for once, a full member of the community of nations, economically, diplomatically, and, on the level of one-on-one human interaction.
Israeli leaders who have worked with Barghouti - even some who had him arrested and nearly assassinated - know the potential value to a future peace of his political skills, his standing and charisma among Palestinians, his work on behalf of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations in the past.
The senior Israeli security and government officials who have lobbied for Barghouti's release include former senior Shin Bet official and ex-public security minister Gideon Ezra, and cabinet minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, who served as defense minister under Ariel Sharon during the second intifada.
Although known as a relative hawk - as an IDF brigadier general he was once Israel policy chief for the territories - the Iraqi-born Ben-Eliezer has often demonstrated a unique understanding of Israel's Arab negotiating partners. In August, Israel's Channel 10 television quoted Ben-Eliezer as saying that Barghouti "is the only one" capable of bringing the Palestinians to a final-status peace deal with Israel.
There will, of course, be those who will who dismiss and disqualify Barghouti as a terrorist. Most Israelis, however, need look no farther than Menachem Begin, Yitzhak Shamir, and, in fact, Ariel Sharon, to recognize that a tough neighborhood tends to yield statesmen with dark passages in their resume.
Should Barghouti be freed now, and not under the terms of a prisoner exchange for Gilad Shalit, Israel will have deprived Hamas of a central victory in bragging-rights over the release of the Fatah leader.  A stand-alone Israeli decision to free Barghouti is a sign of strength, in stark contrast to caving, hands wrung, to Hamas demands. 
Moreover, the Palestinian center of political gravity and diplomatic momentum would shift overnight back to Fatah and its administration of the West Bank. The release of Barghouti would be an incentive to progress in peace negotiations, and Hamas would find itself hard-pressed to openly oppose, or continue to snipe at and boycott, a Barghouti-led Fatah.
This is a decision which could dramatically alter the Mideast equation. It is one of the few which, under the current political constellation, Netanyahu can carry out. It is one of the first that he should.
________________________Follow Bradley Burston on Twitter
Previous Blogs:Israel's 10 worst errors of the decade 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guardian: Israel offered nukes</title>
<date>Mon May 24 01:57:16 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Date: Mon May 24 01:57:16 IDT 2010
 Israel offered to sell South Africa nuclear warheads in 1975, a Guardian newspaper report on secret apartheid-era documents revealed yesterday. The British daily reported that the papers provide the first official evidence of Israel's possession of nuclear weapons. 
 According to the documents, a secret meeting between then-defense minister Shimon Peres and his South African counterpart P.W. Botha produced an offer for Jerusalem to sell nuclear warheads "in three sizes," which may refer to conventional, chemical and atomic weapons. 
 The Guardian reported that the documents surrounding the military agreement between the countries, to be kept under wraps, were uncovered by American scholar Sasha Polakow-Suransky, doing research for a book. 
 The report added that the documents show Pretoria wanted the weapons to keep neighboring states and other enemies from attacking them. 
 The report said Israeli authorities attempted to keep the South African government from declassifying the documents. According to the Guardian, the minutes of the meeting record that "Minister Botha expressed interest in a limited number of units of Chalet subject to the correct payload being available. ... Minister Peres said the correct payload was available in three sizes. Minister Botha expressed his appreciation and said that he would ask for advice." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Iran: World has not done enough to curb Zionist atrocities </title>
<date>Sun Jul 04 15:56:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki on Sunday accused the United Nations of neglecting their responsibility to deal with the "atrocities" of the Zionist regime, according to the Iranian news agency IRNA.
At a ceremony marking 28 years since four Iranians vanished in Beirut - an event Iran claims was orchestrated by Israel - Mottaki said he regarded "Zionists as the worst threat to the Middle East."
"If the UN had adopted a severe stand against the crimes and atrocities of the Zionists in the past, the regime would not have dared to commit new crimes such as targeting Gaza-bound flotilla," Mottaki said.
The Iranian FM was referring to the May raid by Israeli special forces on a Gaza-bond aid flotilla, which resulted in the death of nine of the flotilla participants.
 "The Zionist regime has turned into a source of threat to all nations of the region, endangering peace and security of the world," Mottaki said, adding that the "inhuman crimes committed by the usurper regime in the past six decades in the occupied lands as well as other parts of the region, truly demonstrates the savage nature of the fabricated regime.""The Zionist regime has lost its credibility and legitimacy among world nations and is now on the verge of collapse," Mottaki said, adding that "the Zionist regime like the former apartheid regime in South Africa is doomed to failure and the nations of the region mainly the Palestinians will witness formation of a democratic system in place of the Zionist occupiers."
Mottaki also reiterated Iranian claims that Israel was behind the disappearance of the four Iranian diplomats. Evidence proved that the officials were "kidnapped by the Zionist regime are held in Israeli jails," Mottaki said, urging all Lebanese and Palestinian groups and international organizations to help secure their release.
An Iranian official indicated last week that Iranian lawmakers protesting Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip would join an aid ship destined to leave from Lebanon.Lebanon had said last month that it would allow a Gaza-bound ship called The Julia to sail via Cyprus, despite warnings from Israel that it reserved the right to use all necessary means to stop ships that tried to sail from Lebanon to Gaza.Mahmoud Ahmadi-Beighash, a member of the Iranian parliament's national security and foreign policy committee, said Iranian parliament delegates could sail on the ship rather than attempt to enter Gaza via Egypt."A ship is going from Lebanon to Gaza in the course of the current week and the lawmakers are following up to go to Gaza via this ship," he said in comments carried by semi-official news agency ISNA.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel denies offering nuclear weapons to Apartheid South Africa</title>
<date>Mon May 24 01:05:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
 
Israel on Monday vehemently rejected claims in a British newspaper that it offered to sell nuclear warheads to Apartheid-era South Africa in 1975.
"There exists no basis in reality for the claims published this morning by The Guardian that in 1975 Israel negotiated with South Africa the exchange of nuclear weapons," the president's office said in a statement.
"Unfortunately, The Guardian elected to write its piece based on the selective interpretation of South African documents and not on concrete facts," said the statement.  "Israel has never negotiated the exchange of nuclear weapons with South Africa. "There exists no Israeli document or Israeli signature on a document that such negotiations took place."
The Guardian newspaper said Sunday that documents uncovered by a U.S. academic during research for a book on Israel's ties with South Africa provided the first hard proof that Israel has nuclear weapons. Israel maintains an official policy of "nuclear ambiguity" over whether it is an atomic power.
The Guardian said documents declassified by South Africa's post-apartheid government at the request of author Sasha Polakow-Suransky included top-secret minutes of meetings between senior officials of the two countries in 1975.
Those papers, the newspaper said, showed that South Africa's defense minister at the time, P.W. Botha, asked warheads and his counterpart Shimon Peres, now Israel's president, offered them in "three sizes". The Guardian claimed that this referred to conventional, chemical and atomic weapons.
Asked about the report, Peres spokeswoman  Ayelet Frisch said: "There is no truth to the Guardian report."
"We regret that the newspaper did not seek a comment from the president's office. If it had done so, it would have discovered that the story is wrong and baseless," she added.
According to the Guardian report, the alleged nuclear deal did not go ahead, partly because of the cost.
Speculation about Israeli-South African nuclear cooperation was raised in 1990 when a U.S. satellite detected a mysterious flash over the Indian Ocean. The U.S. television network CBS reported it was a nuclear test carried out by the two countries.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israelis are behaving like spoiled rich brats</title>
<date>Sun Mar 21 18:54:53 IST 2010</date>
<content>
The terrifying specter of non-violent resistance to the occupation and the apartheid regime is hovering over the State of Israel, and all the state's dignitaries have been recruited to battle it.
This non-violent resistance operates both in areas under Israel's reign of control, in the form of a popular struggle on both sides of the green line, and across the globe, through the Israeli and international affirmative response to the Palestinian call for boycotts, divestment and sanctions on Israel, until it ends the occupation and grants full equality to people from both nations living under its rule.
As an act of solidarity with the subjugated Palestinian people, a group of Jewish Israelis has decided to join those Palestinians who have chosen the non-violent struggle for civic and national justice.
This act has given politically conscientious Jewish Israelis a golden opportunity to join a campaign against their own government without forsaking their own people. Indeed, this act leads the way towards a broader joint struggle with the oppressed people, through a rebuilding of our fundamental human values, enabling us to do away with the friend/foe dichotomy, which lies at the root of Israeli racism and anxiety.
One should hope that this non-violent resistance, led by a popular Palestinian leadership, will evolve into a binational Palestinian-Jewish front for an equitable and egalitarian political solution.
Right-wing groups and government organs have joined forces with all their might at the face of this new adversary who has risen up to challenge the decades-long racist theft of land from one ethnic group and its transfer into the hands of another. This is not surprising.
It is the hysterical reaction coming from so-called "leftist" circles which ought to be considered more surprising. Those "liberals" prefer to march, shamed and humiliated, alongside the Netanyahu-Barak-Lieberman triangle, than associate themselves with enlightened Palestinians. 
From their viewpoint, violating a Tel Avivian's right to listen to Elton John in concert here is equivalent to, and possibly worse than, violating a Palestinian farmer's right to cultivate his land. They accuse the "radicals" of opposing dialogue, though the support for the non-violent struggle and the boycott campaign is precisely what has breathed new life into the cooperation between action groups from both nations.The call issued to rock musicians not to perform in Israel, which has elicited angry responses in Israel, is aimed at thwarting the normalization of occupation and apartheid, a normalization reflected in the insouciant everyday life of the city of Tel Aviv.
The majority of Jewish Israelis are complicit in the perpetuation of the current state of affairs. When growing groups of conscientious people refuse to play the game of building a fictitious democratic sand castle on the shores of the Mediterranean, the Israeli Jew behaves like a spoiled rich brat, who would rather destroy his own castle than see natives share his world and his dreams. 
As long as the Jewish settler who is sitting on the plundered land of Bil'in, and the contractor from uptown Tel Aviv who is making a fortune from building on that land, are free to go to the Pixies concert, while the original inhabitants of Bil'in are prevented from doing so, simply because they are Arab - the concert should be regarded as an apartheid concert.
Neither establishment-drafted artists nor the President of the Israel's Supreme Court can erase this sign of infamy from the collective face of Israeli society. Only those modest, yet determined, groups of individuals who have joined the non-violent Palestinian struggle can succeed  in this. On that day, instead of smearing them as "irrelevant", "puritan", "condescending" and "self-hating", the following statement will apply to them: never was so much owed by so many to so few.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jerusalem & Babylon / A year in  the bubble </title>
<date>Wed Sep 08 02:14:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
I had lunch this week with an old acquaintance who is working now as a lawyer in one of the departments of the Justice Ministry. Despite smiling throughout our meal, he found it hard to suppress his rage when talking about the media. Being subjected to diatribes in the press is an occupational hazard, but for once, I felt that I agreed with him.
"Every paper and radio channel I opened over the last two months has been talking about 1,200 children of illegal immigrants," he said. "And I know that this is a tragedy for them but at the same time we are doing nothing in any way about the tens of thousands of refugees coming in from the south every year, people to whom we have both a moral and legal duty as UN-recognized refugees from a war zone in Sudan. But in the media you are just obsessed about this minor affair because children singing are sexy and people are worried about how it will look if Israel deports children."
His words echoed those of a battalion commander on the Egyptian border I met last month. "There really is no way to turn them back," he said. "We have seen what the Egyptian guards do to them if they catch them. My soldiers just take cover when the Egyptians start shooting, then if any of the wounded still get over the border, we send them to hospital."
Both men are right and the reality they are dealing with is one we are busy running away from, preferring to deal with more simple moral issues. The entire Israeli media, and even such celebrated Jewish luminaries from abroad as Elie Wiesel, have focused on the 400 children who currently fall outside the new residency boundaries. They prefer to ignore the fact that in its 63rd year of independence, the Jewish State still relies on an outdated law, based on Nazi racial ideology, to define its national concept of citizenship and identity.
Tendency to tunnel vision 
Looking back on a year of news coverage  (this is a Rosh Hashanah column, after all ), our collective inability to look outside our little Israeli bubble seems to be the main characteristic. To be honest, that would probably be true of most of the last 62 years, but I don't think the dissonance between Israelis' self-image as globalized, cosmopolitan citizens of the world - and our tendency to tunnel vision - has ever been so pronounced. This isn't just about us looking at events solely from the local prism - as opposed to seeing us as outsiders do  (all too often these foreign observers are prisoners of bubbles of their own ), I am referring to our increasing failure to look at the wider picture of just about anything.
Take the stories that have dominated the news over the past month, from the most serious to the seemingly frivolous. Let's begin with the so-called "Galant document," the story that one of the editors at this paper said "saved August for us." The nasty rivalry that has poisoned the highest ranks of Israel's defense establishment is naturally more than simply that, and the hyperbole about "a breaking of the nation's trust in the IDF" was partially warranted.
But aside from a tiny handful of columnists, the public debate totally disregarded the fact that the ongoing saga demonstrates just how skewed the relationship between the army's high command and its supposed civilian overseers is. No matter how central a role the armed forces play in Israeli society, such an imbalance cannot be allowed to persist in a democracy. Yet if you learn a bit about the clashes between David Ben-Gurion and the generals of 1948, the only conclusion is that we have actually gone backward in most regards of civilian oversight. Despite all this, recent polls prove that the public still trusts the IDF above all other institutions.
Staying with the army, we had the photo album of Eden Abergil, the young woman who shocked the blogosphere and became an overnight international sensation thanks to two photographs from her army days in which she was seen grinning with bound and blindfolded Palestinian prisoners. Commentators were quick to blame her for yet another blow to Israeli hasbara and the IDF Spokesman had a field day castigating her for conduct the violated the army's "ethical code."
It was left to human rights groups such as B'Tselem and Breaking the Silence to remind us that Eden was not the one to blame, but 43 years of occupation during which - like it or not - generations of Israelis ceased to see the other side as human beings. This is not a political issue of left and right and it transcends the debate on the future of Israeli presence in the West Bank - small wonder that we moved on after 48 hours.
Missing the point 
The "big" story of the month seemed to be the summit in Washington and the opening of direct talks between Israelis and Palestinians. The "big" question that everyone was asking was "has Netanyahu crossed the rubicon?" Yet another escape from reality. I admit that I, like everyone else, spent time pondering this question until I participated in an international panel of "experts" on Al Jazeera last week. I belatedly realized after hearing the Palestinian representative that Benjamin Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas may by now be in the same camp. Around them, the forces fighting for one state, be it Jewish apartheid-style or binational "right of return" chaos, are gradually gaining the upper hand.
I'm not saying that the two-state solution is totally lost - at least I hope it isn't - but the question of whether it is still salvageable is far more important than how well Bibi and Abu Mazen can get along.
And now, for hopefully the last story of the silly season, ironically, the argument over when to end summer time. This was naturally framed as yet another state vs. religion clash, a question of who rules our lives, down to the very time of day, but that is an oversimplification. Finance Minister and former philosopher Yuval Steinitz for once got it right when he said that he doesn't see why anyone needs to make such a fuss about something that in macroeconomic terms makes only a negligible difference.
On a scale of all the unresolved issues of Jewish identity bedeviling Israel, this really is probably the least important. If Israelis who fast on Yom Kippur feel that it makes it psychologically easier to do so if clocks are set back in advance, then indulging them is worth the very minor nuisance of going back to winter time while still sweltering from a hamsin.
If we are about to launch the long overdue kulturkampf over Israel's future identity, let's try and make it a fight for something real. Here's to a year of trying to see outside the bubble.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jerusalem & Babylon / Demons on the streets of Israel </title>
<date>Fri Dec 24 02:27:30 IST 2010</date>
<content>
 Almost 30 years ago, my father employed a computer programmer who was an early and prominent support of Rabbi Meir Kahane's Kach party. Innocently, I once asked him how an educated man, an accomplished linguist and mathematician, could support racism. "Jews can't be racist," he answered. "We allow anyone to convert and become a Jew and once he is a Jew, he is equal to us in every way. So how can anyone say we are racists?" 
 I have learned a few things since then. Among them, that having an education is no bar to holding obscene views, and that racism is not technically just about race. But the idea that Jews cannot really be racist is far from being a fringe belief. The reasoning behind this is not just theological. 
 Two millennia of persecution have ingrained us with the knowledge that whenever there is racism around, we will be on the receiving end. True, the Torah includes exhortations to exterminate whole nations, men, women and children, but those are relics of an ancient time with no relevance to today's world. Or so we tell ourselves. 
 Most of the disparaging references to non-Jews in the Talmud were censored out a thousand years ago, mainly for fear of provoking more persecution. Racism always seemed like a luxury that a downtrodden minority group could not afford. Early Zionism may have ascribed to the notion of a "land without a people," disregarding the Arab inhabitants of the land, but this was originally an English Christian notion and by the time 1948 was here, the new Jewish state enshrined equality for members of all races and faiths in its founding declaration. 
 Sure, 63 years later we still have not yet got around to ensuring that Arab citizens enjoy equal access to land, resources, employment, education and budgets, but we see that as just one more problem that our facile politicians and small-minded bureaucrats have yet to solve. Racists? Us? Have we not we given homes and livelihoods to millions of immigrants, many of them non Jews by any standard? William Safire wrote in the New York Times after the airlifting of the Beta Yisrael from Ethiopia became public that "for the first time in history, thousands of black people are being brought to a country not in chains but in dignity, not as slaves but as citizens." Yes, not everyone wants their children to learn with them in the same school, but that's only because they have so much to catch up, that they bring down the academic level. And the segregation between Sephardi and Ashkenazi girls in Haredi schools? That's only some weird religious observance issue. 
 After 1967, Israel assumed control of the lives of millions of Palestinians, without civil rights, and after three generations of Israelis became accustomed to letting Jewish settlers through roadblocks and stopping Arabs, and mainstream state-employed rabbis began channeling biblical hatreds, we still convince ourselves it is a result of the existential nationalist conflict between us and them. They were the ones who shouted Itbach al-Yahud [slaughter the Jews], treated prisoners inhumanely and attacked Jews worldwide whenever tensions boiled over in the Middle East. We sent sophisticated field hospitals to Haiti after the earthquake. Two weeks ago, when dozens of rabbis signed the letter against renting apartments to Arabs, former Knesset Member Rabbi Haim Druckman proposed to change the wording. Instead of Arabs, he proposed "hostile elements trying to take advantage of the equality between loyal citizens, realize the 'right of return' and banish us from our land." Anything to maintain the illusion. 
 Well, finally the racist cat is out of the bag. The demonstrations in South Tel Aviv and Bat Yam against foreigners living in their neighborhoods can no longer be interpreted as anything else. 
 The group of teenagers that systematically hunted down Arabs on the streets of Jerusalem is not just a freak occurrence. The xenophobia is no longer political, or even solely religious. Rabbis stood by women in shorts at the demonstrations. Veteran Kach members such as MK Michael Ben-Ari were there, but so was Kadima MK Yoel Hasson. Tel Aviv Mayor Ron Huldai, a member of Labor, said the demonstration in his city was "understandable." I wonder how he understood the booing and jeering that greeted an Ethiopian immigrant speaker until he assured his listeners that he was Jewish and then called for the Sudanese to be deported back to their land. 
 The failure of successive governments to secure the border with Egypt, impose consistent regulation on the import and abuse of foreign labor and, above all, to develop coherent and up-to-date immigration and citizenship legislation, has finally unmasked the demons that were always lurking close beneath the surface. Finally, we have the damning proof that in hurtling down the slippery slope between legitimate concerns over immigration and downright hatred of foreigners, Jews are no different from the goyim. 
 There is a lesson to be learned here from the Diaspora. The parties of the far right in Europe have shed their old neo-Nazi ties and recast themselves as anti-immigration and especially anti-Muslim. In doing so, they have tried to court the local Jewish communities, citing joint concerns over anti-Semitic attacks. By and large, these overtures have been shunned; most Jewish leaders responsibly knew where to draw the line between speaking out against Muslim hate crimes and the resulting racist backlash. Some of those very politicians who would never be allowed on any respectable platform in their own countries were welcomed here last month and taken on a tour of the settlements. 
 Israel, for all its faults, is not a predominantly racist or Apartheid-like country. But there has been a continuing failure of Israeli society as a whole to recognize victimhood in others; to understand that there were other genocides in the 20th century that need commemorating other than the Holocaust; that while an entire nation hopes to see Gilad Shalit returned to his family, there are 10,000 mothers on the other side who see their imprisoned sons as fighters and not murderers; and to realize that no amount of PR can ever change the impression made by 43 years of occupation of another people. These demons have been unleashed on our streets. 
 The government has a duty, finally, to build the southern border fence, to find ways to integrate some of the illegal immigrants and find alternative solutions for the rest, but all of us have a duty to ourselves - to admit we can also be racists.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Justice to Irish Nobel laureate: Keep Gaza propaganda out of courtroom</title>
<date>Mon Oct 04 13:52:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
An Irish Nobel peace laureate accused Israel of being an apartheid state during a deportation hearing before the country's Supreme Court Monday, prompting a strong rebuke from a justice who told her to keep her propaganda to herself.
Mairead Corrigan Maguire is under a 10-year ban from entering Israel because of her attempt to breach the Gaza naval blockade aboard a vessel in June. She was detained last Tuesday upon landing at Tel Aviv international airport but appealed the move and asked the court to allow her into Israel to join a women's human rights delegation.
Maguire, her face pale and twitching, called on Israel to cease what she called its "apartheid policy against the Palestinian people."
"This is no place for propaganda," Justice Asher Grunis retorted and cut her off. The session ended soon thereafter.
The government opposed a court-proposed compromise that Maguire be allowed to join the delegation for two days and then leave. The court is expected to rule later Monday.
The comments were unlikely to endear Maguire to the court.
Her lawyers said they expected Maguire to be deported, but the incident is likely to further batter Israel's image abroad. Interior ministry officials say Maguire knew she would not be allowed into the country but sought to provoke an incident.
Jody Williams of the Nobel Women's Initiative, which sponsored the delegation, denied they were aware of the ban. But earlier in the year, Israel's foreign ministry denied the group's appeal to ease the ban and let Maguire take part in the delegation that arrived last week.
The 66-year-old activist won the peace prize in 1976 for her efforts to end sectarian violence in Northern Ireland.
Israel has banned other pro-Palestinian activists from entering the country, including Jewish-American linguist Noam Chomsky in May. The government later said that was a mistake.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lebanon PM: Israel's loyalty oath akin to South Africa apartheid</title>
<date>Thu Oct 21 15:46:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Lebanese Prime Minister Sa'ad Hariri on Sunday condemned as racist Israel's controversial amendment to the citizenship bill, which would require non-Jews seeking citizenship to pledge allegiance to Israel as a "Jewish and democratic state".
Hariri also said that the law would make ongoing peace talks with the Palestinians unbearable. He compared the law to practices in apartheid-era South Africa and warned it would encourage extremism.
The Lebanese premier urged the EU to persuade Israel not to apply it.
Cabinet members approved the amendment two weeks ago by a majority. The amendment is one of the promises Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made to Avigdor Lieberman's Yisrael Beitenu party in the coalition agreements.
Since coming into government Yisrael Beitenu has advanced a long list of "loyalty" laws, which many consider to be discriminatory against Israel's Arab citizens.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman: Israel's gestures to Palestinians met with 'slaps in the face'</title>
<date>Thu May 13 01:20:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Israel's many gestures to the Palestinians have been reciprocated by "slaps in the face," Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said yesterday. Speaking to Haaretz by telephone from Japan, Lieberman said that "we took the unilateral step of deciding on a moratorium, a construction freeze in Judea and Samaria. We recognized two states for two peoples. We removed a dramatic number of roadblocks."
He said that "I think we made countless gestures, and what did we get in return? The glorification of terror." He added that "the day before Israel's acceptance by the OECD, [Palestinian Authority Prime Minister] Salam Fayyad approached dozens of countries with a request to sabotage that acceptance. They keep going on with their stories about war crimes during Operation Cast Lead in Gaza. After all, [PA President] Mahmoud Abbas himself called and asked us, pressured us to continue the military campaign and overthrow Hamas."
Lieberman insisted that no agreement exists to freeze construction in East Jerusalem, that the United States has not dictated anything to Israel. He called the issue "a misunderstanding."
In response to the statement yesterday by Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch that the police will continue to demolish illegal homes in East Jerusalem despite the proximity talks with the Palestinians, Lieberman said that "there is one law for everyone, and we can't disobey court decisions."
With regard to Fayyad's statement that a Palestinian state would be established unilaterally in the summer of 2011, Lieberman said that "I'm not interested in what Salam Fayyad declares. His pronouncements are not aimed at establishing a Palestinian state but rather to augment his political power."
Asked whether he had met recently with Fayyad, he said "No, God forbid .... I don't think now is the right time for talks."
With regard to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with the head of Hamas' political wing, Khaled Meshal, Lieberman said that "it's not new, but it's certainly an escalation, and we certainly see it as a very negative step."
 
Mr. Lieberman, is there no agreement to freeze building in Jerusalem?
There is no such agreement.
The Americans are lying?
Well no. Look, I think this is simply a misunderstanding. We aren't being contrary with anyone, including the Americans. We're not being contrary and we won't accept any dictates. The ordinary processes of life go on and we're not going to interrupt them.
But if the Americans come out and say there is a construction freeze, could it be that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised it to them and you don't know anything about it?
No. I think Bibi explained that there are procedures that will take such-and-such an amount of time and we'll go along with the acceptable things; it will be now just like it was before.
A representative of your party Yisrael Beiteinu, Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch, has announced that the police will continue to demolish Palestinian homes in East Jerusalem despite the proximity talks. Do you think this is the correct action to take?
It's hard for me to comment on something I haven't heard about while I'm in Japan, but there is one law for everyone, and we can't disobey court decisions. Usually in such a ruling it's only possible to carry out demolitions after all the appeals are over. I don't believe there is an enlightened country in the world that will say it doesn't want to carry out court decisions. Again, we are not being contrary, but no one expects us to interrupt our lifestyle and stop obeying court orders.
There is a court order that has been renewed time and again: to demolish the settler building in Silwan, Beit Yonatan. And it is not being carried out.
I think that every court order should be executed, and I've also been questioned about East Jerusalem and why Jews are building there. I asked one simple question in return: Let's imagine that the Israeli government decides to forbid Arabs in the eastern part of the city from buying or renting apartments in the west; what will they say about Israel in the enlightened world? That we are racist, an apartheid regime. But no one can imagine the Israeli government forbidding Arabs from East Jerusalem from living in the west. Today there are thousands of Arabs from the eastern part of the city living in the western part, and we don't see any problem with that.
It's a problem to equate private individuals with a country's takeover of disputed land.
Listen, we can't forbid anyone ... it's impossible that the Israeli government will forbid Jews of all people from building or buying in East Jerusalem. With all due respect to the proximity talks, they can't stop the processes of normal life.
That is, from your point of view, there's no room to make a goodwill gesture with regard to these talks?
I think we've made many gestures and all we've gotten in response are slaps in the face. As you remember, we took the unilateral step of deciding on a moratorium, a construction freeze in Judea and Samaria. We recognized two states for two peoples. We removed a dramatic number of roadblocks and allowed Fatah to hold a conference in Bethlehem.
Cooperation with Tony Blair led to [economic] growth of 8 to 9 percent in Judea and Samaria, while the rest of the world was in crisis. I think we made countless gestures, and what did we get in return? The glorification of terror, streets named after Yihyeh Ayash and Dalal Mughrabi. And they try to incite against us and cut us down in every international forum.
The day before Israel's acceptance by the OECD, [Palestinian Prime Minister] Salam Fayyad approached dozens of countries with a request to sabotage that acceptance. They keep going on with their stories about war crimes during Operation Cast Lead in Gaza. After all, [Palestinian President] Mahmoud Abbas himself called and asked us, pressured us to continue the military campaign and overthrow Hamas. And how many days later did he complain to the International Court in The Hague? And they keep on doing this.
How do you feel about Fayyad's announcement that he is working to unilaterally establish a Palestinian state?
I'm not interested in what Salam Fayyad declares. His pronouncements are not aimed at establishing a Palestinian state but rather to augment his political power. It's no secret that there's a lot of tension between Salam Fayyad and Fatah, and it's clear that all his pronouncements are meant to build his personal position, and political power for Salam Fayyad. It's clear that he has a lot of political ambition and he has apparently started to come out publicly and build a position for himself.
Which means you don't believe that a state will materialize?
He no doubt knows better than anyone that it's very much not worth it to unilaterally declare a Palestinian state. It's obvious to him, and he is aware of this better than you or me. He only stands to lose from such an event.
Why? Even if Europe recognizes it?
Never mind, he's on top of things and believe me he's very well aware of reality and there's no reason to think he'll act unilaterally.
I don't see what he has to lose.
The moment he starts unilateral actions, we will too, and it's obvious that on balance he will lose.
What kind of unilateral actions?
There are enough, we have a large arsenal of steps, you don't need examples.
Annexing territory?
Never mind, but believe me he knows for sure.
Wow. Have you spoken to him yourself?
No, God forbid.
Why 'God forbid'?
Because I don't think now is the right time for talks.
The prime minister says that Iran is trying to provoke a war between us and Syria. What do you think about this statement?
It's nothing new. The Iranians are always trying to tell Syria directly, and by passing on lies through Hezbollah, that we're going to attack at any moment. There's no doubt that they are happy that the attention given to their nuclear developments is moving on to a quarrel between us and Syria. I think the penny has dropped for the Syrians, too, and they understand these tricks.
It's not in the Syrians' interest?
No, definitely not.
The strategic affairs minister has mentioned that a military option exists to deal with Iran. How close are we to this?
I think there is no need to talk about any military option, and the Iranian problem is not Israeli, it's a problem for the entire world. But we definitely need to keep this option on the table. I expect first of all for clear and tough decisions by the UN Security Council.
That's the best way, there is an understanding now, and a readiness on the part of the international community. I hope we can reach this understanding at the moment of truth, which is clear to everyone right now.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman: Peace talks must reassess Israeli-Arabs' right to citizenship</title>
<date>Sun Sep 19 11:27:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Israeli Arab politicians responded furiously Sunday to Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman's suggestion suggesting that "disloyal" members of that sector should take Palestinian citizenship.
The question of Israel's citizens needs to be one of the central issues on the negotiating table, in light of the Palestinian refusal to recognize Israel as a Jewish state," Lieberman said ahead of Sunday's weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem.
Recognizing Israel as uniquely Jewish is one of the key demands by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the latest peace talks with the Palestinians, which began earlier this month.
"We can't continue to ignore issues like that of Hanin Zuabi, who identifies completely with the other side," Lieberman said, , referring to an Israeli Arab member of Knesset was stripped of her parliamentary privileges after sailing aboard a pro-Palestinian aid convoy attacked by Israel en route to the Gaza Strip.
"It's as if someone sells you a flat and then demands that his mother-in-law continues living there," he said. "Any Israeli you takes pride in his citizenship should be able to serve in any post, but people like Hanin Zuabi should in my opinion be Palestinian citizens elected under Hamas in Gaza."
In response to Lieberman's remarks, Zuabi declared: "We [Israeli Arabs] represent the only possible democratic option, while Lieberman represents apartheid and ethnic cleansing."
"Lieberman bases his claims on a doctrine of racism, while I base mine on the principle of full equality among citizens – but both of us agree that there needs to be a discussion on the question of Palestinians in Israel and how to classify the state in any negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians," she added.
MK Ahmed Tibi pointedly referred to Lieberman's status as an immigrant from the former Soviet Union, saying: "We aren't calling for the expulsion of citizens from within the State of Israel, but if we were, then whoever got here in the last century should leave first."
"It is very serious that the deputy prime minister is a settler who is constantly concerned with programs pertaining to the expulsion of citizens or the collective expropriation of citizenship," he said.
"We were here before the fascist immigrant Lieberman and we will stay here even after him," Tibi declared.
Israeli Arab MK Mohammed Barakeh said his sector just wanted to "live with hםnor and in equality in our own homes."
Lieberman, whose ultra-nationalist Yisrael Beiteinu party campaigned under the slogan "no loyalty, no citizenship", has made national allegiance a central component of his political agenda, demanding all Israelis, swear an oath of loyalty to the state.
The foreign minister's remarks came just days after Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak dismissed as "unnecessary" Israel's demand to be recognized by the Palestinians as a Jewish.
"I say to Israeli citizens, including Jews, Muslims and others, that there is no such thing as a state in which all the citizens are Jews," Mubarak said. "In Egypt, we have Muslims, Christians and Jews and there is no problem. When they wanted to establish a Muslim state in Kosovo, the world came out against it because it did not want a Muslim state in central Europe."
Israeli Arabs make up around a fifth of the country's population.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman: Talks must tackle Israeli Arabs' citizenship </title>
<date>Mon Sep 20 01:15:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
The Palestinians' refusal to recognize Israel as a Jewish state should be "one of the central topics on the negotiating table," Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said on Sunday, causing an uproar among Knesset members outraged by his suggestion that Israeli citizens who fail to demonstrate loyalty to the state should be transferred to Palestinian territory.
"This is a subject that we've run away from until now, but we can't go on like this. It's as if someone were selling you an apartment on the condition that his mother-in-law continue living there," Lieberman said ahead of Sunday's cabinet meeting. "Every Israeli citizen who accepts his or her citizenship with pride can serve in any position, but people like Hanin Zuabi need to be Palestinian citizens. They can go run for election in Gaza under Hamas."
Zuabi is a Balad party lawmaker who participated in the Turkish aid flotilla to Gaza in May.
Zuabi said in response, "We represent the only possible democratic option, while Lieberman represents apartheid and ethnic cleansing." The foreign minister's remarks "are based on a racist creed, while ours rests on the principle of full equality for citizens. We both agree, however, that the question of the Palestinians in Israel and all matters regarding the definition of the state are related to the talks between Israelis and Palestinians."
Hadash chairman Mohammed Barakeh said, "We never sold the apartment. We stayed in the apartment, which he has taken over. We are asking to live in dignity and equality in our own home."
Ahmed Tibi, chairman of the United Arab List-Ta'al, said, "It is grave when the deputy prime minister is a settler who constantly talks about deporting citizens or collectively appropriating citizenship. We were here before Lieberman the fascist immigrant, and we'll be here after him.
"We're not talking about banishing citizens from the State of Israel, but if we are, then let's have those who arrived last leave first. The first stumbling block to a final-status agreement and equal rights is the settlers, not indigenous Arab citizens," Tibi said.
Minority Affairs Minister Avishay Braverman said, "Lieberman's racist remarks harm the sensitive social fabric between Jews and Arabs, and only cause damage to the State of Israel."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Likud MK: Israeli public fed up with lunatic fringe that controls theater, cinema</title>
<date>Sat Nov 06 20:11:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
"The vast majority of the Israeli public is fed up with the lunatic fringe that has gained control of Israeli theater and cinema," MK Yariv Levin (Likud) said on Saturday in response to a letter sent on Friday by dozens of theater figures to Be'er Sheva theater actors urging them to boycott the newly built arts center in the West Bank settlement of Ariel.
Levin said he would initiate an emergency session of the Knesset Education Committee in order to set new criteria for support of cultural institutions, so that state funds would not go to boycotters.
"The new criteria will focus on promoting works that express our magnificent culture and heritage," Levin said. "It's time to put an end to taxpayer funds going directly into the pockets of fringe elements that use the funds to promote an anti-Zionist and anti-Jewish narrative while boycotting the public that finances them."
MK Otniel Schneller (Kadima), who lives in the Ma'aleh Machmesh settlement, said that political leaders needed to inform the actors that Ariel is part of a settlement bloc that will remain part of Israel in any peace agreement with the Palestinians.
The Be'er Sheva theater company is scheduled to perform in Ariel on the cultural center's opening night this week.
In September a group of theater actors and public figures signed a petition saying they would not perform in the new Ariel center as a protest of Israel's settlement policies. The protest was supported by over 150 academics.
"Ariel is not just another community," the letter sent on Friday said, stressing that the actors were about to perform in the cultural center that was erected in Ariel on occupied land. "Just several kilometers from the thriving and flourishing Ariel, Palestinians live in refugee camps, in harsh living conditions and without any basic human right. Not only are they not entitled to see performances in Ariel, some of them have no access to running water."
The letter added that the two contrasting realities of Ariel and the Palestinian refugees constituted "an apartheid nation."
Among the signatories of the current letter to the Be'er Sheva Theater are several prominent theater and culture figures such as film director Eitan Fux, artist and critic Yair Garbuz, television director and activists Doron Tzabari, theatre director Yehoshua Sobol and others.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Livni: Loyalty oath amendment is 'politics at its worst'</title>
<date>Sun Oct 10 15:27:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Leader of the opposition and Kadima chairwoman Tzipi Livni condemned on Sunday the cabinet's approval of a controversial amendment to the Citizenship Law requiring non-Jews seeking citizenship to pledge allegiance to Israel as a Jewish and democratic state.
"What we have seen today is politics at its worst. The sensitive issue of Israel's existence as a Jewish and democratic state has become subject to political horse-trading."
"It is essential that we maintain Israel's status as a Jewish state with equal rights for all its citizens. This proposal contributes nothing to this goal. On the contrary, it will cause internal conflict and damage [Israel's image in the world]."
Israeli Arab MK Ahmed Tibi attacked earlier on Sunday the cabinet's approval of the amendment.
"The government of Israel has become subservient to Yisrael Beiteinu and its fascist doctrine," said Tibi. "No other state in the world would force its citizens or those seeking citizenship to pledge allegiance to an ideology."
"Israel has proven that it is not equal and is a democracy for Jews and not for Arabs," he added.
The amendment is one of the promises Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made to Yisrael Beitenu in the coalition agreements. Since coming into government Yisrael Beitenu has advanced a long list of "loyalty" laws, which many consider to be discriminatory against Israel's Arab citizens.
Yisrael Beiteinu was enthusiastic over the cabinet's majority vote, calling it "an important message to all those, both inside and outside, who seek to question the State of Israel's existence as the national state of the Jewish people."
Meretz chairman MK Haim Oron also condemned the amendment on Sunday, saying that "time and again it is evident that the government has adopted Lieberman's agenda in its entirety."
Oron added that the government has sunk into a "moral and political abyss."
Hadash chairman Mohammed Barakeh blamed on Sunday Netanyahu and Barak for supporting and promoting "mega-racist legislation."
Israeli Arab MK Talab al-Sana said on Sunday that "the amendment is a serious blow to democracy and will cause the exclusion of 20 percent of the country's citizens... [It] will situate Israel as the successor of Apartheid-era South Africa."
The cabinet voted Sunday by a majority in favor of the amendment, which was submitted by Justice Minister Ya'akov Ne'eman. But ministers had been divided on the issue since it was first raised.
At the last minute, Ne'eman had suggested amending the draft to require Jews to sign a similar loyalty oath. Defense Minister Ehud Barak submitted an amendment of his own to the draft, demanding it include mention of  "Jewish and democratic state in the spirit of the Declaration of Independence of [1948]."
Barak insisted that adding a reference to the Declaration of Independence "would be the best way to reflect the fundamental values of the State of Israel."
This slight change to include the declaration "would not harm the Arab minority," he said, noting that similar declarations are common in many countries in the world.
Most Labor politicians opposed the bill, including Isaac Herzog and Avishay Braverman, who lead the opposition, and Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, who was absent from the meeting but left a letter in which he expresses his opposition.
Minister Shalom Simhon (Labor) also skipped the meeting, as he was abroad on a business trip.
Herzog told Haaretz late Saturday that the resounding support for such an amendment showed that "fascism was devouring the margins of society."
"We are on a most dangerous slippery slope," he warned.
Likud ministers Dan Meridor and Benny Begin were expected to try and dissuade their cabinet colleagues from supporting the amendment.
Meridor led an assault on the amendment and warned that such an amendment to the law could severely damage relations with the Arab population in Israel.
Knesset Speaker Reuven Rivlin was also opposed to the bill, declaring: "The students of Jabotinsky see no need for such bill. I am a fervent Zionist, and I need no strengthening of my belief. The establishment of a Jewish state in the Land of Israel was an ethical act that the world recognized, and it gained great respect when we described our country as Jewish and democratic. This description is also anchored specifically in the Declaration of Independence and the Law on Elections, and any additions of this type can only be harmful."
"This law will not assist us as a society and a state. On the contrary, it could arm our enemies and opponents in the world in an effort to emphasize the trend for separatism or even racism within Israel," Rivlin said.
"I am not opposed to saying each morning and evening that we are a Jewish and democratic state, but why do we need this law?" Rivlin said.
Interior Minister Eli Yishai said, meanwhile, that he would propose his own bill that strip citizenship off of anyone convicted of disloyalty to the state.
"Declarations are not enough in the fact against incidents such as [MKs] Azmi Bishara and Hanin Zoabi," Yishai said in reference to two Israeli Arab lawmakers, one who is suspected of having contacts with enemy states and the other who took part in a Gaza-bound aid flotilla. "Anyone who betrays the state will lose his citizenship."  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mass demonstration in Bil'in marks five years  of protests against West Bank separation fence </title>
<date>Sun Feb 21 02:07:07 IST 2010</date>
<content>
On the fifth anniversary of the start of demonstrations against the separation fence, nearly 1,000 protesters gathered on Friday in Bil'in, dwarfing the weekly protests that usually draw 100-200 demonstrators. Rallying demonstrators from the radical left and a large portion of the local village population, the mass protest took on a near festive character, with the participation of Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.  
The world's media was also there in large numbers to cover the anniversary, as was Al Jazeera, the Arabic satellite television station that is there every Friday broadcasting the demonstrations. Overlooking the site more than 20 television crews took up position, and many dozens of journalists and photographers too.  
The strong media presence highlights the fact that over the past five years Bil'in has become a symbol of the Palestinian struggle against the separation fence, which has great media appeal.  
Each of the participants in the event had a role to play, and each was prearranged with diligence. Ro'i Wenger, one of the leftist protesters who is a regular at the Bil'in demonstrations, gathered together the many Israeli protesters - mostly in their 20s or younger, wearing T-shirts comparing Israel's policies to apartheid - at a home in the center of the village, across from a mosque with a sign of the "Popular Struggle."  
"We celebrate five years to the demonstrations in Bil'in," Wenger tells the young protesters packed in one of the rooms. "Popular demonstrations organized by the Palestinians against the fence," he adds.  
But the organization is controlled by a very small group of locals and Israelis, who coordinate events in an exemplary fashion and even have people directing the media vehicles into a parking lot. One of the local activists, Abdullah Abu Rahma, in whose home the briefing is being held, is under arrest in Israel. He was arrested in one of the IDF's evening raids.  
The villagers of Bil'in say that the fence, which passes near their community, prevents access to some 90 percent of their land, estimated at 2,000 dunams (some 500 acres). A Supreme Court ruling has ordered the Defense Ministry to move the fence, restoring 700 dunams to the village. The activists insist that they will not cease protesting until the fence is razed.  
Senior IDF officers of the Judea and Samaria Division insist that the protests in Bil'in are anything but popular, and claim that it is a drama created by a small number of activists who, along with Israeli and foreign volunteers benefiting from contributions from international peace groups, are stirring up trouble and profiting from it too. As evidence to their allegations, the officers point to a number of recently refurbished homes and new SUVs belonging to the activists.  
The activists maintain that their demonstrations are peaceful. However, youths were preparing slingshots, and took up positions in front of an IDF checkpoint on the other side of the fence, throwing stones. IDF statistics claim that since the start of the demonstrations 110 members of the security forces suffered injuries, and one officer lost an eye as a result of projectiles fired with slingshots.  
On the Palestinian side, there have been hundreds of wounded and one dead, Bassem Abu Rahma, killed last April when a smoke grenade hit him in his chest.  
Expecting violence to break out on Friday, the security forces took defensive positions much further away, and avoided responding when the protesters broke through the outer gate of the separation fence. Eventually a vehicle specially designed to counter demonstrations was used to drive the protesters off, with a water cannon firing specially designed, foul smelling fluid. Tear gas pushed the demonstrators back toward the village.  
Security forces said that the damage to the fence is estimated at NIS 100,000.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Netanyahu is incapable of making peace - but does Israel care?</title>
<date>Wed Apr 28 14:22:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
About the MESS Report 
Dinner at the home of a foreign diplomat, earlier this week. Two high-ranking visitors from the diplomat's home country listen as an Israeli delegation paints a less than encouraging picture of the Middle East. The Israelis - academics, journalists and a former negotiator in the peace process, all of them somewhere between the center and the left on the political map - are united in their prognosis: Things aren't what they were.
Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, is incapable of any serious diplomatic action. Ordinary Israelis aren't worried enough about security to take much of an interest in politics, mistrust Arabs in general and have no particularly desire for a breakthrough. The chance of peace, either with the Syrians or the Palestinians, is near zero. The Obama administration would be well advised to stake neither its efforts nor its reputation on Middle East peace.
Their assessment completes a grim picture sketched by Thomas Friedman in his column in the New York Times last month. Once Israelis saw peace with their neighbors as a matter of life or death, Friedman argued, while for America it was just hobby. Now the situation has reversed. Israelis have completely lost faith in Palestinian sincerity in the wake of a wave of murderous attacks that followed the outbreak of the second intifada. They have since built a fence to cut themselves off from the threat - with the consequence that what goes on in the West Bank is as interesting and relevant to them as the dark side of the moon.
Israelis living within the Green Line once again feel safe; and, thankfully, Israel troops are rarely killed (in the past few years Canada has lost more soldiers in Afghanistan than Israel in the Palestinian territories). The economy has weathered the global crisis remarkably well, hi-tech industry is flourishing. So why worry?
Add to this assessment several other factors, all of which make a settlement even more unlikely: The lesson most Israelis draw from the retreat from Gaza and Lebanon is that evacuating occupied territory just brings more rockets; Likud party ideology barely allows the government to push through even limited outpost evacuations - let alone a full-scale withdrawal; and changes in the army's demography (almost a quarter of officers in combat units are now religious Jews) will make it hard to rely on the IDF next time the government decides to evict Jews from their homes.
On the Palestinian side, there is a lack of both political maturity and will to compromise, exacerbated by faith in the unflinching support of the Obama administration. Nor do the Geneva Initiative's warnings of a 'demographic time bomb' hold much sway over Israel, which is happy enough for the Palestinian population to explode - provided it does so beyond the confines of the separation fence. As for the radicalization of Arab Israelis, this will always be a problem, peace settlement or no.
The skeptics have a point. There is a lot to be claimed against Western advocates of a peace deal. Who said every conflict has a solution? And why is the West so naive when it comes to Arab intentions? How can they be so presumptuous as to think that the United States can dictate peace from above?
And yet there is one question to which Israelis, whether pessimistic or pragmatic, have no answer: How can Israel redress the decline in its legitimacy? Ariel Sharon was so concerned by Israel's failing image that he devised the withdrawal from Gaza. But five years have passed since then. At issue is not just the dwindling international support for Israel but the state's ties with the Jewish Diaspora. Will the next generation of American Jews stand beside Israel with the same determination, when in the West the occupation is increasingly associated with apartheid?
While the Israelis at the dinner had no doubt of the perils of the current situation, they were also resigned to it. But as I listened to them, I could not help dwelling on the consequences of political stagnation - and all the nasty things that flourish in stagnant water. Will Netanyahu, like the Red Queen in Alice in Wonderland, have to keep running just to stay in the same place?
Somehow - and I know the analogy is imperfect - events of the past year are reminiscent of the prelude to the Yom Kippur war. Conversations with senior army officers reveal similar fears. The Middle East is in for a long, difficult summer. We can only hope the pessimists are wrong.
Posted by Amos Harel on April 28, 2010
Previous MESS Report posts:
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Netanyahu wants loyalty oath bill to include Jews as well</title>
<date>Mon Oct 18 21:21:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu instructed Justice Minister Ya'akov Ne'eman on Monday to prepare a new bill extending the loyalty oath, which is currently aimed at non-Jews, to include Jewish immigrants as well.
"We expect that every person wishing to become an Israeli citizen recognize Israel as a Jewish and democratic state," Netanyahu said on Monday evening.
"There is broad approval among the Israeli public regarding the Jewish and democratic identity of Israel, and that is not incidental. The state of Israel was founded as the sovereign state of the Jewish people and as a democratic state in which all its citizens – Jews and non-Jews alike – enjoy equal rights. Any person wishing to become an Israeli citizen must recognize these two key principals."
Last week, cabinet ministers approved by a majority vote a controversial amendment to the Citizenship Law which would require every non-Jew wishing to become a citizen of Israel to pledge loyalty to "the State of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state."
At the time, Ne'eman suggested rewording the draft of the proposed loyalty oath to include Jews and non-Jews alike.
On Monday, Netanyahu has decided to have Ne'eman draft a proposal wherein Jewish immigrants who are granted citizenship under the Law of Return to also be required to say the loyalty oath.
According to sources close to the prime minister, Netanyahu has not changed his stance on the bill. Apparently, Netanyahu already showed his support of this addition to the bill during the cabinet meeting in which the initial loyalty oath bill was approved.
Following Diaspora Minister Yuli Edelstein's hesitations on the bill, Netanyahu asked Ne'eman during the meeting to examine the option of extending the loyalty oath to Jews as well.
In response to Netanyahu's request, Ahmed Tibi, Chairman of the United Arab List-Ta’al, said "the idea in its original form is bad."
"There is no place for this version, not for Jews or for Arabs, unless someone feels the need to give in to Lieberman's whims or to battle his fascism," said Tibi. "Forcing a principal ethical identity on Jews and Arabs as one is completely unnecessary. It is redundant and is an attempt to enforce an ideology which Jews and Arabs need to adamantly oppose."   
Last week, leader of the opposition and Kadima chairwoman Tzipi Livni condemned the loyalty oath bill, calling it "politics at its worst."
Hadash chairman Mohammed Barakeh blamed Netanyahu and Barak for supporting and promoting "mega-racist legislation."
Israeli Arab MK Talab al-Sana said that "the amendment is a serious blow to democracy and will cause the exclusion of 20 percent of the country's citizens... [It] will situate Israel as the successor of Apartheid-era South Africa."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Nick Clegg to Haaretz: I admire Israel, but won't stop criticizing its government </title>
<date>Wed May 05 23:44:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
I lift the receiver and hear: "Adar?" In recent weeks the voice on the other side has become familiar to millions of people in Britain and around the world.
"Nick Clegg is speaking," he says, amused. "I'm so glad to renew our contact after all these years."
A few minutes earlier I was still involved in intercontinental conversations with a dozen other graduates of the College of Europe in Bruges, Belgium, recently dubbed "the Harvard of the European elite" by the British media.
Clegg's dizzying success hasn't surprised any of us alumni. Many of those old friends are being hounded by Britain's tabloid press these days, as they search for small crumbs of information to shed light on - or smear - the relatively unknown Liberal Democrat leader.
Eran Katz, the other Israeli who studied with us at the time, in the early 90s, has become well known in his own right, for the books he's written on memory theory. On the phone, Katz recalled how he helped along Clegg's love affair with Miriam Gonzalez Durantez, a talented and attractive fellow student: how he recommended a romantic vacation spot in the Ardennes Mountains, and how, thanks to his intervention, or so he would like to believe, they eventually married.
The Spaniard Jose-Ramon Leon Lora, today the European Commission representative in Morocco, reveled as he remembered how he overcame Clegg, the undisputed star of the exclusive university with his candidacy for head of the student council. Canadian Millie Stanisic, now a film producer in New York, is convinced she could have written the script even back then. She recounts a conversation she had with Clegg in the college cafeteria in which she prophetically uttered: "The day will come, Nick Clegg, when I'll be your guest at 10 Downing Street."
Clegg laughs loudly when he hears this. He has made clear during the election campaign that he is going for gold, betting all he's got, and that he wants to be Britain's next prime minister.
But now's the time to put things into perspective: "We're not there yet," he says modestly.
His glowing performance in the first televised debate shuffled the deck completely, turning him into the Susan Boyle of British politics, and the campaign's hottest story. He has been called "the most popular British politician since Churchill," and "the British Barack Obama." He has even been compared to Che Guevara.
The kingmaker
If the surveys are right, no party will win an absolute majority in the British Parliament today, for the first time in 35 years. Clegg, who may take second place, will be the kingmaker who decides whether Labour governs Britain for another four years, or whether there will be an upset in the Conservatives' favor after 13 years out of power.
He is the one who will decide whether a minority or a coalition government will rule; and whether for the first time in 90 years, the Liberal Democrats will return to a position of influence, with the implications reaching all the way to Jerusalem.
On the eve of the election, he refuses to make any predictions. He prefers not to talk about his ministerial preferences. It all depends on "these untypical elections," and "the great desire of millions for change."
Instead, he talks about "an opportunity that won't be repeated, the one-in-a-lifetime chance to change Britain forever."
In his mind's eye he sees "a quick and radical shift in the tectonic plates of politics," but he's also cautious. "Our message is that this time there's no need to return to the old patterns and alternatives. If enough people vote for the Liberal Democrats, then we can make big changes," he states.
Commentators say that Clegg's popularity lies in, among other things, the fact that he managed to steal the banner of change and new ideas from David Cameron and the Conservatives. These new ideas include a new distribution of taxes to benefit the poor, more money for education, canceling an expensive nuclear submarine project in favor of investment in the economy, the development of ecologically sound "green businesses," granting legal status to illegal immigrants who have spent at least a decade in the country; and above all, changing the anachronistic election system which distorts the will of voters and which allows the candidate less votes than his rivals to take office as prime minister.
No joy in Jerusalem
Though Cleggmania is rife in the U.K., Jerusalem is sunk in a Clegg-pression.
"Clegg is bad news for Israel," one official here said. "His party is running on a human rights platform, and the atmosphere is hostile to Israel. We remind the Liberal Democrats of South Africa during apartheid. Even if Clegg decides not to take the foreign portfolio, the very fact that Liberal Democrats sit in the cabinet is likely to mean trouble for us."
In the wake of the Second Lebanon War and Operation Cast Lead, the Liberal Democrats asked for an arms embargo on Israel, and to suspend its preferential trade status with the European Union. The party was also behind the demand to mark Israeli products made in the West Bank.
In December, Clegg was at the head of the list of signatories of a letter attacking the Israeli government for the blockade on Gaza. "The confinement and punishment of an entire population is no way to bring about peace for all of the people of the Middle East," the letter read.
Most of the bad blood was created by Baroness Jenny Tonge, a former Liberal Democrat MP, who became a member of the House of Lords in 2005. A year earlier, Tonge announced that if she were a Palestinian living under occupation, she would herself have become a suicide bomber. In 2006, she said that the pro-Israel lobby exerted a "financial grip" on her party and on Britain.
In February, she went even further and called for an investigation into claims that IDF soldiers who were sent to aid Haitian earthquake victims were involved in harvesting body organs from the dead. Her remarks caused a storm and Clegg fired her from her job as shadow health spokesperson.
"Too little, too late," a member of the British Jewish community said. "In light of the blood libel, he should have expelled her from the party."
Clegg, who called Tonge's remarks "wrong, distasteful and provocative," says that he is "a very staunch defender of the people of Israel, of a very staunch defender of the rights of the Jewish community here in Britain, a community which is feeling quite beleaguered at the moment because of the rise in anti-Semitism and the rise in prejudice generally."
He recently criticized the cooperation of British Conservatives in the European Parliament with extreme right-wing parties in Eastern Europe, whom he terms, "nutters, anti-Semitic, and homophobic."
"As to the accusations that I am hostile to Israel, my actions prove the opposite. I have always sharply opposed various efforts to impose academic and cultural sanctions on Israel. I am also one of those who said that Britain should not have participated in the Durban 2 conference when it became clear that it would turn into an anti-Israel event."
"I have tremendous admiration for the state of Israel and its people. When I visited, I was once again exposed to the genius of this nation, which has managed to maintain a democratic regime and a thriving and open economy, despite its existence under a constant threat. This is a great achievement.
But we must distinguish clearly between the Israeli and the Jewish people on the one hand, and certain actions of the Israeli government on the other. If I have criticism it is focused solely on these actions. I plan to continue to voice my thoughts, which stem from honest and legitimate concern, and in my estimation that the long term interests of the people of Israel are not being met properly at this time."
Clegg rejects speaking to Hamas "as long as Hamas continues to nurture an extremist ideology of violence and terror. I totally understand the feelings of the residents of Sderot who are under constant missile attacks that are meant to impose terror. My condemnations of Hamas have always been clear and unequivocal, and the same is true of my attitude toward the fact that Israel has the full right to defend its inhabitants. That is the role of every country and every government.
"However," he adds, "I don't understand the Israeli strategy regarding Gaza. The imposition of the siege against 1.5 million people, many of them young people who become increasingly itter, and the disproportionate use of force.
Operation Cast Lead did of course bring about a certain neutralization of the attackers and the missile attacks ¬ but did it reduce the bitterness prevailing between the peoples, did it weaken Hamas' position, and did it guarantee Israel's long-term security interests? I'm not at all certain."
Clegg comes out against Israel's "continued development of the illegal settlements," he welcomes the approaching proximity talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, and as far as Hamas is concerned, he says: "The only way to deal with Hamas is to work to split the organization between the extremists who want to destroy the peace process and those who are willing over the long term to recognize Israel and to work to find a solution in a non-violent manner."
Clegg rejects out of hand the claim that the British public is today the most "anti-Israel" in Europe.
"Operation Cast Lead and incidents like falsifying documents in Dubai do create tension, but just as I would never treat any public criticism of some activity or other of the British government as an anti-British attitude, in the same way, British criticism of the policy of the Israeli government should not be treated as 'anti-Israeli,'" he says.In December 2009, 51 of the 63 members of the Liberal Democrats stood behind a draft bill in the Parliament in support of universal jurisdiction, which allows private citizens to apply for the arrest of Israeli politicians for alleged war crimes while they are on British soil.
"I'm very happy that we should review it, but it shouldn't be reviewed in a sort of panic. It needs to be reviewed in a calm and deliberate way. I was against the Labour government's wish to try and rush through changes before the election, I think that's wrong. I think there are issues of principles at stake, which I would like us all to have a look at calmly after the elections."
Looking to Europe
As befits a graduate of the College of Europe, 43-year-old Clegg is undoubtedly a dyed-in-the-wool "European." He speaks five languages. His Dutch mother was a captive in Indonesia during the Japanese occupation during World War II. His banker father, who is half Russian, is the scion of an aristocratic family. His wife, a lawyer, is the daughter of a former Spanish senator. His three sons have Spanish names. He himself spent more than 10 years in the corridors of the European Union. This record is already making many people nervous, both in England and abroad.
Although he supports his country's joining the eurozone, he says that this is "a totally mistaken move now." He cannot say anything else, in light of the fears that Britain will become "the Greece of Northern Europe." Nevertheless he declares that "we have to recall that the crisis in Greece stems from the fact that past governments there were not up front regarding their financial situation. The fault is theirs, not that of the euro bloc."
Between the lines, we can perhaps understand that he has not really abandoned the dream of adopting the single currency.
He is proud of the fact that he was one of the first to oppose Britain's participation in the Iraq war. His policy is to put an end to the era of being a "poodle" of the United States. He wants to abandon the "exaggerated dependence" on Washington and at the same time to build closer ties with Europe.
Jerusalem is afraid that Clegg, who sees Washington's approach to Israel as overly gentle, is liable to oppose joining future U.S. war activities.
"We cannot leave pressure on the Middle East to the U.S. alone," he declared recently at a press conference.
To Haaretz, he says, "No country is allowed to embark on war only out of loyalty to its ally. To this day I'm angry about the way in which Gordon Brown and [former British prime minister] Tony Blair - with the support of David Cameron and the Conservatives - decided to go to war in Iraq, in order to make [former U.S. president] George W. Bush and [former U.S. vice president] Dick Cheney happy. That certainly cannot be a good enough reason for an illegal invasion of another country. We must embark on military actions only when they are in our interest. That's why we supported and continue to support the international effort in Afghanistan. As opposed to Iraq, Britain has a clear interest in the war in Afghanistan, in spite of the fact that we have growing fears about the way in which the war there is being conducted."
Clegg rejects a military option in Iran too. "If they were to convince me that there's a practical option, then clearly we would have to consider it. I have not been exposed so far to any proof that we can stop the Iranian nuclear program by means of an aerial attack, while a comprehensive and all-out ground war is not an option. Our greatest ally against [Iranian President Mahmoud] Ahmadinejad and the extremists in Tehran is of course the Iranian people themselves. The opposition in Iran is widening and it's our best chance over the long term to neutralize Iran's nuclear capability. We must find the proper and difficult balance between putting pressure on the Iranian regime by expanding the sanctions on the one hand and creating the conditions that will enable the Iranians themselves to confront their leaders on the other. Talking about a military option does not contribute to that - on the contrary, it makes Ahmadinejad's life easy and enables him to claim that he is acting as he is because of the external military threats."
As far as relations with the U.S., says Clegg, they should be described as "special."
"I lived and worked there [at the University of Minnesota], and I love that country. We have a common language, history and culture - it's a unique partnership that cannot be taken away from us. All that doesn't mean that our relationship should become a subservient one, in which we automatically do what they tell us to do. At the end of the day, Britain's foreign policy, just like that of Israel, must be conducted in accordance with British interests rather than those of the White House."
"In any case, I think that's the type of relationship that President Obama and his White House advisers are interested in. What they want is for Britain to be a strong force in Europe, so that it can influence the continent in accordance with our common transatlantic interests. There's no contradiction between being strong within Europe and being a close ally of the U.S. On the contrary: One is necessary to guarantee the other."
When Clegg talks about "common transatlantic interests" he is of course referring to the Middle East as well.
"I tend to say that the European Union must stop being an economic giant and a political pygmy," he says. "Since it is Israel's largest trade partner and one of the largest providers of assistance, infrastructure and money to the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza - it must use its influence to bring about the goal to which we all aspire - a peaceful solution of old and bloody conflict, to bring about a situation where the two nations will live in peace alongside one another. That has always been my perspective."
Clegg's attitude indicates that his recent stardom has not gone to his head."What goes up can come down too," he says. "The higher they lift you, the more painful the fall. Those are the laws of gravity."
But whatever the results, nobody in Britain today will question the fact that the election campaign that has already been described as "the most important since 1918" ¬ when women were given the vote - will be remembered as such mainly because of one man. His name is Nick Clegg.
 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians dance to Lady Gaga in Hebron, to counter video made by IDF troops</title>
<date>Sun Jul 11 17:01:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Palestinian residents of Hebron and their Israeli supporters have posted on YouTube a dance-video of their own, to respond to one created by Israel Defense Forces troops apparently bored during patrol duty in the contentious West Bank city.
The minutes-long video created by six soldiers shows them stopping patrol to dance to American electro-pop singer Kesha's hit Tik Tok. The video "Batallion 50 Rock the Hebron Casbah" shows six dancing Nahal Brigade soldiers, armed and wearing bulletproof vests, patrolling as a Muslim call to prayer is heard. Then the music changes and they break into a Macarena-like dance.
The army called their video a stunt, but promised that the soldiers would face disciplinary action over the matter.
The video garnered hundreds of thousands of clips on YouTube, after it was pulled from the web by its creator and then reposted.
Palestinians and activists choreographed a video of themselves in response, showing two kaffiyeh-clad men searched, handcuffed and arrested as Lady Gaga's Poker Face plays in the background.
The response video has already received a number of responses, including calls to stop the "occupation and apartheid."
Similar clips involving other armies have grabbed headlines in recent months, including one of American forces in Afghanistan doing their take on a Lady Gaga song.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians hope to derail Jerusalem light rail project </title>
<date>Fri Jan 29 13:11:28 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Jerusalem's first light rail starts test runs this spring, with its sleek silver cars gliding across the city and promising to relieve the perpetual congestion.
But Palestinians see no reason to celebrate.
They hope to derail the $1 billion tram because they fear it will further entrench Israeli control over East Jerusalem, the part of the city they want as a capital. They've asked a French court to force two French multinationals, Veolia and Alstom, out of the project and are urging Arab countries to cancel contracts with the two companies.
The 9-mile (14-kilometer) line runs from Jewish west Jerusalem to the largest of several settlements Israel built in the traditionally Arab eastern sector.
Palestinians say Israel is creating more facts on the ground with the tram, just as it has with its ever-expanding Jewish enclaves in East Jerusalem that are now home to 180,000 Israelis.
"The purpose of this project is to make a bridge between the settlements?and west Jerusalem and they use our land, Palestinian land," said Ahmed Rweidi, an adviser to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. "The train is illegal and the settlements are illegal."
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he's not willing to give up any part of Jerusalem, taking a harder line than some of his predecessors, and insists Israel has the right to build anywhere in the city.
Government spokesman Mark Regev said the light rail will serve all of Jerusalem's residents and beyond, Arab and Jew alike.
The campaign against the train is part of a wider attempt by Palestinian activists and politicians to use new ways to challenge Israeli rule over the lands they want for a state. Frustrated by the failure of nearly two decades of peace talks, they are increasingly trying to hit Israel where it hurts - the pocket book.
Palestinian security forces have been confiscating goods made in Jewish settlements from West Bank shops. Dozens of Palestinian grassroots groups have been orchestrating a boycott Israel campaign since 2005.
Inspired by the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa, they say they've gained momentum, particularly after the international outcry over Israel's war against Gaza's Hamas rulers last winter. 
Israeli officials say the campaign has failed to dent Israel's economy and bristle at comparisons to apartheid-era South Africa. Jewish activists have been pushing back, branding the attempted boycott as anti-Semitic.
The fight over the rail line comes amid an especially bitter deadlock over the fate of Jerusalem.
Netanyahu's refusal to stop settlement construction in East Jerusalem is one of the reasons Abbas won't resume peace talks that broke off more than a year ago.
But stopping the trains will be an uphill battle.
Tracks have already been laid on most of the route, which will have 23 stations and link west Jerusalem with Pisgat Zeev, the largest Jewish settlement in the eastern sector. Forty-four cars are parked at a depot in east Jerusalem, ready for a test phase that is to begin around March and last several months.
The Palestine Liberation Organization has asked a French court to order Veolia and Alstom to drop out of the project, on grounds that it violates the Geneva Convention's prohibition of an occupier changing the nature of occupied lands.
The two firms are members, along with Israeli companies, of the City Pass consortium which is building the rail line and is to operate it until 2036.
The court ruled in December that it has jurisdiction, but has not set a date for the next hearing.
The Abbas government is also urging Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries to cut business ties with the firms. Among other projects in the region, Alstom is involved in building a rail line between the holy cities of Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia.
Palestinian officials say they will raise the issue at a March summit of the Arab League.
"This is the least Arabs can do to support our rights in Jerusalem," said Rweidi, the Abbas adviser.
PLO officials said they were unaware of any actions taken by Arab governments. Saudi Arabia has kept silent about the pressure.
Veolia officials in Israel told AP the company is in the process of transferring its 5 percent share in the Jerusalem rail project to Israel's Dan bus company. But they insist it's strictly a business decision. The proposed sale would have to be approved by the consortium, but that may take several years.
Alstom, which is providing the rail cars, defended the project.
Spokesman Philippe Kasse rejected claims that the tram creates a new reality on the ground, noting that buses now service the future train route.
"We are told [by critics] that this tramway is a weapon designed to make irreversible the annexation of East Jerusalem and the colonization policy led by Israel," he wrote in an e-mailed response. "Replacing an existing bus line by a tramway is neither using warfare nor establishing a political fait accompli."
Jerusalem municipality spokesman Stephan Miller defended the rail project as beneficial to both Arabs and Jews. The train will make three stops in the Arab neighborhood of Shuafat. Some residents there expressed hope it will ease chronic congestion, while others complained that the tracks use up two lanes of their four-lane main road.
Hind Khoury, a Palestinian diplomat in France involved in the legal battle against the tram, said the campaign is a measure of Palestinian frustration.
"In the last few years, we were still hoping that the peace process would be credible enough to come to a conclusion," she said. "Now we are taking the legal route." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Peace talks deadlocked as settlement freeze set to expire</title>
<date>Sun Sep 26 02:15:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
The freeze on construction in West Bank settlements is due to end in less than 24 hours, potentially creating a crisis that could halt direct negotiations with the Palestinian Authority, and there is still no solution in sight.
American negotiators have been holding intense discussions with the Israelis and the Palestinians, but the parties are still locked in their positions.
The Americans are focusing their pressure on trying to get Israel to continue the construction moratorium.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas struck a hard line in a speech to the UN General Assembly yesterday, saying that Israel had to choose between settlements and peace.
He accused Israel of flouting UN resolutions and "relentlessly carrying out oppression, arrests and detentions, killings, destruction, demolition of homes, siege, settlement expansion, apartheid wall, violating and undermining the rights of our people and presence in their homeland without consequence."
He said Israel should be forced to meet its obligations, especially to stop construction in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, and to dismantle "the annexation apartheid wall."
"Despite the historic injustice that has been inflicted upon our people," Abbas said, "our wounded hands are still able to carry the olive branch from the rubble of the trees that the occupation uproots every day."
Palestinian sources said Abbas is waiting to see how the Israeli government handles the moratorium issue. If it announces that construction will resume, and holds ceremonies to mark the occasion, then direct talks will stop immediately, said the sources.
However, sources close to Defense Minister Ehud Barak said that the despite the Palestinians' outwardly belligerent stance, the Palestinians were willing to compromise.
Despite the Palestinians' stated refusal to compromise, chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat reamined in the United States yesterday for more discussions.
Abbas met with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in New York on Friday, who asked him not to make good on his threat to end talks. He also met with U.S. special envoy George Mitchell yesterday.
Israel's chief negotiator Isaac Molho also is staying in New York for discussions with Mitchell and U.S. President Barack Obama's adviser Dennis Ross.
Sources close to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that so far, all of Israel's proposals that would enable limited construction have been rejected by the Palestinians.
On Friday, Netanyahu met in Jerusalem with Quartet envoy Tony Blair, who flew over from New York to try to persuade Netanyahu to extend the freeze. Netanyahu told Blair he would not be able to get the cabinet to approve such a move.
Netanyahu called his advisers to his Caesarea home Friday to discuss possible solutions, and held another meeting at his Jerusalem residence last night.
The Palestinian newspaper Al Ayyam reported yesterday that the Americans told the Palestinian leadership that they understood its position regarding the freeze and that Obama had said so in his speech to the UN General Assembly last week.
Abbas' spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeineh said yesterday that the Palestinians were demanding that the freeze continue in its entirety, and that no interim solution would be acceptable. Arab League Secretary General Amr Moussa said the Palestinians would not be able to continue the talks if the freeze ended.
However, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs Jeffrey Feltman told reporters, "We are urging Israel to extend the moratorium and we are also making clear to the Palestinians that we do not believe that it is in their interest to walk out of the talks."
Feltman told reporters the United States hoped that at the Arab League Summit on October 9, the Arab League would show support for the peace process, Abbas and the PLO, and increase economic assistance to the PA.
Congressmen calling for Pollard pardon
Meanwhile, four U.S. Congressmen are circulating a letter calling on Obama to pardon convicted spy Jonathan Pollard in a bid to further the peace process, the Jewish Telegraphic Agency reported.
Pollard has served 25 years of a life sentence for spying on the United States for Israel.
According to the JTA, the congressmen - Barney Frank of Massachusetts, Adolphus Tanner and Anthony Weiner of New York and Bill Pascrell of New Jersey's Eighth Congressional District - have signed the letter and are circulating it in Congress.
The letter says pardoning Pollard would show Obama's good will toward Israelis.
According to various recent reports, Pollard could be released in exchange for three more months of construction freeze.
Meanwhile, disturbances that started last week in East Jerusalem continued over the weekend. In the East Jerusalem neighborhood of Isawiyah, 1-year-old Hussam Abu-Sara died yesterday of an asthma attack. Relatives said it was caused by tear gas fired near his home.
In a related development, the Israel Navy plans to launch an investigation tomorrow into the death of a Gaza fisherman, Mohammad Manzur, after a navy vessel fired on his boat. The navy said the boat had entered a zone near the Gaza Strip the Israel Defense Forces has declared off limits.
Nir Hasson contributed to this report

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pushing for a provisional Palestinian state </title>
<date>Wed Apr 28 02:08:25 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
The announcement of upcoming "proximity talks" between Israel and the Palestinians raises a number of questions - what exactly will they talk about? What else can be renewed in the peace process, where everything seems to have been tried while peace remains elusive? What trick does George Mitchell, the mediator of the hour, have up his sleeve that was kept from his frustrated predecessors?  
Israel wants to extract itself from the morass of control over the Palestinians, who accuse it of apartheid and force it to choose between its Jewish identity and its democracy. But Israel also wants to keep most of the West Bank, the settlements and security control, and to enjoy exclusive rights over Jerusalem.  
Israel's answer to this stagnation calls for upgrading the Palestinian Authority of Mahmoud Abbas and Salam Fayyad to a body responsible for a polity within provisional borders. This dwarf state would be created by a special UN vote, effectively absolving Israel of responsibility. The dispute over the remaining territories, refugees and Jerusalem would be settled later in talks between two sovereign states, Israel and Palestine, not between an occupier and its subjects.  
The Palestinians want as much of their historical homeland as possible, to be rid of Israeli soldiers and settlers, and to maintain international support. The Palestinians are calling for the creation of a state within the 1967 borders, with small land swaps that would leave the large settlements on the Israeli side, Jerusalem divided as the capital of two states, and the return of an undetermined number of refugees to Israel. They fear that unless they receive the maximum now and instead settle for a mini-state, the world will lose interest in them just as it ultimately came to terms with Israeli control over the Golan Heights.  
Leaders on both sides must prove they have not given up, that it was the other side that reneged. Both Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Abbas see negotiations as a zero-sum game rather than a give-and-take in which both sides benefit from a redistribution of resources.  
Abbas opposes an interim arrangement, and Netanyahu is unwilling to sign on to a final-status deal. Each has adopted a strategy of attrition, locking into his position and battering the other with accusations in an attempt to win over the American mediator. The Palestinians are hoping Barack Obama will blame Netanyahu for the diplomatic stagnation and force Israel into a favorable final-status agreement. Israel expects that the U.S. president, hungry for foreign-policy achievements but restricted by Netanyahu's supporters in Congress, will settle for an interim agreement and impose it on the Palestinians, just as he retreated from his demands for a complete settlement freeze and a halt to Israeli construction in East Jerusalem.  
Can the sides be bridged? A year ago the Reut Institute recommended that Washington present a vision for a final-status agreement to give the Palestinians a "diplomatic horizon," after which a Palestinian state would arise within provisional borders. President Shimon Peres has presented a similar initiative, calling for separate talks on an interim arrangement and a final-status agreement respectively.  
After a year of fruitless wrangling over a settlement evacuation, a provisional Palestinian state seems like the most practicable arrangement, either through mutual agreement or a unilateral Israeli decision. It is, of course, subject to political limitations, but Israel could settle for a limited evacuation of settlements and outposts, retain security control and not even negotiate over Jerusalem for now. Meanwhile, the Palestinians are not being ordered to offer anything in return - not to recognize Israel as a Jewish state or relinquish the right of return, both of which Netanyahu is demanding as conditions for a final-status agreement. But here, too, lie the initiative's weak points. Disputes over the most sensitive issues will remain, ever threatening to bubble over, and Israel will be drawn into internal clashes over settlers - all without an actual solution to the wider conflict.  
Netanyahu believes that the only answer to the current diplomatic stagnation is an interim agreement based on a Palestinian state within provisional borders, but he is hesitant to openly state his support for the idea. He would rather reach that result for lack of an alternative, under heavy U.S. pressure, and if possible, in exchange for an American attack on Iran - just as his predecessor Ariel Sharon evacuated Gaza only after George W. Bush conquered Iraq.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Richard Goldstone: I have no regrets about the Gaza war report</title>
<date>Thu May 06 01:26:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
 
Judicial decisions Richard Goldstone made in South Africa that resulted in sending black South Africans to their deaths under the apartheid regime have nothing to do with his report on the Gaza war, he told Haaretz yesterday.
The comments came in response to an article in which he was accused of being in no moral position to judge Israel because he was involved in capital punishment in the apartheid regime.
The article in the Yedioth Ahronoth daily said Goldstone, who headed the UN committee that accused both Israel and Hamas of war crimes during the Gaza war of 2008-2009, was responsible for sending at least 28 black South Africans to their deaths when they appeared before him in court.
"As far as I'm concerned, there's no connection to the appointment I had in South Africa to these accusations," said Goldstone, who calls himself pro-Zionist. "I took an appointment to the bench, as did a number of liberal judges, and we had to uphold the law of the country. It was a moral dilemma to do that, but the approach was that it was better to fight from inside than not at all. The moral dilemma came up when I had to apply the law."
Goldstone said he sentenced only two people to death directly, but upheld a majority of appeals in the Supreme Court, as one of three judges on a panel.
"The law at the time stated that when there were aggravating circumstances, the death penalty was obligatory," he said. "The regrets I have now are the same that I had at the time. I have not changed my position on this. It was unpleasant to be involved in capital punishment - then and now. And I've always been against the death penalty. But when I accepted the position to the bench I had to honor the oath of office."
Regarding the UN report on the Gaza war, for which many Jewish groups have attacked Goldstone, the judge said he has no regrets about the position he took.
"I felt that because I was Jewish, it would be hypocritical not to get involved in the Middle East," he said. He said he advises Israel to have an open public inquiry into the war crimes allegations.
Goldstone said he was "extremely upset" by the attacks and by the effect they have had on his family.
Some members of the Jewish community had tried to keep Goldstone away from his grandson's recent bar mitzvah in Johannesburg because they objected to his position on Operation Cast Lead.
"It was a wonderful simcha," Goldstone said of the bar mitzvah. "It was joyous and meaningful, and it came after much aggravation. There were people who wanted to stop me from attending. But that was eventually solved after a meeting on Monday."
Goldstone said no South Africans, including the country's much revered first black president Nelson Mandela, who appointed him a judge, had accused him of undermining his moral authority by sentencing defendants to death or dismissing their appeals.
"I never had accusations of this sort," he said. "The first time I have been accused of such things is now, by Yedioth."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rights group slams planned 'Israelis only' highway in West Bank</title>
<date>Tue Jan 05 07:53:54 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Less than a week after Israel's highest court ordered the state to lift its ban on Palestinian motorists from a highway that stretches into the West Bank, left-wing activists are denouncing new plans on Tuesday to build a road on West Bank land which they claim is intended for use by Israelis only.
According to an Army Radio report, planning officials are diligently laying the groundwork for Highway 20, an artery which will connect Highway 443 ? the road which has remained off limits to Palestinian traffic since the outbreak of the second intifada - with the northern neighborhoods of Jerusalem, including Pisgat Ze'ev.
Officials at Peace Now slammed the plan for the road, which they say will be built on privately owned Palestinian land to be condemned for the project and will cater solely to Israeli motorists. 
Peace Now, which submitted an official complaint to the Transportation Ministry's planning committee, says that the planned highway will usurp land in the adjacent West Bank village of Beit Hanina. 
"This is a political highway," Hagit Ofran, the head of Peace Now's Settlement Watch project, told Army Radio. "The purpose of the highway is to create facts on the ground which will have bearing on future decisions relating to a two-state solution."
While the paving of Highway 20 has yet to begin, the Transportation Ministry has allocated some NIS 80 million for the highway's construction. 
The government views Highway 20 as a means to ease the traffic burden that has plagued the French Hill section of Jerusalem. 
The highway's opponents hope that last week's High Court ruling allowing for Palestinian motorists' use of Highway 443 will serve as a precedent.
"Preventing local residents from using a highway simply because they are Palestinians is discrimination that is forbidden," Barak Medina, a professor at Hebrew University's Faculty of Law, told Army Radio. "While the [443 ruling] did not speak of apartheid, unfortunately this case is not that far from apartheid."
The Jerusalem municipality said in response that Highway 20 will be equally accessible to both Arabs and Jews.
"In order to prevent condemnation of Palestinian land, a bridge will be built and compensation will be offered to those whose land will be used to build the bridge's columns," the municipality said. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Settlement boycotter: We're not divesting from Israel, but from occupation </title>
<date>Wed Nov 24 20:42:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
There is a budding movement by foreign investors and activists to join a Palestinian campaign against companies doing business in the West Bank - aimed at hitting them in their pockets.
Pension funds in Norway and Sweden have divested themselves of holdings in some firms involved in building in settlements or helping to erect Israel's contentious West Bank separation barrier.
European activists are cranking up pressure on companies by exposing the West Bank ties and picketing stores that sell settlement goods. And some major U.S. churches are questioning companies as a precursor to possible divestment.
The economic impact is still negligible. Jewish groups are pushing back and key institutions, including U.S. universities, have rejected calls to divest.
But in business, where image is all-important, it's tough to shrug off potentially negative publicity.
Israel accuses boycott advocates of trying to delegitimize the Jewish state.
It also argues that plenty of companies with ties to states with horrendous human rights records are not similarly targeted.
The focus on corporate involvement comes against the backdrop of a wider Palestinian movement of divestment and boycott, inspired by the economic assault on apartheid-era South Africa.
The Palestinians hope such pressure will achieve what years of negotiations have not - end Israel's occupation of the West Bank and east Jerusalem, lands they want for a state. Israel withdrew all forces and settlers from the Gaza Strip, the other territory claimed by the Palestinians, in 2005.
While the Palestinians seek a blanket boycott of Israel, many foreign supporters do not.
This is not divestment from Israel. It's divestment from companies supporting the occupation, said William Aldrich, head of the divestment task force at the New England Conference of the United Methodist Church.
Divestment is meant to make a moral statement, said Aldrich, whose group recommends that Methodists sell stock in 29 foreign and Israeli companies, though that call has not been adopted by his church at the national level.
The big success is that is has become an issue, added Merav Amir of the Tel Aviv-based Coalition of Women for Peace, whose database of companies has become a resource for investors and activists.
Israeli opposition leader Tzipi Livni, a former foreign minister who supports a West Bank pullout, said Israel should be concerned.
There is a trend of ideological consumerism in some of the world's countries, in addition to a delegitimization campaign against the state of Israel, she told a business conference Wednesday. I believe we have to light a few warning lights.
Foreign and Israeli companies operating in the West Bank have benefited over the years from cheap land, tax incentives and low-cost Palestinian labor. A growing settler population - 500,000 in the West Bank and east Jerusalem – has made it increasingly worthwhile for Israeli banks, supermarket chains and others to set up branches on war-won land.
With scrutiny intensifying, foreign companies and investments could be more vulnerable to pressure.
Results are still modest.
Norway's $500 billion oil fund, Europe's largest institutional investor, and Swedish pension funds managing more than $100 billion in assets have dropped the Israeli defense contractor Elbit Systems Ltd., which provides surveillance equipment for the separation barrier.
The funds say Elbit violated ethical norms because of its involvement in the barrier, ruled illegal in a nonbinding decision by the International Court of Justice. Israel says it built the barrier to keep out Palestinian militants, but it swerves through the West Bank to incorporate Jewish settlements on the Israeli side.
Norway's investment in Elbit was $6 million, negligible for a company valued at $2 billion. Elbit won't discuss the divestments. The Norwegian fund also sold its $1.2 million in shares in Africa Israel Investments, which has a real estate holding that builds in settlements.
The Brussels-based bank Dexia, targeted by Belgian activists for lending to settlements, said its Israeli subsidiary is phasing out the settlement business. Assa Abloy, a Swedish lock maker, said it would move its Israeli factory from a settlement industrial park to Israel proper within a year.
SodaStream, a maker of home carbonating systems, said some of the $109 million raised in a public offering in November is to be used to build a new factory outside the West Bank, though it won't say whether it would eventually close an existing settlement facility.
Some major Christian denominations also are wrestling with the divestment issue.
The World Council of Churches, which represents 560 million Christians, has called for responsible investment and a boycott of settlement products.
The Presbyterians are trying to persuade several multinationals to cut West Bank ties and leave open the possibility of future divestment. The United Methodists buried a divestment bill at a 2008 convention, though activists say they'll try again in 2012.
For now, boycott and divestment don't affect the Israeli economy or the businesses, said Israela Many, chief economist at the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce. The problem is, it creates a negative image, she said.
Mark Regev, an Israeli government spokesman, alleged that boycotters show very selective indignation and ignore egregious human rights abuses elsewhere, including in Libya, Syria and Iran.
The Scandinavian pension funds deny singling out Israel.
There is no country perspective on this, said Annika Anderson of the Ethical Council that advises four Swedish pension funds. She noted that the funds have dropped nine other companies from around the world since 2007.
The Norwegian fund, which invests in more than 8,000 firms, has dropped 49 companies worldwide, including those making cluster bombs and cigarettes. The list includes Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Wal-Mart.
The fund's decisions are closely watched by other investors in Scandinavia.
Being excluded by the oil fund can cause massive damage to a company's reputation in those countries, said Caroline Liinanki, editor of the Nordic Region Pensions and Investment News at the Financial Times. You don't want to end up on the black list. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African academics reject call to boycott Israeli university</title>
<date>Wed Sep 29 19:38:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
University of Johannesburg professors rejected calls to sever ties with an Israeli university Wednesday, but called on Ben-Gurion University to work with its Palestinian counterparts.
Calls for similar academic boycotts to protest Israel's Palestinian policies also have failed in the West.
The South African university's faculty senate met Wednesday to vote on the proposal, which had been endorsed by anti-apartheid icon Archbishop Desmond Tutu, but instead accepted a compromise without a vote. They asked Ben-Gurion University to work with Palestinian universities on research projects, and to start the collaborations within six months if it wants to maintain ties with the University of Johannesburg.
UJ Vice Chancellor Adam Habib said the compromise reflected his institution's values.
"We believe in reconciliation," Habib said. "We'd like to bring BGU and Palestinian universities together to produce a collective engagement that benefits everyone."
The universities have joint research projects and academic exchanges on biotechnology and water purification.
Relations between Ben-Gurion University and Rand Afrikaans University, a formerly all-white university under South Africa's apartheid system, began in 1987. The University of Johannesburg, created in 2005, took over various campuses including Rand Afrikaans University and a university in the black township of Soweto as part of efforts to ensure higher education was transformed with the rest of South Africa after the end of apartheid.
Israel officially opposed apartheid, but its ties with the white government were seen as close. South Africa's post-apartheid government has been a sharp critic of Israel's Palestinian policies. The late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat was among the guests at Nelson Mandela's 1994 inauguration as South Africa's first black president.
Tutu and more than 200 prominent South African academics had supported ending UJ's links with the Israeli institution.
"Israeli universities are an intimate part of the Israeli regime, by active choice," Tutu wrote in an essay that appeared in a South African newspaper Sunday. "While Palestinians are not able to access universities and schools, Israeli universities produce the research, technology, arguments and leaders for maintaining the occupation."
Academic boycotts of Israeli universities have been inspired by boycotts of South African institutions during apartheid. A 2003 proposal for British universities to sever all ties with Israeli academic institutions was defeated. Two years later Britain's Association of University Teachers voted to boycott Israel's Haifa and Bar Ilan universities. That decision was overturned only a month later under fierce international pressure.
U.S. professors and students also have called for academic and cultural boycotts of Israel.
The moves have prompted sharp criticism. Harvard University law professor Alan Dershowitz once threatened legal action that would "devastate and bankrupt" anyone who boycotts Israeli universities.
The New York-based Anti-Defamation League described the British moves as anti-Semitic, arguing Israel was being singled out while human rights violators such as Iran, Sudan, Venezuela and Zimbabwe were ignored.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa opera rejects Archbishop Tutu's call to boycott Israel </title>
<date>Wed Oct 27 15:21:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Cape Town's renowned opera troupe is rejecting a call from retired Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu to cancel a performance in Israel scheduled next month.
The opera's managing director Michael Williams said in a statement Wednesday that the opera would not take a political position and cut cultural ties with Israel or the Palestinian territory.
Tutu, who earned a Nobel for his peaceful opposition to apartheid, on Tuesday compared Cape Town Opera's planned visit to international artists performing in apartheid South Africa. He said Israel is "luring" international artists to the Tel Aviv Opera House to advance its "fallacious claim to being a 'civilized democracy.'"
Tutu said it would be "unconscionable" to perform "Porgy and Bess," in Israel, which he said has a "universal message of nondiscrimination."
Tutu has emerged as a sharp critic of Israel. Last month, he backed calls for a South African academic boycott of Israel. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Still flying after all these years</title>
<date>Sun Apr 04 01:48:25 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
The late Orthodox Rabbi Phillip Rosenberg of South Africa was once asked by one of his congregants how he could preach every week that we need to respect the Sabbath, while allowing his son to play rugby on that day. ?Well,? Rabbi Rosenberg responded, ?my son was born with a God-given talent. Who I am to argue with God??
If his argument was suspect, the rabbi was certainly correct about his son?s extraordinary gift. Wilf Rosenberg, who recalled this anecdote about his father during a recent interview, continued playing on the Sabbath and soon became one of South Africa?s greatest rugby players of all time.
Born in 1934 in Cape Town, Rosenberg played for South Africa?s legendary national team, the Springboks, as well as for Leeds Rugby League Club, where his 1961 record of 48 tries − the equivalent of a touchdown − in one season is still unbroken.
About three months ago, ?the flying dentist? − as he was called because he used to dive for the ball and pursued dentistry when he wasn?t on the field − moved to Ra?anana to be near his daughter, Nicola Kroft, of Modi?in.
?I learned something that is very encouraging, that Israel is getting into rugby and hopes to be a challenger on the world [rugby] scene in a few years,? the 75-year old said about his first few weeks in Israel. ?Quite a few people came up to me and said Israelis are now taking rugby seriously,? the former center continued, adding he is surprised by Israelis? interest in his career. ?I feel very comfortable here. I have to say that I?m very honored. You?re very good to me here.?Israel will play Bulgaria and Greece this month in a bid to be promoted from Europe?s Division 3C to 3B.
Within the country?s South African ex-pat community, Rosenberg undoubtedly remains a legend. ?He?s probably one of best players of all time in his particular position,? said Charles Abelsohn, a Kfar Sava resident originally from Cape Town. ?Like everyone else, I was a big fan of his.? Howard Tolkien, who was born years after the dentist had stopped flying, calls Rosenberg a legend. ?My father used to talk about him a lot,? said the 43-year old. ?The Jewish community is very proud of him.?Rosenberg was identified as a natural talent while still a teenager, according to the International Jewish Sports Hall of Fame, to which he was inducted in 1994. Having started playing at the age of six, he became a national hero in 1955, when during his first match for the Springboks he led his country to victory against the British Lions by scoring two tries.
Rosenberg soon caught the attention of international talent scouts, one of whom approached his father during a stay in London and offered his son a five-year contract at Leeds. The 6,000 pounds sterling the club paid for him was the ?highest sum ever paid for a rugby player,? he says.Leeds was then the center of the clothing trade and home to many Jews, who were proud to have one of their own on their home team, he recalls. ?They were delighted, because a Jewish boy had never, ever played rugby league in Britain. I?m the only Jewish boy to this day who played rugby league in Great Britain.?
Always hated politicsAfter his active career, Rosenberg returned to South Africa, where, besides working as a dentist, he became a boxing promoter and rugby commentator. In 2010, a few weeks after his arrival in Israel, he spoke at a screening of ?Invictus,? the current Clint Eastwood film about the Springboks and how their bid to win the 1995 world cup united South Africa in its fragile first years after apartheid. The movie, which Rosenberg calls ?very realistic,? shows how non-whites despised the Springboks, as the team represented for them the racist discrimination of the apartheid era.
Rosenberg says he always hated politics. During his first match for the Springboks, however, he did something that won him the hearts and minds of black rugby fans − and the contempt of the South African government.?We ran onto the field and I ran toward the [stands for black spectators]. I was doing it quite unconsciously,? he says. ?They were on their toes, cheering me. I turned around and smiled and waved at them, they went berserk. They cheered me and followed me wherever I went,? he recalls. ?The foreign minister was [Johannes] Strijdom at the time, and I don?t think he liked it.?
Rosenberg says he did the ?unthinkable.? However, he stresses, he didn?t care. ?What the hell, apartheid, blacks and coloreds − they were cheering me! So I ran toward them and warmed up in front of them and they kept on cheering.? Later in the game, when he scored twice, his new fans jumped the fence and had to be held back by police, he adds.An ?apartheid team?
Historians diverge on the Jewish community?s stance toward apartheid: While Jews were disproportionately represented in the movement against the racist government, other Jews supported and even defended the regime. Helen Suzman, a South African-Jewish MP and a leading figure in the anti-apartheid movement, once scolded Rosenberg for playing for an ?apartheid team,? he recalls. But Rosenberg insists he never wanted to be an activist.
?I said [to Suzman]: what do you want me to do, I?m being picked,? he explains. ?Do you want me to say I?m not playing because they don?t have colored or blacks [on the team]? That would not help them. They [the team managers] would just say, well bugger, if you don?t want to play, don?t play! Now to play rugby for South Africa is one of the biggest honors that can be bestowed upon a rugby player... I couldn?t get involved. I had to concentrate on playing rugby and my studies.?

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Tennis star surrounded by guards in Dubai </title>
<date>Tue Feb 16 02:16:06 IST 2010</date>
<content>
The people suspected of killing senior Hamas operative Mahmoud al-Mabhouh disguised themselves as tennis players so they could move freely between hotels, the Dubai police claimed yesterday.  
As they made the announcement, Israeli tennis star Shahar Peer, 22, was in Dubai - undisguised - to take part in the Dubai Championships.  
Mabhouh was murdered in Dubai last month.  
Peer, who is ranked 22nd worldwide, played her first match yesterday against 15th-seeded Yanina Wichmayer of Belgium for a 6-3, 2-6, 5-7 win.  
"It was a very important victory for me," said Peer, flanked by a large contingent of bodyguards, after the game. "I felt very proud to be representing Israel in a country that does not recognize it."  
Peer faced the complex diplomatic situation with her usual aplomb. "I get a lot of support from Israel and that's important to me," she said. "The attitude to me here is very warm and I feel quite safe."  
To further Peer's sense of safety, the tournament organizers closed off the entire floor of her hotel and restricted her to either the hotel or the court.  
Later yesterday, Peer also won her doubles match. The twin victories mean she will be extending her stay in Dubai, so security will remain high.  
Last year, just 24 hours before Peer was to have arrived in Dubai for the tournament, she was denied a visa. The move raised hackles in the World Tennis Association, which slapped the organizers with a $300,000 fine, the highest ever in an international tournament. Of that sum, Peer received $44,250. She was also assured entry to this year's tournament.  
A month ago, in Auckland, New Zealand, 10 protesters called for Peer's ouster from the competition and a boycott of Israel. Two weeks later, ahead of the Australian Open, a pro-Palestinian group showed a picture of her in army uniform with the slogan "Shahar Peer serves apartheid Israel." 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Theater figures urge Be'er Sheva actors to boycott West Bank arts center</title>
<date>Sat Nov 06 09:42:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Dozens of theater figures boycotting the new Ariel cultural center sent Friday a letter to Be'er Sheva Theater actors urging them to join their battle and boycott the newly built arts center in the West Bank settlement.
"No one can force you to perform there," the prominent cultural figures wrote. In September a group of theater actors and public figures signed a petition saying they would not perform in the new Ariel center as a protest of Israel's settlement policies.  The protest was supported by over 150 academics.
The Be'er Sheva theatre company is scheduled to perform in Ariel on the cultural center's opening night this week.
"Ariel is not just another community," the letter said, stressing that the actors were about to perform in the cultural center that was erected in Ariel on occupied land. "just several kilometers from the thriving and flourishing Ariel, Palestinians live in refugee camps, in harsh living conditions and without any basic human right. Not only are they not entitled to see performances in Ariel, some of them have no access to running water."
The letter added that the two contrasting realities of Ariel and the Palestinian refugees constituted "an apartheid nation."
Among the signatories of the current letter to the Be'er Sheva Theater are several prominent theater and culture figures such as film director Eitan Fux, artist and critic Yair Garbuz, television director and activists Doron Tzabari, theatre director Yehoshua Sobol and others.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think tank: Israel faces global delegitimization campaign</title>
<date>Fri Feb 12 01:05:19 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Israel is facing a global campaign of delegitimization, according to a report by the Reut Institute, made available to the cabinet on Thursday. The Tel Aviv-based security and socioeconomic think tank called on ministers to treat the matter as a strategic threat.
The report cites anti-Israel demonstrations on campuses, protests when Israeli athletes compete abroad, moves in Europe to boycott Israeli products, and threats of arrest warrants for Israeli leaders visiting London.
Reut says the campaign is the work of a worldwide network of private individuals and organizations. They have no hierarchy or overall commander, but work together based on a joint ideology - portraying Israel as a pariah state and denying its right to exist.
Reut lists the network's major hubs - London, Brussels, Madrid, Toronto, San Francisco and the University of California, Berkeley. The network's activists - "delegitimizers" the report dubs them - are relatively marginal: young people, anarchists, migrants and radical political activists. Although they are not many, they raise their profile using public campaigns and media coverage, the report says.
The "delegitimizers" cooperate with organizations engaging in legitimate criticism of Israel's policy in the territories such as Amnesty and Human Rights Watch, blurring the line between legitimate censure and delegitimization. They also promote pro-Palestinian activities in Europe as "trendy," the report says.
The network's activists are not mostly Palestinian, Arab or Muslim. Many of them are European and North American left-wing activists. The Western left has changed its approach to Israel and now sees it as an occupation state, the report says. To those left-wing groups, if in the 1960s Israel was seen as a model for an egalitarian, socialist society, today it epitomizes Western evil.
The delegitimization network sees the fight against the former regime in South Africa as a success model. It believes that like the apartheid regime, the Zionist-Israeli model can be toppled and a one-state model can be established.
The Reut team says the network's groups share symbols and heroes such as the Palestinian boy Mohammed al-Dura, American peace activist Rachel Corrie and joint events like the Durban Conference.
Israel's diplomats overseas, meanwhile, must counter the attempts to delegitimize the country. "The combination of a large Muslim community, a radical left, influential, English-language media and an international university center make London fertile ground for Israel's delegitimization," says Ron Prosor, Israel's ambassador in London.
Prosor gives many interviews to the British media and lectures at university campuses throughout the country. Although he says he has encountered anti-Israel demonstrations on almost every campus, Prosor has told his people to increase their campus activity.
"What is now happening in London universities will happen, at most, in five years at all the large universities in the United States," he says.
The Reut report says Israel is not prepared at all to deal with the threat of delegitimization. The cabinet has not defined the issue as a threat and sees the diplomatic arena as marginal compared to the military one.
"The Foreign Ministry is built for the challenges of the '60s, not the 2000s," the report says. "There are no budgets, not enough diplomats and no appropriate diplomatic doctrine."
Reut recommends setting up a counter-network, in which Israel's embassies in centers of delegitimization activity would serve as "front positions."
The report says the intelligence service should monitor the organizations' activities and study their methods. The cabinet should also confront groups trying to delegitimize Israel but embrace those engaged in legitimate criticism.
The report adds that Israel should not boycott these groups, as Israel's embassy in Washington does with the left-wing lobby J Street. Boycotting critics merely pushes them toward joining the delegitimizers, Reut says.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Two Italian grocery chains to boycott Israeli produce</title>
<date>Sun May 23 19:54:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Two Italian supermarkets have announced that they plan to stop selling all Israeli products as they could not differentiate whether they came from West Bank settlements or inside the Green Line.
Italian grocery chains Coop and Nordiconad will remove all Israeli products from their shelves by the end of the month, according to the Stop Camel-Agrexco Web site - an Italian based coalition dedicated to the boycott of one of Israel's top agricultural exporters.
Grocery chain Coop Italia issued a statement saying that they had a problem with "traceability, namely that the consumer is unable to verify whether or not the product in question comes from the occupied territories."
The Coalition Web site added that this was "an important success for the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement against Israeli apartheid."
According to the Web site, the campaign to lobby Italian supermarkets was launched in January this year and has since been coordinated in both Italy and France.
The statement added that the coalition "has vowed to make sure that both chains follow through on their promises, and encourages everyone to participate in this struggle for respect for international law, and freedom and self-determination for the Palestinian people."

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.K. media's coverage of Salam Fayyad is starkly different to U.S. reporting</title>
<date>Sun May 30 17:29:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
 
British media handling of Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and the substantial economic progress in the West Bank which has taken place under his auspices, suggests that there are certain journalists who are somewhat reluctant to accommodate such "awkward" developments. The story in the United States, however, is very different.
A report released by Just Journalism, documents how Fayyad’s achievements in securing these economic and security improvements for Palestinians are majorly downplayed by the British broadsheet newspapers – The Guardian, The Independent, The Times, The Daily Telegraph and Financial Times. This stands in stark contrast with reporting of the same subject in both left and right-leaning U.S. publications, which have covered the positive developments in the West Bank more faithfully.
A typical approach in the U.K. can be seen in an editorial published on the day after Fayyad announced in London in August 2009 that he intended to have laid the groundwork for an independent Palestinian state within two years, outside the framework of political negotiations with Israel. The Financial Times headline accused: "Netanyahu’s peace is a cynical evasion," and the piece went on to caution: "During his1996-99 premiership, instead of land-for-peace he offered peace-for-peace; now he obfuscates about an 'economic peace'."
Extraordinarily, Fayyad and his policy announcement were not even mentioned in the leading article, which attributed solely to the Israeli PM the idea that improving the West Bank economy was a first priority in the creation of a viable Palestinian state.
Contrast this with an article the New York Times ran on the same day, in response to the same events. The headline says it all in many respects: ‘Palestinian Leader Maps Plan for Separate State’. Isabel Kershner described the plan as the ‘first of its kind from the Palestinian Authority’ and cited the U.S. Consul General Jacob Walles lending his approval: "He said that it was the first time he had seen such a 'concrete plan' and that the Palestinians were working in a practical way toward their goal."
Another occasion triggering these opposing presentations was Fayyad’s unprecedented appearance alongside Ehud Barak at the Herzliya Conference in February 2010. This passed largely unnoticed in U.K. Middle East reporting. The Independent’s Robert Fisk, who did cover the event, wrote of Fayyad’s participation with utter disdain and the only other British broadsheet to cover the event only did so on the back of a story primarily about Barak’s warning about the dangers of a failure to create a Palestinian state, in an article provocatively entitled: "Barak: make peace with Palestinians or face apartheid." 
Once again, across the pond at The Washington Post, a totally different portrayal emerged, in the form of, "Palestinian premier speaks at Israeli conference," in which the journalist commented that Fayyad’s attendance at such an event in Israel was ‘novel’, as was his sharing a podium with Defense Minister Ehud Barak ‘at a time when the two sides are not formally meeting.’
What can adequately explain these dramatically differing treatments of the phenomenon, last year coined "Fayyadism" by veteran New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman?
In the case of the U.K., I propose that the media’s intense dislike of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is a big part of the answer. Netanyahu’s publicly stated desire to focus on the economic, rather than political, track, regarding the putative Palestinian state, obliterated any chance of a fair hearing of Fayyad’s similar approach, hence the Financial Times editorial which fixated on Netanyahu’s "cynical evasion," to the exclusion of Fayyad’s innovation.
American journalists, on the other hand, while not wildly keen on Netanyahu, have been able to adjust their narratives to make room for the hugely important developments which have positively affected Palestinians across the West Bank. I would suggest that if U.K. journalists want to uphold their responsibility to portray events in the Middle East faithfully, they start awarding the Palestinian prime minister the relevance he has plainly earned, regardless of whether it upsets their framing of Netanyahu as habitually wrong.
It is not difficult to understand why people find it hard to amend their political positions to reflect changing realities. One you have a framework in place for understanding a particular topic then the slightest shift can cause an inconvenient mess. But if you are a journalist, and therefore, largely responsible for public perceptions of that very subject, surely it is your duty to make such adjustments and tidy up the ensuing mess regardless of the inconvenience? 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Universities across the globe mark Israeli Apartheid Week</title>
<date>Mon Mar 01 02:21:08 IST 2010</date>
<content>
LONDON - A filmmaker, anthropologist and economic researcher are among those headlining events marking what pro-Palestinian organizers have declared as "Israeli Apartheid Week" - and all three speakers are Israeli.  
University campuses in more than 40 cities around the world are marking the week with lectures, films, multimedia events, cultural performances and demonstrations.   
Since they were first launched in 2005, the events have become some of "the most important global events in the Palestine solidarity calendar," according to its organizers.
 
Its aim, they state on their Web site, is to "contribute to this chorus of international opposition to Israeli apartheid and to bolster support for the boycotts, divestments and sanctions (BDS) campaign."  
Though many of the details about those events were not being promoted on the Apartheid Week Web site, it did list several events being offered by Israelis.  
Among them is Shir Hever, an economic researcher at the Alternative Information Center in Jerusalem, who is scheduled to give a series of lectures at the University of Amsterdam entitled "Could the Economic Policies of Israel be Considered a Form of Apartheid?"  
In addition, Israeli activist and filmmaker Shai Carmeli-Pollak is screening his 2006 documentary "Bil'in Habibti," about Israel Defense Forces violence, at Boston-area universities.   
Jeff Halper, the Israel-based professor of anthropology who is co-founder and coordinator of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions, was scheduled to speak on "Israeli Apartheid: The Case For BDS" at Glasgow University.  
The participation of several Israelis in the anti-Zionist events is "atrocious," said David Katz, a member of Britain's Jewish Board of Deputies who grew up in South Africa and has long fought the comparison between that country's racial segregation and Israel's ethnic divisions.  
"They are free to do as they please, but it's atrocious," he said of the participating Israelis. "I think they don't understand the analogy they are making... which is insulting to those who suffered under apartheid."  
"It's like calling things 'holocaust' which are not the Holocaust or terming something 'genocide' which is not genocide," said Katz.  
As part of efforts to counter the Apartheid Week events, one Jewish charity brought over Benjamin Pogrund, a South African immigrant to Israel who is the former deputy editor of the Johannesburg-based Rand Daily Mail, to speak to British university students about why Israel is not an apartheid state.  
"The game plan of those who seek the destruction of Israel is to equate us with South Africa, a pariah state which had to be subjected to international sanctions," Pogrund has said. "Israelis coming to take part in this week should know better."  
In Canada, the legislature in the province of Ontario unanimously condemned Israeli Apartheid Week, voting for a resolution that denounced the campus events.  
"If you're going to label Israel as Apartheid, then you are also... attacking Canadian values," Conservative legislator Peter Shurman told Shalom Life, a Toronto-based Jewish Web site.   
"The use of the phrase 'Israeli Apartheid Week' is about as close to hate speech as one can get without being arrested, and I'm not certain it doesn't actually cross over that line," he said. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S.-Israel row clouds opening day of AIPAC conference</title>
<date>Mon Mar 22 02:41:07 IST 2010</date>
<content>
WASHINGTON - Barbara Isaacson, 78, took the overnight train from Massachusetts to make it on time to the opening of the annual AIPAC conference in Washington. At one time she fought to gain exit visas for Jewish Prisoners of Zion in the Soviet Union, but now too she admits that the struggle goes on.  
She is writing letters to President Barack Obama, asking him to deal fairly with Israel and telling him that Jerusalem is not up for negotiation.  
The crisis Israel-U.S. relations underwent during the past week, did not leave her indifferent.  
"Our vice president, [Joe] Biden, was wrong," she says. "They should not have said that it was an insult. Israel showed great restraint. Israel is an amazing country that is giving us pride and it should not have to build bomb shelters in Sderot instead of playgrounds. I came to this conference so that Israel will know that in America there are those who dedicated their whole life to it, even though my five children live in the United States."  
On the steps of the conference center in Washington, Barbara is ready to enter a new battle: now against a group of demonstrators wearing t-shirts with Palestinian flags, protesting against an "apartheid state."  
During the exchange of words, it turns out that the mother of one of the demonstrators is Jewish.  
"So you are Jewish!," Barbara declares victoriously. "May God bless you and lead you to understand how wrong you are!"  
Protesters in front of the conference center put up signs in favor and against. Boris Zelkin puts up signs saying "Bibi - You are a Leader! Bibi, We believe in you!" and complains that he has been driven away from a number of places and has not been permitted to demonstrate inside the hall.  
"I came to tell the American Jews too that if they want to be multicultural and tolerant, then I don't - I want to be Jewish," he says.  
Several meters away stands Bill Perry, a Vietnam veteran whose wounds left him disabled. He is holding up a sign which says "AIPAC bought the Congress and the Senate."  
"It is embarrassing for how little our politicians can be bought," he declares. "This is the first time I came to demonstrate. It just makes me laugh, the 'conflict' between Israel and Washington. There was no conflict. Israel will continue its apartheid policy."  
On the face of it, opening day at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee Conference was business as usual. Congressmen and Senators complimented Israel, spoke of the strong bonds between Israel and the United States, historical moments of meetings between the leaders of the two countries were broadcast on a large screen, along with shots of new immigrants and IDF soldiers.  
The hallways were decorated with the photographs of the major donors and activists of the organization, with their comments on why they support AIPAC.  
In various halls there were lobbying seminars, for beginners and advanced, discussions on Syria, Iran, Turkey, Latin America, and meals accompanied by discussions, including a meeting with young African-Americans whose generation does not really know the role that American Jews played in the civil rights movement of the 1960s.  
Even the competition with the new Israel lobby group on the left, J Street, did not succeed in shaking the standing of AIPAC, at least in terms of the numbers of participants, with 7,500 people signing up, a record high for the group.  
But the week of friction between Jerusalem and Washington has left a bitter taste in the mouths of many veteran activists.  
"I would not say that I am disappointed by the Netanyahu government," says Donell Weinkopf from New York. "But I feel like shit. Israel did something stupid by declaring this construction. I am not concerned about he future of the relationship because I think that the shared values and interests still stand, and that this was genuinely an 'accident inside the family,' but I think that the time has come for Israel to stop biting the hand of a friend."  
Rabbi Yossi Lipsky from Massachusetts says he thinks the current discord will leave a "minor scar."  
"People in the community were disappointed by the disproportionate response from America to what, in the worst case scenario, was bad timing," he says. "In the agreements with the Americans there was no mention of freeze in East Jerusalem. But because this response had no basis and made no sense, I am optimistic that it will pass. Now both sides are doing the right thing - they are trying to fix things quietly, diplomatically. I hope that they will focus on the fact that Israel made unprecedented concessions without seeing any return from the other side."  
Seymour Krinsky from Kansas is worried by the reception that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will receive this morning.  
"I am making an effort so that people will behave toward her with civility," he says using the Hebrew words derekh eretz, "and that they will remember that she is a guest in spite the things she said recently. There were many interpretations in the press. I hope that they were mistaken, that she said different things."  
AIPAC meanwhile is trying to renew its power base and bring in fresh supporters. This year, in addition to using Twitter and YouTube, some 1,300 young activists and students are taking part.  
For many of them, immigrating to Israel is not part of their immediate plans. "We were never exposed to anti-Semitism, but we heard about anti-Israel campaigns in colleges, and next year we are going to college, and we want to have the tools to deal with that," one said.  

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>U.S. Presbyterians urge government to end Israel aid over settlements</title>
<date>Sat Jul 10 01:35:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
Presbyterian leaders strongly backed a proposal Friday calling for the U.S. government to end aid to Israel unless the country stops settlement expansions in disputed Palestinian territories. The move was immediately criticized by Jewish groups.
But other aspects of the report on Middle East issues adopted by delegates of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) earned qualified praise from pro-Israel organizations, which have long taken issue with various Presbyterian statements on Middle East peace.
The report is meant as a guide for the denomination's more than 2 million members in many facets of the Israeli-Palestinian relationship. It was approved with 82 percent of the vote during the church's annual general assembly in Minneapolis.
"We feel we've brought together people who previously had trouble talking about some of these issues together," said the Rev. Karen Dimon of Northminster Presbyterian Church in North Syracuse, N.Y., and chairwoman of the committee that produced the 172-page report.
Ethan Felson, vice president of the Jewish Council for Public Affairs, said he still took issue with major aspects of the report, but said it contained important signals that could lessen long-standing tension between Presbyterians and pro-Israel Jews. He said it strengthens support for Israel's right to exist and removes comparisons of Israeli policy to apartheid.
"Concerns remain, but I have hope that authentic dialogue and better relations can come of this," Felson said.
The Anti-Defamation League said the report managed to avoid a rupture with Jewish people, but bias against Israel continues.
The Protestant denomination's relationship with Jewish groups took a hit in 2004, when its general assembly voted to authorize phased selective divestment in multinational corporations operating in Israel because of Israel's policies toward Palestinians. That stance has since been softened, and this year convention delegates voted down an amendment to the Middle East report that would have put divestment back on the table.
Despite the strong convention vote, some delegates expressed concern that the Middle East report remained too slanted toward a Palestinian perspective.
"There are many longtime friends in the Jewish community who believe this report misstates Jewish theology and misquotes the Jewish voice," said the Rev. Susan Zencka, pastor at Frame Memorial Presbyterian Church in Stevens Point, Wisconsin. "We have come to a position of Palestine good, Israel bad. Life is not that simple."
But supporters stressed that the overarching goal of the report is to encourage activism toward peace in the Middle East.
"I fully support a state of Israel, but I also believe Israel's peace will not come until they seek peace with Palestinians," said Dottie Villesvik, a church elder from Everett, Washington.
The church's annual convention began July 3, and is scheduled through Saturday. 

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Will Israel turn into the fascist State of Judea by 2022?</title>
<date>Fri Jul 23 09:34:00 IDT 2010</date>
<content>
State-wide censorship of sexually explicit material on the internet. Laws prohibiting driving vehicles on the Sabbath and Jewish holidays. Women allowed to bathe in the Mediterranean only a few hours a week. The face of Baruch Goldstein on the 20 shekel bill. A national holiday celebrating our spiritual founding father, Rabbi Meir Kahane.
Sound ludicrous? It's the nightmare scenario of art school graduate Yosi Even Kama - and the subject of his 4th-year thesis project. Any Israeli can step into his dystopia, on exhibit at the Shenkar College of Engineering & Design in Ramat Gan until the end of July.
The project consists of four cylindrical public notice boards representing four different snapshots in time from the streets of Tel Aviv, between the years 2020 to 2023. In this twisted parallel universe, the government of Israel finally signs a peace deal with the Palestinians, in which it agrees to withdraw from the West Bank and share control over Jerusalem.
Incensed by what they believe to be high treason, Jewish supremacists manage to mobilize tens of thousands of Israeli citizens and successfully carry out a coup d'etat. In the newly-established State of Judea, there is no freedom, no feminism, and no fun. Only fascism.
"I read the most recent survey of Israeli society and I was shocked," Even Kama recalled. That report, commissioned by the Tami Steinmetz Center for Peace Research at Tel Aviv University, found that most Israelis believe that "there is too much freedom of expression" in Israel.
So this is what will come to pass in only ten years' time? "It won't happen exactly like that. But it's already happening right now, bit by bit: the loyalty oath law, the religious conversion law, the ban on commemorating the naqba, the ban on demonstrating at the homes of high-ranking army officers... When you break down the basic building blocks of democracy, fascism will fill that void."
They are not our brothers
In the run-up to a totalitarian state, Even Kama's made-up religious right-wing extremists combine visual imagery of slithery snakes and armies of insects with slogans that demonize democratic institutions. In the following year of this imaginary timeline, the rebels post pictures of snakes being sliced open and bugs being squashed, as they make their power play with an armed insurrection.
Following the fictional narrative, what remains of the liberal left in Israel sells off its properties and evacuates the country while it is still able. And finally, fabricated rabbinical edicts quoting traditional texts provide a religious justification for the execution of the secular heretics that resist the new order.
Destroying Democracy
Unsurprisingly, Even Kama's provocative project has angered many people on the opposite end of the political spectrum. On srugim.com, an internet news portal for the nationalist-religious community, many have vilified the artist, and the Shenkar school for providing him a platform. But other visitors to the site admit that they admire his designs and even advocate adopting them. "I would use different colors, but this is basically what I believe," wrote one commenter.
These undercurrents have not escaped the attention of more mainstream political commentators. Last month (June 22, 2010), reporting on the same set of phenomena that is frightening Even Kama, retired judge and Yediot Ahronot Legal Affairs Editor Boaz Okon wrote in a chilling op-ed piece: "These dots are growing evidence of the lack of spirit of freedom and the emergence of apartheid and fascism."
Using iconography that references our historical memories of evil dictatorships is bound to push people's buttons; the most amazing artwork almost always does. It is easy to dismiss the "State of Judea" as agitation against Even Kama's political opponents. But it's a lot harder to dismiss the anti-democratic parties and populist movements that he parodies. One thing is certain: if his deepest fears are realized, he could be the first one to be burned at the stake.

</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yisrael Beiteinu: Israel must not fund artists who boycott settlement arts center</title>
<date>Sun Nov 07 11:23:00 IST 2010</date>
<content>
Yisrael Beiteinu chairman, Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, announced Sunday that his party has decided to act against theater personnel who are boycotting a new arts center built in the West Bank settlement of Ariel, by working to stop state funding channeled to the artists.
Lieberman and other Yisrael Beiteinu ministers will act against the boycotting artists by halting direct funding of their travel expenses for shows abroad and by preventing their appearances before state bodies.
In September, a group of theater actors and public figures signed a petition saying they would not perform in the new Ariel center as a protest of Israel's settlement policies. The protest was supported by over 150 academics.
Lieberman condemned the boycott and urged action against the theater actors. "These artists can enjoy freedom of speech but not at the expense of the taxpayers' money," said Lieberman. "Those who call Israel an apartheid state cannot also profit from it."
"The theater figures who signed on the boycott letter represent a small extreme fringe group in Israeli society, and there is no reason to fund their incitement against the state," said Lieberman.
"Everyone is allowed to criticize the government's policies, but they cannot act against it and doubt the legitimacy of it or of the Knesset, which were democratically elected, and at the same time ask for state funding."
"The show must go on, but the incitement must stop," he emphasized.
On Friday, dozens of theater figures boycotting the new Ariel cultural center sent a letter to Be'er Sheva Theater actors urging them to join their battle and boycott the newly built arts center in the West Bank settlement.
"Ariel is not just another community," the letter said, stressing that the actors were about to perform in the cultural center that was erected in Ariel on occupied land. "just several kilometers from the thriving and flourishing Ariel, Palestinians live in refugee camps, in harsh living conditions and without any basic human right. Not only are they not entitled to see performances in Ariel, some of them have no access to running water."
Likud MK Yariv Levin responded to the letter, saying that "the vast majority of the Israeli public is fed up with the lunatic fringe that has gained control of Israeli theater and cinema."

</content>
</article>
