<article>
<title>Another failure is not an option</title>
<date>6/2/2007</date>
<content>
It seems to happen about every 10 years. The cycle of serious US interest in moving the Arab-Israeli conflict always seems to take a high-profile role in the second half of the second and final term of the US president.

It happened with Ronald Reagan and the Reagan Plan in the 1980s, which produced nothing and was followed by the first intifada in 1987. Then it happened again in the late '90s, in the second term of Bill Clinton. That also produced no tangible result and instead we got the second intifada in 2000.

Now it is George W. Bush's turn. So everyone is braced in case things don't work out.

Everyone seems to think that we are approaching another window of opportunity. King Abdullah II of Jordan has said publicly that the next six months are crucial for Middle East peace. Palestinian leaders are trying to patch up an acceptable government, with even Syria now playing a positive role in bringing Hamas and Fatah leaders closer to each other and to the acceptable international requirements.

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has already been to the region, spent a little more time than usual and ensured that  Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas meet with her in a month's time.

The Quartet has met to fine-tune the road map, which has been dusted off and is being presented again as the only game in town.

For their part, the Israelis are also preparing themselves for the possibility of peace-making. Labor leader and Defense Minister Amir Peretz has spoken about a three-phased plan. Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni has her own plan, and Olmert may also have a plan.

ALL THESE plans talk of a Palestinian state now that Bush has made this term an acceptable one, but that is as far as it goes. A tour of the West Bank will reveal the elaborate plans of bridges, tunnels and alternative roads that aim at ensuring that the present "apartheid" road system [Palestinian traffic is barred from a number of roads as a security measure to protect Jewish settlers] becomes permanent.

There is talk of a state with temporary boundaries (which Palestinians have rejected) and now we are told that there are Israelis pushing a plan for some type of trusteeship which would most likely be confined to the Palestinian-populated areas and not the settlements.

For sure, the current apparently serious US interest is not just because Bush is not running in 2008. There is the problem of Iraq as well as the problems of Iran and some of its Arab supporters. The Bush administration, which is clearly planning to be out (or on its way out) of Iraq by 2008, is hoping to limit its loss to Iraq and therefore wants to create a buffer zone of like-minded countries. Rice calls countries like Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia part of the moderate axis.

This axis is also supposed to include Prime Minister Fuad Saniora of Lebanon and the PA's Abbas, although the latter insists that he wants to stay out of any axis.

For this so-called moderate axis to work, it is not enough for the Americans to expect that hardware will do the trick. Sure the US will fund the military of these countries, but Washington knows very well that what is important is "soft power," the hearts and minds of Arab peoples in these countries.

IN TALKING about soft power the Bush administration understands exactly what is needed. Every Arab and European leader (including Tony Blair) has been saying it ad nauseam: Deal with the problems of Palestine so as to reduce the poison in the air. Lately, the Baker-Hamilton bipartisan report also gave strong support to the need to deal with the issue of Palestine as part of a package deal aimed at allowing the Americans what they call an honorable exit from Iraq.

Therefore the Bush-Cheney-Rice team know what needs to be done. The question is how much political capital it is willing to spend. Until now only the political capital of a US president has succeeded in getting the parties (especially the Israelis) to react.

George W. Bush and his team has given all the right signals, but it is not yet clear how far they will go in pursuing their goals and those of the world community in dealing with the issue of Palestine.

Bush's public call for an independent, viable Palestinian state with territorial contiguity was an important declaration. It is not enough to support this call simply with the appearance of movement in the Arab-Israeli conflict. Every bit of US diplomacy, and more, is needed to be able to try and translate this call into reality.

Failure to produce tangible results is scary. When Reagan failed, Palestinian revolted in an unarmed intifada. When Clinton failed, the second intifada was armed and deadly on both sides.

If George Bush and his administration fail this time it is hard to imagine what the consequences will be.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>April 13: Facing facts</title>
<date>12/4/2007</date>
<content>
Facing facts
Sir, - It was a great pleasure to read the brilliant analysis by Dan Schueftan ("Whatever we do, we will not get peace," One on One by Ruthie Blum, April 6). Schueftan cogently dismisses the non-sequitur assertions of the right-wingers that the Gaza withdrawal was a complete failure because rockets are still being fired from Gaza and peace has not been advanced. With equal cogency he punctures the illusions of the left-wingers that if only we were willing to negotiate with Hamas and Syria and make a few more concessions to show our good will, peace with the Arabs would be forthcoming.

Schueftan boldly states the obvious but unpleasant truth that no matter what Israel does, the Palestinians will not make peace and Arab terrorism will not cease because the Arabs have never abandoned their desire to eliminate the Jewish state. It follows that all decisions of our government should be based on this unpleasant truth.
NATHAN AVIEZER
Ramat Gan

Sir, - Prof. Schueftan thinks he has the solution to the demographic problem: withdrawal from Arab-populated areas. It is crucial that the Israeli public understand that withdrawal, unilateral or negotiated, is doomed to failure, for the simple reason that Palestinian attacks inevitably force Israel to reoccupy PA territory. This is predictable and manifest in the post-Oslo paradigm. Whether planned or derivative, the Palestinians can strategically use terror and missiles to block our attempts to disengage from the demographic problem. And the settlements are completely irrelevant to this equation.

Yet the so-called demographic problem exists only insofar as we honor its immoral logic, which essentially states that Israel does not have the right to exist if we unendingly deny her existential enemies the right to independence. If Israelis continue to buy into this unethical and demoralizing position, we will slowly watch as the world takes our cue and demands that Israel end its "apartheid" policies a la Jimmy Carter.
ROBERT KLEIN
Beersheba

In our interest
Sir, - Sarah Honig pointed out the futility of appeasement in "Miracles by proxy" (April 6). Israel can never allow a Palestinian state, nor the terror to continue. We must strike hard and fast at all the terror groups. We must stop talking out of both sides of our mouths to gain some peace. We must stop fueling the Arab extreme with promises we can never and must never keep. We need a strong, fearless leader who will strengthen our resolve to live according to our contract with God, and live by it. Peace will come only when we fulfill our part of the contract.
MARILYN BENNETT
Jerusalem

Little Arab meekness...
Sir, - Amotz Asa-El hit the nail on the head - he hit several nails on their respective heads, actually - in his assessment of the Arab League member-states' many failures (economic, social, religious, etc.) in bringing their nations up to snuff with the modern world ("The business of the Arab League," April 6). However, these failures become a problem for the various governments only when there is no outlet for the people's frustrations.

Fortunately for the leaders of the Arab world, outlets do exist. Like the Christian world before them, Arab leaders have honed the scapegoating of Jews in general, and Israel in particular, to a science. The major difference between them, however, is that while the New Testament gives no formal backing to Christian anti-Semitism, there is no Koranic version of "whose kingship is characterized by non-retaliation and meekness" (Matthew 11:19).

And, as Asa-El notes, there is always the outlet of emigration. Just one more disparate color in the rainbow the EU will have to amalgamate.
SOL SPIEGLER
Tel Aviv

...and lots of weakness
Sir, - Amotz Asa-El makes a statement that has been repeated many times but which I feel does not accurately describe the current situation in the Middle East - that "progress threatens the elites" in the Arab world. This is used to attempt to explain why there are many dictatorships in the Arab world, and why there are large economic inequities.

A more accurate explanation of the current situation would note that much of the population of the Arab world is steeped in primitive superstitions, tribal allegiances and a culture that cannot cope with modernity. The elites of the Arab world are aware of this, and attempt to shield the rest of the world from the effects of the primitivism of the Arab street by governing without open elections. Democracy cannot work without a significant portion of the populace being capable of thinking rationally.

The Arab version of Islam requires the kind of reform that Christian and Jewish Europe absorbed during the last four centuries. A version of Islamic reform started in Turkey 100 years ago, but now appears to be fighting a losing battle.

The economic problems of the Arab world will probably not be solved without a long period of psychological adjustment by the populace. We can only pray that this can occur before the world is engulfed in destruction.
SOLOMON MAX
Jerusalem

Watch that praise!
Sir, - Tucked away in the New York Magazine article Saul Singer gave attention to last week was the parenthetical observation that "Highly aggressive, violent people happen to think very highly of themselves, debunking the theory that people are aggressive to make up for low self-esteem" ("The praise craze," April 6). Well, considering what's been taking place on our roads and in our nightclubs and high schools, this deserves some thought. It's fair to say, I think, that the reckless demons behind the wheel who endanger our lives, and the teens and twenty-somethings settling accounts or looking for some exciting way to kill time are hardly the downtrodden under-achievers of our society. Maybe an A for Effort rather than for solving a tricky geometry proof or for nicely putting together a term paper would have done more good.

But what neither Prof. Carol Dweck nor Mr. Singer came up with is how to overcome the mind-set of praising the high achiever for achievement rather than for effort. It's no problem to praise the effort made by a kid who's prone to hit a sour note while practicing the piano; praising the effort of one who rarely does is somewhat more difficult. The latter, quite naturally, gets a pat on the back for the achievement not the effort.

While Prof. Dweck's research focused on fifth graders, parallel studies suggest that age is not necessarily a factor, and that the power of praise has positive benefits even with young adults. The message, though, needs to be received by both parents and teachers, who need to be reminded that repeatedly telling a youngster just how smart he or she is can backfire, and that carefully chosen words of encouragement can have more meaningful and long-term results.

Some will rebel and argue that this notion is nothing more than psychobabble. They're the ones who'll blame the world when their kids' advancement becomes stagnant. Or when they wind up in jail.
BARRY NEWMAN
Ginot Shomron

Going potty
Sir, - I must admit that Amanda Dan's saga of motherhood, which started out rather stilted, has become one of my favorite columns in the paper. I wish her luck in her "potty training" ("Let freedom ring," April 6). The twins should finish with diapers earlier, as they'll want to do whatever their big brother does. Honestly, I suspected that she'd wait until all three were old enough!

When I was a young mother, decades ago, Israeli babies were rushed out of diapers as soon as they could walk. And high chairs had "removable seats" which covered holes over "slide-out potties." My daughters were trained by age two, which was considered old at the time.
BATYA MEDAD
Shiloh
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>April 17: ...but it's worse</title>
<date>16/4/2007</date>
<content>
He said it in verse...

Sir, - "British journalists call for boycott of Israel" (April 15) reminded me of this verse by Humbert Wolfe:

"You cannot hope to bribe or twist / (thank God!) the British journalist. / But seeing what the man will do / unbribed, there's no occasion to.

ALBERT JACOB

Beersheba

Sir, - Now that the British Journalists Union has shown evidence of its inability to maintain any professional standard of impartiality, shouldn't the relevant members be told they are no longer welcome to ply their biased trade from Israel?

PETER SIMPSON

Jerusalem

...but it's worse

Sir, - How blind can you be? Iran kidnaps their soldiers, the Palestinians their colleague. British-born Muslims murder 52 of their fellow citizens. MI5 is monitoring, within Britain, 200 Islamic terror groupings, 1,600 identified individual terrorists and 30 known terrorist plots - but it's Israel they are boycotting.

Not only have these gentlemen of the press not read the works of Ibn Warraq, Bat Ye'or, Robert Spencer, Serge Trifkovic or Melanie Phillips, they apparently have no clue about their own history. They should start with Winston Churchill's The Gathering Storm: "How the English-speaking peoples through their unwisdom, carelessness and good nature allowed the wicked to rearm."

There's no Churchill to save them this time. Perhaps they are looking forward to reporting under Shari'a law?

MLADEN ANDRIJASEVIC 

Beersheba

Word to the naive

Sir, - In seeking to draw lessons for Israel and the Arab/Palestinian conflict from the "miraculous" new South Africa, Larry Derfner is being naive and simplistic ("Coming home from the land of miracles," April 12). He ignores two major, fundamental problems which make this kind of transformation well-nigh impossible here, certainly for the foreseeable future.

Those who struggled so valiantly against the apartheid regime were fighting for an honorable and equal place in South Africa. They were not fighting to replace South Africa. The Arabs, particularly the Palestinians, are determined to replace Israel, and say so loudly and constantly. (There are those, I am sure, who would prefer it done decently; the majority don't care, so long as Israel is removed.)

The great majority of those who led the anti-apartheid struggle were committed to avoiding attacks on civilians. There were exceptions, but the struggle was aimed at the underpinnings of the white regime - government buildings, electricity sub-stations and power lines. Above all, it was aimed at the agents of the regime, the military and the police.

The Palestinians, on the other hand, while certainly not reluctant to attack Israeli soldiers, have, as their target of choice, civilians - preferably in crowded malls, restaurants and buses. They are intent on inflicting maximum damage on Israel's civilian population.

The word "apartheid," until it was given its sinister overtones by a brutal regime, meant, simply, "separateness" - and it's what Israelis and Palestinians desperately need right now. Both sides are traumatized and bleeding, and we need time out from each other to heal and rest.

At some point in the future, with time to care for our societies and heal wounds, perhaps our children can play together. For now, to expect anything else is sentimental wishful thinking.

"Apartheid" has become the accepted, politically correct term of vilification of Israel. Its constant and inappropriate misuse cheapens the valiant struggle of the anti-apartheid fighters and instantly condemns the country so described to delegitimization and contempt.

For Mr. Derfner, as a Jew and an Israeli, to even hint at that word in connection with Israel is appalling.

FREDA KEET 

Jerusalem

Sir, - We were at the zoo in Jerusalem recently. It was filled with Jews, secular, religious and haredim, and Arabs: kids of all types, jumping and climbing, petting animals together.

Guess Larry Derfner missed that miracle. But then it wasn't a miracle, because we are not and never were an apartheid state, just an embattled one.

It is pretty amazing what happened in South Africa, but I feel sorry for Mr. Derfner, who has lost any wonder regarding the country in which he lives.

THE COOPER FAMILY

Jerusalem

My right to criticize

Sir, - "Irish artists' call to boycott Israel meets with mockery" (April 8) misrepresented me. It quoted some of my open letter to the Israeli ambassador to Ireland, but omitted the core:

"I proposed the motion (in our artists' parliament, Aosd na) to which you took such exception, (a) because I am a Jewish woman and inspired by another Jewish woman, the late Tanya Reinhart, distinguished professor of linguistics at Tel Aviv University, whose searing criticism of her own country and her support for an academic boycott brought upon her so much bullying and harassment inside the university that she was forced to leave Israel; and (b) because of my experience when I visited Israel last year… I have therefore a particular right to criticize you… just as I have a right to criticize my own Irish government and call it criminal when it upholds illegal war by facilitating the USA at Shannon, corrupting our Constitution and betraying the Proclamation of 1916."

I just wish, as a citizen and as an artist, that artists outside Ireland would call for some sort of boycott to embarrass Dublin over the double standards inherent in the use of Shannon airport by American warplanes.

On the question of boycott, is it not a bit rich that not only Israel and the US, but also the EU immediately boycotted an elected Palestinian administration and withheld desperately needed funds because they didn't like the way the people had voted?

MARGARETTA D'ARCY

Galway, Ireland

Undeniable
Sir, - A question: How can anybody deny the Holocaust when the Germans, who did it, confirm it? I am a Holocaust survivor and I get money from the Germans, as many survivors do.

KURT LEVY

Tel Aviv

Sir, - It should never be forgotten that had Britain not cheated on its sworn commitment of Trusteeship to the League of Nations in 1920, there would have been no Holocaust because the Jews in Germany and elsewhere in Europe would have had their own Jewish homeland to come to.

DAVID LEE

London

Fine idea

Sir - Re "Let there be light" (Letters, April 15): A fine for driving with only one rear light is a nice idea, and probably already a law, but it's only the tip of the iceberg. I have long touted a foolproof solution for both generating a huge amount of revenue and solving some of Israel's biggest quality-of-life problems.

It would include serious municipal fines, and specialized teams to collect them, for these infringements: smoking in non-smoking areas, not cleaning up after your dog, driving with small children in the front seat or unbelted, littering and - especially - obnoxious parking (blocking sidewalks, taking handicapped spots, etc.).

Think what a fortune the cities could make. Hopefully, with time, real social change would result. I believe this is how NYC got folks to adhere to "pooper scooper" laws in the late 1970s and into the 1980s.

NAOMI BLOOM WURTMAN 

Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>April 18: Mind and heart</title>
<date>17/4/2007</date>
<content>
Mind and heart

Sir, - My unending gratitude to Amnon Rubinstein for taking the trouble to be properly informed, and for applying his mind and heart to what should be of uppermost importance to our nation - the well-being of our beloved soldiers, and our peculiar chronic illness of being our own very worst enemies ("When 'human rights' groups look the other way," April 17).

JANINE BLOCH
Ra'anan

Loose them, lose lives

Sir, - Rabbi Weiss is right on ("A recipe for terror," April 13). I speak as a sister who lost a brother in Lebanon, and as one who has worked for the cause of the MIAs. We cannot allow thousands of murderers let loose to be allowed to murder more citizens.

I would like to add that I am the sister-in-law and aunt of Rabbi Dr. David Applebaum and his daughter Nava - may God avenge their blood - killed three and half years ago in the Cafe Hillel suicide bombing in Jerusalem.

Every single day of my life I pray for the return of our soldiers. Their faces are always in front of my eyes. Nevertheless, we have to keep our wits about us and think of what the release of these terrorists could mean for all the people of Israel.

YEHUDIT TRINA SPERO
Beit Shemesh

Sir, - Since we have no contact with the kidnapers and the Red Cross has not been able to see our soldiers to verify that they are alive and well, let us withhold all privileges to those convicted of terrorist acts.

I assume Marwan Barghouti has phones and television and visitors - he even managed to win an election from jail.

Let us take all privileges away from terrorists in our jails. People will yell and the Red Cross will scream, but nobody is screaming loud enough on behalf of our boys held by the enemy.

What's good for the goose is good for the gander.

A. WEINBERG
MARVIN HESHKOWITZ
Rehovot

My role in this war

Sir, - Three times since 2000 I have passed through Ben-Gurion Airport. I can honestly say I didn't enjoy the scrutiny, but I fully understand the necessity. I have therefore come to these conclusions:

1. There is an aggressive war being waged by extremist Islamists worldwide. Physically, I bear a general resemblance to them. To complicate things, my appearance does not resemble my German last name. I look more like my Panamanian relatives than my German-American one. This leads to more enquiries, but ends well once explained.

2. Of the many roles I could be playing in this global war on terror, that of a passenger traveling through an airport is not a bad one, say, in comparison to a soldier on patrol in Iraq or on the perimeter of Gaza. If the soldiers can suck it up and do that, I can handle a few suspicious looks and penetrating questions.

DALE WOHLERS
Virginia Beach, Virginia

Start from the known

Sir, - Despite the very best of intentions, the kindergarten lesson on the Holocaust depicted by Ruth Eglash in "Never too young to learn 'Never Again'" (April 17) could have created a reaction contrary to the goals of the Yad Vashem curriculum.

On hearing that the Jews were victimized simply for not having blond hair and blue eyes, "the children look at their classmates and nod their heads." What if there had been children with blond hair and blue eyes present? Wouldn't they have been distressed, perhaps even traumatized?

When we teach, we start from the known and move on to the as yet unknown. Suppose that when the teacher asked, "What was the name of the man who wanted to kill the Jews?" the children had been led to answer "Haman." The Holocaust is a logical sequel to the Purim story, and the teacher could then have asked, "Why are we happy on Purim and sad on Yom Hashoa?"

With the best curriculum in the world, it is the teacher in the classroom who makes the difference.
RABBI MORDECHAI SPIEGELMAN
Jerusalem
The writer is former director of the Department of Yeshivot, Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York. 

Claims Conference

Sir, - Isi Leibler was quite right to point out that "It's time to reform the Claims Conference" (April 10). Two years ago the Israel office of the conference advertised for Jews who had fled Austria after March 12, 1938, inviting them to apply for a one-time compensation payment from the German government. To date the only information the Tel Aviv office will give you is that "the matter is handled by our German office, and here is their address." One would think there might be some link between the two offices, and that they would be supplied with up-to-date information.

One also wonders what kind of pension Claims Conference retired staffers receive, as against the payments made to survivors. Regrettably, Israel is not the one to demand Claims Conference reforms as it first needs to reform its own treatment of survivors. Israel should be the first to remember the survivors living here; not only on Holocaust Memorial Day, but on the other 364 days as well.

MENACHEM SAMUEL
Jerusalem

Message of Easter

Sir, - I was interested to read your accounts of Easter celebrations in Jerusalem, as well as your well-timed update on the so-called Jesus family tombs in East Talpiot ("Scholars featured in 'Lost Tomb of Jesus' backtrack," April 11). I fully understand why your reports focused primarily on the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in the Old City, not least because of this year's unusual convergence of Latin and Orthodox Easter celebrations. As you rightly said, it was at that ancient church "where many Christians believe Jesus' body lay for three days after he was crucified."

What you failed to mention is that many Christians also believe that the site of Jesus' death and burial could have been the Garden Tomb, outside the walls of the Old City. It was to this alternative site that over 3,000 Christians came on Easter Sunday to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus.

It is a core Christian belief "that Jesus rose from the dead on the third day after his crucifixion." For evangelical Christians the actual site of Jesus' burial is of far less importance than the glorious fact of his resurrection. As it says on the door of the empty Garden Tomb: "He is not here, for He is risen." That's the true message of Easter!

PETER WELLS
The Garden Tomb
Jerusalem

To clarify

Sir, - Despite Freda Keet's contention in "Word to the naive" (Letters, April 17) I did not in my April 12 column "Coming home from the land of miracles" accuse Israel of being an apartheid state. Instead, I accused Israeli Jews and Israeli Arabs of rejecting each other in favor of a life of mutually hostile segregation, and concluded that each side's attitude reflected the spirit of apartheid. I did not write about Israel's treatment of the Palestinians, or about Zionism but, rather, repeatedly and exclusively about the social attitudes of Israeli Jews and Israeli Arabs toward each other.

I do not believe Israel's treatment of its Arab citizens can be compared to apartheid - although I do think there are some important comparisons that can be made between apartheid and Israel's settling of the West Bank; but then there are important differences, too, and at any rate, that's not what my column was about.

LARRY DERFNER
Modi'in
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Blame it on Balfour</title>
<date>16/6/2007</date>
<content>
Britain, which only recently celebrated the 350th anniversary  of its Jewish community, is "a lost cause" for Israel, Evelyn Gordon wrote in her June 6 Post column. This assessment follows in the wake of British academics and journalists having instructed their trade unions to adopt policies supporting a boycott of Israel. Groups of architects and doctors are trying to do the same in their professions. And, UNISON, Britain's biggest trade union, is next in line to decide whether to join the bandwagon.

Similar campaigns exist in other countries, but nowhere is boycotting the Jewish state being pursued with the same vigor as in the UK.

Many have been left scratching their head and asking: Why Britain?

The answer begins with two words: Balfour Declaration. British post-colonial guilt is felt more keenly in relation to Israel/Palestine than any other former colony. Balfour was the "original sin," according to George Galloway, "which has been the cause of all the problems in the region," a wrong which must be righted.

If you believe, as much of the British Left does, that Israel was artificially implanted in 1948 by a retreating empire to act as the West's watchdog, then the creation of Israel was just another conspiracy and Britain was the central conspirator.

Britain is now back as an occupying power in the Middle East, and its presence in Iraq generates enormous anger and shame on the British Left. That it was a Labor government that took the country to war is the greatest betrayal. This puts British leftists in a difficult position: They can't boycott themselves, and to call for a boycott of America would be only slightly less ludicrous. So all that anger, guilt and frustration are neatly displaced onto Israel, imperialism's little brother.

Israel also happens to be a Jewish state and Jews, however subconsciously, have been Europe's favored scapegoat for centuries.

THERE ARE more prosaic reasons for "Boycott Britain." The main engine of the boycott campaign is the Socialist Workers Party, which has a disproportionate number of anti-Zionist Jews among its upper ranks, and it is the anti-Zionist Jews who are driving this issue.

It would be wrong to assume, as some do, that they are naive dupes being used by their non-Jewish comrades to make anti-Israel campaigning kosher. This is not the case. Their anti-Zionism is their - admittedly unorthodox - way of expressing their own Jewish identity, by rebelling against the mainstream Jewish consensus.

These are Trotskyite Jews continuing their age-old feud against the Jewish bourgeoisie; an internal Jewish broiges played out in the anachronistic setting of the conference floors of British trade unions.

Anti-Zionist Jews are a small fringe of the Jewish community. For most Jews, a boycott of Israel raises the specter of wider, anti-Jewish boycotts. Calls not to buy Israeli goods can easily slip into a boycott of "Jewish" businesses, as was the case with the Arab boycott of the 1970s and 1980s.

Boycotts of Jews were a ubiquitous Nazi tactic across occupied Europe, as a first step toward separation, deportation and genocide. This is not to accuse any of the current anti-Israel boycotters of being like, or wanting to emulate, the Nazis; but it is significant that Britain was never occupied during the war.

FIRSTLY, IN the narrative of the British Left, there is no historic debt to Jews that would counterbalance the debt to the Palestinians. And secondly, Britain lacks continental Europe's collective memory of boycotts as a profoundly destructive, anti-Semitic measure.

Instead, Britain has a different experience of boycotts, one which is wholly positive: the boycotts of South Africa that formed the core of anti-apartheid campaigning. This has been mythologized as a victory for the use of sanctions and boycotts, pioneered by left-wing groups that forced reluctant governments to take a stand.

Many of the activists from that time are present in the anti-Zionist movement and openly use that experience as a model for the new mass movement they are trying to create.

It is a mistake to assume that the success of anti-Israel campaigns in Britain is because of the sizable Muslim community. This is a campaign by the far Left, led by people who have been saying the same things about Israel since before Britain had a Muslim community of political consequence. The slogan that Israel is the new South Africa, and Zionism the new apartheid, betrays their need, on a personal and organizational level, for a new anti-apartheid movement.

These are people who accuse America of creating an Islamist bogeyman because, after the fall of communism, it needed a new enemy. The same could just as easily be said of their own determination to frame Zionism as the new apartheid. As Baroness Tonge said at a recent anti-Israel rally in London, "a free Palestine means we are on the road to world peace."

There is a deep utopian fantasy driving this anti-Zionism.

TRYING TO portray Israel as the new South Africa also reveals the true motives of the boycott campaigners. Boycotting Israel is both an expression of, and a tool for, the rejection of Israel's basic legitimacy.

It creates a framework for the dismantling of Zionism itself as an illegitimate, racist ideology, and the removal of the State of Israel from the map of the Middle East. This is about much more than simply the West Bank and Gaza. Anger at the occupation, frustration at the failure to end the conflict and the sense that Israel, as the more powerful protagonist, is responsible for finding a solution, have brought inchoate anti-Israel sentiment to the British mainstream.  Fully formed anti-Zionism, on a mass scale, may not be far away.

The writer is deputy director of communications for the Community Security Trust, which works to ensure the safety and security of the Jewish community in Britain. www.thecst.org.uk
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Britain's obsessive boycotters</title>
<date>29/5/2007</date>
<content>
While Israelis are targeted by rockets from Gaza and officials from the "elected Palestinian government" threaten attacks by female suicide bombers, calls for anti-Israeli boycotts based on human rights claims would appear to be both immoral and absurd.

But the small group that controls Britain's trade unions has managed to combine both traits, and it is escalating its political warfare in parallel with Palestinian violence. A vote on yet another anti-Israel boycott proposal is scheduled to take place at the end of May, this time by the Universities and Colleges Union (UCU).

This is the third such academic boycott campaign in Britain in two years, coming after a divestment debate within the Anglican Church, a "boycott Israel" movement led by British activists in the World Medical Association, and the adoption of a similar program by the National Union of Journalists. Beyond the obvious violations of the academic process inherent in a political boycott, this effort is part of a carefully prepared strategy aimed at isolating the Jewish state.

The crucial difference, however, between the previous attempts and the current boycott battles, including the UCU effort, is the presence of a serious counterweight on the political battlefield to challenge the anti-Israel and often anti-Semitic slogans and myths.

Sober and morally-minded British academics on the Left, led by a group known as Engage, as well as the "Fair Play Campaign Group," are particularly active. And under the IAB (International Advisory Board for Academic Freedom), many Israeli academics have also become active in countering the pervasive propaganda and misinformation.

FOR THE radicals, including obsessive ideologues affiliated with the Socialist Workers Party, history, facts and details are irrelevant. While always invoking "the occupation," the decades of Arab warfare, terrorism, incitement and rejectionism are erased from the record. This is not the result of ignorance but of willful conviction, and nothing will change their anti-Israel, anti-US and anti-democracy agendas. They will continue to use terms such as "apartheid" and "racist" to demonize Israel.

As made clear in recent statements, it is Israel's existence that they reject, and not specific policies.

However, the main purpose of the confrontations between boycott opponents and advocates is not to convince the fanatics, but to address the much larger group that knows very little about Israel and the conflict. After many years of avoidance, in the false hope that the absurdity of these boycotts against Israel would become obvious, there is now a coherent strategy that has a chance of success.

Via vigorous debate, the goal is to encourage those who are not obsessed by Israel to break with the radicals. In trade union votes, these moderate voices will determine the outcome, and persuading many of the injustice inherent in the one-sided singling-out of Israel can defeat the boycott resolutions.

This is a formidable task. The impact of the radical fringe has been greatly magnified by powerful non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in Britain that have also been campaigning for years. Well-financed pressure groups such as War on Want, Christian Aid, World Vision, Pax Christi, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch take the lead in singling out and systematically condemning Israel. They repeat the same invented histories, claiming that Israel was "founded in sin," and use invented evidence to condemn Israeli responses to terrorism and aggression. Many journalists who share these prejudices repeat the claims at face value.

AS A result, those who know little about Israel or the Palestinians accept the agendas of the activists. Having heard so much about Israeli "disproportionate response" against attacks from Hizbullah and Hamas, and about the "apartheid wall" (as opposed to a security barrier that has prevented untold attacks by Palestinian suicide bombers), members of the union leadership who focus on other issues accept the attacks against Israel.

There is evidence that some members of this group are beginning to question the obsessive anti-Israel propaganda. In 2005, after the leaders of the Association of University Teachers voted to endorse the boycott, members forced a second vote, which resulted in a reversal. They realized that a partisan boycott was unjust and antithetical to the principles of academic freedom. (A similar re-vote in the case of a second union - NATFHE - was avoided when this group dissolved in a merger with the AUT to become the UCU).

In the Anglican Church, in which the politics resembles the trade union movement, a majority of the leaders overturned the attempt to become involved in a one-sided and counterproductive political attack. More recently, many members of the National Union of Journalists are demanding a revote after being embarrassed by the obvious pro-Palestinian bias formally adopted by their organization, which showed that British media coverage of the Middle East was systematically biased.

These changes, while relatively small, demonstrate that attempts to demonize and boycott Israel are not inevitable, and that the inherently immoral and absurd nature of such campaigns can be exposed.

The writer directs the Program on Conflict Management at Bar-Ilan University, and heads 'NGO Monitor.'
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Clarity, ambiguity</title>
<date>22/1/2007</date>
<content>
In what seems to be another uncalculated slip, Ariel Levite, the deputy director-general of the Israel Atomic Energy Commission, on Sunday openly labeled Israel as a nuclear "threshold state."

Levite, surveying the history of nuclear proliferation at the Herzliya Conference, spoke about what he called the "second nuclear age," between 1967 and 1989. During this period, Levite said, the international community managed to limit the spread of nuclear weapons to five powers (US, USSR, Britain, France, and China), but there was a "crawling forward ... as a result of which three threshold states presented themselves, which remain outside the NPT [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty]: India, Pakistan, and Israel."

Ambiguity, it seems, is not our strong suit.

We assume this was a slip, since Levite later claimed to have been describing what the world believes, rather than confirming Israel's reported nuclear status. Similarly, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert claimed that he had not changed our policy of nuclear ambiguity when he, in a recent interview to to a German publication, listed Israel among the world's nuclear powers.

It is disturbing when our officials cannot seem to abide by a long-standing policy, or alternatively, decide in an orderly way to change that policy. Such mistakes are embarrassing, and add to the sense that our government suffers from a lack of basic competence.

The more serious problem, however, is not that we are too clear when we are supposed to be ambiguous, but too ambiguous when we must be clear.

Also at Herzliya, Binyamin Netanyahu said: "The world that did not stop the Holocaust last time can stop it this time if they divest from genocide. ... Who will lead the effort against genocide if not us? The world will not stand up on behalf of the Jews if the Jews do not stand up on behalf of the world."

Exactly right. There is nothing wrong with continuing to make the point that Iran's threat is not just to Israel, but to the world. There is something wrong with waiting for the world to take action, without taking basic legal measures to defend ourselves against an aggressor nation.

Israel must lead an international campaign to indict Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for committing the crime of incitement to genocide, a crime explicitly punishable under the Genocide Convention.

The Iranian regime openly denies the Holocaust, for the purpose of removing what it claims is Israel's sole basis for existence. Iranian leaders openly call for "wiping Israel off the map" and speculate that Iran can absorb a nuclear attack while Israel cannot. If such statements, combined with a race to achieve the means to carry them out, are not incitement to genocide, what is?

If it is any consolation, it is not just Israel that fails to use basic international tools in its own self-defense. Iran has been heavily supporting terrorist militias that are being used to render Iraq ungovernable, subjugate Lebanon, attack Israel on two fronts, and ensure that no peace process can ensue between Israelis and Palestinians.

All this is well known, yet neither the US nor Israel have demanded that a "terrorism file" be opened against Iran in the UN Security Council, as if Iran's nuclear program is the regime's only sanctionable activity.

Though implemented by proxy, all of this activity is international aggression par excellence, of exactly the sort that the UN Charter was designed to punish. The UN has been doggedly investigating Syria's involvement in the assassinations of Rafik Hariri and Pierre Gemayel. Why is it not being tasked to investigate Iranian support for terrorism?

In theory, it is the obligation of virtually all states to enforce the Genocide Convention and the UN Charter. Iran is so far enjoying an effective global pass on the nuclear issue and a resounding diplomatic silence on its support for terrorism and incitement to genocide. If this continues, the Iranian regime is demonstrating that the US and Israel are more diplomatically isolated and impotent than it is.

Inaction will not hide this fact nor ameliorate its consequences. Under its current regime, Iran must become no less of a pariah state than was South Africa under apartheid. Israel should not shy away from becoming the state most actively pressing for this, since no nation will press harder than we do. Like it or not, we set the standard for action - or for doing nothing.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Apartheid, not peace</title>
<date>30/11/2007</date>
<content>
This week the Bush Administration legitimized Arab anti-Semitism. In an effort to please the Saudis and their Arab brothers, the Bush administration agreed to physically separate the Jews from the Arabs at the Annapolis conference in a manner that aligns with the apartheid policies of the Arab world which prohibit Israelis from setting foot on Arab soil.

Evident everywhere, the discrimination against Israel received its starkest expression at the main assembly of the Annapolis conference on Tuesday. There, in accordance with Saudi demands, the Americans prohibited Israeli representatives from entering the hall through the same door as the Arabs.

At the meeting of foreign ministers on Wednesday, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni called her Arab counterparts to task for their discriminatory treatment. "Why doesn't anyone want to shake my hand? Why doesn't anyone want to be seen speaking to me?" she asked pointedly.

Israel's humiliated foreign minister did not receive support from her American counterpart. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who spent her childhood years in the segregated American South, sided with the Arabs. Although polite enough to note that she doesn't support the slaughter of Israelis, she made no bones about the fact that her true sympathies lie with the racist Arabs.

As she put it, "I know what it is like to hear that you cannot go on a road or through a checkpoint because you are a Palestinian. I understand the feeling of humiliation and powerlessness."

Rice's remarks make clear that for the Secretary of State there is no difference between Israelis trying to defend themselves from a jihadist Palestinian society which supports the destruction of the Jewish state and bigoted white Southerners who oppressed African Americans because of the color of their skin. It is true that Israel has security concerns, but as far as Rice is concerned, the Palestinians are the innocent victims. They are the ones who are discriminated against and humiliated, not Livni, who was forced - by Rice - to enter the conference through the service entrance.

The Bush administration's tolerance for discrimination against Israel was not merely ceremonial. Diplomatically, the conference was equally prejudicial. At Annapolis, the US joined the Arabs in placing the lion's share of blame for the absence of peace between Israel and the Palestinians on Israel. But you wouldn't know that from listening to Olmert, who is working steadily to hide what happened there.

Olmert obfuscates the truth because his political stability rests in the hands of his hawkish coalition partners Yisrael Beiteinu and Shas. Both warned before the summit that if Olmert made any concessions on either Jerusalem or the so-called outpost communities in Judea and Samaria they would bolt his coalition and so spur new elections.

Shas and Yisrael Beiteinu expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the summit. Both Shas leader Eli Yishai and Yisrael Beiteinu leader Avigdor Lieberman dismissed Annapolis as a pathetic joke and claimed that there is no reason for them to resign from the Olmert government. But these assertions are deliberately misleading.

The fact that the Israeli-PLO joint statement made no specific mention of Jerusalem, and that the government didn't announce a timetable for destroying the so-called outpost communities and expelling the hundreds of Israeli families who live in them, doesn't mean that Israel made no concessions on these issues. In fact, the Olmert government made massive concessions on these issues.

The Israel-PLO joint statement at Annapolis contains a joint pledge "to propagate a culture of peace and nonviolence; to confront terrorism and incitement, whether committed by Palestinians or Israelis."

Although Olmert, Lieberman and Yishai dismiss this Israeli acceptance of moral equivalence with Palestinian jihadists as a meaningless rhetorical concession, the government's move is rife with political and legal implications. US Ambassador Richard Jones's unprecedented meeting this week with Supreme Court President Dorit Beinisch made clear that the US demands that Israeli courts interpret Israeli law in a prejudicial manner in order to demonize Israeli opponents of Palestinian statehood and the ethnic cleansing of the Jews from Judea and Samaria.

Their meeting also signaled that the US expects Israel to treat lawful building activities by Jews in Judea and Samaria and even in sections of Jerusalem as criminal acts. Since the Olmert government accepts that Israel is morally indistinguishable from the Palestinian Authority, it is hard to foresee it preventing the criminalization of its political opponents. From now on, Israelis who oppose the diplomatic moves of the Olmert government can expect to be treated as the moral equivalents of Palestinian terrorists.

At Annapolis the Americans accepted the role of sole arbiter of Israeli and Palestinian compliance with their commitments to the so-called 'Roadmap' and the peace process. They also committed themselves to reaching a comprehensive peace treaty by the end of 2008. But as former US Middle East mediator during the Clinton administration Dennis Ross has admitted, these goals are contradictory. It is impossible to both ensure Palestinian compliance and the achievement of a peace treaty in that timetable.

Writing in The Washington Post after the Oslo peace process collapsed at Camp David and the Palestinian jihad had begun, Ross explained, "The prudential issues of compliance were neglected and politicized by the Americans in favor of keeping the peace process afloat….Every time there was a behavior, or an incident, or an event that was inconsistent with what the peace process was about, the impulse was to rationalize it, finesse it, find a way around it, and not to allow it to break the process."

"What the peace process was about" for the Clinton administration was signing peace agreements. It was not about ensuring that the Palestinians were actually interested in living at peace with Israel. When Rice stated that "failure is not an option," in the coming peace process, she made clear that the same is the case for the Bush administration today. She wants an agreement. Whether the Palestinians are serious about peace or not is none of her business.

Although reporting on Palestinian non-compliance with their commitments to fight terror will harm prospects for speedy "progress," accusing Israel of filching on its commitments will actually speed things along. Alleging Israeli non-compliance will force the pliant Olmert government to make further concessions to the Palestinians.

In light of this, it is clear that contrary to Yishai and Lieberman's dismissive treatment of what happened at Annapolis, Olmert's acceptance of the Americans as both judge of compliance and guarantor of "progress" means that Israel already made massive concessions.

On Jerusalem, for instance, although Yishai is right that Jerusalem is not specifically mentioned in the joint statement, the fact is that Israel agreed to negotiate the status of its capital city by agreeing to discuss all outstanding issues. Since the Americans want a Palestinian state within a year and they know that Palestinian Authority Chairman Mahmoud Abbas will not make any concessions on Jerusalem, they can be expected to pressure Israel to accept the Palestinian position. The thousands of Arab Jerusalemites now applying for Israeli citizenship are a clear sign that the Arabs understand that Israel has already made massive concessions on the city. And Yishai must know this.

The American status as arbiters of compliance has far reaching implications for Israel's ability to cope effectively with the security situation in Gaza and the Western Negev. Since Hamas seized control of Gaza in June, Abbas has opposed any wide-scale IDF counter-terror offensive on the area. Abbas has claimed - probably rightly - that an Israeli ground offensive in Gaza would weaken his position in Palestinian society since the Palestinians support Hamas's positions more than they support him. Given that the Americans are committed to strengthening Abbas, it is obvious that they will veto any Israeli plan to conduct an offensive in Gaza aimed at restoring security to the Western Negev.

Then there is Judea and Samaria. Lieberman claims that he can remain in the government because Olmert has yet to announce a timetable for throwing the Jews out of their homes in the so-called outpost communities. But that isn't Olmert's responsibility anymore. He ceded it to the Americans at Annapolis. They will set the timetable for expulsions, not Olmert. And it isn't only the Israeli communities in Judea and Samaria that are now at risk.

By anointing the State Department arbiter of Israeli compliance, the Olmert government gave the Americans the right to veto IDF operations in Judea and Samaria. As the guarantors of progress in the peace process, the Americans will tell the IDF where it can - or more precisely where it cannot - erect roadblocks. The Americans will tell the Israelis what cities and towns to transfer to Fatah control. They will tell Israel what guns and armor to transfer to the Palestinians, what to do with terror fugitives and when and how many terrorists it must release from its prisons.

Actually, the US has been constraining Israel's counter-terror operations in Judea and Samaria for months now. That these American efforts have harmed the effectiveness of the IDF's operations is something that Ido Zoldan's widow can attest to. Zoldan, after all, was murdered last week by Fatah terrorists who owed their ability to move about freely to Israel's decision to bow to American pressure and dismantle 24 roadblocks and curb its efforts to arrest Fatah terror bosses.

In essence, what we see in Olmert's and Livni's machinations is a repeat of Ariel Sharon's and Livni's political maneuvering in the period that preceded the withdrawal from Gaza. In both cases, Israel's senior leaders abide by the basic political understanding that a fight postponed is a fight won.

In 2004 Sharon lacked the political strength to announce openly that he was going to completely withdraw from Gaza and destroy all the Israeli communities in the area. So he allowed the Likud to hold a referendum on his plan to withdraw and authorized Livni to draft the so-called compromise plan according to which the destruction of Israeli communities would take place in four stages over several months and that each stage would require separate government approval.

By the time the Likud rejected his plan, Sharon was strong enough to ignore the will of his party. And when the withdrawal took place, far from taking place in four stages, it took place in four days. Livni and Sharon could ignore their previous commitments because when the time came to pay the piper, they had already destroyed their opponents.

Today, by pretending that the joint declaration at Annapolis was a big nothing, Olmert and Livni are repeating the maneuver. By the time they start throwing Jews out of their homes, they won't need Shas or Yisrael Beiteinu anymore.

Lieberman and Yishai are under no obligation to leave the government. They can stay for as long as they like. But they cannot pretend that by staying they are not full partners in the government's policies. As Annapolis made clear, those policies include dividing Jerusalem, destroying the Israeli communities in Judea and Samaria and compromising the security of the State of Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Critical Currents: The Carter challenge</title>
<date>25/1/2007</date>
<content>
Jimmy Carter dared to warn, in the title of his recent book, that the Palestinian-Israeli relationship may be veering toward apartheid. One wonders whether he had any idea what one word could do. His semantic juxtaposition has caused many to bristle and others to lash back. The former president's facts have been questioned, his record queried, his values challenged, his proposals dismissed and his person assailed.

This vociferous barrage is itself a timely reminder of what one word should not be allowed to do. By no stretch of the imagination can it offer an excuse for not reading beyond a volume's jacket. Nor may it be used to divert attention from the situation on the ground. Terminology aside, it is vital for anyone concerned with the ongoing conflict to continuously reassess the conditions of Palestinians under Israeli overrule.

Despite its apparent relinquishment of civilian authority, Israel has deepened its control over residents of the West Bank and Gaza during the past few years. The diverse measures it employs have one theme in common: to divide Palestinians from each other and to separate them as much as possible from Israelis. Mobility has been severely constrained. Movement within the West Bank has become tortuous: The number of checkpoints has risen from 376 in August 2005 to 534 a month ago. Access to major roads, reserved primarily for settlers, is restricted. Permits to enter Jerusalem, the largest Palestinian population concentration, are barely attainable. The connection with Gaza has been effectively severed. And the security wall has enclosed Palestinians in enclaves that separate them from each other as well as from Israelis.

A series of petty annoyances combine to make daily life at best unpredictable and at worst impossible. Cars are arbitrarily stopped for hours. People cannot get to work, pupils to schools or the sick to medical centers on time. Persistent humiliation and harassment - reported only when they reach outrageous heights - are so commonplace as to be an integral part of an increasingly downtrodden existence.

THE INHERENT contradictions in the hundreds of military directives that govern Palestinians range from the infuriating to the ludicrous. Israel controls the population register, but Palestinians are denied access to the relevant offices to record personal changes. Israeli traffic laws apply in the territories, but there is no way to pay the fines. Palestinians in Jerusalem pay city taxes but are not privy to basic services.

These - and many more - artificial barriers are also designed to prevent human contact. Palestinians can fall in love, but if one of them holds a foreign passport, they can no longer live together. Arab citizens of Israel may marry Palestinians, but not bring them home. Israelis and Palestinians, once able to meet freely, can't see each other without flouting the law.

These seemingly minor burdens have broader economic and political meaning. The movement of goods is monitored more closely than that of people (even the traditional zaatar has been confiscated at key crossings). Land expropriations, closures and unbridled provocations have reduced agricultural output. Meager exports do not reach their destination in a timely fashion; imports are sporadic. Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank live in abject misery.

Politically, the Palestinian Authority is expected to oversee state institutions but is not accorded the status of a sovereign state. The exercise of its limited authority is further impeded by the absence of territorial contiguity.

The myriad of Israeli policies that govern everyday Palestinian life today form a dim picture of an intricate system of institutionalized discrimination. Too many Israelis blind themselves to these thoroughly discomforting facts. They prefer not to have any contact with Palestinians, not to know about their hardships, not to take any responsibility for their plight. It is easier to dismiss carefully documented reports or to denounce their purveyors than to come to terms with the implications of the conditions they depict.

Some Israelis do admit to the prevalence of injustice. The majority, however, continues to excuse its occurrence in all-embracing security terms. But this argument, however critical, can no longer justify everything. The strangulating effects of often arbitrary restrictions foment animosity and may actually breed violence. Many dictates have nothing whatsoever to do with legitimate defense. The security rationale cannot and should not provide a blanket moral shield: If something is objectionable under normal circumstances, it should be shunned if at all possible.

Behind this explanation lies the all too convenient perception that the Palestinians have only themselves to blame for their situation: Their resort to violence and inability to maintain internal order has left Israel with no choice but to impose progressively restrictive measures. Shifting the responsibility to the victim cannot, however, exonerate the perpetrator - there is no symmetry between the two.

Ignorance, along with real fears and deep fatigue, has allowed a dangerous inertia to set in. It is ethically untenable, legally unacceptable and practically foolish to continue to ignore the outcome of Israeli policies in the Palestinian territories. However uncomfortable, those who truly care about Israel must grapple with the systemic discrimination which is the result of its actions.

The precise contours and effects of institutionalized inequality vary from place to place. The purposeful denigration of the other, for whatever reason, goes against the human grain and is totally antithetical to the Jewish tradition. Its negative repercussions corrupt Israeli society and distort its norms. For this reason, if for no other, Israel must do everything possible to liberate the Palestinians, and thereby itself, from the impossible burden of occupation. In the interim, it has a duty to do whatever it can to make Palestinian life bearable.

Those who reject Jimmy Carter's comparison can therefore not escape the challenge he poses.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Divest from Teheran - now</title>
<date>11/6/2007</date>
<content>
La Mesa, California is a long way from Teheran. So it may seem unlikely that this San Diego suburb is the point of origin of a measure that could significantly affect the way Iran does business.

First-term California State Assemblyman Joel Anderson, a Republican who represents this corner of Southern California in Sacramento, recently introduced a bill that would require the state's two enormous public pension funds - the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) and the California State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS) - to liquidate any of their holdings in companies that trade with Iran.

The measure, which passed the Assembly by a 75-0 vote on June 5, represents a ripple that could swell to a massive wave of international economic divestment like the one that ended the South African apartheid regime.

DIVESTING Iranian-friendly companies from CalPERS and CalSTRS matters because of the funds' sheer size. Together, they hold nearly $400 billion in assets; befitting a state populated by 37 million people, the two pension systems are by far the largest of their kinds in the United States.

The funds also reportedly own approximately $24 billion worth of investments in companies that do business with Teheran, including major international corporations like Hyundai, Royal Dutch Shell, and Siemens. (US law forbids American companies from operating in Iran.)

Removing tens of billions of dollars in stock holdings will undoubtedly send a message that residents of America's most populous state strongly disapprove of these companies' ongoing relationship with Teheran.

As Anderson told me, "California's investments should not be gambled on foreign-owned companies that make money by violating or skirting federal and United Nations sanctions on Iran."

Even more importantly, the bill would build on a foundation already laid by several states - including Missouri, New Jersey, Illinois - that have embarked on divestment campaigns of their own. It's not difficult to envision others states following the Golden State's lead in stigmatizing those who deal with Iran.

As Anderson says, "California has always led the nation in groundbreaking legislative issues… [This bill] will lead to similar legislation in other states, and possibly other nations." He skillfully steered the measure to unanimous passage through an otherwise highly contentious State Assembly.

STILL, THE bill is not without its detractors. A recent editorial in the local San Diego paper launched a misguided attack on Anderson's bill, warning that divestment would "cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars" and "would have no impact whatsoever on Teheran's backing for terrorist groups." The editorial suggested that the companies will continue trading with Iran irrespective of the funds' actions, questioning how "Hyundai selling cars in Esfahan [could possibly] provide any support" for the regime anyway.

Spokespeople for the pension funds offer similar objections to the measure, while others have doubted the wisdom of allowing states to effectively make their own foreign policy and bypass traditional diplomatic avenues.
Yet these criticisms miss the mark - badly.

First, any genuine economic analysis favors divestment. As Anderson, who insists that he's primarily concerned with diverting California taxpayer dollars from an unstable regime, told the New York Times: "I'm not saying that we should take a foreign policy stance; I'm saying it's not a good place to invest our money." He elaborated to me that "money is the mother's milk of terrorism - and Californians want to sever that source."

Second, there's simply no way that the transactions costs associated with this measure run into nine figures. If that's the case, then CalPERS and CalSTRS are managed far worse than anyone appreciates. Anderson dismisses the transaction cost argument, claiming that it "ignores the normal costs of doing business and assumes these investments are never traded. Common sense professional money managers would trade out of bad investments and into good investments."

THIRD, contrary to the callous cynicism of the naysayers, divestment can work. As Anderson told me, just as the Golden State's previous "divestments [from] South Africa and the Sudan" set in motion a cascade, we have every reason to expect the same from this bill.

And as for the temerity of individual states' dalliance in international affairs, these efforts go hand-in-glove with the State Department's push to isolate Teheran. Especially where traditional diplomacy has foundered on the shoals of Chinese and Russian intransigence, a grassroots assault on Iranian finances could actually be preferable.

Anderson's bill must still clear the California State Senate and overcome the fund operators' opposition. But Anderson has amassed 26 co-authors of the measure, including numerous key Sacramento Democrats. Even the Teamsters are on board.

Closer to home, the local Jewish community - including the Anti-Defamation League, the American Jewish Congress, and the Simon Wiesenthal Center - has also gotten behind the bill.

Marty Block of the San Diego Jewish Community Relations Council - a recent state university retiree - told me that he depends on CalSTRS for his pension and "want[s] to see the fund prosper, but not at the expense of supporting companies that ultimately support the anti-Israel, terrorist regime in Iran."

Block "support[s] divestment because it's the right thing to do, morally and fiscally," a widespread sentiment in the San Diego Jewish community.

So while many politicians pay lip service to the phrase "think globally, act locally," Assemblyman Anderson actually embodies it. His bill could open up a promising new front in the very difficult battle to force Iran to change its course.

Perhaps La Mesa isn't so far from Teheran, after all.

The writer, an attorney, is the secretary of the San Diego County Republican Party.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Does the Anglican Church have an Israel problem?</title>
<date>3/11/2007</date>
<content>
Rallies accusing Israel of practicing apartheid may be old hat, but the involvement of Episcopal church leaders gave last weekend's conference in Boston more stature than such gatherings might ordinarily enjoy. The Episcopal Bishop of Massachusetts, Rev. M. Thomas Shaw, was a featured speaker at the "Israel-Apartheid" conference, and the Episcopal Divinity School, which trains the church's future leaders, co-sponsored the event.

Some may see this antipathy to the Jewish state and apparent indifference to the suffering Israel has endured as analogous to the Holocaust years, when most Episcopal church leaders were largely indifferent to the suffering of the Jews in Hitler's Europe. But it is important to remember that then, as now, there were also prominent Episcopalians who stood up for the Jews.

In England during the 1930s, the Archbishop of Canterbury - leader of the Anglican Church, which was the parent body of America's Episcopal Church - was Rev. Cosmo Gordon Lang, who contended that "the Jews themselves" were to blame for the "excesses of the Nazis."

By contrast, Rev. William Temple, who succeeded Lang as Archbishop of Canterbury in 1942, was an outspoken advocate for the Jewish victims of Hitler and did not hesitate to take unpopular positions, such as urging the Allies to grant asylum to all Jewish refugees.

In fact, part of the reason the Roosevelt administration decided in 1943 to hold its sham refugee conference in far-off Bermuda, away from the eyes of the public and media, was because it was worried about "Canterbury giving publicity in the press," as assistant secretary of state Breckinridge Long wrote in his diary.

In the US during the Holocaust, most Episcopal leaders, like most leaders of other church denominations, refrained from speaking out about the Jews' plight. But there were important exceptions.

Two Episcopal schools, the General Theological Seminary (New York) and the Berkeley Divinity School (Connecticut) were co-sponsors of an important "Inter-Seminary Conference" which was held in New York City in early 1943 to discuss the Nazi mass murders. Organized by student activists from the Jewish Theological Seminary, the conference was the first significant attempt to rally Jewish and Christian religious opinion in support of rescue.

A number of Episcopal leaders were active in the Emergency Committee to Save the Jewish People of Europe (better known as the Bergson Group), which lobbied for US action to rescue Jews from the Holocaust. Episcopal Bishop Henry St. George Tucker of New York was a featured speaker at its landmark 1943 Emergency Rescue conference. Rev. H.P. Almon Abbot, Rev. Rev. Harry Longley, and Rev. W. Bertrand Stevens, the Episcopal bishops of Kentucky, Iowa, and Los Angeles, respectively, were co-sponsors of the conference. Rev. Stevens also co-sponsored the Los Angeles performance of "We Will Never Die," a theatrical event that the Bergson Group used to raise public awareness of the Holocaust.

IN THE autumn of 1943, the Bergson Group conference initiated a congressional resolution urging creation of a US government agency to rescue Jewish refugees.   The Roosevelt administration vigorously opposed the resolution, arguing that nothing could be done to rescue the Jews except to win the war.

In the midst of this battle, eight Christian leaders issued an important statement endorsing the resolution. Among the signatories were two Episcopal bishops - Rev. William Manning of New York and Rev. Thomas Heistand of Harrisburg.

Now consider this irony: another signatory was Dr. Angus Dun, dean of the Episcopal Theological College - the former name for the Episcopal Divinity School, which co-sponsored last week's "Israel-Apartheid" conference in Boston.

And yet more irony: another of the signatories was Dr. Russell Stafford, Minister of the Old South Church - the same church which hosted the "Israel-Apartheid" conference.

One wonders what Dr. Dun and Dr. Stafford, who spoke out against the abandonment of the Jews in the 1940s, would think about the position their successors have taken today with regard to the Jewish state. It is important to note that Bishop Shaw's antipathy toward Israel has not been adopted by the Episcopal Church as a whole. At the last national Episcopal convention, three resolutions hostile to Israel were brought before the resolutions committee - a committee that was chaired by the aforementioned Bishop Shaw, speaker at the "Israel-Apartheid" conference. Thanks to intense lobbying by Prof. Dennis Hale, an Episcopal lay leader who teaches at Boston College, Rev. Dr. Bruce Chilton of Bard College, and Sister Ruth Lautt O.P., a Dominican nun from New York, the resolutions were shelved.

Today, as during the Holocaust, there are those within the Episcopal Church whose positions on issues of Jewish concern have raised troubling questions. But it is clear that there are other voices, as well.

The writer is director of the David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies. www.WymanInstitute.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Don't reject Christian friendship</title>
<date>4/9/2007</date>
<content>
Sometimes the injustices we fight and resist in life can overtake our lives and forever distort our views and opinions. Some of my colleagues who joined with me in the 1980s in the struggle against Apartheid were never able to move on when the apartheid system finally collapsed in South Africa.

They had allowed "the struggle," as it came to be known, to overwhelm them. Whites were always held in suspicion, and the new, non-racial South Africa was thus such a surprise that it took away their purpose in life, yet they were left with the prejudice.

This prejudice said that people could never change. They would always be tied to the chains of their historical past. Therefore they should be mistrusted, rejected and guarded against. The "new day" will never come! Well, it did in South Africa.

The scenario I have painted above applies to Ellen Horowitz's recent Jerusalem Post op-ed ("A Jewish mother's guide to end times," August 28). She is a prisoner of the past and will never accept the "new day" in Christian-Jewish relations.

Christians who support Israel, no matter how genuinely or sacrificially, will always be a fifth column peddling some hidden agenda to subvert the Jewish people.

For her, there can be no such thing as Jewish-Christian friendship, solidarity and collaboration. Christians are trouble - full stop - and we have history to prove it. We could also say that whites are trouble in South Africa, and we have history to prove it. Yet the courageous always move on.

PREJUDICE is a very destructive thing. It imprisons the mind, alienates people and perpetuates the divisions of the past. It never believes that something new and exciting has taken place, and it ends up being the very thing it detests. We should all be on guard against this.

For instance, Ms. Horowitz quotes from the Christian scriptures, Ephesians 3:6 to be exact, and then makes the irrational conclusion that this proves Christian support for Israel is a problem.

Firstly, whether we like it or not, Christianity is a religion with Jewish origins. Its founder was Jewish, its early leaders and preachers were all Jewish and its first followers were all Jewish. It therefore has a very strong Jewish "root."

When the Church abandoned this Jewish Root from the fourth century onwards, an era of anti-Semitism took root in the Church, the consequences of which we are all too aware. The modern-day Christian Zionist movement has challenged this anti-Semitism in the Church for decades now, with remarkable success I might add, precisely because it has laid a strong emphasis upon the Christian scriptures that teach the Jewish rooted-ness and context of our faith. Hence the ICEJ reference on its Web site to this biblical verse.

Secondly, there is something very disturbing about a position that essentially says, "We don't like your scriptures and because we dislike them, we dislike you." Christians did this for 1,500 years to Jews, with all its awful consequences.

Thirdly, it has often been said that the Christians were silent during the tragic years of the Holocaust. This is true, even though 1,500 Christian leaders and preachers did stand up in Germany against the Third Reich. They all paid with their lives!

Now, however, when Christians have repented of this past and have stood up on behalf of Israel in their millions all over the world, this friendship is rejected, as if it were all a fraud designed to bring about a new spiritual fusion that will destroy the people of Israel.

It is no such thing, and over a period of 27 years of the existence of the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem no such case can be proven.

NO, ELLEN Horowitz, you are wrong. Our dear friend Rabbi Shlomo Riskin is not unaware of anything, and he is not naïve. He is a wonderful rabbi, very well educated and very committed to Judaism. However, he has moved on from the prison of the past and he has, with courage and joy, accepted the genuine hand of friendship that has been extended to Israel by Christians. He has not compromised anything because he knows what he believes and is secure in his faith.

Fourthly, Rabbi Riskin and others took the time to come and meet us. He wanted to find out for himself the credentials of these Christian friends. I note that, while Ms. Horowitz is very strident in her claims, she has never come in to see us. Isolation is always a good breeding ground for prejudice.

One may say that this response is quite hard-hitting. Yes, but what alternative do we have when our genuine friendship and solidarity with Israel is described as "Esau's Revenge"?

If one thinks this through carefully, the implications are horrific. It is nothing short of an accusation of anti-Semitism, i.e., stealing Israel's birthright!

Christian replacement theology, which birthed much of the anti-Semitism in Church history, did precisely this. We have not only refuted it theologically, but we have resisted it wherever we have found it. It is extraordinary that Israel's friends are now being accused of seeking to rob her of her birthright.

This is a very sad distortion.

The writer is executive director of the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem. www.icej.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editorial: The 'Israel Apartheid Week' libel</title>
<date>14/2/2007</date>
<content>
It is tempting to ignore "Israel Apartheid Week," an anti-Israel hate-fest taking place this week in Canada, England and the US. The organizers of such events, though they claim to be supporting Palestinian rights, will obviously not be satisfied unless the Jewish state ceases to exist.

But there are, no doubt, decent, caring people who may come across these events, or who bought Jimmy Carter's best-selling book branding Israel an apartheid state, who may be taken in by such vitriol.

So let us consider: Is Israel an apartheid state?

In an op-ed last week in The Australian, Muslim author Irshad Manji answers: "Would an apartheid state award its top literary prize to an Arab? ... Would an apartheid state encourage Hebrew-speaking schoolchildren to learn Arabic? Would road signs throughout the land appear in both languages? Even my country, the proudly bilingual Canada, doesn't meet that standard."

She continues: "Would a Hebrew newspaper in an apartheid state run an article by an Arab Israeli about why the Zionist adventure has been a total failure? Would it run that article on Israel's Independence Day? Would an apartheid state ensure conditions for the freest Arabic press in the Middle East?"

We would only add: What other state airlifted thousands of black Africans from Ethiopia to grant them instant and full citizenship?

The absurdity of the apartheid charge is illustrated by the Arab MKs who make it. Jamal Zahalka, an MK from one of the two Arab parties represented in the Knesset, said, "Calling the occupation apartheid... is an understatement. The Israeli occupation in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip is worse than apartheid." (see www.tomgrossmedia.com) Some might find it strange that Zahalka sees the Gaza Strip as "worse than apartheid" when it has been completely controlled by Palestinians since every Israeli settler (living and deceased), soldier and road block was withdrawn from that area in 2005.

Further, Zahalka appears not to realize that "apartheid week" organizers are not just referring to the situation in the territories captured by Israel in 1967 - most of which it has been desperately trying to hand over to a Palestinian state, and where, east Jerusalem apart, it has never asserted claims to sovereignty - but to Arabs in Israel itself. As their Web site states, "Israel is in fact an apartheid state, not just a belligerent occupying power."

Zahalka himself puts the lie to this claim. He and other Israeli Arab MKs are living proof that Arab citizens of Israel, unlike blacks in apartheid South Africa, have full political and civil rights, can vote and be elected to their parliament, and can even freely (if immorally) support the enemies of the state they are sworn to represent.

Indeed, many Israeli Arabs do not vote for the Arab parties, which have become so radicalized that they ignore their constituencies, but for Jewish parties. An Arab member of the Labor Party, for example, has just become a minister in the Israeli government.

And that's just the beginning. Israelis, be they Arabs or Jews, are much freer than anywhere in the Arab world. This is relevant because the "apartheid" charge brands Israel as a human rights abuser. But what sense does it make to berate the only country in the region that does respect human rights, while ignoring the rampant abuses taking place throughout the Muslim world?

According to the American Anti-Slavery Group (www.iabolish.com): "Though slavery was legally abolished [in Mauritania] in 1980, today 90,000 slaves continue to serve the Muslim Berber ruling class. Similarly, in Sudan, Arab northerners are known to raid the villages in the South - killing all the men and taking the women and children to be auctioned off and sold into slavery."

Saudi Arabia and other Muslim countries deny equal rights to women, Christians, Jews, Hindus and others. Where are the protests against Saudi apartheid?

Anyone who cares about human rights should support countries where they are respected and protest against those which don't.

Israel, like other democracies, does not have a perfect human rights record. But the Orwellian attempt to lump Israel among odious regimes, while ignoring real abusers, employs a double standard so blatant as to fit international definitions of anti-Semitism. Such libelous campaigns are themselves an abuse of the lofty cause of human rights and, in the context of calls to "wipe Israel off the map," contribute to the ultimate human rights abuse, incitement to genocide.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editor's Notes: Mr. Television's farewell</title>
<date>28/9/2007</date>
<content>
Ageing gradually before our very eyes, Haim Yavin has been presenting the news in Israel for, staggeringly, two-thirds of the entire life span of the state. And for most of that period, he really was Israel's "Mr. TV News" - the main presenter, most nights of the week, of the main TV news program, on the nation's only television station.

Born Heinz Kluger in what was then Oberschlesien, Germany (and is now Upper Silesia, Poland), Yavin was one of the founders of Israel Television, after a reluctant David Ben-Gurion had become persuaded that it would be a force for good. He has presided over the nightly Mabat almost continuously from the word go, soon after the Six Day War. And he it was, of course, on that nation-changing night in May 1977, who announced the Likud's ascent to power after three decades of Labor rule with the historic one-word confirmation: "Mahapach!"

Except that the term for which he is known more than any other - which he translates mildly into English as "Turnover" - is not the one he really wanted to use. He wanted, he says 30 years later, to declare "Mahpecha!" - a full-blown "Revolution!" But he shrank back, he says, because the overtones would have been too dramatic. The implication, left unsaid, is that he was concerned that for the liberal Ashkenazi TV stronghold to describe the Likud's victory in the language of revolution would have been perceived as an immediate attempt to delegitimize the new masters.

In an easy-going conversation that lasted more than an hour-and-a-half, however, Yavin's "Mahpecha!" disclosure was one of the few revelations from the person behind the anchorman. And that's because "Mr. TV News" has long been "Mr. TV Documentary Maker," as well - the proud author of dozens of what he calls TV's equivalent of newspaper editorials, opinion pieces with his personal byline emphatically attached.

The interview was fascinating, nonetheless, veering between a discussion of TV's depiction of our reality and Yavin's professional and political  narrative. He detailed the battles with government inherent in working at a state-run broadcaster in a region and era of conflict and immense political complexity, laid bare his own world view, and revealed a somewhat ambivalent attitude to the box-turned-flat screen. It was the medium that was going to change the world, he recalls, the medium for whose integrity he says he fought constantly, the medium that he now says has become deplorably trivialized even as it remains the "oxygen line" of Israeli society.

Yavin's familiar tones give immediate authority to everything he says. This is sometimes misleading since, unscripted, he can be less than definitive - as when dismissing TV as "porridge" and an entertainment tool to titillate but also defending TV news coverage, or when expounding on some of his political thinking.

But his overall thinking and orientation has long been overt, as detailed in those "editorial" projects. His next such venture is a series on Israel's Arab minority, and it was in discussing their status that Yavin became most animated. The show may prove controversial, given his assertion that the second-class status of the community "creates talk of apartheid." But nothing he says or does now would be likely to match the outcry engendered by his The Land of the Settlers series two years ago, which led to frenzied calls from the political Right for his removal from Mabat. ("Since 1967, we have been brutal conquerors, occupiers, suppressing another people," was the line seized upon by Britain's Guardian daily.)

Speaking good-naturedly in a small office at his sea-front home north of Tel Aviv, surrounded by shelves loaded with award certificates, statuettes, videotapes, books, CDs and family snapshots, Yavin seems thoroughly unruffled by this or the countless other run-ins with Israel Broadcasting Authority bosses and other critics he's seen off down the decades. "I never agreed to dictates and I worked according to my conscience," is how he sums up a lifetime in the TV eye of the storm.

But now, his glorious starring role is drawing to a close. He's just turned 75 and makes plain he's more than happy to rise from the Mabat hot seat. "I don't have the same enthusiasm for traveling to Jerusalem four nights a week," he cheerfully acknowledges. In fact, he would have been gone a while ago if the bosses, long-resolved to follow the one-man anchor with a male-female twosome, had found the male partner for Geula Even.

So when will we last see him wrinkle that forehead, gesture with that pen and stare quizzically at us half through and half over those spectacles? "They're talking now about December," he says, then adds lightly. "The question is: which December?"

Take us back to the first days of Israeli television - the expectations, the challenges.

We had the idea that TV would change the world.

Remember, Ben-Gurion had been opposed to introducing television. He thought it would exacerbate the divide between rich and poor, and bring more Americanization. He was won over to the educational potential after catching a show on the lives of bees at the Paris home of the French ambassador. [Prime Minister] Eshkol ultimately gave the green light.

There was a sense that now TV was here, there'd be no more wars, no more illiteracy, no more hunger in China - that's what a BBC film predicted. The anticipation was that TV would be a tool to educate, to bring modernization.

And what was the expectation, specifically, for TV in Israel?

It was just after the Six Day War, before the Yom Kippur War.

We thought we would be able to show the world and the Arabs how nice we are. That winter [of 1967], the government decided it had to get this TV going. In South Africa it took three years. Here it took three months. There was an idea to bring Jews [with TV expertise] from around the world to help us do it. But, no, we had the hubris. No one was going to tell us what to do.

And how did it turn out?

We didn't quite succeed. After 1973, Israel TV became a battlefield for the argument between Right and Left, Likud versus Labor: Begin, Sharon and the settlements against the Old Guard. "Old Israel" and the Ashkenazim went with Labor and almost all the TV employees came from that satisfied Ashkenazi world - people from youth movements and kibbutzim, from white collar families, university graduates. On the other side, the Likud was the so-called "second Israel."

Then, in 1977, the Likud, the Right, the capitalist list, took control of Israel and became responsible for the IBA. We were being attacked as a leftist mafia. We were accused of being the spearhead of the Left.

The Mahapach of 1977 can't be underestimated. It was as though Barack Obama had become the prime minister of Israel. I coined the phrase Mahapach! - Turnover! - rather than Mahpecha! - Revolution! - because I was hesitant to say revolution. But that's what it was.

We always sent a camera crew to cover the establishment of each new settlement. We were caught between Peace Now and Gush Emunim. There was an internal battle after 1977 and a lot of people were kicked out in a "purification." But with time, the Left softened a bit, the Right softened, the Palestinians seemed more legitimate. The IBA was a microcosm of what was happening outside.

Give us a specific example of how the internal battles played out.

Well, at first we weren't allowed to interview PLO people. We couldn't formally set up an interview, but we could speak to someone if they chanced to pass by.

I was head of TV news in the late 1970s. One day, Bassam Shaka, the mayor of Nablus, had a press conference and we were told we couldn't broadcast it. We went to the barricades over this. We had filmed it and we weren't allowed to broadcast it. So we blacked out the screen for 2 1/2 minutes. [Then-IBA director-general] Tommy Lapid's argument was that we weren't to give a platform to Jew-haters. Shaka had legitimized [Fatah's 1978] Coastal Road terror attack.

But Lapid wasn't the antichrist. After [the 1982 massacre of Palestinians by Christian Phalange gunmen at Beirut's] Sabra and Shatila, he gave us the green light to push with all force for a commission of inquiry [the Kahan Commission]. Begin was furious.

The struggle reached its peak in 1982 when the IBA's governing board said we still couldn't interview PLO guys. We went to the High Court of Justice and beat the board. Now, the idea of not talking to the PLO is unthinkable. If you'd said then that Ehud Olmert would talk to the head of the PLO... Nobody spoke about the idea of a Palestinian state. We've come so far.

We insisted on reporting the [first] intifada. I never agreed to dictates and I worked according to my conscience, what I thought was right, to report faithfully.

The government always fights against the wheels of history. They were trying to stop things that couldn't be stopped. They thought if they ignored the PLO, it would disappear, but that didn't work.

Lots of the public closed its eyes. It doesn't want to see. But TV is ahead of its time because the cameras are out in the field.

And what is the reality it shows you now?

Now, there's a new reality. I believe in the end there is no solution other than two states for two peoples. Only that way can we make peace with the Palestinians and achieve coexistence with Israeli Arabs. The Palestinians also have to compromise, of course, on the right of return. Compromise is the key, there's no escaping it.

Two years ago, I did the Land of the Settlers series, which annoyed them a lot, in just showing reality as it is. I don't see myself as a prophet nor a historian. I report as is. In my blood, I'm a Zionist.

And now I see that in the Israeli Arab sector you can't avoid equal rights. I'm doing a series on the Israeli Arabs to be broadcast next summer, The Migzar, "The Sector." There's a tendency not to see the Arabs. Taibe - where's that? People tell me they don't drive through Wadi Ara.

The suspicion is mutual. The Israeli Arabs are ready for a Jewish state, not a Zionist state. They are a fifth of the country. There is deprivation. There is an absence of equal rights. [But] they are generally accepting of our existence. Most of them want a living, education, equal rights, to be part of the Israeli community, Aroma, a mall, good food and not to be discriminated against.

The issues of politics, Palestinian statehood, those are secondary for them. Would they move to a Palestinian state? No. There's nothing like Israel for democracy.

But there is a second stream, which could prevail in a time of crisis, that says "enough of democracy" and works for Islamification.

And intellectuals and politicians pull in a different direction. They say that Israel can't be Jewish and democratic; it must be a state of all its people. It's a game of semantics, but it's also about solidarity: I, an Arab from Umm el-Fahm, can be an Israeli only if Israel gives me my real equality.

Israel doesn't see the picture properly. Give them equality in education, hi-tech. There are no Arabs in hi-tech. I don't say give them all the land [they seek], but compromise. In Sakhnin, for instance, they had 70,000 dunams [17,500 acres]. Now we're offering them 6,000 dunams. Give them industrial zones. Deal with unemployment: A guy finishes university, wants to be a professor of Arabic language and he's working in Supersol. It causes bitterness, second-class citizenship and creates talk of apartheid.

Zionism needs redefining. What is the State of Israel? It can't ignore Israeli Arabs. We have a partner.

I'm not saying to give up on the Zionist state, but to find a fairer compromise for allocation of this land and its resources. And if not, things like the October 2000 riots will reemerge, but far worse. There are lots of angry people in the Arab sector. There's ferment in the Druse sector: We die for this country and get nothing.

We've opened our eyes as regards the Palestinians but we are still looking at Israeli Arabs from the security perspective.

The Israeli Arab story is a story of fear. Mind you, it's understandable: When I hear Ahmadinejad, I [want to] go into the bunker.

From those early great expectations, how do you think TV has turned out?

Now TV is a jacuzzi, an entertainment tool to titillate the viewers. One great porridge. People can't separate what matters from what doesn't. People want to be amused, to put their feet up and channel hop.

Still, almost 80 percent of viewers here are watching the news, and the connection to TV is a kind of a lifeline, an oxygen line that connects you to Israeli society.

If TV failed, why didn't you, the man at the center, correct it?

It's a global phenomenon. The medium has changed. With digital, electronic development, anyone can sell a feature to TV. The medium has become trivialized. It's all ratings. It's a competition for viewers. Multi-channels meant the end of the period of serious television. News today on Channels 2, 10 and 1 are ratings structured. Coverage isn't catastrophic, but there are whole shows, discussion shows, that are just shouting in the studio. They trivialize the debate.

But this reflects a crisis that is not necessarily centered on television. Everything seems cheap and easy. Life got easier and more comfortable. So why make an effort?

In our hostile region, can we afford not to be informed and to be so complacent?

Maybe affluence is the solution. Maybe so long as life is better for people, they'll be less drawn to conflict and war. If lives get better. If parents know that their kids' lives will get better.

But I was in [the Negev Beduin town of] Rahat last week. It's a shantytown. Unbelievable in 2007. Boiling hot, in houses with no running water. That gap between rich and poor [has to close].

Religion is the refuge of the desperate, for those with nothing to lose, for the hungry. A talented leader promises them the world and Islam gets more and more extreme. It's a case of capitalism versus Islam. This jihad, the promise of 72 virgins [for carrying out a suicide bombing], feed on the soil of inequality.

To revisit an old dispute, isn't there a problem with an anchorman doing a highly political series on the settlers?

I have a contract that gives me that right. Channel 1 passed on the series. Channel 2 said yes, please. In the context of the second intifada, I was so angry and desperate, partly because of the news. Bombs were going off every day. I've been here for many years and I really worried about where we were heading. [I felt that we were] a meter away from bombing civilians. I decided it was not enough for me to sit in the studio. I had done lots of shows, all regarded as "Left." I'm a leftist? I'm center.

Superficially you're correct. An anchorman should sit [and read the news]. There's no such thing as objectivity, but there is fairness. And you can seek to be objective. As an anchorman I always sought to be objective, but I've never hidden [in my documentary films] that this is my personal travelogue, in my name. This is what I think.

I don't know if they'll pull down the settlements. But if they don't pull them down, there won't be peace.

All of them?

Olmert is doing [meaningless] firework displays, but Israel hasn't yet realized that we have to talk. They're not even taking down the outposts.

Do you recognize the need for security settlements?

We have to try and reach an agreement with the Palestinians. Israel should not give up on what it feels is integral to its existence, come hell or high water. We have no other country. There are red lines.

But those apart, we have a lot of opportunity to be flexible and we haven't taken a step...

There's this thinking that one day they'll give up and go away. It's not going to happen.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Europe to host NGO attack on Israel</title>
<date>22/8/2007</date>
<content>
For years, the United Nations and the European Union have provided major funding and assistance for radical Palestinian NGOs and their supporters, allowing them to exploit the rhetoric of human rights, "civil society," international law and peace to promote the opposite.

An illustration of the damage that results from this combination is provided by the meeting, scheduled for the European Parliament in Brussels on August 30-31, to be run by the UN's Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People. This committee is "the main UN forum where all NGOs interested in the Palestine issue can meet."

The title is certainly high-sounding - International Conference of Civil Society in Support of Israeli-Palestinian Peace. But, as noted by UN Watch, "the UN's Palestinian Division runs a tightly-controlled operation that accredits only anti-Israel NGOs and speakers. Without altering the virulently anti-Israel nature of their meetings, the organizers instead seek to mask their activities." Moreover, to add credence to their cover, they invite specially approved Israelis - a select group of radicals who openly espouse hatred of Israel, claiming the license to do so because of their citizenship.

THIS YEAR, for the first time, the exercise is gaining the legitimacy of sponsorship by the European Parliament. Topics include "The situation in the occupied Palestinian territory, including east Jerusalem, and civil society response"; "Action by civil society organizations working in the occupied Palestinian territory, including east Jerusalem"; workshops on "Fortieth anniversary of occupation: Building on action taken by civil society"; and "Strengthening campaigns to end occupation, including grassroots campaigns against the wall, rallying around Bil'in" (the site of violent attacks organized by NGOs to provoke Israeli responses).

The speakers list is secret, but in previous years it included Jeff Halper from the EU-funded Israeli Committee against House Demolitions (ICAHD), allied with Sabeel, a center for Palestinian liberation theology; Raji Sourani from the Palestinian Center for Human Rights; Michael Warschawski of the Alternative Information Center; and Jamal Juma Ja'afreh from the Anti-Apartheid Wall Campaign.

To their credit, the Polish members of the European Parliament from different parties have announced that they will not participate. Bronis aw Geremek, a Polish MEP, was quoted by the Polish Web site, Europa21, as declaring: "Although there is no official statement that Israel must be pushed down to the sea... the choice of subjects and the attitude toward the problems show that it will be a biased, conflict-generating conference. Actually we can call it anti-Israeli."

MEP Konrad Szymanski stated: "I am astonished that European Parliament allowed such activity to be placed in its building. If there is any activity against the conference, i.e., a petition signed by MEPs, I will be very glad to support it."

THE ISRAELI government, led by the Foreign Ministry, has urged the EU and the UN to cancel sponsorship of such anti-peace activities. And Knesset Speaker Dalia Itzik signed a protest letter to European Parliament President Hans-Gert Poettering, who is from Germany and is expected to be more sensitive to legitimizing propaganda and anti-Israel demonization.

Ambassador the the EU Ran Curiel noted that the committee that uses NGOs "is an anachronistic product of the UN which was created in 1975, in the context of the infamous 'Zionism is racism' resolution revoked in 1991. Since it was founded, this committee has been engaged in one-sided propaganda activities which present only the Palestinian narrative, including the delegitimization of Israel, a UN member state."

But Europe's support for such radical propaganda goes far beyond holding this fringe conference in the Parliament building.

The EU funds numerous NGOs under programs for development assistance to the Palestinians, labeled "Partnership for Peace" or promoting human rights, that are at the forefront of the political war against Israel. The head of the EU-supported ICAHD, for example, speaks in favor of boycotts against Israel and demonizes Israel as an "apartheid state." Halper often appears with Naim Ateek, the head of Sabeel, who frequently invokes anti-Semitic themes, such as referring to "the Israeli government crucifixion system." (Halper and Ateek are on the program for a Sabeel conference scheduled for Boston in October - more EU tax euros at work.)

AS NGO Monitor reports detail, many additional anti-Israel political NGOs and activities are funded by the government aid and development agencies of Ireland, France, the UK, Belgium, Sweden, etc., as well as non-EU countries such as Norway and Switzerland. BADIL, for example, uses its European funds to oppose compromise on the Palestinian claims to a "right of return" - one of the major obstacles to progress in peace negotiations.

The central role of these groups - along with the superpowers such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International - in the political war against Israel was highlighted in the NGO Forum of the 2001 Durban conference on racism. This was so "successful" that the UN is planning another conference in 2009, and is holding a preparatory committee meeting in Geneva a few days before the session planned for the European Parliament.

Both activities highlight the destructive activities of radical NGOs, and both conferences and the committees that promote them should be cancelled before they do more damage.

The writer chairs the Political Studies Department at Bar-Ilan University and is executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 11: Right message</title>
<date>10/2/2007</date>
<content>
Right message

Sir, - How very sad to read Paul Golin's op-ed against the significance of in-marriage for Jewish continuity ("[Steven M.] Cohen is splitting the Jewish community," February 8).

He tells us that "generalizations are too often wrong when applied to actual individuals, rendering the exercise useless... So why bother?"

Come again?

Then he takes great offense at giving in-marriage a higher value than intermarriage. As associate executive director of the Jewish Outreach Institute, one assumes he and his organization support maintaining Jewish identity. If in-marriage indisputably produces more Jews in future generations, why is it so difficult for Mr. Golin to accept that it is vastly preferable to intermarriage?

Mr. Golin twice reduces in-marriage to "tribalism" and maintaining "tribal blood lines." There is something grand and wonderful in a Jewish identity, and that should be the underlying message to both the in-married and the intermarried. In that context, even the intermarried can accept our reaching out to them, while understanding that in-marriage remains the primary goal of the Jewish people.

If Mr. Golin blurs the basic truth that Jews marrying one another is more desirable than intermarriage, it's hard to see what he has to offer those he's reaching out to.

DANIEL GOLD

Herzliya

Let 'em go

Sir, - Steven Cohen and many other Jews spend too much time and effort on outreach to those who have proclaimed to the world that they have little interest in remaining Jewish (" I want people to realistically understand intermarriage," February 8). "Marrying out" is the ultimate statement, especially if a Jewish man marries a non-Jewish woman, since it will effectively end his family tree in Judaism.

I say, let them go. It is better that we be "fewer but Jewer," with those who remain committed to Judaism and a Jewish life. Let the others call themselves Liberals, or Christians, or Yankee fans - just not Jews.

PHIL GOODMAN 

Edison, New Jersey

Sad and beautiful

Sir, - Ruthie Blum touched my day with this sad story, but beautiful article about fallen soldier Yosef Goodman ("Life without him," February 8).

TALLY R. ELHYANI-BASSALI

Venice

Wrong premise

Sir, - Jonathan Tobin's "Who will speak for the Jews?" (February 3) was eloquent and compelling - but its premise was factually wrong. It furthered the canard that the Israel on Campus Coalition (ICC) paid to bring "Breaking the Silence" to American college campuses - which, as we've clarified repeatedly, is not the case. Rather, one member organization chose to lend its name to support this program on campus. Thus the question our coalition's Steering Committee considered (and rejected) was not whether the ICC should be promoting and paying for such programming, but whether a member organization should be expelled for lending its name to such a program.

To receive an answer to the piece's closing existential question - wondering why we should exist - ask one of the hundreds of American college students, from vastly differing ideological backgrounds, who came together to the north of Israel in December and January to repair Katyusha rocket damage; or students on the dozens of campuses this academic year who have received ICC Israel Action Grants to engage in pro-active Israel education and advocacy; or students on the dozens of campuses who heard from pro-Israel speakers this year paid for by the ICC.

Our strength stems from working collaboratively on what we all agree upon, which is frankly much greater than what divides us.

DAVID A. HARRIS
Executive Director
Israel on Campus Coalition

Washington

Funds for demonization

Sir, - "Pinochet judge visits to see if officials culpable for house demolitions" (February 7) was irresponsible publicity for Jeff Halper's one-man NGO, the Israeli Committee Against Home Demolitions (ICAHD). It repeated, verbatim, ICAHD's claims to hold Israel "accountable to human rights," and ignored its record of anti-Israel campaigning.

Halper supports boycotts and uses terms such as "apartheid" and "war crimes" to refer to Israeli policy against Palestinian terror. He often joins Naim Ateek of Sabeel, whose use of anti-Semitic themes is well documented.

The article also omitted the fact that the European Union gave ICAHD 472,000 euros in 2005 under its Partners for Peace Program, which ostensibly supports civil society projects promoting the peace process. In effect, the EU is funding this latest example of anti-Israel demonization, which contrasts sharply with the claim of contributing to peace.

JONATHAN PULIK
Communications Consultant
to NGO Monitor

Jerusalem
Diversionary tactic

Sir, - Irwin Cotler highlighted the tragedy unfolding in Sudan and the relative inactivity of the world community in doing anything to stop what amounts to genocide ("Meltdown in Darfur - what happened to 'Never Again'?" February 6).

Perhaps the poor black Muslims being massacred by the Arab Sudanese government and its Janjaweed militia allies should learn a lesson from their Palestinian co-religionists and play down the true perpetrators of these atrocities. They would get far more sympathy in the UN if they peddled the story that the whole affair was being organized by Zionist gangs to divert world attention from the suffering of the Palestinian people under the illegal occupation of their homeland.

MARTIN D. STERN

Salford, UK

Israel isn't Saudi Arabia

Sir, - In "Bus abuse" (Letters, January 24) your reader complained that friends who went to visit them were informed that the wife would have to sit at the back of the bus. The couple felt humiliated and discriminated against and instead traveled by a much longer, roundabout route.

The reason for separating men and women is modesty. There is also a slight risk that they might bump into each other. At all Orthodox synagogues in any country in the world men and women are seated in separate sections.

If your reader was living in Saudi Arabia, where women are not allowed to drive a car, and wrote such a letter to the press, he would soon receive a visit from the religious police and be in serious trouble.

HENRY SCHRAGENHEIM

London
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 18: The real message</title>
<date>17/2/2007</date>
<content>
The real message

Sir, - Breaking the Silence presented a program at Yakar in Jerusalem last week. We learned that over 400 soldiers have come forward with stories of IDF abuse of Palestinians in the West Bank. The message: We must confront our moral turpitude at home and publicize it overseas.

I disagree. We don't claim perfection. We know we fall short of our aspirations. But we should praise the general restraint of our soldiers in dealing with an enemy population.

Checkpoints are places of high tension and danger. Yet, daily, thousands of Palestinians pass safely through - inconvenienced, but not abused.

We can be proud that IDF soldiers don't take pleasure in checkpoint duty, that relatively few instances of abuse occur and that abusers are punished. And we can be proud that after 58 years of war we are trying to act morally.

That's the real message Breaking the Silence should be taking to the world ("Who speaks for the Zionists?" Jonathan Tobin, February 4).

GERRY MANDELL

Jerusalem

Diaspora heroes on
their flying machines?

Sir, - Natan Sharansky has called for Jewish and Zionist groups to dog Iranian diplomats and missions wherever they are, echoing the anti-Soviet protests of the 70s ("Mobilize now, save the world," February 12). One wonders: Where are our Diaspora heroes during the so-called Israel Apartheid Week? There should be strident and continuous protest going on at every venue ("The apartheid libel," Editorial, February 15).

More than that, it is high time our Diaspora defenders set up permanent "flying squads" to go into action at short notice. Similar action on the Internet is already working - but where is it on the ground? This is the real lesson of this miserable farce.

ANTHONY & JUDITH LUDER 

Rosh Pina

Sir, - Natan Sharansky's call to "Mobilize now and save the world" should be applauded. Everyone complains about Iran, but he has suggested concrete steps that can be taken.

GILDA SHAVIN

Tel Aviv

To resist seduction...

Sir, - In "More than a walkway" (February 12), Daoud Kuttab almost mesmerizes, using his mantra "There are reasonable Arab-Muslims with whom one can talk" to morph the clear need for a safe walkway to the Temple Mount into a sneaky Israeli political stratagem.

The brouhaha over the routine presence of the Antiquities Authority at an excavation site - because of the possible unearthing of valuable historical artifacts - stands in painful contrast to the Wakf's wholesale destruction within the Mount itself when it made way for a huge underground mosque. Aside from some mild protest, we Jews then also acted as if in a trance. Tons and tons of rubble were unceremoniously dumped; and Antiquities personnel scavenged, like beggars, for the discarded remnants of our great heritage.

Our daily prayers continue the tradition of more than 2,000 years: Every Monday we recite, as did the Levites in the Holy Temple, Psalm 48, in which we Jews are enjoined to "encircle her" (Jerusalem). "Mark well in your hearts her ramparts... so that you may recount it to succeeding generations. For this is God... forever and ever, He will guide us eternally."

With this firmly in mind, we have the protection we need to withstand the seductive pull of any false cooing about sweet reason and peace.

MIRIAM L. GAVARIN 

Jerusalem

...don't prevaricate

Sir, - Our government is searching for ways to appease the Muslims regarding our work at the Western Wall. Why? It is our territory and the work is necessary for the safety of Jews who wish to worship at our holiest site.

We are not sure how to respond to the Mecca agreement. Why? The Palestinians gave us their response - "Four Kassams hit Western Negev" (February 11).

DAVID FEIGENBAUM

Netanya

End to intimidation

Sir, - Alan Dershowitz once wrote a book about a strong offense being the best defense. The Arabs took his advice. Unfortunately, Israel did not.

The violence at the Temple Mount is less about possible damage to Islamic sites and more about intimidation. Note what happened when the Arabs started clearing Solomon's Stables, disregarding precious Jewish artifacts and international rules about archeological structures. They let our government know that if the work was interfered with widespread violence would result.

The government was intimidated and did nothing to stop the digging. The reason given: It did not want to encroach on religious Islamic feelings.

Look back over the last 10 years and see how many times Israel has tailored its decisions so as "not to interfere with Islamic sensibilities."

The threat of violence has worked on Amir Peretz and other officials, who say we should stop work on the Mughrabi walkway and get the Arabs' consent to continue ("Secrecy and capital strife," Anshel Pfeffer, February 12).

Our construction has nothing to do with the Aksa mosque. And if we give in yet again, there will be no end. It's time to take Dershowitz's advice and put up our own strong offense, showing that we won't be intimidated any longer.

HARVEY MATTHEW

Jerusalem

Out of neverland

Sir, - Karen Koning Abuzayd, commissioner-general of UNRWA, begins "Who UNRWA is, and what we do" (February 14) by saying "UNRWA was established in 1949 to provide humanitarian assistance to Palestinian refugees while a solution was being sought to the conflict." Now, 58 years later, how can she justify perpetuating this refugee crisis when a solution was found to the initial conflict - the establishment of the State of Israel with UN recognition?

The humanitarian solution was and still is clear: to resettle the remaining refugees where they are and not continue to nourish their hope of returning to their homes. The refugees of WWII gave up that hope long ago, and the same is true of every other war in the 20th century.

Only the Palestinians still wait in a neverland, never going back to their original domicile and, for political reasons, never being resettled.

This must stop, or UNRWA will still exist in another 58 years.

JACK COHEN 

Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 20: Backhanded...</title>
<date>19/2/2007</date>
<content>
Backhanded...

Sir, - Your editorial "The Apartheid libel" (February 15) asked why Israel is treated differently by Westerners to the numerous Muslim nations with their illiberal laws and human rights infringements. Israelis and Jews might hesitate to answer, but I, a Christian, will.

While anti-Semitism is a factor for some, for most it is because they see Muslim nations as inferior to Judeo-Christian ones. Simply, they have lower expectations of nations such as Sudan, Mauritania and Saudi Arabia than they do of Israel.

In true multiculturalist style, they scorn Israel; but given the choice of life under the legal systems of these Muslim countries, or of Israel's, need one wonder how they'd choose?

It is a bizarre, quite unwanted compliment for Israel - but a compliment all the same.

JOHN LALOR
Dublin

...compliment

Sir, - When my husband had open heart surgery at Jerusalem's Shaare Zedek, Arab and Jewish patients were treated side by side. While the patients had their afternoon rest I went to eat my lunch in the room set aside for visitors. The relatives of the Arab patients invited me to join them. "Tfadali" (please), they said.

I went to sit with them at their table. We discussed the well-being of our dear ones and praised the devotion of the doctors and nurses, some of whom were also Arab. I used the Arabic I had picked up working in Israeli mother and child health clinics, visited by Arabs as well as Jews.
Is this what they call apartheid?

DR. SUSI LEVENE M.D.
Rehovot

The Zionists created UNRWA

Sir, - Re "Who UNRWA is, and what we do" (February 14) by Karen Koning Abuzayd, the commissioner-general of UNRWA, I would like to draw your readers' attention to chapter 11, page 235 of Ilan Pappe's The Ethnic Cleansing of Palestine, which states:

"One of the UN's first misguided decisions was not to involve the International Refugee Organization (IRO) but to create a special agency for the Palestinian refugees. It was Israel and the Zionist Jewish organizations abroad that were behind the decision to keep the IRO out of the picture: the IRO was the very same body that was assisting the Jewish refugees in Europe following the Second World War, and the Zionist organizations were keen to prevent anyone from making any possible association or even comparison between the two cases. Moreover, the IRO always recommended repatriation as the first option to which refugees were entitled. This is how UNRWA came into being."

The Zionists created UNRWA. Now shut up and let it get on with its humanitarian work.

ROSEMARY TYLKA
Ferney-Voltaire, France

A new reality for the evacuees

Sir, - Kudos for your editorial "The forgotten evacuees" (February 18). Now what? This isn't the first time well-meaning people have bemoaned the plight of the Gush Katif refugees, but so far not much has been done to help them. I suggest that those well-meaning people who signed the "moving petition" noted in your editorial do more than just urge the government to act.

The government has proved itself unwilling or unable to help. Why don't those prominent signatories use their brainpower to help find a solution to the misery and injustice inflicted on those who were promised a solution?

Let them sit down with the refugees, listen to them and together identify the problems. Then, using their connections, let them start advocating for the solutions in the Knesset - and in the private sector, where they can really do some good.

Their concern shouldn't end with the petition. The petition should be an impetus for change.

JUDY LEV
Ra'anana

Deckchairs on the 'Titanic'

Sir, - Two headlines on page 2 of your February 14 issue focused on what the world needs to do about Iran. MK Yuval Steinitz said it was up to the US ("US must prevent Teheran from obtaining nukes, Steinitz tells 'Post'"). Avigdor Lieberman said it was down to sanctions ("Lieberman says sanctions can stop a nuclear Iran"). A third story quoted Israeli officials urging the EU to stand firm.

And what was Israel's government debating? On page 3 they were arguing over who gets the Tourism Ministry ("Herzog vows to not be Peretz's pawn"). Sounds like rearranging deckchairs on the Titanic.
Let's pray for a leadership of realists who can face up to the two certainties of our times: that Iran will get nuclear weapons, and that only Israel can ensure its own defense.

As Hillel put it: "If I am not for myself, who will be? And if not now, when?"

SOL UNSDORFER
London

What if...?

Sir, - MK Yuval Steinitz sounded very confident about the ability of the Arrow defense system to protect us from missiles armed with a nuclear warhead ("The difference is not in the warhead," February 16). The question the interviewer didn't ask him - and which I've never heard answered - is: What if Iran fires off 50 missiles simultaneously, 47 of which are duds and three of which contain nuclear warheads?

CAROL CLAPSADDLE
Jerusalem

Hebrew 'Fox News'

Sir, - "The Ben Caspit Show" (February 18) described perfectly why I stopped watching Israel's three main TV channels and why, after desperately seeking fair and balanced media venues, I found one in the fabulous Fox News.

I salute Yisrael Medad and The Jerusalem Post for exposing the dictatorial, overriding far-Left bias of Israel's mainstream media, where other viewpoints are rarely given a hearing.

Although the Israeli public is coerced into paying an annual TV tax whether it tunes in or not, balanced programs and news reports are the exception rather than the rule.

Fox News unabashedly presents the more "conservative" side, though it doesn't shy away from presenting left-wing views. It is fresh, balanced and a joy to watch as, unlike its rivals, it speaks directly, often with humor, to viewers and not down to them.

Israel desperately needs a Hebrew-language version of Fox News.

TRUDY GEFEN
Kiryat Ono

Israeli voicesTeeny influence

Sir, - On a day when the media reverberated with the implications of the Zeiler Committee's report on police improprieties, your Comment section featured yet another of Shmuley Boteach's puerile homilies ("Fiddling while celebrities burn," February 19). This piece might exert some influence on the readers of a teen magazine - but if an adult has not grown out of celebrity worship by the time he or she has a career and a family to support, then nothing will work.

Shmuley himself appears to have not outgrown this stage.

LINDA WEINBERG
Karmiel
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Finish the fence</title>
<date>13/10/2007</date>
<content>
According to recent disclosures, the Defense Ministry plans to cut its security fence construction budget by a whopping NIS 500 million for 2008. The 2007 fence allocation has been reportedly entirely used up. Construction on many of the fence's stretches has been halted and new building contracts aren't being signed. Work is proceeding only where old contracts are still in force, like around Gush Etzion, as distinct from some unfenced areas of western Samaria, Modi'in and the Arava.

According to ministry officials, there is no expectation that construction will be resumed soon where it has effectively stopped. It is therefore now clear that great gaps will remain in the fence and that it won't afford continuous protection from terrorist incursions for the foreseeable future. Breaches in what was blueprinted as an uninterrupted line of defense will enable suicide bombers and others to infiltrate, and, once through, potentially continue to wherever they wish within Israel.

Considering the enormous financial and political investment - from almost all across Israel's political spectrum - in promoting the fence and the concomitant separation from Palestinians which it embodies, it is bizarre in the extreme that a government which includes the most outspoken of fence advocates (like Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Vice Premier Haim Ramon) cannot come up with the funds to efficiently complete the project.

The erection of this defensive barrier was touted in the political center and left as a key component in planned West Bank disengagement and assorted territorial concessions, according to the oft-repeated slogan: "They (Arabs) will be there and we will be here." But even the fence's most adamant critics - particularly on the right of the political divide - had to concede that it massively slowed the terrorists down, remaking Israel's daily reality as it extended north and south.

The drastic decline in terrorist attacks in recent years is not the exclusive consequence of the barrier's presence; unremitting efforts by Israel's intelligence services and the IDF inseparably accompany its benefits. But those forces are unequivocal in their testimony that even the incomplete security fence has aided them substantially in preventing attacks, complicating the logistics of terrorism, requiring more complex preparations, more people and thus more opportunities for interception.

Why, then, discontinue so valuable a project? Surely the government can come up with the required supplementary cash. It has sufficient budgetary reserves and the economy keeps on booming.

Perhaps the answer lies elsewhere.

The fence has earned Israel unwarranted worldwide censure, fanned by the Arab states and attendant campaigning by Israel's own extreme Left. The fence has been equated with apartheid practices, in striking disregard for the murderous atrocities which mandated its creation. These outcries have been amplified recently, especially from Arab quarters, on the eve of the Annapolis conference.

By failing to complete the fence, the government adds weight to the attacks of the opponents, implying by its own foot-dragging that the fence is a marginal security component rather than a central one, that Palestinians have been needlessly and massively inconvenienced, and that Israel has needlessly incurred international wrath and wasted resources.

The simple statistics leave little room for doubt. The number of innocent lives lost through terrorists crossing from the West Bank into Israel has fallen staggeringly since an open route was interrupted by the protection of the barrier. Completion of the fence, though not an absolute panacea, can only further lower the incidence of terrorism.

Money must forthwith be found to pick up from where the contractors have left off. Construction, far from halting, must be speeded up.

International supporters of peace efforts should have long since recognized that substantive progress is assisted when terrorists are frustrated, marginalized and thwarted. The barrier helps achieve this. A peace process is ultimately designed to render such defenses unnecessary. But for now, those who truly seek peace should be backing the fence, not seeking its demise.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guest Columnist: Outright defeatism</title>
<date>20/12/2007</date>
<content>
Without exception, appeasement, self-deprecation and preemptive concessions to terrorists have inevitably served to embolden them. Israel's experience has demonstrated that our enemies are restrained when they perceive us as being resolute, and conversely they become more violent when they sense that we are losing our resolve.

Prior to Annapolis, presumably to please the Americans, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert initiated three preemptive concessions. He unilaterally suspended the Quartet-endorsed requirement that the Palestinians curtail terror before negotiating an end of conflict; he dispensed with the need for defensible borders by agreeing to return to the '67 boundaries with minor modifications; and he permitted his deputy to float proposals relating to Jerusalem which included handing over jurisdiction of the Temple Mount to the Palestinians.

Olmert also delegated to the Americans a referee role, arbitrating breaches of undertakings between Israel and the PA, thereby inhibiting Israel's future ability to respond to terrorist onslaughts.
It is fallacious to suggest that because the Palestinians have no intention of reaching any meaningful accommodation, the current concessions are of no consequence. Because, if and when we ultimately do negotiate an end of conflict agreement, what we have now unilaterally offered will represent the starting point of such negotiations. We will be asked: "How much beyond what was offered in Annapolis is Israel willing to offer to achieve genuine peace?"

Having already squandered most of our bargaining chips without getting anything in return, all that is left is the Palestinian Arab "right of return" which would amount to the end of a Jewish state.
This mind numbing appeasement by Israel continues unabated at all levels. Instead of at least remaining silent, Olmert repeatedly recites the politically correct mantra that Mahmoud Abbas is a man of peace, despite his failure to clamp down on his own gunmen or curtail vicious incitement against Israel which continues to dominate all areas under his jurisdiction.

Olmert released hundreds of terrorists despite the realization that Abbas still maintains control of his Al-Aksa Martyrs Brigades which murdered more Israelis than Hamas. He also authorized the provision of weapons and armored cars to Palestinian security forces, ignoring the fact that on every previous occasion when arms were provided, they were subsequently employed against Israelis. Indeed, nobody seems too fussed that the killers of Ido Zoltan last month happened to be members of Abbas's police force and employed weapons authorized by the Israeli government.

TO MAKE matters worse the corrupt PA, whose survival is dependent on Israeli protection, announced a willingness to dialogue with Hamas and warned that if Israel took definitive steps to curtail rocket attacks from Gaza, Fatah would join forces with Hamas. In response, our government continued its policy of restraint. Will it take a mass slaughter in Sderot before an offensive against Gaza is launched?

Our policy of appeasement has also led to an erosion of our global standing. That was reflected in Annapolis when President George W. Bush omitted to restate his previous position that demographic facts on the ground (settlement blocs) had to be taken into account. He also made no reference to Israel's need for defensible borders. Indeed, following Annapolis, Condoleezza Rice even criticized Israel for building homes inside Jerusalem's Har Homa neighborhood.

Israel's diplomatic recklessness is also manifested by an ongoing stream of irresponsible off-the-cuff statements by our prime minister.

It started with Olmert's outburst prior to the election, when he told a gathering of the Israel Policy Forum in New York that "we have become tired of fighting, tired of being arrogant, tired of winning, tired of defeating our enemies." That statement will haunt him for the rest of his political career. But since becoming premier, Olmert continues to display a penchant for making faux pas as exemplified by the bombastic speeches he made during the Second Lebanon War and his remarks about Israel's nuclear capabilities.
But at Annapolis, Olmert hit the jackpot when he adopted the Palestinian narrative, publicly stating that "for dozens of years, many Palestinians have been living in camps, disconnected from the environment in which they grew, wallowing in poverty, neglect, alienation, bitterness and a deep, unrelenting sense of deprivation... I know that this pain and this humiliation are the deepest foundations which fomented the hatred against us."

Olmert alluded to an Israeli and Palestinian equivalence of suffering and totally ignored the historical context. He then allowed the joint statement at Annapolis to include the almost obscene remark about "terrorism and incitement whether committed by Palestinians or Israelis" implying that both parties were culpable.

Olmert's desperation to spin how "liberal" he was brought Israel back to the pre-Bush era when rights and wrongs in the Arab-Israel dispute were subsumed by moral equivalency, and when killers and victims were mindlessly jumbled together as components of a cycle of violence.

When our premier makes such statements it paves the way for Rice to make outrageous comparisons between the self-inflicted suffering of Palestinian Arabs and the discrimination and humiliation she experienced from white supremacists under segregation.

In his Annapolis address, Abbas failed to even acknowledge Olmert's groveling remarks. Instead he concentrated on the nakba of Israel's creation, and reiterated that the solution to the suffering of his people would only be achieved by the implementation of the Arab right of return, a code word for the dissolution of the Jewish state. He subsequently stressed that the Palestinians would never recognize Israel as a Jewish state.

But if that were not enough, our Olmert went one step further, giving the impression that he had truly taken leave of his senses. Taking a cue from Jimmy Carter who had been castigated for his offensive remarks condemning Israel for practicing apartheid, Olmert told the Israeli media that the nation risked being compared to apartheid-era South Africa and "if the two-state solution is shattered... the State of Israel is finished."

What is this if not outright defeatism? Can one visualize a prime minister in any normal nation making such remarks? What is most exasperating is the deafening silence surrounding these concessions and irresponsible outbursts which increasingly undermine confidence in the justice of our cause. Neither the Knesset nor the cabinet have anything to say. Israel Beiteinu and Shas, whose constituents must be appalled, remain glued to their ministerial posts. Equally frustrating is that the leader of the opposition, Binyamin Netanyahu, seems to be sanguinely waiting for the political system to implode. This is not good enough. He should be rallying the nation to raise its voice in an unprecedented challenge against those who are leading us into a tunnel from which it will be very difficult to extricate ourselves.
It is said that a country gets the leaders it deserves. Woe unto us if this be true.

The writer is a former chairman of the governing board of the World Jewish Congress and a veteran international Jewish leader. ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>HRW's damage can't be undone</title>
<date>5/9/2007</date>
<content>
During last year's conflict with Hizbullah, Human Rights Watch led the condemnation and political campaign against Israel, repeatedly using terms such as "indiscriminate attacks" and "war crimes," based on allegations that were unverifiable or false, and largely absolving Hizbullah.

This NGO superpower issued more statements and reports than any other group. One year later, HRW and Ken Roth, who heads this powerful organization, are still trying to answer critics, and to this end, they have published a 128-page report claiming to discover the details of the conflict. While it is heavily padded and repetitious - few people are apparently expected to read more than the summary and recommendations - the report tacitly acknowledges that the widely publicized claims made by HRW officials, including Roth, were wrong.

How did HRW make such fundamental errors during the war? Why were they so quick to condemn Israel without knowing the facts? Why did officials ignore Hizbullah attacks and obvious violations of the moral principles HRW claims to promote? And which officials are responsible for HRW's role in the demonization of Israel?

HRW'S REPORT, entitled "Civilians under Assault: Hezbollah's Rocket Attacks on Israel in the 2006 War" contrasts sharply with the political bombardment during the war. The major weapon at that time was a 49-page glossy booklet entitled "Fatal Strikes: Israel's Indiscriminate Attacks against Civilians in Lebanon," including an apparently staged cover photo with numbered coffins, and accompanied by a public relations campaign.

This and other publications simply repeated the claims of "eyewitnesses" probably linked to Hizbullah, who declared that no rockets were being fired from any area in Lebanon that was hit by Israeli counterattacks.

Similarly, in columns and interviews, HRW "Emergencies Director" Peter Bouckaert condemned Israel's explanation of its attacks following Hizbullah missile attacks as "a convenient excuse."

Now Bouckaert's words are forgotten as the "excuse" has been verified by HRW's "expert researchers."

And while the role of Syria and Iran in supplying Hizbullah with thousands of rockets escaped HRW officials last year, they have now discovered this Middle Eastern fact of life. Better late than never, but the damage from HRW's assault cannot be undone.

For anyone with rudimentary knowledge of the events, this publication is banal, including the belated acknowledgement that Hizbullah "repeatedly bombarded cities, towns and villages without any apparent effort to distinguish between civilians and military objectives." As a result, "Hizbullah... violated fundamental provisions against deliberate and indiscriminate attacks against civilians."

Seventy pages of this report (most of the "meat") describe Hizbullah's arsenal, and the impact of the attacks against Haifa, Acre, Safed and numerous other parts of Northern Israel. The report also includes the bellicose statements made by Hassan Nasrallah and other officials, mentioning 89 "war time communiqués" declaring the goal of killing Israelis.

Too bad that during the war, HRW researchers were apparently too busy with their anti-Israel campaigning to notice them.

AS IN most HRW publications, the report includes a section with pseudo-legal jargon making the obvious case that Hizbullah (while never referred to as a terrorist group) is bound by the rules of war.

This is a welcome change from HRW's previous and morally absurd position, which exempted Palestinian terrorists and "non-state actors." However, the claim that the laws of war do not include discussions of aggression is nonsensical and insulting to anyone with common sense or knowledge of the UN Charter. But in this way, Roth and HRW were able avoid assigning moral responsibility to Hizbullah for this war, or recognizing Israel's "humanitarian right" to self-defense.

While HRW, and Ken Roth in particular, are used to making the accusations, issuing reports, determining international law according to their political preferences and calling for "independent investigations," the evidence from these reports highlights the need to investigate HRW. With an annual budget of over $40 million, a disproportionate part of which is spent targeting Israel, the damage from its highly biased approach and lack of credibility is too serious to ignore.

HRW HAS played a major role in the exploitation of human rights norms in the pursuit of partisan and personal agendas, including the demonization of Israel. The anti-Israel campaign and false allegations during last year's war followed HRW's standard pattern that included participation in the NGO Forum at the 2001 Durban conference, which declared Israel to be an "apartheid state," the 2004 "Razing Rafah" publication, and accusations of "war crimes" in Jenin.

"Reports" that attempt to minimize criticism resulting from earlier anti-Israel activities are also part of the standard operating procedure - as seen in HRW's belated one-time publication on Palestinian suicide bombings. These also need to be examined by an independent commission.

When Ken Roth speaks at the Hebrew University on September 6 (under the presumptuous title: "The 2006 Israel-Hizbullah War: The Real Reason Civilians Died"), he should also be confronted with HRW's biases and lack of credibility.

The damage resulting from the political attacks on Israel, and from the continued exploitation of human rights, is too great to be ignored.

The writer teaches political studies at Bar-Ilan University and heads NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Human rights do matter</title>
<date>18/12/2007</date>
<content>
December 10th marked the commemoration of International Human Rights Day - a celebration of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by members of the United Nations in 1948. So now is a good time to take stock of how institutions that are the beneficiaries of our tax and philanthropic largesse, promote human rights.

Start with the UN Human Rights Council which is propped up by the tax-payers of each and every UN member state. Three weeks ago, the UN Human Rights Council was given a stamp of approval by the General Assembly to convene a conference in 2009 modeled after the 2001 Durban "World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance." Although the conference in 2001 was meant to focus on substantive issues pertaining to discrimination and racism, it degenerated into an abomination of diplomacy.

Led in large part by the conference's parallel NGO Forum consisting of 3,900 NGOs, the focus on human rights was exchanged for an exercise in anti-Israel vitriol. Condemnations of state-sponsored discrimination in Burma and North Korea were replaced with a document that labeled Israel an apartheid state. Colin Powell, then US secretary of state announced the US delegation's withdrawal from the conference saying, "I know that you do not combat racism by conferences that produce declarations containing hateful language, some of which is a throwback to the days of 'Zionism equals racism.'"

The hi-jacking of the conference prevented minority groups from articulating real concerns regarding discrimination. Indigenous communities from Peru, Thailand, and Sudan, among others, were left voiceless. We must not allow Durban II, (a host city has yet to be named) to take our money and muzzle those committed to a real dialogue on discrimination.

Predicting whether the principles of human rights will be upheld at Durban II requires knowledge of who will be calling the shots. The focus of the 2009 conference will largely be determined by the Organization of Islamic States given their disproportional representation on the Human Rights Council. In this regard, anything the OIC believes to be a "contemporary manifestations of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance," will top the agenda.

Pakistani representatives said Islamophobia should receive special attention "to fight against racial profiling in the name of the fight against terrorism." Libya, which was elected chair of the preparatory committee this past August, along with Cuba and Iran, the committee's rapporteur and executive member respectively, will also have a major influence.

NOTWITHSTANDING the abysmal human rights records of these countries, there is some scope for averting another Durban fiasco - governments (i.e. the public via tax revenues) and foundations are funding these activities and public pressure could influence the agenda for Durban II.

The following are three steps that can be taken to ensure that our funds are used in ways that genuinely reflect the principles of human rights.

Firstly, individuals should exert pressure on the foundations and NGOs, to which they donate. Donors must ask for commitments that neither the foundation, nor the NGOs they fund will participate in a conference if it degenerates into an assault on human rights. These include large-scale American foundations such as the Ford Foundation, which provided extensive funds to Durban I NGO participants. Foundations and NGOs need to be held accountable for how they spend our money.

Secondly, human rights defenders should pressure their governments to vote against the Durban II financing plan taking place within the next three weeks. According to Eye on the UN, a New York-based watchdog group, the costs of Durban II will be slightly lower than $7.2 million. Contributors to US presidential campaigns can also play a role. Candidates should be asked to withhold UN dues in proportion to the amount spent on facilitating another anti-human rights conference. If the leaders of the Human Rights Council want another Durban I, they can use their own money-not ours.

Thirdly, supporters of Israel should build coalitions with international groups that were sidelined during the first Durban conference. Averting a second Durban debacle is not an Israel issue. Building relationships with other groups committed to global human rights is a critical step in exposing the hypocrisy of the UN Human Rights Council.

If it becomes clear that a second Durban is in the works, these coalitions, along with the United States, Israel and other UN member states can organize a parallel conference. Funds that would have gone to Durban II participants can be used to support a real human rights conference.

We shouldn't relegate thinking about human rights to one day in December or even the entire month. All year long we should evaluate how foundations, NGOs and governments protect the principles of human rights. A repeat of Durban 2001 is not unavoidable. A proactive approach combining financial pressure and coalition-building can serve as the best way of averting another stain to the UN's record on human rights.

The writer is the coordinator of government affairs of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In the Diaspora: End of the 'shtadlan'</title>
<date>18/10/2007</date>
<content>
Centuries ago in the ghettos of Europe, Christian rulers and their Jewish subjects arrived at a mutually convenient form of internal diplomacy. The Christians wanted no part of Jews as citizens, and the Jews, at least most of them, wanted no part of assimilation into a largely gentile society, even had that option been on offer. Yet there needed to be some point of contact between the mutually suspicious populations.

So there emerged the figure of the shtadlan, the so-called "court Jew" who represented the needs and interests of his isolated, outnumbered people. Whatever the regime required from its Jews, which sometimes included financing for commercial or military ventures, was negotiated through the shtadlan. In turn, when the gentile rabble indulged itself in pogroms, the shtadlan alone had the right to plead for the government to call off the mayhem.

The role of the shtadlan, then, was both highly practical and profoundly cynical. It was also deeply historical, rooted in the compromises made during powerless exile. The first version of the shtadlan may have been the exilarch of the Jewish community in ancient Babylonia. It took the form in the Middle Ages of the Council of the Four Lands in Poland and Lithuania. The Nazis adapted it to their desires for centralized control in establishing Judenrat all across conquered territory.

By all logic, the shtadlan should have stayed and died in Europe. The archetype has no function in sovereign Israel, and neither does it in the tolerant, polyglot United States, the glistening exception to Diaspora indignity and persecution. American Jews should have recognized the anachronism for what it was way back in the 1900s with the failed effort to establish a chief rabbi and formal kehilla in New York.

BUT WE have been loath to give up the seeming advantages of speaking through a single voice. A classic axiom of political advocacy calls for "organized people and organized money." For American Jewry for much of the 20th century, that formula meant the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, and the Joint Distribution Committee for rescue and relief to Jews abroad. "We Are One," went the Federation's venerable slogan.

We have become wedded to a "crisis model" in community-building, in which either Holocaust commemoration or opposition to anti-Semitism are the raison d'etre for the largest communal organizations, from the Simon Wiesenthal Center to the American Jewish Committee. The perception that AIPAC speaks for every Jew has given fodder to conspiracy theorists like John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt, authors of The Israel Lobby (or as I prefer to think of it, "The Protocols of the Elders of K Street").

ALL THIS history serves as a preamble to the recent events in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul, events that illustrate the unintended, undesirable consequences of hanging on to the shtadlan.

As many readers of this page probably know, Archbishop Desmond Tutu had been scheduled to speak at the University of St. Thomas, under the sponsorship of a group called PeaceJam, as part of a series of lectures about non-violence by Nobel laureates. Earlier this month, a weekly newspaper in the Twin Cities revealed that St. Thomas had cancelled the speech, with top university administrators saying they believed that Tutu's presence would antagonize the Jewish community.

The exact sequence of events in coming to that decision remains murky. It is possible that university officials sought out an opinion about Tutu from the local shtadlan, Julie Swiler, public affairs director of the Jewish Community Relations Council for Minnesota and the Dakotas. Or it is possible that Swiler took the initiative of approaching St. Thomas with concerns. Regardless of the order, the net result was that with very little other input, except apparently from two rabbis on the university's adjunct faculty, the speech was cancelled.

That decision brought a firestorm of protests, an opportunistic invitation to Tutu from a competing local university, and finally a reversal by St. Thomas, which invited the South African leader to appear for a talk and a public forum. The only people who can be pleased with this mess are Mearsheimer and Walt and their amen corner of bigots, who seemed to have found proof of the insidious tentacles of the Israel lobby.

A much more apt moral to the story is that this kind of disaster happens in part when Jews and gentiles alike keep operating through a shtadlan. One can empathize in some respects with St. Thomas's leaders. The Catholic university has a respected center on Jewish-Christian relations and was probably bending over backward not to give offense. And from a Catholic perspective, in which religious authority does flow down the hierarchy from a single source, the notion of a shtadlan must have seemed comfortably familiar.

That particular shtadlan, however, turned out to have been operating on the basis of an inaccurate and only belatedly discredited press release by the Zionist Organization of America, a group that can give even alarmism a bad name. The ZOA release gave a slanted synopsis of a speech Tutu delivered at a Boston conference in April 2002, claiming he had said that "Israel is like Hitler and apartheid." One shtadlan, equipped with one dubious piece of evidence, played an essential role, perhaps even the instigating role, in an attempt at public censorship that succeeded only in defying the wishes of many other Jews and embarrassing a great many of us.

As it happens, the text of Tutu's speech does not contain the phrases the ZOA imputed to him. Speaking at a highly volatile time, in the wake of the suicide bombing at a Netanya Seder and the reoccupation of most West Bank cities, Tutu pointedly shifted the title of his speech from the previously-announced and confrontational "Occupation is Oppression" to the more conciliatory "Give Peace a Chance." He condemned "the violence of the suicide bombers," "the corruption of young minds" by anti-Jewish propaganda, and also "the violence of military incursions and reprisals."

Yes, he compared the occupation to apartheid, even as he acknowledged the prominent role of South African Jews in the freedom struggle there. And, yes, he talked about the fall of dictatorial regimes because "a lie, injustice, oppression, those will never prevail in the world of this God."

Those are difficult, even angering words. They are also words that any American Jew ought to be confident enough to hear, discuss, and potentially challenge. We broadcast not our strength but our weakness when we act as if criticism from a Nobel Peace Prize winner, a clergyman with an impeccable record of nonviolence, simply cannot be uttered.

The groundswell calling for St. Thomas to reverse its decision included the voices of many Jews, both within and without the Twin Cities. The enduring lesson, one would hope, is that nobody can arrogate to himself or herself the right to speak for an entire Jewish community. If Jewish existence were so fragile in Minnesota, if anti-Semitism were such a clear and present danger, then how would the state have elected a string of Jewish senators - Paul Wellstone, Norm Coleman - with Al Franken a strong contender to become the next one.

The ghetto walls have fallen. Emancipation and equality have arrived. The shtadlan belongs in the history books and the museums.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel is not racist</title>
<date>5/9/2007</date>
<content>
Haaretz's veteran Arab affairs editor and editorial board member Danny Rubinstein caused a stir when he called Israel an "apartheid state" at a UN conference last week. Also last week, Yediot Aharonot's main front-page headline blared, "Racist Country," based on its own investigative report comparing attempts by Israelis of Ashkenazi, Sephardi, haredi, Russian, Ethiopian and Arab background to apply for jobs and to place their children in kindergartens. It is bad enough when anti-Semites or those who reject Israel's right to exist spout such libelous nonsense. It hard to fathom why Israelis who would bristle at being labeled anti-Zionist do the same.

A distinction must be made between prejudice and discrimination, which exist in Israel as in any country, and declaring that Israel is racist as a whole or by definition. It would be foolish to deny that Israeli Arabs do not suffer from discrimination or that Ethiopian Jews are not victims of prejudice. The fact that Yediot found that its faux Ashkenazi job seeker had better luck, despite his declared lack of experience, than the Russian, Moroccan, Ethiopian or Arab Israelis who sought a bartending position, though disturbing, is not terribly surprising.

Presumably, those labeling such prejudicial behavior "racist" are trying to shock people into doing something about a real problem. Yet such semantic inflation does more harm than good: it blurs the vital distinctions between prejudice and real racism, and it provides fodder for real racism against Israel and the Jewish people.

Racism is when an entire group of people is considered inferior or superior by birth or physical characteristics. The Jewish people, which includes people of different skin color, ethnicity and cultural origins, is not a race. It is not possible to convert into a race. This has not stopped anti-Semites from pretending that Jews are a race, which is why it was appropriate for the UN General Assembly, in 1998, to include anti-Semitism among other hatreds to be investigated by a special monitor against racism.

Similarly, the term apartheid means formal political discrimination within a country on a racial basis. This obviously does not apply in Israel's case, first because Israeli Arabs are not a separate "race" to begin with, and second because they have full political and voting rights, and are represented in the Knesset accordingly. Yesterday's laudable decision by Interior Minister Meir Sheetrit to grant citizenship to hundreds of refugees from Darfur again puts the lie to the racism charge, including the charge that the Law of Return means that only Jews can become citizens. All democracies determine citizenship criteria and preferences; so does Israel.

Nor can the apartheid argument be made regarding Palestinians in disputed territories under partial Israeli control. With the partial exception of Jerusalem, Israel has not sought to annex any part of these areas. Not only that, but Israel has dramatically demonstrated its desire not to rule over the Palestinians by unilaterally withdrawing from Gaza, at great cost to our societal fabric and substantiated risk to our security. Within Israel, and even within the territory west of the Jordan River, there is a Jewish majority. There is no issue here, as was the case under apartheid in South Africa, of a minority imposing its will on the majority, whether on a racial basis or not.

On the contrary, the origin and essence of the Arab-Israeli conflict is the struggle of a few million Jews to exercise their rights to national self-determination - as affirmed by the League of Nations and the United Nations and as opposed by 20-plus nations of the Arab world. It is not Israel that stands in the way of the creation of yet another Arab state, Palestine, but the refusal of some Arabs to give up their dream of destroying the only Jewish state, Israel.

In this context, it is morally abhorrent for Israelis to collaborate in the delegitimization of Israel by employing the false and evocative charges of apartheid and racism. If prominent Israelis say these things, how can we combat attempts to revive the UN's odious (and repealed) "Zionism is racism" charge through the 2001 Durban conference and the follow-on meeting currently in the works?

The idea that such charges are being wielded to encourage Israel to be more flexible, or to highlight real discrimination, does not excuse them. It is possible to fight for legitimate political positions and positive change without resorting to libels; indeed, when critics reject baseless attacks, this tends to add to the credibility and weight of their constructive criticisms. There is much in our country that needs improvement, but anyone honestly seeking such advances, whether Israeli or not, must of necessity support the basic existence of the society he or she wishes to change.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 10: New reality, oy vey</title>
<date>9/1/2007</date>
<content>
New reality, oy vey

Sir, - Was it destiny that juxtaposed the announcement of the Peretz-Sneh plan to "restart the peace process and.. 'create a new reality'" ("Sneh: Road map has hit dead end") and the Palestinian plan to acquire Katyushas "with an estimated range of more than 35 kilometers" ("'Gaza terrorists are pursuing Katyusha know-how abroad,'" both January 9)?

This "new reality" will put Tel Aviv, Haifa and Netanya within range of Ramallah and Nablus, just as the cease-fire has given Sderot and Ashkelon their new reality.

AVRAHAM BERKOVITS
Haifa

Digestion problem

Sir, - Gershon Baskin thinks Israel "will have to pay the price of [releasing] 1,000 Palestinian prisoners," even those who have killed Jews, to gain Gilad Shalit's release ("Cut a deal for Shalit," January 9). He also ridicules those who fear that paying such a price will only encourage more kidnappings "because if Hamas could kidnap more, they would."

His logic escapes me. They did kidnap more. They worked hard to dig a long tunnel across the border to abduct soldiers because they knew Israel's heartfelt policy of making unbalanced deals for their release. So it goes on and on.

Does Baskin think our enemies would dig tunnels for kidnapping if they knew they'd get absolutely nothing in return? Sharon's and Rabin's past kindness is what put Shalit in captivity and keeps him there today. Most people know this, but it's the emotional pull to save a Jewish boy that leads us astray.

Defending our country involves risks. That fact must be digested by anyone living here.

AVIGDOR BONCHEK
Jerusalem

One on one

Sir, - Your editorial "Prisoners dilemma" (January 9) recounted the tragic mistakes of numerous prisoner exchanges, resulting in the release of hundreds of terrorists "with no blood on their hands" who subsequently committed repeated terrorist attacks causing Israeli casualties.

When will we learn? Israel has the intelligence and the ability to grab the heads of Hamas and of the PA. Next time, let it be just one Palestinian leader for each kidnapped Israeli soldier.

FRED GOTTLIEB
Jerusalem

Fahima for Shalit?

Sir, - In seeking a solution to the return of kidnapped  soldier Gilad Shalit the government is reportedly willing to release thousands of Arab terrorist prisoners, many of whom have perpetrated the most heinous crimes against Jews. Though high-ranking military spokesmen have warned that such action would only encourage further terrorist attacks and cited statistics proving that a large percentage of formerly released terrorists have returned to wound or murder Israelis, the "negotiating process" between Israel and Hamas continues.

Instead of freeing innumerable convicted Arab terrorists and endangering more Israelis, here's a thought: Why not exchange unrepentant renegade Tali Fahima for Shalit? After all, she has defiantly expressed her intention to continue her anti-Israel activities and would undoubtedly feel much more at home with Shalit's captors ("Terrorists 'always return to terror,'" January 8).

SHIFRA HOFFMAN
Founder, Victims of Arab Terror International
Jerusalem

Tongue in cheek

Sir, - Kudos to Ron Dermer for the op-ed boasting the biggest tongue in the biggest cheek I ever read ("The nerve of Bibi," January 9). It reminded me of the campaign, years ago, when Netanyahu ran for prime minister and Chabad had the hutzpa to raise a banner reading "Bibi is better for the Jews." It's almost as bad as American political candidates who argue that voting for them is better for Americans.

SAMUEL SAMUELSON
Jerusalem

Key to the door

Sir, - One episode in "Keep an eye on our children" (January 8), related by the father of a close friend of Shmuley Boteach's, was not picked up on. It began "Devorah called him in hysterics to say that she had taken a girl from her class to the family apartment."

Would someone explain how responsible parents can give their teenage son or daughter free access to an apartment 7,000 miles away from home, without any adult supervision? Are such parents so naive as to assume that friends, and friends of friends, will not frequent the apartment?

Send your adolescent to Israel with a Visa Gold Card, a bundle of cash and keys to the family flat - and then complain about the yeshiva or seminary!

CHANANYA BERZON
Jerusalem

Sir, - Shmuley Boteach seems to think he has made a discovery among a single sector of our youth. He's wrong! Drugs and alcohol are terrible curses affecting many of our young people these days. Jews and gentiles, yeshiva day school graduates and Catholic parochial students, men and women on college and university campuses - almost all of them seem to be caught in this horrible stranglehold.

HERBERT LEVINE
Los Angeles

Running commentary

Sir, - Re the ongoing saga of marathon runner Mushir Salem Jawher: The only crime Mr. Jawher committed was his strong desire to perform as an athlete and pursue his love for running in the Tiberias Marathon.
Although Israel has no legal obligation to help this athlete, it does have a moral one. If for some reason his problem cannot be solved through the International Athletic Association in Monaco, Israel should offer Mr. Jawher an opportunity to become an Israeli citizen and continue his training in this country, even if this means passing a special law just for him. To turn our back on this man in his time of need would be totally unacceptable ("Boycotts backfire," Editorial, January 8).

PAUL BERMAN
Shoham

Sir, - Since Kenyan-born runner Mushir Salem Jawher has had his Bahraini citizenship revoked and the Kenyans may bar him from participating under their flag for two years, why not offer him temporary Israeli residence or citizenship during that time? This would show that we care what happens to visitors to our country, and that we do not practice apartheid. What's more, we would get a top athlete bearing our colors.

Who knows? After the two years are up, he may want to apply for permanency.

JOE FRANKL
Savyon

Sir, - Mushir Salem Jawher has experienced a major setback in competing as a Bahraini in the Tiberias Marathon, and Israel's athletic union should have warned him that he was endangering his status. We are keen to encourage internationally-recognized athletes to participate in events here, but this should not be done if there is any danger to the participant.

I think we should, in the circumstances, try to help this athlete as he is suffering because of our peculiar diplomatic problems that many in the world do not understand. Possibly we could offer him citizenship, or at least help him reinstate himself.

DAVID GOSHEN
Kiryat Ono

Yes and no

Sir, - YES has not wiped out BBC Prime, but it cheats its subscribers by showing the same old movies again and again - some more than 20 times by now. Subscribers should demand a reduction, or be able to pay just for news and sports channels ("Get tough on HOT,YES," Editorial, January 7).

THEODORE COHEN
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 23: Founders' glory</title>
<date>22/1/2007</date>
<content>
Founders' glory

Sir, - With everyone excited about Shahar Pe'er's great success, I was reminded of a chance meeting I had with a dentist after the Yom Kippur War while on reserve duty. His name was Ian Froman, and during our conversation he told me about his dream of bringing tennis to Israel "in a big way." His passion made a lasting impression on me.

Today we know him as one of six people responsible for establishing the Ramat Hasharon Tennis Center, and in 1989 he received the Israel Prize. President Chaim Hertzog said, "You have created a virtual social revolution throughout Israel."

At this historic moment in Israeli sports I feel it only fitting to remember the founders, the ones really responsible for this triumph ("Pe'er makes history Down Under," January 22).

P. YONAH

Shoham

Less than glorious

Sir, - What is wrong with our police force? It has arrested a farmer for protecting his farm from thieves and allowed a shackled criminal to escape from the courthouse steps. However, it has protected mafia members from attack ("Palestinian youth makes daring courthouse escape," January 22).

DAVID FEIGENBAUM

Netanya

For a viable Palestine

Sir, - "Israeli NGO vows Amazon boycott over Carter review" (January 19) revealed a huge gap between fact and fiction. ICAHD, far from being a one-man NGO, had nothing to do with the petition. As a private citizen, I certainly signed it, as did 12,000 within three days. Nor, by the way, does Prof. Halper support a one-state solution. We warn, with [Jimmy] Carter, that a two-state solution is dead due to wanton settlement expansion, for a viable Palestine cannot be attained. This leaves the Palestinians and Israel to work seriously for a serious alternative to bring peace and security to all.

Regional confederation, perhaps? Jerusalem as a neutral Vatican, perhaps? We do not presume to tell Palestinians what sort of state they should advocate for. But Israeli infrastructure reveals Israeli policy. And it undermines peace, and promotes apartheid.

ANGELA GODFREY-GOLDSTEIN
Action Advocacy Officer, ICAHD

Jerusalem

Sir, - How amazing that when Amazon.com prints a review of Jimmy Carter's new book as being one-sided and in his book Carter lambastes Israel as the demon and the Arabs as the good guys, the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions comes to his defense.

Quote from the Torah: The worst enemies will come from within.

BARBARA GINSBERG 

Ma'aleh Adumim

Point counterpoint

Sir, - "Poll: Lebanon war was 'breaking point' for Arab Israeli patriotism" (January 18) reported that "only 45% of Israeli Arabs intend to encourage their children to stay in Israel." A counterweight to the Arab claim to the right of return?

JACOB CHINITZ

Jerusalem

A unified community

Sir, - As a resident of Homat Shmuel (Har Homa), I read with interest "Rushing the mountain" (January 11). Primarily about the rising cost of land, it was misleading in a few critical ways.

There are no ultra-Orthodox communities in Homat Shmuel. The current make-up of our neighborhood is 50% national religious (the entire spectrum) and 50% non-religious/traditional. The atmosphere is family-oriented, and during Shabbat and community events everyone is out in the parks and at the community center. Homat Shmuel is unique in its openness and cooperation between different groups and synagogues.

Though prices have risen somewhat, this is still an affordable area for people who want to stay in Jerusalem but cannot afford Katamon or Baka. It is a 10-minute drive to Emek Refaim, the Jerusalem mall, the zoo and the Begin highway.

Many residents call the neighborhood Homat Shmuel out of respect for the former deputy mayor, Shmuel Meir. Potential residents can check out our neighborhood list: homatshmuel@yahoogroups.com

RIVKA MATITYA

Jerusalem

Forbidden arts

Sir, - I was deeply distressed to read that the leaders of this country go for counsel concerning matters of state to astrologists, diviners and practitioners of witchcraft and the mystical arts, whose activities are strongly condemned and strictly forbidden throughout the Bible ("The magic touch: A charm or a curse for Israeli politics?" January 12). It is written in Proverbs that whosoever despises the word of the Bible shall be destroyed, whereas he who fears the commandments will be rewarded.

At a time when the threat of enemies such as Iran, Hizbullah and Hamas has never been greater and Israel's very existence is threatened, surely our trust should be in the Bible and God, and not in the forbidden arts of Babylon, Chaldea and Egypt.

TEHILA PINKAS

Jerusalem

Can't believe it

Sir, - I saw in your newspaper yesterday that both HOT and YES are broadcasting Jews for Jesus material. How is it they have space for this on their networks, and not for BBC Prime or Eurosport? ("HOT, YES running Jews for Jesus ads," January 22.)

NEVILLE HARRIS

Netanya

What's the fuss?

Sir, - I've been following the TV companies vs consumers war, and am confused. Sure, HOT and YES are bad for many reasons, but screaming about BBC Prime? Channel 3 has Boston Legal. Xtra HOT carried the beginning of the wonderful Life on Mars. YES's Channels 11 and 19 have The Gilmore Girls.

And here's some news: You can get a great adventure, comedy or drama, keep it as long as you need, fast forward or reverse easily, and view it how and when you want. Search the Internet under "book."

DAVID TEICH 

Rehovot

Don't begrudge us our normality

Sir, - I wonder how typical Desmond Stonely's impression of life in Israel is among those living overseas (Letters, January 14). While the expellees from the Gaza Strip and those in the North during the summer war may find life too stressful to worry about their TV programs, most of us, most of the time, do the same things people do in other countries - go about our daily business, relax in front of the telly, go out to dinner or a show, play sports or take a holiday.

We are aware of the dangers to Israel as well as of our domestic problems, but we aren't consumed by them. So please don't begrudge us our normal existence. Life in Israel is, after all, really pretty good.

WARREN ZAUER 

Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 28: Quite shameful...</title>
<date>27/1/2007</date>
<content>
Quite shameful...

Sir, - Winston Churchill said the mark of a civilized society is how it treats someone who is accused of a crime. In the case of Moshe Katsav, Israel has much to be ashamed of. The basic foundation of a free, just society is that anyone is innocent until proven guilty.

President Katsav has already been condemned by the media, by members of the judiciary and by our government. It may very well turn out that in court all the charges will be found to be without foundation. Then the slanderers will be confounded.

SHLOMO SPIRO
Kfar Saba

...yes, indeed

Sir, - I was prepared to listen to our president's side of the story; until he went into attack mode. His performance last week was appalling, attacking practically everybody and everything - the press, the law enforcement authorities, the attorney-general, etc. - complete with chest-beating, tears, and all. He has repeatedly said that the moment the attorney-general charges him, he will resign. Time will tell.

To my mind, this man is not fit to hold any office.

LEONARD ZURAKOV
Netanya

Sir, - As head of the state prosecution service, Attorney-General Menachem Mazuz has a number of legitimate options in dealing with the serious allegations against the president. Making his intentions known to the press is not one of them. We now have a media circus, with pundits, politicians and common citizens all passing judgment before a single formal charge has been brought.

Mazuz has brought great discredit on the state and its legal system, and should be replaced by someone who understands the principles of sub judice.

JONATHAN B. MARDER
Rehovot

Sir, - Am I the only one outraged at the thought of the Knesset amending a Basic Law simply so that Shimon Peres can be assured of winning the presidency? If he can't win a majority of the votes under current rules, he does not deserve to win! ("Peres loyalists confident of presidential victory this time," January 24.)

SUSAN SHAUL
Nitzan 2

Oversight? No

Sir, - In "Boker Tov, 'Economist'" (January 24) Elliot Jager chides The Economist for maintaining that Israel is totally secure since that assertion neglects the genocidal and nuclear intentions of Iran's Ahmadinejad. That was no minor oversight. I have found that The Economist consistently minimizes Israel's security challenges in its Mideast analyses, a stance which helps buttress its arguments for ever more concessions from Israel.

DAVID KATCOFF
Jericho, Vermont

Sir, - Elliot Jager mentions many people of note and authority who have questioned the policies and conduct of the State of Israel. I was surprised that he did not include the present British chief rabbi, Sir Jonathan Sacks, who has spoken vehemently against many of the actions of the Israeli government, especially the misuse of religious power and the dangers of religious leaders using political methods. So did the previous chief rabbi, Lord Jakobovits, who wrote a whole book about this in the Seventies, titled If Only My People.

Neither of them denied the centrality of Israel to Jewish life, but that did not stop them speaking against Israel when the situation demanded it.

RENEE BRAVO
Asseret

Fact and bigotry

Sir, - Re "The rule of lawyers" (January 23): I wish to question the factual veracity of Caroline Glick's statement that "one of the most important powers the state prosecution took from the government is the power to choose the attorney-general." Her statement contradicts Section 5 of The State Service (Appointments) Law, 5719-1959, which states that "The Government may prescribe the procedure and conditions for the appointment of the Attorney-General."

Far more disturbing than any legal misinterpretation is Ms. Glick's bigoted generalization of the Negev Beduin - something akin to comparing all West Bank settlers to several dozen hooligans who tear down Palestinian olive trees.

Finally, when Ms. Glick refers to "certain favored groups" receiving "legally negligent lenience from prosecutors," one can only presume she is referring to such groups as the aforementioned hooligans.

IAN JAFFE, Advocate
Ra'anana

Caroline Glick responds:

The letter of the law is as Mr. Jaffe states. However, it is Mr. Jaffe who errs in concluding that this contradicts my reporting. Since 1997, the law cited by Mr. Jaffe has been interpreted as de facto requiring the government to appoint the candidate approved by a "professional" committee headed by a retired Supreme Court justice and staffed by other specific senior members of the legal community. In practice this means that the senior legal fraternity of the Justice Ministry, Supreme Court and Attorney-General's Office use the committee to ensure that only members of their club are appointed to these positions. This is precisely the problem I wrote of: The attorney-general and his coterie implement the laws in accordance with their ideological and personal preferences, and not as written.

As to the Beduin criminal gangs in the Negev, it is important not to engage in negative stereotyping and so I was careful to state, and now repeat, that I was not referring to all Beduin in the Negev, merely to those who illegally settle on state lands - which, according to the government and Beduin advocacy groups constitutes a majority of Beduin in the Negev - as well to Beduin who engage in other criminal acts.

As to Mr. Jaffe's contention about the manner in which the laws are enforced against Israeli residents of Judea and Samaria, it was not my claim, nor is it my view, that they receive lenience from state prosecutors.

Scene and herd

Sir, - While I am ambivalent about Naomi Ragen's campaign against segregated buses per se as there is an argument for respecting haredi sensibilities regarding modesty, there are serious issues that need to be addressed in pursuing this policy ("Bestselling author Naomi Ragen petitions court against segregated Egged bus lines," January 25).

Aside from the obvious, that no woman passenger should ever be harassed by "religious" men - unacceptable behavior, and not only for the religious - what bothers me is women being herded to the back, like so many cattle. If the men want segregation, let them sit at the back of the bus.
Egged drivers, and by extension the company, must also take some responsibility. It is their duty not just to get people to their destinations safely but to make sure they are not abused if they don't conform to other passengers' dress standards.

It is also a basic right of any passenger using public transport to travel in the cheapest and most direct manner possible. Why not have more private haredi lines?

SHIRLEY ZAUER
Jerusalem

Sir, - As a Naomi Ragen fan, it pains me that this talented novelist is so piqued by the establishment of "mehadrin" bus routes by the Egged and Dan bus companies that she has joined four other women in a lawsuit aimed at forcing the Transport Ministry to order an end to this arrangement, intended as a courtesy to ultra-orthodox bus riders.

Ragen and her confederates should understand that in Orthodox Jewish tradition separation of the sexes has nothing to do with racial or ethnic apartheid, male chauvinism or similar human emotions. The core issue is tzniut, sexual modesty, which in the haredi world includes bus segregation.

NAOMI AVNER
Bnei Brak
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 30: Speculate on Iran...</title>
<date>29/1/2007</date>
<content>
Speculate on Iran...

Sir, - Iran has become like the weather. Everyone talks about it, but no one knows what to do about it. Now Larry Derfner has written "Against a preemptive holocaust" (January 28) in response to Benny Morris's chilling depiction of how Iran, once it attains nuclear weapons, will use them against Israel and murder us all.

Derfner's speculative contribution lies in warning us not to dare to preempt Iran militarily as that would involve taking millions of Iranian lives. He says we are going to be tempted to do this because it appears that no US administration will dare to take on Iran.

I do not know for certain that he is wrong, but the US has firmly committed itself to not allowing Iran a nuclear option. The US also has means of preemption that are much more varied and accurate than anything Israel has.

I would thus speculate that the preferred and most likely scenario is one in which the US prevents Iran from attaining nuclear weapons. I hope Israel's leaders will not have to come to the decision Derfner believes will be disastrous for us. Of course, not taking action might at that point be even be more disastrous.

SHALOM FREEDMAN
Jerusalem

...trust in the Lord

Sir, - Re Prof. Benny Morris's "This holocaust will be different" (UpFront, January 19): I think the event is described - somewhat differently - in Ezekiel 38 and 39. The outcome will be one of the most glorious victories in the history of Israel until now. The rattlings from some corners are not to be taken seriously, only the words of the Lord in the holy Scriptures, notably Isaiah 40 and 41.

EVA BRODER
Jerusalem

Israel is inclusive to a fault

Sir, - As a lifelong Republican who held a senior-level position in the Carter administration, I have rarely, if ever, agreed with Jimmy Carter's politics; yet, theologically speaking, I assumed we were on the same page since he claims to be a born-again Christian. However, statements on page 213 in his recent book Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid show me that we are not. I doubt we are even in the same Book.

Clearly Mr. Carter is a proponent of a misguided concept called Replacement Theology, the belief that Christians have replaced Jews as God's chosen people. In Romans 11, the Apostle Paul warns Christians against adopting such a belief. Because Mr. Carter has chosen to embrace a lie over the truth he, in effect, condones Palestinian terrorism, painting Israel as the pothole on the road to peace.

I lived in Israel for a year in 2005 studying Israeli politics and people and conducting interviews for my weekly international radio broadcast, Front Page Jerusalem, now produced out of Jerusalem. Contrary to the image depicted by Mr. Carter, Israel is inclusive to a fault.

Israelis consistently go the extra mile to benefit their Arab neighbors. Repeatedly they have extended the olive branch to the Palestinians, only to have it trampled into the ground.

Mr. Carter dangerously twists history to fit his mindset. Evident even from the title of his book, Carter's assessment of Israel is dishonest. "Palestine" is not a nation and apartheid, defined as "an official policy of racial segregation," is the absolute opposite of Israel's policies. Over a million Arabs are citizens of Israel and prefer to remain as such. Arab Israelis serve in the Knesset. Arab Israelis receive the same government benefits as Israeli Jews.

Carter has either chosen to overlook the truth, or failed to do his research. Either way, as a professed born-again Christian he has a duty to be factual and a mandate from God to "comfort ye, comfort ye, my people." Condoning terrorism against Israel is not comforting, especially when the message comes from a former president of the US.

Mr. Carter did not complain about the metal security barriers, metal detectors and other security procedures put into place to protect him during his recent visit to Brandeis University. It is hypocritical for him to condemn Israel for being forced to erect barriers and security fencing to protect its citizens from those who have openly declared their intention to wipe Israel off the face of the earth.

EARL COX
Isle of Palms, South Carolina

Burns-eye view

Sir, - Having just celebrated Robert Burns, born on January 25, 1759, it seems fitting, at a time when politicians court    dishonor worldwide, to put power barons in their place by recalling what the respected Scottish poet thought of all   their titles and trappings:

For a' that, an' a' that, / Their dignities an' a' that; / The pith o' sense, an' pride o' worth, / Are higher rank than a' that."

JOHN JOHNSTON
Cambridgeshire, UK

Must Jews be busybodies?

Sir, - There are two concepts bandied about by liberal Jewish sources that have no basis in actual Torah teachings. One is tikkun olam, the modern notion that Jews must be busybodies correcting every ill of the surrounding culture, and by so doing gaining honor and respect for Jews in the world. This is hooey, contrived to inflate the egos of know-nothing clergymen and draw   in the rubes.

There is a concept of tikkun in hasidic teachings, but it is directed at correction of the individual and his immediate world, an achievable goal.

The second concept is that of being "a light unto the nations," a phrase totally absent from scripture. Yes, there is a mention of the idea in Isaiah, but it is not an exhortation to political correctness but rather the effect of following the Torah and building a society which may guide those nations who recognize it to a closer relationship with the God of Israel.

A Jew who leads a peace march while eating a ham   sandwich accomplishes nothing.

JACK BIDNIK
Winnipeg

It's a gamble

Sir, - Reading your excellent Hebrew Business Post of January 29, I was intrigued by the news that the UK city of Blackpool is waiting for a license to operate what will be the country's largest casino ("Blackpool waits for blackjack"). It set me wondering why we don't have such an institution here in Israel - but then I came to the conclusion that at the moment the whole country is one big gamble, so we don't really  need one!

DAVID S. ADDLEMAN
Mevaseret Zion

In great style

Sir, - In our corrupt and greed-ridden world, Yulia Tymoshenko's democratic ideas would be hard to implement. However, one of her suggestions has been easy to adopt: her idea for a new hairstyle.

I have long hair and am always looking for new ways to style it. I once tried the so-called French braid, which proved a real disaster. Anyway, the Ukrainian approach works just fine for me.

Thank you, Ms. Tymoshenko. I'm grateful ("A lot on her plait," interview with Ruthie Blum, January 25) .

VALENTINA MONHAJT
Ashdod
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jews against Zion</title>
<date>20/3/2007</date>
<content>
Throughout the Diaspora there are alienated Jews on the fringe whose primary involvement in Jewish life is centered on undermining the Jewish state.

Now they are seeking to establish themselves as a respectable alternative Jewish voice. This is the price we are paying for having long buried our heads in the sand, failing to isolate from the mainstream Jews who dedicate themselves to delegitimizing and demonizing Israel.

The potential damage they are capable of inflicting upon us cannot be underestimated.
Jews defaming their own people is hardly a new phenomenon. Their presence is evident throughout history from the age of antiquity on. In the Middle Ages, the most virulent promoters of anti-Semitism were Jewish converts.  During the Emancipation period, Jews committed to universalism, socialism and other "isms" were inciting hatred against their kinsmen, as exemplified in the anti-Semitic outbursts of Karl Marx and the late 19th-century Russian Jewish social revolutionaries, who justified pogroms as a necessary lubricant to create a revolutionary climate.

Jewish self-haters were silent during the Holocaust era because the Nazis targeted all Jews.
After the war, Jewish communists and their "progressive" fellow travelers reemerged as the most fervent apologists of Stalinist crimes. During the campaign to liberate Soviet Jewry, they denied Soviet anti-Semitism and defended - even applauded - state-sponsored anti-Semitic show-trials and executions of their kinsmen.

Like their contemporary successors, their effectiveness as spokesmen for our enemies was linked to the fact that they paraded their Jewish origins. However in contrast to today's Jews who demonize Zion, they were considered pariahs by mainstream Jews and clearly perceived by non-Jews as outcasts from their own people.

TODAY THOSE delegitimizing the Jewish state are frequently indulged in respectable Jewish circles. Some Jewish leaders have even suggested that a "pluralistic"  community should not discriminate against anti-Israel "dissidents."

Much of the responsibility for misplaced tolerance of those promoting our destruction originates inside Israel. The vilest anti-Israeli propaganda has for years been emanating from tenured academics at Israeli universities.

Now the problem has begun mushrooming out of control.  In view of the fact that demonstrating hatred of Israel has become a key prerequisite for eligibility to membership of the "progressive" camp, one finds Jews at the forefront of the vicious campaigns demonizing Israel in virtually every country.

Yet to accuse these renegades of indulging in self-hatred is considered as a cardinal sin in many circles. It is thus legitimate for Jews to defame Israel as an "apartheid state," accuse their kinsmen of behaving like Nazis, apply double-standards to Israeli behavior, accuse Israel of ethnic cleansing, war crimes, even genocide; it's even acceptable to call for dismantling Israel and replacing it with a binational state, or to support the "right of return" for Arab refugees - all in the name of communal tolerance.

Yet to stand up and brand such views as extremist is deemed an expression of "Zionist McCarthyism."
IT IS A pathetic reflection of our times that people such as Tony Judt, Marc Ellis, Norman Finkelstein, Jacqueline Rose and Tony Kushner are considered martyrs, and tolerance of their malicious efforts to delegitimize the Jewish state has become confused with freedom of expression.

What a red herring. Insisting that Jewish demonizers of Israel comprise an extremist fringe and speak only for themselves does not represent suppression of free speech.

Our enemies allege that condemnation of those delegitimizing Israel is designed to cover up and deflect legitimate criticism. Never mind that genuine friends of Israel - indeed,  Israelis themselves - are often vociferous critics of this or that Israeli policy. But there's a difference between being critical of a policy and delegitimizing the Jewish state.

Regrettably, efforts to obfuscate these polar opposites have increasingly been endorsed by much of the media.

When American academic Alvin Rosenfeld wrote an essay for the American Jewish Committee exposing the double standards and deviousness of Jews challenging Israel's right of existence, he unleashed a storm and was accused of playing foul for supposedly branding all criticism of Israel as anti-Semitic. That he deliberately avoided using expressions like anti-Semitism and self-hatred was ignored. Yet once so-called liberals misrepresented his views, even mainstream New York Jewish trendies began to join the pack attacking Rosenfeld.

At a time when Israel faces genuine existential threats, the audacity of the Jewish anti-Israeli camp has reached alarming levels. For example, a purportedly "Zionist" body demanded the right to introduce Israeli "refusenik" draftees to American campus students, describing their initiative as a "Zionist act of love," leaving mainstream Jewish campus groups divided whether to support such a bizarre proposal. Elsewhere a number of Jewish organizations which identify themselves as "pro-Israel" have been lobbying Congress to reject the community's mainstream positions, urging instead that Israel be pressured into pursuing policies contrary to its interests.

MEANWHILE, in London the head of the only Anglo Jewish think tank cannot comprehend why his publicly stated belief that the Jewish state was a mistake and should be transformed into a binational state makes him ineligible to hold such a position. And the chair of this institute, who is also chair of Anglo Jewry's most important newspaper, has accused those calling for his director's resignation of behaving like McCarthyites.

I recommend that our recently-appointed minister for Diaspora Affairs, Isaac Herzog, place the issue of legitimate versus illegitimate criticism of Israel high on his agenda, and convene a world conference of mainstream Jewish organizations who cherish the name of Israel and all it represents. They should adopt a united stand to expose as a sham the obscene pretensions of Jews who carry out diabolical campaigns to delegitimize Israel - and have the gall to claim that they do it out of a sense of Jewish values and justice!

The writer chairs the Diaspora-Israel Relations Committee of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs and is a veteran international Jewish leader.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 28: Floating singles</title>
<date>27/6/2007</date>
<content>
Floating singles

Sir, - Re "Sailing down the Hudson with Hebron in their hearts" (June 22): Neither the Jewish Community of Hebron, nor the Hebron Fund receive outside funding from "non-profit organizations such as  the Christian Friends of Israeli Communities."

The event did not raise money for Beit HaShalom, nor was it a fund raiser. And as our receipts clearly state, $55 out of the $65 ticket price was not tax deductible.

"Cruise & Shmooze" is our annual singles event designed to attract new young people   to our cause.

YOSSI BAUMOL
Hebron Fund

Oven of Achna'i

Sir, - Gershom Gale started off beautifully in his op-ed "Flies and elephants" (June 26), but ran aground in dissecting his second "elephant."

He starts off with a reasonable retelling of the story of the Oven of Achna'i, but then veers unexpectedly to the conclusion that what the tale signifies is how much the sages had moved away from God, saying that this has (wrongly) been taught by "Diaspora rabbis" as "an example of the triumph of majority rabbinic rule over individual interpretation."

May I point out that, as part of my studies for this year's Machshevet Yisrael matriculation exam, I learned that the Ramban, Rambam, Rihal and various other respected authorities all agreed that submitting to the decision of the majority in rabbinic matters is of paramount importance, with the case of the Oven of Achna'i cited as a prime example of this.

Another precept emphasized by many sages is that one is not allowed to doubt the wisdom of any Torah scholars or to question their decisions.

MENACHEM G. JERENBERG
Ramat Beit Shemesh

Free Alan Johnston 

Sir, - The Ramadhan Foundation joins thousands of people across the world in urging those holding BBC correspondent Alan Johnston to release him immediately without any pre-conditions.

Johnston is a journalist who has spent his time living among the people who are suffering at the hands of the Israelis; his reports have been balanced, and allowed the world to witness the apartheid being practiced by the Israelis against innocent Palestinians.

We call on those Muslims holding Alan to consider the impact on the Palestinian campaign by continuing holding him, as each day passes the fewer opportunities there are for people to tell the real story of Palestinian suffering. We hope the captors can find it in their hearts to release Alan safely to his family.

Islam does not allow this sort of kidnapping, and we urge the captors to release him unharmed.

MOHAMMED SHAFIQ
Manchester, UK

Picture imperfect

Sir, - Consider the photograph accompanying your report of Monday's Sharm e-Sheik meeting, "To boost Abbas, Israel will release 250 Fatah prisoners (June 26). Prime Minister Ehud Olmert is shown sitting beside three Arab leaders.

There is Jordan's Abdullah II, an artificial king whose clan rules over a population that's 70% Palestinian Arab. Maintaining Jordan as Hashemite causes much of Israel's trouble with Palestinians.

Then there is Mubarak, a dictator who does nothing to stop arms and men entering Gaza through tunnels at the Philadelphi Corridor.

And, finally, Abbas - a Holocaust denier whose "security forces" made no effort to fight off Hamas and whose Fatah offshoots such as Al-Aksa Martyrs Brigade are part of the problem.

And yet it is Olmert who is giving all, and getting nothing but empty words.

John Lalor
Dublin

Clap trap

Sir, - Two points on Barry Rubin's excellent column, "The fall of the house of Yasser," (June 26). Mahmoud Abbas's belief in the Palestinians' "right of return" should be enough to sideline him rather than keep him on political life-support. Secondly, the Fatah vs. Hamas debate is similar to discussing whether it is better to have gonorrhea or chlamydia.

ANNA CONDON
Winnipeg

Sir, - I just heard on Israel Radio that Mahmoud Abbas has condemned Israel for liquidating a top Islamic Jihad terrorist "engineer." Tell me again why Israel, the US and EU put any faith in this tiresome windbag?

CHAIM HOLZMAN
Kfar Sava

Don't blame us

Sir, - Daoud Kuttab's "'No' to false trappings of sovereignty" (June 26) includes a number of specious arguments that cannot be allowed to stand unchallenged.

Kuttab complains that the occupation of Gaza continues because Israel controls the borders and collects customs for imports. But that is what sovereign states do on their borders.

Does Israel still control the Rafah crossing point between Gaza and Egypt? I thought that Egypt and the Palestinian Authority, under the supervision of the European Union, are calling the shots there.

Gazans are unable to work in Israel? Guess what? Canadians are unable to work in the United States, and Americans are unable to work in Canada.  Perhaps you could explain how allowing Gazans to work in Israel would make them less dependant on Israel.

Gaza lacks resources for economic viability? What happened to all the aid money that was sent to Arafat? What happened to the industrial parks that were built along the border between Gaza and Israel to provide employment for Gazans? The Gazans attacked them because their hatred for anything Israeli is more important than their own economic well-being.

Kuttab demands territorial contiguity between Gaza and Judea. Before Bangladesh became independent, Pakistan was also composed of two non-contiguous territories that were far apart from each other. The country functioned under such conditions for over 20 years.

Kuttab complains that the Palestinian police are lightly armed. So why do I see pictures of them carrying automatic assault rifles?

Kuttab talks about withdrawal to the '67 lines. In fact, those were not borders merely  cease-fire lines.

Kuttab lists all kinds of attempts by the Palestinians    to bring about an end to the "occupation."

He forgot one: displaying a sincere desire for peace.

AVRAHAM GROSSBAUM
Jerusalem

Floating Torah

Sir, - Apropos "Historic Torah dedicated aboard US aircraft carrier 'Harry S Truman'" (June 26): A Torah dedicated a number of years ago by the Leo V. Berger Fund is presently aboard an Israeli submarine. It is my understanding that this is the first time a Torah was permanently assigned to an Israeli naval vessel.

This is particularly significant since during his lifetime Leo V. Berger was the largest private ship owner of US flag vessels in the world, and chartered a number of his ships to Zim Lines on very favorable terms for the benefit of the State of Israel and its residents.

HARVEY SCHWARTZ, President
The Leo V. Berger Fund
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 1: Quite another thing, O king</title>
<date>28/2/2007</date>
<content>
Quite another thing, O king
Sir, - Re "Peace is in the air" (February 28): I sincerely hope that John Berks, the king of South African radio, is not trying to bring Israelis and Palestinians to make a connection in the manner that he made white and black South Africans connect; for it is important to remember that when the walls of racial segregation - apartheid - came crashing down in South Africa, so did the Afrikaner nation and its language.

If John Berks has to question whether "it is right to say two nations," apparently he is not absolutely sure whether the Jews are a nation. Should that be the case, I would like to paraphrase his Afrikaans: Ek dink dat ons hier het ook gatvol gehaat van al heerde dongerei angaan - I think that we over here, too, have had an arseful of all the bullshit going around: i.e., of the Israeli-Palestinian situation being erroneously compared to that of the blacks and whites in apartheid South Africa. And that is no laughing matter.

LILY POLLIACK
Jerusalem

About equality 
Sir, - Not long ago I visited an 83-year-old lady in Kfar Saba's Meir Hospital. She had fallen and dislocated her hip, breaking a bone, but had to wait almost two days for surgery. This was because accident victims entering the hospital were presumed to be more urgent cases. Quite a lot of these victims, and other patients, were Israeli Arabs, who seemed to be the majority in the hospital, and got absolute first-class treatment. There were also many Arab members on staff.

In any Israeli hospital, Arabs get the attention they seek. In any shopping mall, you can see them buying clothes and household items alongside Israeli Jews. Walk down the street in major towns and you will see Israeli Arabs drinking coffee and enjoying themselves.

My husband, a pharmacist, has worked with Arabs in various health clinics. In Israel they have the same employment opportunities, maybe even better ones.

So I'd really like to know what Jimmy Carter means about apartheid in Israel. I invite him to visit Meir Hospital so he can eat his words - or choke on them ("The apartheid libel," February 15).

STEPHANIE TAYLOR 
Ginot Shomron

Hudna, shmudna 
Sir, - Daoud Kuttab's "Support the Mecca agreement" (February 27) was severely off-base from beginning to end. However, one statement stood out for the breathtaking perversity of its claims:

"The fact that the Islamic leaders have agreed to a long-term hudna, provided that a Palestinian state is created within the 1967 armistice lines, shows that Palestinians, Arab countries, the US and the international community are all in agreement about the two-state solution."

Let us leave aside Kuttab's illogical attempt to say that if Islamic leaders agree to this thing called a "hudna" it proves that the US and the international community support a two-state solution. Let us, instead, ask what "hudna" really is, for here lies the crux of the matter.

A hudna is a temporary cessation of hostilities requiring neither disarmament nor commitment to a final cessation of hostilities. Modeled after what Muhammad did to the Quraysh tribe in Mecca, whom he defeated in battle after signing a peace accord, hudna is a ruse that provides time for building up resources so the enemy can be hit again.

In this instance it is proof-positive that "the Islamic leaders" are not committed to a genuine two-state solution. If all they offer Israel in return for going back to 1967 lines is a hudna, we know their intention: to reduce Israel's potency toward the time when she can finally be taken out.

ARLENE KUSHNER 
Jerusalem

Sir, - Perpetual motion machines violate the laws of thermodynamics. So people who try to construct them are not taken seriously. Yet politicians trying to solve the Israeli-Palestinian problem by offering the same solution over and over again without considering the basic tenets of Islam are hailed  as peacemakers.
Hamas follows the path of jihad. To them it is their religious duty to wage war against the unbelievers and they can, at most, offer cease-fires lasting 10 years. Why? Because Islam permits a 10-year truce, if the Muslim side is weak, after    which jihad must resume.
MLADEN ANDRIJASEVIC 
Beersheba


Sir, - Re E. Alshech's "Cyber space as a combat zone" (February 28): The ability of terrorist groups to change and distort facts, manipulate major corporations' financial stability and make countries and people believe they are under attack has become a huge threat to the existence of Israel, the United States, and Europe itself.

While major corporations   have tried to deal with this phenomenon in a limited way, countries have been slower to react. The ability to use technology in this way is, to borrow Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's words, the true "runaway train," and its aim is to bring about the collapse of the civilized world. There is every indication that it can be a real danger even now, in its beginning stages, to all peoples who think differently from the Islamists.

This is a real wake-up call, which commands the utmost attention. And this is a war we must win for the sake of ourselves, our children and future generations.

TOBY WILLIG
Jerusalem

Fanatical supporters
Sir, - Is it only among Jews that you can find traitors like Natorei Karta, so proud of their deeds? It seems that extreme religion can lead to the commission of treason ("Natorei Karta joins Islamic protest," Photo, February 28).
PIN  TEITEL
New York

Come home 
Sir, - I would like to offer two pieces of advice to Vladimir Rozengurten ("Torah scrolls confiscated from Ukrainian community") and Serge Cwajgenbaum ("Jews are a detriment to Europe, Polish politician says," both February 20):

1. When you arise in the morning, repeat three times the prophetic words of our forefather Abraham - "I am a stranger in a strange land"; 2. Come home to your one and only true home, Eretz Yisrael.

JANE S. HIRSCH 
Kochav Yair

Converts, bide your time
Sir, - To alleviate "Conversion pains" (Letters, February 26), I would like to tell the spiritual yearners who want so much to turn to Judaism that their situation demands, on their part, first and foremost, time and patience. Please do not point fingers at the rabbis for being bureaucrats during the conversion process. They are duty-bound by Halacha not to welcome any convert speedily, and obligated to analyze and assess the validity of each individual's aspiration to  become a Jew.

They must make sure there are no hidden motives, such as wanting to marry a rich guy or enjoy Israeli citizenship benefits.

SIMI SCHWARTZ
Netanya

Turning a blind eye
Sir, - It wasn't much of a surprise that Defense Minister Amir Peretz reviewed troop activities through capped binoculars. It just confirms the fact that politicians often don't want to see what they are looking at! ("Peretz mocked for binocular gaffe," February 25).

MIRIAM APTER
Tel Aviv

Hanging offense?
Sir, - Re "Hapoel Tel Aviv hangs Hapoel Kfar Saba" (Sports, February 27): Wow! Who will be the next victim?

EZEKIEL GAHTAN
Ramat Hasharon
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 22: Danger to Democracy</title>
<date>21/3/2007</date>
<content>
Danger to democracy

Sir, - The most disturbing aspect of "Hundreds of Jewish students move into Hebron 'house of peace'" ( March 20) was B'tselem spokeswoman Sarit Michaeli saying: "It is the role of the IDF to prevent the settlers from moving into the house even if it was legally acquired... Our... principle is... that there shouldn't be these pockets in Hebron."

B'tselem has become a danger to democracy in Israel. With this publicly expressed attitude the organization has decided that the role of the IDF is to stop Jews living anywhere B'tselem feels is not Israel. It is worse than the EU, the UN and even the Arab League - which have not stated that the IDF's function is to forcibly remove Jews who settle the land of Israel.

B'tselem is guilty of real incitement, and should be brought to court.

TOBY WILLIG
Jerusalem

What am I missing?

Sir, - The Knesset has a law on the books that makes racism a crime in Israel. I could never understand what that crime is. But any time a Jew says something nasty about the Arabs, who are our sworn enemies, the anti-racism law is brought out. In fact, a Jewish Knesset member who advocated subsidizing the emigration of Arabs was drummed out of the house.

But haven't we witnessed Arab MKs advocating much worse regarding Jews and Israel? - most recently, "MK Sarsour calls on Muslims to liberate Jerusalem" (March 19). Others have gone to Syria and preached Israel's destruction on Arab television.

Why haven't these Arab MKs been treated as was Meir Kahane some years ago? In a democracy we are all equal before the law, are we not? Shouldn't these MKs be expelled from the Knesset? Or am I missing something?

CHAYIM SEIDEN
Jerusalem

Sorry, professor, you've got it wrong

Sir, - South African Prof. John Dugard accuses Israel of "colonialism, apartheid and foreign occupation" ("Dugard may probe Israeli 'apartheid' in territories," March 16). On Israel's actions in the "West Bank" he wrote: "Can it seriously be denied that the purpose… is to establish and maintain domination of one racial group (Jews) over another racial group (Palestinians) and systematically oppressing them?"

Dugard has fought apartheid all his life, and his report is riddled with the prejudices and terminology born of his experiences.

First, he refers to the Jews as a race, as did Nazi Germany, where Jews were declared an inferior race. Race is a genetic distinction, denoting people with shared ancestry and genetic traits, and you can't change it. Yet you can be a Jew without common ancestry; for example, by converting. Though no one could ever become black or Asian, blacks and Asians have become Jews.

In condemning Israel for colonialism and foreign occupation Prof. Dugard betrays his ignorance. King Hussein of Jordan, during his illegal occupation 1949-1967 of what was previously known as Judea and Samaria, renamed it his "West Bank" to distinguish it from his "East Bank" kingdom. The name "Palestinian territories" is also a misnomer; those areas are in fact legally undistributed parts of the Mandate for Palestine.

Finally, without the constant Arab attempts to eliminate Israel there would be no security measures or restrictions whatever.

MEIR ABELSON
Beit Shemesh

They've named it

Sir, - Further to "Naming the conflict" (March 19): For months already the religious press has been calling this past summer's war in Lebanon "The War Between the Straits" (bein hamitzarim). The Three Weeks of Calamity between the 17th of Tammuz and Tisha B'av are sad times historically for the Jewish people; and, indeed, in the summer it all started on the first day of that period, when our dear soldiers were kidnapped. The war ended in the sad month of Av.

In the first reading from the Prophets during the three weeks we learn that the bad will come from the North. A word of encouragement, however: Our sages tell us that anyone who mourns during that period will merit seeing the rebuilding of Jerusalem.

KALMAN FEDER 
Nof Ayalon

Not so sensitive

Sir, - I have always had the highest regard for the way The Jerusalem Post handles the many sensitive issues that are part of everyday existence here, and so was shocked by "She abandoned my son on the battlefield" (March 19). You took the anguished cry emanating from the torn soul of a bereaved parent and turned it into a damning attack on the brigade's doctor and its deputy commander, while the issue was under review, and without any context for the alleged abandonment.

Why did you feel it necessary to mention that the doctor was Russian-born?

MARK COHEN
Ra'anana

Johnston and Schalit

Sir, - After hearing the BBC's deputy director-general, Mark Byford, interviewed March 21 on the Today program and reading that Alan Johnston's father has appealed for information one week after the BBC correspondent's kidnapping in the Gaza Strip, I note that Mahmoud Abbas and Ismail Haniyeh are among those who have called for Mr. Johnston's release, and that he is being described as a "friend of the Palestinian people."

I was delighted to hear that the BBC has received assurances that its journalist is safe and hope he is freed, unharmed, very soon. However, the BBC, Mark Byford and Johnston himself do not appear to have given a thought to Gilad Schalit, missing for many, many months after being kidnapped. His frantic father has appealed on his son's behalf, but there have been no assurances that his son is safe. In fact, I heard the family wanted to send him some eyeglasses via the Red Cross, and even that was rejected.

Had the BBC given as much help to Gilad Schalit and his parents as they are now giving to their reporter, and had it condemned all kidnapping for the evil crime it is, maybe Alan Johnston and his family would not now be in the same unhappy predicament.

JANET CLIFFORD
Northwood, Middlesex, UK

Babies & bubbies

Sir, - To Joel Stein's "Congrats on the baby" (March 20) I would add the wise statement of Winston Churchill: He said he likes children because they do not go around showing pictures of their grandparents.

BRENDA GOLDREICH
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 14: Wake up, Education Ministry, wake up!</title>
<date>13/5/2007</date>
<content>
Sir, - I am a private English teacher for adults and children. I teach both English speakers and those who are breaking their teeth in English.

Unfortunately, in the past 10 years at least, the level of English in this country has dropped. Gone are the days when most English teachers were native speakers, and when English and math were taught in smaller classes. It is not uncommon for many English teachers to be extremely weak in the course they are teaching - and to children they are unqualified to deal with. Many of my students complain that English is rarely spoken in their classroom. Everything, it seems, is explained in Hebrew.

Now they want to take away English classes for native speakers! If the Education Ministry isn't footing the bill, why should it care that parents have taken it upon themselves to get native speakers to challenge their children?

Many parents are willing to pay for these courses. Children learn once a week in my program, and they are given material to keep them busy during their regular English lessons. They are challenged, and they love it! Why try to fix something that isn't broken?

Wake-up, Education Ministry! ("Classes for native English speakers to be canceled," May 11.)

LESLIE BAKER 
Beersheba

Sir, - I want to become empowered to stop the Education Ministry from making a huge mistake. The program serves a relatively small number of students because only those who pass the entrance exam enter the stream of study. Over the past few years the highest-quality teachers have instructed these classes, and parents have paid willingly. Not all the students are native English speakers, however; high-level English, vital to many professions, should be available in public schools to all.

If the ministry must cancel English speakers' classes, why not put an effective program in their place first? One wonders what kind of educators are running our schools these days.

SALLY METH 
Kfar Saba

Sir, - I am writing also on behalf of the Association of Americans and Canadians in Israel, the Australian Zionist Federation, the English Speaking Friends of Tel Aviv University, the English Speaking Residents Association (ESRA), Nefesh b'Nefesh, the S.A. Zionist Federation (TELFED), and the United Jewish Israel Association.

The Education Ministry's decision to cancel classes for native speakers of English is retrograde, shortsighted and damaging to many interests. We understand that there are problems in continuing the classes, but submit that after an objective weighing-up of all the advantages to both the pupils and the broad interests of the state, solutions could and should immediately be found.

The burden of finding an immediate solution should not fall on this ministry only, but on every government office and institution concerned with proficiency and clarity in English - Foreign Affairs, Industry, Trade and Labor, research, academia, and the intelligence services, etc., etc.

HERTZEL KATZ
Chairman, Council of English-Speaking
Organizations in Israel
Ramat Hasharon

Sir, - Many non-English speaking countries, including many in Eastern Europe and the Far East, run special English-speaking schools where everything is done in English. While obviously meant for highly-motivated and select students, the underlying idea is clear: the necessity and importance of knowing English in the modern world, and the educational and professional opportunities it provides.

While no one expects the Ministry of Education to open such exclusive schools, the English speakers' curriculum and classes certainly attain similar objectives, as well as fulfilling all the other social and cultural ideals mentioned in your editorial ("Teach English," May 13). To eliminate them because of the usual "lack of funding" excuse is simply absurd.

Doesn't anyone in the ministry look beyond their plush desks and offices when considering Israel's future?

GERSHON HARRIS
Hatzor Haglilit

Sir, - Kudos for putting the proposed cancellation of advanced English classes on your front page instead of burying it somewhere inside the paper. Highlighting the issue may benefit native English-speaking kids and their parents greatly.

My granddaughter, now in the IDF, was in this program and her English class turned out to be the best and most challenging of all her school career. Fine teaching, amazing curriculum.

Surely we won't let this program founder.

ELIZABETH RODRIGUEZ 
Ra'anana

Signs of the times

Sir, - Again and again as I travel around the country I am annoyed by the road signs in so-called English. Is it not possible stop these arrogant Hebrew speakers from creating words that are an insult to the English language?

They seem particularly to like using the double "y" in names like Bene Ziyyon, Mevaseret Ziyyon, Kefar Daniyyel, Daliyya and, worst of all, "Qesariyya" (Caesarea).

Is it just a matter of time before signs to the airport are spelled "Ben-Guriyyon"?

JULIA HADAR
Jerusalem

International support

Sir, - Israel has always had a fear of actions which would displease "international opinion."

In "Gov't to weigh Gaza incursion against Kassam attacks" (May 13), I noted with interest that another consideration the security cabinet must take into account is that such an incursion "could undermine the significant international support Israel's current policy of relative restraint enjoys."

Unfortunately, the article did not specify which countries were manifesting such support, or supply evidence that it actually exists. Clearly it was not referring to the EU ambassadors' boycott of Jerusalem Day, or the statement by South African Minister for Intelligence Ronnie Kasrils that Israel is conducting a policy against the Palestinians that is worse than apartheid ("SA minister insists to 'Post' that Hamas has renounced violence," May 13).

IRVIN SCHERMER 
Jerusalem

Sir, - When Ronnie Kasrils declares that Hamas has renounced violence in the face of repeated statements from PA Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh and Hamas chief Khaled Mashaal that Hamas has done no such thing, one is tempted to dub him not the minister for intelligence, but its opposite.

B. ABRAHAMS
Tel Aviv

Matter of concern

Sir, - Of all the possible "benchmarks" Evelyn Gordon discussed in "Benchmarks for a bloodbath" (May 10), there remains one Condoleezza Rice herself proposed - namely, a Palestinian state must have a contiguous boundary.

Such a requirement would leave Israel a fractured, indefensible, vulnerable state awaiting a bloodbath of extinction.

GERALD KATZ 
Haifa

Amen!

Sir, - Fiamma Nirenstein's latest book, Israel Is Us is a breath of much-needed fresh air in a world in which Israel is regularly demonized and her legitimacy brought into question.

Nirenstein's earnest appeal to Europe "to recognize the Jewish state as a model of emulation" is worthy of eliciting one response: Amen! ("Making the case for commonality," May 10).

RACHEL BIRATI 
Melbourne
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Middle Israel: In praise of Yossi Beilin</title>
<date>20/12/2007</date>
<content>
First, a word to that portion of our offshore talk-backers for whom this headline constitutes blasphemy: Better one naïve Jewish humanist in Zion than a thousand fascist Jews around the Diaspora's fleshpots.

Beyond this, Yossi Beilin, who this week announced his resignation as leader of Meretz, does not need this relativist appreciation to win a place of honor in a public arena where he loomed so much taller than the countless cynics, cronies, gofers, ignoramuses, briefcase carriers, second-generation hacks, verbose generals and retired secret agents who have come to crowd it in recent decades.

Beilin's has been a tragic career. Launched at 26 the morning after the Yom Kippur War, it is drawing to a close on the eve of his 60th birthday, with the peace for which he labored all these decades as elusive as the electoral victories he so quixotically tried to hand his political baptizer, Shimon Peres. Beilin may still enter the next Knesset, maybe even join this or that cabinet - perhaps once again through Labor - but having failed once to win Labor's leadership, then to just win a seat on its Knesset list and now to rally behind him a party as compact as Meretz, he is likely to humbly concede that he just was not born to lead.

It's nothing to be ashamed of; most people were not born to lead, and many born leaders led well, but to catastrophes. Non-leaders, at the same time, from Harry Truman to Levi Eshkol, often proved remarkable once at the helm. The tragedy about Beilin has been that in a public ecosystem such as Israel's, where power is so raw, worshiped and coveted, he had little appreciation for it. For him power really was but a means, certainly no end in itself. That is why the first thing he did as minister of economics in 1996 was to announce that utterly redundant agency's dismantlement. Most other Israeli politicians in his position would have set out to bolster it with yet more unaffordable budgets, under-par staffers and busywork tasks.

Beilin was not only impartial, he was also insightful, courageous and original on a broad range of issues that were not related to the Arab-Israeli conflict, and therefore remained little known abroad.

Though a junior official at the time, he stood up to then-defense minister Yitzhak Rabin, insisting that Israel backtrack from its military relationship with South Africa's apartheid regime, if not because of its barbarity then because of its mortality. Rabin - ever gruff, arrogant and ignorant - laughed Beilin off, memorably dismissing him as "Peres's poodle" to an entire country's giggling, but the fact is that two years on the South African regime to which Rabin was so attached was deep in history's dustbin.

Unlike most other Israeli leaders, Beilin actually thought about the issues regardless of what a particular motion or policy had in store for him personally. That is how he ended up conceiving and budgeting birthright israel, the universally admired program that brings here annually thousands of Jewish youngsters who might otherwise have never seen the Jewish state. That is also why as deputy finance minister in 1989 he defied his party's dogma and opposed calls for fiscal expansion and monetary relaxation.

Similarly, and unlike his frequently anti-religious colleagues, Beilin - who as a young adult toyed for several years with Jewish observance - believed that the Left must be prepared to make great concessions to ultra-Orthodoxy, in order to turn it into a strategic partner in a historic land-for-peace deal.

For all these reasons it is a great shame to see Yossi Beilin floored. Yet the biggest shame is to see the colossal failure of his career's main gamble, which was to weld it to the gospel of peace.

BY HIS own account, Yossi Beilin was traumatized by the Yom Kippur War, which caught him in the Sinai, where he witnessed its carnage. That is where his views concerning nationalism's futility and the conflict's resolution emerged. Eventually, he played first violin in the era that followed the war and was dominated by the territorial debate between the Land-for-Peace and Greater Israel camps.

Paradoxically, Beilin's tragedy has been exactly the same as his historic archrivals': His formula was put to the test - and failed. And just like Uri Ariel, Zvi Hendel and Hanan Porat can't bring themselves to admit that settling in Gaza and Nablus was a colossal mistake, Beilin failed to concede that Oslo had failed. Moreover, he still contends that peace is not only obtainable - mechanically and quickly - but that its pursuit supersedes all other agendas, as it will constitute a big bang that will reinvent all aspects of our life here, from economics to culture.

Curiously enough, whether in its political aloofness, historic impatience or psychological quest for cataclysm, this outlook is the perfect inversion of Gush Emunim's dogma. And now, the territorial era that gave rise to political careers like Beilin's on the Left and Porat's on the Right has ended. Ours is the era of the fence, which monumentalizes the failures of both Land-for-Peace and Greater Israel; and Beilin, who bet his future on the eruption of a big peace, has only himself to blame for having shaped his career so that it left him no place in this era of sobriety, where there is so much else to do regardless of the conflict.

The fault is his, but the loss is ours. Israeli leadership sure could use a few more people who probe issues and seek change rather than use public office to embezzle, patronize and womanize.

It certainly can use more dreamers. For my part, whenever encountering the vehemence with which the very mention of Beilin's name is greeted by his many detractors, I am reminded of our forefathers dumping their own Yossi into a pit - just because they couldn't stomach his dreams.

www.MiddleIsrael.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Middle Israel: Nuclear perspectives (III): The German opportunity</title>
<date>8/3/2007</date>
<content>
Diplomacy, which is all about weighing, combining and manipulating power, is usually indifferent, sometimes antithetical and in some cases downright hostile to the very notion of morality. Still, some foreign policies are driven by a moral urge, like that which inspired postwar Japan and Germany, and post-apartheid South Africa, all of which are self-styled moral powers.

For Japan, the Bomb became the epitome of human evil, the ominous monument to the grave mistake that nation made in embracing fascism. After a nuclear test in the Bikini Islands in 1954 - which killed one Japanese fisherman - a petition calling for a universal ban on nuclear tests was signed by some 30 million Japanese citizens, thus unwittingly making Japan the world's leading anti-nuclear preacher.

In 1995, when France detonated a bomb in French Polynesia, the French ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Ministry in Tokyo for a lengthy reprimand, while the mayor of Hiroshima accused France of "betraying the international community" and the finance minister - fresh from an anti-nuclear march in Tahiti the previous week - reminded the French that "this is not the era of Napoleon." The West Germans emerged from the war with a different attitude.

In the very days when thousands of Japanese were petitioning against nuclear tests, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer actually sought the Bomb, as part of his view of the Soviet Union as an intrinsic threat to the country he was rebuilding. In March 1958, following a four-day debate, the Bundestag resolved that the Bundeswehr would be equipped "with the most modern weapons" unless there was a universal disarmament deal. As Adenauer's biographer Charles Williams wrote, "Everybody understood that 'the most modern weapons' meant 'nuclear.'"

The West Germans did not demonize nuclear arms not only because they were not nuked but because they realized that to be moral, they had to focus on the crimes that only they committed, and that had to mean helping to rehabilitate the Jewish people. That is why Adenauer crafted the reparations agreement that gave billions of deutschmarks to Holocaust survivors and to the Jewish state, and that is why he and his successors encouraged the restoration of Jewish life in Germany.

The South African moral situation is simpler, because it is free of guilt.

Post-apartheid South Africa speaks not as a former villain, but as a moral victor, the country that managed to defeat history's biggest racists since Hitler. That is why its moral diplomacy is essentially optimistic. As Nelson Mandela put it ("South Africa's Future Foreign Policy," Foreign Affairs, November-December 1993), "The pillars upon which our foreign policy will rest" should include "the promotion of democracy worldwide" as the only way to lastingly solve international problems, the enshrinement of justice and international law as the guides of relations between nations, and the acceptance of peace as "the goal for which all nations should strive."

NOW, THE Iranian crisis is challenging the three moral powers.

Theoretically at least, Japan can't accept any mixture of nukes and aggression; Germany can't accept a nuclear bomb that targets Jews; and South Africa can't accept the post-apartheid era's most racist regime.

Now some will say: How is Iran racist if all it asks is that the Jews of Israel relocate? Well, that's actually what the Nazis initially told the Jews of Europe. In fact, other than linking inferiority and biology, the closest one can get to racism is wishing another's country "erased off the map."

In addition to its nuclear, anti-Semitic and racist aspects, the Iranian crisis should alarm Japan, Germany and South Africa because it is happening in a classically fascistic context, one that combines domestic oppression with regional bullying, diplomatic conniving and imperial hallucinations.

Yet curiously enough, rather than form a stiff moral axis, the moral powers have responded to the Iranian crisis in three different ways.

Japan last year said it would join UN sanctions, but has otherwise kept a low profile. Berlin has been actively admonishing Teheran and prodding Moscow and Beijing to join a prospective boycott of Teheran, but stopped short of delivering an exclusively German threat to Teheran. And Pretoria has been opposing UN sanctions and trying to play the honest broker - only last month a broadly smiling Thabo Mbeki hosted Iranian nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani - an attitude that it wants us to believe is unrelated to South Africa's massive oil imports from Iran.

Of the three, Pretoria's is obviously the most pathetic stance, one that shames Mandela's legacy and makes a laughingstock of South Africa's habitual pontifications to Israel for resorting to this or that tactic in defending itself. Iran's quest to eliminate another country is at least as criminal as apartheid South Africa's discrimination against its blacks was in its time.

Japan's response, considering its distance from the Middle East and Iran's sizable share (10 percent) in Tokyo's oil imports, has been admirable, but also passive. To be consistent with its anti-nuclear convictions, Japan must proceed to the front row of the international effort to isolate Teheran and publicly tell Iran that it is "betraying the international community" and that ours is "not the era of Napoleon," as its leaders so eloquently told France last decade under much less belligerent circumstances.

Yet the most crucial role in this specter has to be Berlin's.

The Germans must change the subject from Iran's nuclear program to its rejection of Israel's right to exist. To be effective, not to mention moral, Germany should tell Iran: "We must sever our diplomatic ties with you until you restore yours with Israel."

Chances of any of this happening may be low, but if and when the world wakes up one day rattled by yet another unexpected Jewish response to yet another unwarranted attack on the Jews - it should already know now whose moral weakness helped make it happen.

Last in a three-part series.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Jerusalem</title>
<date>15/5/2007</date>
<content>
A classmate of mine at university once recounted the tale of her visit to an African country in the early 1960s where she was detained by the border control official who became suspicious after seeing her place of birth listed as Jerusalem. Until that encounter, he had never realized that Jerusalem existed as a real city rather than just as a heavenly concept.

Jerusalem tends to be idealized like that. There often seem to be two Jerusalems existing alongside each other. Not west and east. More the heavenly and the earthly.

Many psalms, songs and poems have been written about Jerusalem over the years, nay, millennia. Recently I found myself singing along to "Yerushalayim sheli," "My Jerusalem," in which lyricist Dan Almagor records the Jerusalem of various characters, among them: "The peddler from Mazkeret Moshe," for whom Jerusalem "is Mahaneh Yehuda [market] on festival eves"; "the cobbler from Katamon," whose Jerusalem is "a tenement without a store and hopping on the bus"; and "the bathhouse attendant" from Mea She'arim, whose Jerusalem is "the whisper of a prayer of days to come."

My Jerusalem is yet something else. Ahead of Jerusalem Day on May 16, which this year marks the 40th anniversary of the city's reunification, an endless parade of politicians, social commentators and artists have been interviewed in the Israeli media on their views of Jerusalem's past, present and future.

Everyone has a different perception of the capital, colored by their own experiences. For me, Jerusalem is simply home. And I love it.

JERUSALEM IS the city of contradictions. They say that cleanliness is next to Godliness. If that was so, Jerusalem would have to forgo its name as the Holy City. Jerusalem is not perfect. There are pockets of poverty and profound social problems. Its residents can be nosey and noisy (or caring and carefree, depending on my mood). The security situation makes being alert second nature to Jerusalemites. At the height of the Palestinian hostilities, my neighbors quipped that it must be the only capital in the world where people are scared to go out during the day but feel safe on the streets at night. There is the sound of never-ending construction and the silence of ancient graves like the impressive Absalom's Tomb. One of the liveliest areas, with its cafes and boutiques, is Emek Refaim - the Valley of the Ghosts.

My Jerusalem is not that of a tourist. Most visitors don't end up in a Hadassah University Hospital ward. Neither, apparently, do all those critics who talk of an apartheid policy. Jewish and Arab doctors and nurses work to help Jewish and Arab patients, without differentiation.

Natural coexistence is also evident at the Tisch Family Biblical Zoo, where Arabs and Jews - secular and ultra-Orthodox - enjoy themselves side by side. The leopard might not lie down with the kid, but there are signs that it's not such a fantastical notion. Anything is possible at a zoo which receives food for the animals from the traditional priestly tithes.

The Jerusalem I live in has a (tiny) Natural History Museum where the model dinosaur is called Zrubavel (Zerubbabel), after the hero who led the return of the Jews from Babylonian exile. It has the Bible Lands Museum; the world-class Israel Museum; the hands-on Science Museum; and the Islamic Art Museum, where you can pass the time looking at its clock collection. For the best view of Jerusalem's history (and the city itself) climb to the top of the Tower of David Museum.

THE WESTERN Wall is in my Jerusalem. Known to the tourists as the Wailing Wall, a name most Jerusalemites detest, my nephew as a four-year-old renamed it the Wishing Wall. I tend to "use" the Kotel rather than visit it. It's only a bus ride away, and when I really want God to get the message, I feel it's worth traveling there to hand-deliver a note with a prayer into the ancient cracks.

Yad Vashem also exists in my Jerusalem, a monument to prayers that went unanswered. Many cities around the world now "boast" Holocaust museums. But my late, Austrian-born aunt visiting Jerusalem from England once noted: "Yad Vashem is the only place I can go to say Kaddish." No museum in the world can provide a suitable venue for reciting the Prayer for the Dead for those who have no graves.

But my Jerusalem is more about life. Catch the classics played by the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra; watch contemporary theater at the Khan; the best foreign films appear at the Cinematheque; the box-office hits are available in the suitably commercialized malls. There's the top-rate Israel Festival and Puppet Festival, and amateur performances galore. (My Jerusalem definitely includes JEST, the Jerusalem English-Speaking Theater.)

When the money runs out, there are the free performances of street theater. In fact, just watching the world go by over a drink in one of the many coffee shops is cheap entertainment.

PEOPLE ARE crazy about places like Paris. In Jerusalem, they go crazy. No other city inspires its own medically recognized syndrome - a psychosis that afflicts normally sane tourists who start hearing voices other than what the rest of their group is hearing ("For you, I make a special price...").

Jerusalem often drives me crazy. If it's a peaceful Jerusalem you seek, stay away from the No. 18 bus, where passengers argue over everything from the lack of seats to politics - even though they all seem to support Bibi.

My Jerusalem is centered around the Katamonim, where every Betar Jerusalem win is announced by honking car horns. On a Friday afternoon, it sometimes seems the whole neighborhood smells of kubbeh, freshly-shampooed kids and the bunches of flowers sold by the weekly vendors.

For relaxation, I go to the Jerusalem Pool, where in the changing room I can also catch up on the local gossip and hottest summer plans.

On a Saturday afternoon, I can usually be found - along with many, many others - in San Simon Park, near the Greek monastery. The site of a bitter battle in 1948, it is now a wonderful playground where the kids run free, Israel-style, and their parents aren't afraid to let them out of their sight.

Jerusalem has changed over the years. Whatever happened to the man who used to sell hot corn-on-the-cob at the traffic circle next to Beit Elisheva? Or the man who used to ask Kfir Cinema patrons not to litter or make a noise - in the age before cell-phones?

Their Jerusalem, too, was different. But, then, change is inevitable in any city, let alone one with a 3,000-year-old history.

The writer is editor of The International Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No sympathy for terror</title>
<date>30/12/2007</date>
<content>
The story of the murder of Ahikam Amichai and David Rubin, two off-duty soldiers on a hike, is a reminder of the bloodthirstiness of our enemies. It is a story of terrorists who look for any opportunity to kill Jews, regardless of who or where they are.

As it happens, Amichai and Rubin were soldiers, but there is no reason to doubt that the Fatah and Islamic Jihad terrorists who killed them would have been equally eager to kill Israeli civilians, as well.

It is this context that a reported comment from a closed meeting at Annapolis comes to mind: "Like the Israelis, I know what it is like to go to sleep at night, not knowing if you will be bombed, of being afraid to be in your own neighborhood, of being afraid to go to your church," US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said.

But, according to the Washington Post, Rice's recollections as a African-American child in the South, being told she could not use certain water fountains or eat in certain restaurants, also made her understood the feelings and emotions of the Palestinians.

"I know what it is like to hear to that you cannot go on a road or through a checkpoint because you are Palestinian," she said. "I understand the feeling of humiliation and powerlessness... There is pain on both sides. This has gone on too long."

At first glance, Rice's reported ecumenical empathy may seem entirely natural and appropriate for America's top diplomat. Indeed, empathy for the suffering on both sides of a conflict is warranted. But a second moment's thought reveals part of Rice's comparison to be terribly misplaced and no guide for policy.

Just imagine, for example, that Rice were to express even the faintest degree of understanding for the barbaric killing of Pakistani leader Benazir Bhutto, as being the result of "humiliation and powerlessness." Plainly, that would be absurd and unconscionable. But so, too, is to suggest that checkpoints cause terrorism, rather than that terrorism necessitates checkpoints.

Checkpoints, the security fence and targeted killings are all security measures that some in the West consider humanitarian atrocities and have even branded as "apartheid." The Russian foreign minister, displaying just one of his government's disqualifications for any moderating role, recently called Gaza a "gigantic prison."

It is extremely disturbing that Rice, even in the context of "balanced" sympathy for Israelis, would pile on to this libel of Israel by injecting a racial element into her criticism of such security measures.

What Rice should be saying is that Palestinian terrorism victimizes both sides: Israelis directly and Palestinians indirectly, but necessitates defensive Israeli actions that would automatically cease if terrorism were to end.

If there is analogy to darker days in the American South, it is to the fear that African-Americans had of being lynched if caught alone in the wrong place, and to the complete lack of confidence that local authorities, if they bothered to catch the killers, would bring them to justice.

While the Palestinian Authority has claimed to have arrested suspects in this latest murder case, we have seen how this revolving door works. What credibility do such arrests have, moreover, when the same PA leadership bitterly condemns Israel for killing terrorist kingpins in Gaza, issues posters of Palestine encompassing all of Israel, and continues to broadcast songs describing Israeli cities such as Haifa, Acre and Jaffa as part of "Palestine?"

Either the Palestinians are struggling to eliminate Israel, or to build a state alongside Israel. How is Rice encouraging the Palestinians to build rather than destroy when she paints Israeli security measures as "racist?"

There is a way to empathize with both sides without resorting to libel against Israel. President George W. Bush did so constructively in his famous speech calling for a new Palestinian leadership in June 2002: "I can understand the deep anger and despair of the Palestinian people," he said. "For decades, you've been treated as pawns in the Middle East conflict. Your interests have been held hostage to a comprehensive peace agreement that never seems to come, as your lives get worse year by year. You deserve democracy and the rule of law. You deserve an open society and a thriving economy. You deserve a life of hope for your children."

Israel is more than ready to do its part to fulfill this vision. The international community has pledged billions to pay for it. What is necessary is to stop helping the Palestinian leadership make excuses for not doing its part.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On dialogue between Jews and Muslims</title>
<date>31/12/2007</date>
<content>
Dialogue with Muslims has become the flavor of the month, and many Jewish organizations now compete with one another to create Muslim-Jewish talk-fests. Whereas such initiatives are helpful and certainly preferable to exchanging diatribes, if the objective is primarily to ingratiate ourselves with Muslims and gain publicity, the exercise becomes counterproductive.

The Jewish track record of dialogue with the Church illustrates that until Pope John XXIII's dramatic condemnation of anti-Semitism at the Second Vatican Council, our efforts had little impact beyond reinforcing relationships with marginal Christian philo-Semites.

Meaningful dialogue requires that both parties agree in advance to accord mutual respect and genuinely commit to exploring means of forging deeper understandings. It also presupposes a willingness to indulge in honest and open discussion rather than mouthing platitudes or employing glib rhetoric to cover up differences. Above all, it demands the involvement of responsible and sensitive Jewish representatives, knowledgeable about Judaism and its place in the world at large.

THERE ARE circumstances in which dialogue must be avoided. For example, if the Muslim group concerned refuses to condemn the anti-Semitic tirades emanating from Islamic quarters, or even indirectly condones global terrorism and suicide bombings, or promotes conspiracies such as implying that 9/11 was an Israeli plot. To share stages or collaborate with groups holding such views merely provides a platform for radicals to exploit dialogue as a vehicle to obtain respectability and cover up their extremism.

The problem we face with Islamic religious leaders is that while a number of their spokesmen, under pressure, do ritualistically condemn Islamic extremism, many continue to express sympathy with the radicals, or at best remain silent. The dominant Islamic voices being heard are apologists for violence, terrorism and intolerance. If there are moderate Muslims, they remain mainly in the closet or are sufficiently intimidated to avoid condemning the excesses of their jihadist kinsmen.

IN THIS environment, it is contrary to our interests to continuously repeat the politically correct but utterly false mantra that Islam is a religion of peace. Whereas all three major monotheistic religions incorporate elements of militant piety and violence, Islam, with its unique jihadism, today represents the most violent doctrine.

This is not to deny that given more enlightened religious leaders it could become moderate. But the export of Wahhabism from Saudi Arabia has led to the creation of new Islamic schools and the domination of existing institutions by a religious ideology which sanctifies violence. It is in these sources that martyrs (shahids) and suicide bombers were incubated and became such a dominant element in contemporary Islam.

Likewise, we do ourselves a disservice if we support the false allegation that Islamophobia is rampant. While as Jews we abhor and oppose all forms of prejudice, we must recognize that under the present circumstances, it is a tribute to tolerance in Western countries that despite the violence and intimidation emanating from Muslims, overt aggression or discrimination against them has been extremely limited.

In fact, despite our abhorrence of bloodshed, we Jews encounter far more violence than do Muslims - reflected in the simple fact that, unlike synagogues, mosques rarely require armed guards and that in Europe, much of the violence directed against Jews emanates from Muslims.

We should therefore also strongly endorse the approach of those who refuse to be intimidated by Islamic bullying, as exemplified in the vicious campaign against Danish cartoons of the prophet Mohammad, or the obscene threats and violent attacks against any who question Islamic beliefs or behavior.

SOME JEWISH representatives also display an unfortunate penchant for demonstrating their liberal credentials by endorsing Muslim demands to outlaw security profiling. We would be well advised to remember that Jews represent the principal target for terrorists, and it would therefore surely be bizarre for Jews to undermine security procedures which may largely ultimately directly impact against them.

It is simply a denial of reality to dismiss the ethnic profiles of Arab Muslims when 95% of acts of global terrorism emanate from this group.

Rabbi Eric Yoffie, head of the Reform movement, exemplifies well-meaning Jewish leaders falling into this trap. He recently publicly condemned profiling in an address to a questionable Islamic organization, the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA), with whom he had recently launched a major interfaith dialogue. According to some American Jewish critics, ISNA had allegedly previously backed terrorist groups and was named as an unindicated co-conspirator in a major trial against a Wahhabi oriented group (The Holy Land Foundation) illegally raising funds for Hamas. In addition, the US Justice Department referred to the ISNA as an offshoot of the terrorist Muslim Brotherhood.

IN SIMILAR vein, Rabbi Marc Schneier, sponsor of the Foundation for Ethnic Understanding, co-hosted a meeting of 12 imams and 12 rabbis at the Islamic Center in New York in conjunction with Imam Omar Abu Namous. In a previous joint meeting with Schneier's group, Namous called for the substitution of Israel with a binational state and demanded that the Israelis apologize for their "crimes" to the Palestinians. To avoid a repetition, Schneier and Namous agreed among themselves that Israel would be removed from the agenda.

This is a prime example of the damage incurred through interfaith dialogue with Muslims. If we bask in expressions of mutual love but fail to proclaim to our partners in dialogue that Israel is central to our Jewish identity, we make a mockery of dialogue and effectively capitulate to the extremists.

Of course, Muslims are entitled to criticize Israeli policies. But there must be understandings in advance that, as distinct from genuine criticism, efforts to delegitimize or demonize Israel make it impossible for us to share platforms with them. We must also insist that the condemnation of Muslim anti-Semitism be an agenda item in all such encounters.

NONE OF this detracts from our obligation to raise our voices against those who would condemn an entire religion because of the criminal behavior of its individuals. Alas, it is galling that in the Muslim arena there are virtually no such condemnations when it comes to incitement against Israel, the Jews, or even America.

There are nevertheless genuine opportunities to conduct constructive dialogue with judiciously selected Muslim groups. For example, the recent visits of Indian Muslims and Indonesian imams to Israel under the auspices of the American Jewish Committee represent the kind of positive dialogue that should be commended and encouraged.

Bottom line: Dialogue with Muslims becomes counterproductive when we grovel and demean ourselves order to curry favor. All that is achieved is a façade of goodwill which ultimately only strengthens extremists at the expense of the few genuine moderates within the Islamic community whom we are obliged to continue to seek out, for their sake and ours.

***********

IN TODAY'S reply to an earlier piece of mine, Seymour Reich does not enhance Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's standing by reproducing his June 2005 address to the Israel Policy Forum - probably the most abject speech ever made by an Israeli leader.

However, by repeating Olmert's "We are tired of fighting, tired of being courageous, tired of winning, tired of defeating our enemies," Reich does underscore our obligation to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, especially on the eve of the visit by President Bush. Olmert's speech also chillingly reminds us of the woefully misplaced delusions he was laboring under when he proclaimed that the unilateral retreat from Gaza would "bring more security, greater safety, much more prosperity and a lot of joy for all the people that live in the Middle East."

Reich also approvingly repeats Olmert's more recent lamentable repetition of Jimmy Carter's libel that Israel "risked being compared to apartheid in South Africa," and his proclamation that unless Israel accepts his proposals to withdraw now to the '67 borders, "the State of Israel is finished."

Most Israelis eagerly anticipate the day when they are no longer obliged to rule over Arabs, and would adamantly reject annexing the West Bank and Gaza. However that in no way justifies the Israel Policy Forum, an American-based organization, urging the US State Department to pressure Israel to undertake further unilateral withdrawals and make more concessions before such time as the terrorist militias are disbanded and there is an end to the incitement against Jews - an incitement that prevails no less under the jurisdiction of the PA, our so-called peace partner, than in Hamastan.

The writer is a former chairman of the Governing Board of the World Jewish Congress and a veteran international Jewish leader.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>One on One: Back to the future</title>
<date>28/2/2007</date>
<content>
In a manner so even-tempered that someone out of earshot might imagine he is exchanging pleasantries about the weather, Prof. Robert S. Wistrich dissects the "new anti-Semitism" and its speedy, infectious dissemination through technologies such as the Internet. But perhaps the 61-year-old prize-winning authority on the "longest hatred" (a phrase he coined, and the title of his 1992 book, which became a documentary film) really should be seen as a sort of weatherman, a barometer, whose extensive research on the Holocaust and radical Islam enables him to assess cultural, political and religious climates - then and now. Which leads one to want to pick his brain about the current and future state of the Jews, and of the Jewish state, caught in the crosswinds of an international cold front.

It's a blizzard that doesn't seem to be letting up. On the contrary, Muslim extremism, an increasingly anti-Zionist Europe and what Wistrich considers "irresponsible levels" of Jewish and Israeli self-flagellation are the stuff global tempests are made of - the kind that stir up, and threaten to blow in, nuclear missiles.

Wistrich, who holds the Neuberger chair for modern European and Jewish history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where he heads the Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of Anti-Semitism and edits its journal, Anti-Semitism International, was born and spent his early childhood in Kazakhstan (where his Polish-Jewish family fled in 1940, before immigrating to England). He attributes this storm to what he calls the "apocalyptic anti-Semitism" espoused by Iran and introduced into the Arab world, according to which "the annihilation of Israel is a necessary prologue to the redemption of all of humanity through Islam."

This he sees as aided and abetted by the same type of "fellow travelers" who, "in effect, if not in intent," gave impetus to the Nazis. Two documentary films he scripted and for which he acted as historical consultant deal with this very phenomenon - Blaming the Jews (2003) and Obsession: Radical Islam and the West (2006).

The author of dozens of books, among them Hitler and the Holocaust (first published by Random House in 2001, and subsequently translated into many languages), his latest work, Laboratory for World Destruction: Germans and Jews in Central Europe (University of Nebraska Press/Vidal Sassoon Center), will be released in May. He is also completing a book on the history of anti-Semitism since World War II, which will be published by Random House at the end of the year.

During this two-hour interview, which took place at the Hebrew University's Beit Mayersdorf late last month, Wistrich - who made aliya from the UK in 1982 - grins at the pause taken to ask him whether he has seen the Borat movie.

"I have," he laughs. "And, as a native son of Kazakhstan, I felt deeply offended on behalf of my countrymen."

Is anti-Semitism really on the rise, or does mass communication give the impression that it is?

Mass communication enables anti-Semitic messages to spread like wildfire. This has the dangerous effect of making the myths and stereotypes that have always driven anti-Semitism both instantly accessible and more difficult to refute.

Doesn't this work both ways? Doesn't it enable instant refutation of anti-Semitic claims? 

In principle, yes. But there is some truth to the adage that "mud sticks."

Whenever I enter a chat room relating to anti-Semitism, I am shocked to see the mind-boggling level of ignorance and prejudice, particularly about Israel. This is the new anti-Semitism. One of the things lacking in the effort to counter this is an organized campaign, via the Internet. We don't have people whose task it is to refute anti-Semitic claims 24 hours a day. Nor have we mobilized ordinary citizens who care passionately about this and who often have much better arguments at their fingertips than official spokesmen.

Do you really think that the rational refutation of irrational discourse makes a dent? Would it have mattered during the Third Reich had Jews argued their case better?

This is a complicated question. But one of the the things that enabled the Nazis to succeed was the abundance of "fellow travelers."

Hitler's rise to power was not self-evident, particularly in such a highly civilized and educated society as Germany. Yet there were many circles that, in moments of crisis, were ready and willing to contemplate collaboration with the Nazi party once they became convinced either that they could use the Nazis to achieve certain ends, or that Nazism was indeed the salvation of Germany. These circles included intellectuals, members of the upper-middle class, industrialists, church leaders and academics. Anti-Semitism was particularly attractive in academia.

Why?

It's not very fashionable to say this now, but it had to do with competition. Jews were shaping the national and international culture of the time. It was a source of tremendous resentment that these "outsiders" were actually changing the societal agenda and modern culture as a whole. They were, as the anti-Semites said, "Judaizing" it.

But European Jews didn't see themselves as outsiders.

This is one of the most intriguing features of the anti-Semitism that became so rampant in Europe before the Holocaust, and which was a main cause of it. What turned the anti-Semitism that had its profane banal explanations, such as economics and social rivalry, into something lethal was precisely the fact that Jews had "assimilated" so intensely. They were like super-Germans, super-French, super-Englishmen, etc. Because of this, the traditional anti-Semitism that was based on religion no longer had the same effect or resonance. Recourse was made, then, to an argument against which there is no defense, namely race. You cannot change your race; even conversion can't help you. A Jew remains a Jew under all circumstances, whether he is baptized, becomes totally assimilated or rejects any residual Jewish identity.

Ironically, the argument Jews always used in their apologies was that they were great contributors to their societies. They produced whole volumes about "the Jewish contribution to German culture." But, of course, this further fed the very anti-Semitism they were trying to counter, because it completely confirmed the feeling that yes, indeed, they were contributing to society - they were totally Judaizing it.

The fact that they were willing to sacrifice their identity made things even worse. It confirmed in the minds of the anti-Semites that there was nothing to be valued in Judaism or Jewishness. After all, if these Jews are so eager to abandon it, what value can it have?

Freud spoke about the "narcissism of small differences" - about how, in ethnic conflicts, it is often the small differences that make antagonism greater. Indeed, the more that Jews became similar to their neighbors - the more their differences were dissolving - the more the problems that had been bubbling beneath the surface became acute.

The anti-Semites began to claim that the Jews were fusing with their societies in order to dominate their cultures and identities, and ultimately obtain political control. Communism was invoked as an example of this in the 1920s and '30s, because Jews were quite prominent in the communist leadership. And if the Jews were in the forefront of a universalist ideology that was perceived as sapping the whole basis of national identities, it was confirmation that the Jews were playing a diabolical role.

This is the thesis of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, according to which any force that saps the cohesion and established order is diabolical. This sapping force could be liberalism, freemasonry, the emancipation of women, doctrines like psychoanalysis or Marxism or even Darwinism - all of which were attributed to Jews. This is also what fired Hitler and the Nazis up on an ideological level. People often miss the point when they say that Nazism was anti-intellectual rubbish. To be sure, there was a gangster element in Nazism - the brute force - which was fundamental. But it could not have won over a people like the Germans, or gained so many fellow travelers, if that's all it had to sell. We shouldn't make that mistake again today.

Let's talk about today. If what you describe is true, wouldn't Europeans now fear Muslim domination? Why do Jews and the Jewish state still appear to constitute a threat?

Some people claim that Islamophobia is the greatest problem of European society today. But an objective look at the current situation, through statistics carefully compiled by European government agencies and police, shows that Islamophobia is much less acute than anti-Semitism.

Europeans are reluctant to accept and admit that, despite all the Holocaust education and commemoration that's taking place - and all the solemn declarations about having thoroughly learned the lessons of the past - anti-Semitism has returned in such strength. There's the beginning of an attempt to come to grips with this. In the UK, for instance, there was an inter-parliamentary committee that issued a report on this. I was one of the experts asked to testify. I met the members of the committee, non-Jewish parliamentarians who took their job seriously. They knew very little to begin with. One of them even said to me: "I don't recognize the country you're talking about." By the time they ended, they were aghast at what they'd discovered.

After the Holocaust, there was a kind of taboo on public expressions of anti-Semitism, which seems to have expired. Can you provide a decade-by-decade account of the shift?

The first two decades of Israel's existence - 1948-1967 - was the honeymoon period, when Europe developed a new relationship with this young country. At that time, Israel was presenting itself not so much as a Jewish state, but as the pioneering, socialist land of the "new Jews." Zionism was like a fresh start. This very much suited the Europeans, who refused to deal with the Holocaust, which was itself somewhat of a taboo subject at the time.

It was not acceptable to attack Jews publicly, and Israel was seen as a redemptive, and in many ways a convenient, solution all around. It was a sort of affirmative action, and there was willingness to look at it in friendly terms. Furthermore, the Arab world at the time did not have a very compelling narrative. In the aftermath of the Holocaust, the idea of throwing the Israelis into the sea did not greatly resonate in the West.

After '67, the first shift began in the decay that set in during the 15 years between the Six Day War and the first Lebanon war - the period which carried the seeds of today's developments.

What caused it?

Here we have to bring America into the equation. Until 1967, the United States was not particularly friendly to Israel. In 1948, if it hadn't been for President Harry Truman, the US would not even have recognized Israel. This was a time when Congress didn't even want to admit Holocaust survivors into the US. In the 1950s, there was the practically anti-Israel policy of [president Dwight D.] Eisenhower and [secretary of state John Foster] Dulles. The first shift began to occur slowly with [president John F.] Kennedy. But it wasn't until the Six Day War that Israel became a strategic ally of the US - a valued partner that fit in very snugly with the entire global Cold War strategy, and polarization between America and Israel and the Soviet Union and the Arab world. From that point on, there was a slow build-up of a certain view - on the Left and in the liberal-Left mainstream - of Israel as an arm of America. Anti-Americanism began feeding anti-Zionism and vice versa. It is from that steady build-up over the past 40 years that we're reaping all the poison fruit now.

Where Europe is concerned, the big shift can be attributed to several factors, crucial among them the Yom Kippur War. For the first time, Europe's vulnerability to a blow to its oil supply was exposed, and the Arab world exacted a price: Israel. The condition for guaranteeing a good relationship with the Arab world and a flow of oil was "delivering" Israel. This meant eventually "delivering" Israel altogether, through its dissolution. But the Arab leaders, more realistic after '67 and '73 about their chances for achieving that aim by military means, had to go down another track. This is where the Euro-Arab dialogue came in and contributed to Europe's steady alienation from Israel.

To say that Europe has adopted the Arab viewpoint would be an over-simplification. Europe has its own interests. Nevertheless, it's clear that, from the late '70s on, European officialdom adopted a political stance that only tolerates a greatly reduced Israel. This has been curbed somewhat by the rise of Islamic terrorism, as it has begun to occur to government and security agencies in Europe that it is a threat to them, as well.

Public opinion, however, is a different story. A potentially lethal process has been under way for at least three decades in which the intelligentsia have adopted a view that is in its effect, if not in its intent, anti-Jewish. (That it's anti-Israel goes without saying.)

In other words, the current politically correct and even dominant discourse says that Israel is the last colonial state, an apartheid state, a lackey of American imperialism in the best case, and the controller of US foreign policy in the worst. It is a diabolical force that is preventing peace in the Middle East and around the world.

This view of it as a diabolical conspiracy is reminiscent of the Protocols, is it not?

No self-respecting Western politician or intellectual would openly come out and say so. It's much more subtle than that. Terms like "neocon cabal" are used instead.

Speaking of "neocon cabals," is anti-Semitism spreading in America, as well? 

For historical reasons, anti-Semitism has been much less of a political force in the US than in Europe. America is exceptional; it's an immigrant society in which there's no established state religion. To put a more cynical gloss on it: [<>He laughs] It's a bigots' paradise. There are so many races to choose from, why focus on Jews? Seriously, though, America has been good for the Jews, but not always to the same extent that it is now. There was quite a lot of outspoken anti-Semitism in the 1930s and '40s. Things improved dramatically in the 1960s. That was the beginning of the Golden Age of American Jewry.

Was that connected to the Six Day War in some way?

Well, the Six Day War certainly improved the image of Jews vis-a-vis Israel. And herein lies a major difference between America and Europe: To put it simply, Americans love winners. And they were immensely impressed by what was probably the most spectacular military success of the 20th century. Americans didn't and don't have the same kind of hang-ups as Europeans do with that.

In terms of American opinion, the most dangerous point for Israel, and possibly for Jews in general in the US, is that at which they are perceived to be losers. Which is why Israel has to be particularly careful about policies that not only go against its political and military interests, but about those that give the impression of weakness. This doesn't mean being insensitive to human rights, which are very important - no less in the US than anywhere else. But it requires being intelligent about how they are applied in a given situation - taking this neighborhood into account.

Regarding "this neighborhood," is it more appropriate to examine Muslim or Arab anti-Semitism?

In a study I published with the American Jewish Committee, I called it Muslim anti-Semitism. One disconcerting phenomenon of the recent decade is that anti-Semitism among Muslims is no longer confined to Arabs. It's easy to forget that only about 20 percent of the Muslim world is Arab. You would never guess this from the way in which Arabs - from a non-Arab Muslim perspective - have hijacked Islam. There are good historical reasons for this: The prophet Muhammad was from the Arabian Peninsula, and Arabic is Islam's holy language. But the great demographic centers and powerhouses of the Muslim world are in Asia: in Indonesia - the largest Muslim country in the world; in Pakistan; in India alone, there's a minority of more than 100 million, which dwarfs most Arab countries; in Bangladesh; and so on.

Israel has never intelligently adjusted its policy to that fact. We are fixated on our little corner, which is one of the things that makes it difficult to develop a more productive global strategy.

Now, in the 1950s, '60s and '70s, it would have been justified to focus all the attention on Arab nationalism, which was also anti-Semitic. Ba'athism, for example, is a fascistic, pan-Arab nationalism that was founded by Christian Arabs. It is what drove the anti-Zionism and the anti-Semitism in previous decades. [Egyptian president Gamal Abdel] Nasser, the great hero of the Arab masses, borrowed freely from European sources in the anti-Semitism that was state policy in Egypt. The Egyptians used former Nazis who had fled to the Middle East in their propaganda department. After '67, Arab nationalism looked bankrupt because of the crushing Arab defeat in the war. Also, it had lost its agenda, and in the '70s began to lose ground to Islam.

Islam is much more than a religion in the Western sense. We can't even begin to grasp what it means to ordinary Arabs in terms of their culture. It's an entire way of life. And it has the popular resonance that no alternative can have, which is what accounts for its popular force. And which is why the Iranian revolution of 1979 is such a crucial event.

Iran is not Arab, but it has become an inspiration to radical Muslims, including Arabs. The Ayatollah Khomeini introduced a form of anti-Semitism into the Arab world which I call "apocalyptic." It is more visible than ever because of [Iranian President Mahmoud] Ahmadinejad, but it was implicit in the Khomeini revolution from the beginning. They are actually waiting for the coming of the Islamic messiah - the 12th imam - and the annihilation of Israel is a necessary prologue to his return and to the redemption of all of humanity through Islam. And they believe - like the Marxists used to - that "history is on their side."

Does criticism of Israel constitute anti-Zionism, and does anti-Zionism constitute anti-Semitism? If so, how do you explain the fact that Jews and Israelis are often among the most vociferous critics? 

There are those who claim that the merging of anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism is designed to silence legitimate criticism of Israel. This is disingenuous, if not deliberate obfuscation. I'm not aware of anybody who has been silenced. On the contrary, Jewish progressive voices have every platform imaginable available to them, and the prime-time media are only too willing to publicize every dissenting view.

On the substantive issue of when criticism of Israel becomes anti-Semitic, I think that there are good criteria. Every rational person understands the difference between criticism and defamation. If you talk about an individual in a defamatory way, you're going to the heart of his character, his essence. The same is true of countries. For decades, Israel has been discriminated against internationally in the most obvious and palpable way. It is a singling-out mechanism, which is even worse than applying a double standard. Double standards are automatically applied to anything Israel does. But it is only when Israel is deemed to violate human rights that there is a major international scandal.

There is a genocide going on even as we speak [in Darfur]; yet, this is something that cannot get onto the agenda. Instead, we have the diversion of the so-called ethnic cleansing or even genocide of the Palestinians being perpetrated, when in fact the only real abuse going on is that of the language used in making accusations. Yet these accusations develop their own raison d'etre. It is enough simply to label Israel, you've made your case. You don't have to produce any real evidence. That's defamation.

Is there such a thing as Jewish anti-Semitism?

Yes, and it's perfectly possible to document. In the Middle Ages, for instance, the only way a Jew could exit his own society was through conversion. There's a long list of Jewish converts who played prominent, sometimes even starring, roles in accusations directed against the Jewish communities - saying they were in a conspiracy to undermine Christendom.

What about anti-Semitism among those who remain Jews?
This has usually occurred among ultra-assimilated Jews, intent on distancing themselves from the community they did not wish to be associated with. The strategy was to join the majority. That still exists today vis-a-vis Israel, because Israel is unpopular. When Israel becomes the source of anti-Semitism, the temptation of Jews who feel that pressure is to say, "If only I'm outwardly and openly anti-Israel, I will not be identified as a Jew." It's still the same psychological mechanism.

But Israelis, who are in any case identified as Jews and citizens of the Jewish state, also exhibit forms of it. How do you explain that?

One has to recognize that there are Israelis - and Jews elsewhere - who genuinely feel shame and disgust at phenomena occurring in Israel. As the stereotype goes, Jews are hypercritical people - you know [he laughs], two Jews, three opinions. This critical faculty is turned with peculiar intensity and vehemence against co-religionists or co-nationals. In some cases, it's due to a genuine sense of indignation. Still, it often appears to have no rational limits - if these "critics" are neither aware of, nor interested in, the wider implications of their accusations. If you are part of a society whose very survival is threatened, and your opinions - as legitimate an expression of free speech as they may be - are feeding into hostility that could produce possibly genocidal results, I think a little responsibility is called for.

This doesn't necessarily mean self-censorship or being false to your beliefs. But it does mean the application of a minimum of sanity. After all, the critics of Israel are always one-sided. They always seem - despite their claims for caring about Palestinian rights and so on - to be totally, autistically, focused on Israel. It's as if the inhuman consequences of so much of what goes on in the Arab world is a matter of absolutely no concern to them.

Such as the treatment of women?

Yes, and the totally intolerant attitude toward homosexuals. Any number of phenomena that liberals and leftists champion are ignored when they are abused in the Arab world, because all attention must be focused obsessively on Israel.

Now, I'm as critical as the next person about what's going on in this country. But being critical doesn't mean you can embrace cheap and empty slogans, such as claims that Israel is an apartheid state. When such blatant falsehoods are uttered by intellectuals, one not only has to question their self-proclaimed status, but to wonder what it is they are trying to achieve. My conclusion is that this is an incurable pathology. I'm against heavy-handed responses to it. But  people who hold such views should not be given excessive importance, which is what they crave. They have to be put in their proper place as a footnote in the long and sad saga of Jewish self-hatred.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: A rotten state of affairs</title>
<date>10/9/2007</date>
<content>
Something is rotten in the British Jewish community. In recent years anti-Jewish violence and the social ostracism of Jews and Israel have reached new heights in the United Kingdom. Yet rather than confront their bigoted detractors, the British Jewish establishment seems to be surrendering to them. Two recent episodes are notable in this regard.

One of the mainstays of the British Jewish calendar is the annual Limmud Conference, sponsored by the United Jewish Israel Appeal. The conference, which takes place each year during Christmas week, has been heralded by the British Jewish Chronicle as "The jewel in our community's crown."

This year, the organizers invited former Knesset speaker Avrum Burg to be the conference's keynote speaker.

It would be an understatement to refer to Burg as a fringe figure in Israel. Over the past several years, Burg has written in sympathy and support of Palestinian suicide bombers. This year, Burg published an anti-Zionist and arguably anti-Semitic book entitled Defeating Hitler, in which he compared Israel to Nazi Germany and described Zionism as a racist colonialist movement that has poisoned the soul of Jewry.

Burg, who recently received French citizenship, has called for his fellow Israelis to follow his lead and seek foreign passports. While even the Israeli Zionist Left has denounced him, "the jewel" of the British Jewish community has decided to honor him.

The Limmud Conference's move goes hand in hand with the British Jewish establishment's confrontation last week with Britain's Zionist Federation over the ZF's decision to cancel Haaretz reporter Danny Rubinstein's scheduled appearance at its annual conference.

THE ZF became uncomfortable with Rubinstein after it learned that on August 30, while participating in the anti-Israel conference at the European Parliament sponsored by the virulently anti-Israel UN Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, Rubinstein referred to Israel as an "apartheid state."

When Rubinstein arrived in London the next day, he met with the ZF's leaders at the home of the organization's chairman, Andrew Balcombe. There, Rubinstein suggested that he not speak at the ZF's conference that weekend. Although they initially rejected the suggestion, Balcombe and his colleagues eventually agreed to cancel his speech.

The same weekend, Rubinstein spoke before British Jews at an event sponsored by the leftist New Israel Fund. There he castigated the ZF, saying that at the meeting at Balcombe's home he felt he was standing before a "court martial." He accused the ZF of leaving him penniless on the streets of London even though its leaders booked him a hotel room and offered to pay for it.

Rather than challenge Rubinstein on his defamatory attacks against Israel and against the ZF - attacks which abet the bigoted voices within Britain calling for boycotts of Israel and sanctioning attacks on British Jewry - the New Israel Fund, and the Jewish Chronicle, upheld Rubinstein as merely "controversial" and attacked the ZF for supposedly silencing free speech and debate.

WHILE MEN like Rubinstein and Burg are given places of honor among Britain's Jewish establishment, the ZF is having trouble finding a security company willing to protect its offices. Moreover, increasingly, British Jewish organizations express unwillingness to co-sponsor events with the ZF due to their unease at being identified with Zionists.

Although British Jewry's unwillingness to defend itself and Israel from defamatory attacks is disturbing, it is hard to judge British Jewish leaders too harshly given that their tendency to seek acceptance from their detractors and give voice to their opponents while blackballing their supporters isn't very different from the policies being promoted by Israel's Foreign Ministry. In fact, it is safe to say that while something is rotten in the British Jewish community, something is even rottener in the State of Israel's Foreign Ministry.

Danny Rubinstein told the ZF's leaders that he began openly referring to Israel as an apartheid state after former US president Jimmy Carter published his anti-Israel libel Palestine: Peace not Apartheid last autumn. Yet this fact didn't stop the Foreign Ministry from using Israeli taxpayers' money to send Rubinstein to India to given speeches at Foreign Ministry-sponsored events on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in February.

The Foreign Ministry's embrace of Rubinstein is noteworthy particularly when it is contrasted with the Foreign Ministry's contemptuous treatment of French Jewish activist Philippe Karsenty, who is being hounded by the French media giant France 2 television network for his dogged defense of Israel and the IDF.

ON NOVEMBER 24, 2004, Karsenty, who runs a media watchdog Web site called Media Matters, sent out an email to his subscribers in which he accused the France 2 television network of staging the purported IDF killing of the Palestinian boy Muhammad al-Dura at Netzarim junction in Gaza on September 30, 2000.

Karsenty called for the resignation of France 2's permanent correspondent in Israel, Charles Enderlin, and of France 2's News Director, Arlette Chabot, for their role in promulgating the alleged hoax. France 2 and Enderlin sued Karsenty for defamation. They won their lawsuit last October. Next week, Karsenty's appeal of the verdict is set to open.

It will be recalled that on September 30, 2000, France 2 ran 55 seconds of footage from the Netzarim junction filmed by its Gaza cameraman, Talal Abu Rahma. The footage showed Muhammad al-Dura and his father, Jamal al-Dura, crouching behind a barrel beneath a concrete wall. Shots were fired and Muhammad lay down in his father's lap, and then moved his leg and arm. In his narration of the edited, blurry footage, Enderlin announced that the IDF had killed the boy. France 2 offered its edited video free of charge to anyone who wished to broadcast it.

In the days, weeks and months that followed, the al-Dura tape became the iconic image of the Palestinian war against Israel and, indeed, of the general global jihad against the West. It was invoked by the Palestinian mob in Ramallah that lynched IDF reservists Yosef Avrahami and Vadim Novesche on October 12, 2000. It was invoked by mobs of Israeli Arabs as they opened their violent riots on October 1, 2000.

THE IMAGE of al-Dura has been used in Hamas and Fatah terror recruitment videos, television shows and educational materials as a means to encourage Palestinian children to become suicide bombers. The al-Dura tape was used repeatedly in al-Qaida's videotape of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl's execution in February 2002 and in other al-Qaida recruitment videos. His image was published in Iraqi Republican Guards newsletters and indoctrination materials before the 2003 US-led invasion. His name has been invoked repeatedly at Islamist and leftist anti-Israel demonstrations throughout the Western world.

Yet the IDF could not have killed the boy. An IDF investigation of the event in late 2000 showed that it was physically impossible for the IDF forces to have either seen or shot at the al-Duras from their position at the junction that day. Aside from that, independent investigations of the events of the day, carried out most notably by Prof. Richard Landes and shown at his Augean Stables Web site, and by Metula News Agency, showed that the event was likely staged. As investigators showed, throughout the day, Palestinian cameramen openly staged scenes of "carnage" performed by amateur Palestinian actors and Red Crescent ambulance drivers.

At one point, a cameraman from Reuters and another man crouched behind the al-Duras, filming staged scenes while the two were supposedly under fire, and in imminent peril.

A DOCUMENTARY by German filmmaker Ester Schapira, Three Bullets and a Dead Child: Who Shot Mohammed al-Dura?, was released in late 2002. The documentary, like later investigations by the Atlantic Monthly and other publications, concluded that the IDF could not have killed the boy.

Since the controversy first arose, independent investigators have repeatedly asked France 2 to release the 29-minute unedited version of Rahma's film. The requests have been refused.

During his trial last summer, Karsenty presented all the investigative evidence that had been accumulated to that point. The prosecution brought no witnesses, and challenged none of his evidence - sufficing with a letter of support for Enderlin written by then French president Jacques Chirac.

In his ruling last October, the presiding judge argued that although his evidence of the hoax was substantial, Karsenty's allegations could not be credible since "no Israeli authority… has ever accorded the slightest credit to these allegations."

For the past year, Karsenty and his supporters have repeatedly begged the IDF and the Foreign Ministry to support him in his appeal. They have repeatedly appealed to the IDF and the Foreign Ministry to request the unedited France 2 footage. Although various promises of assistance have been made, a week before his appeal, Karsenty has yet to receive any letters of support that he could introduce at his appeal from the Foreign Ministry. According to people close to the trial, Israel's ambassador in France, Danny Shek, enjoys warm relations with Enderlin.

FOLLOWING the Israeli government's lead, most major Jewish organizations in the Diaspora have refused to support Karsenty or to demand the release of the unedited footage of the 2000 film that has served to justify and incite murder and hatred of Jews in Israel and throughout the world ever since. Among American Jewish organizations, the Zionist Organization of America is the only major group that has come out strongly in support of Karsenty.

It is hard to know what to make of this rotten situation. As Jews begin our new year on Wednesday evening, it can only be hoped that with the new year will come a new understanding of our rights and responsibilities.

After seven years of the Palestinian jihad, and six years of the global jihad, it is high time we understood that if we do not defend ourselves and oppose our enemies and detractors, no one will do so for us.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Israel's anti-Zionist leaders</title>
<date>5/11/2007</date>
<content>
From October 26-30, a mob of Druse villagers in Peki'in in the Galilee launched what has all the markings of a pogrom against the four Jewish families in the village. They burned their cars and surrounded and torched their homes.

The police took a full day to come to the Jews' defense. And when they did, the Druse mob kidnapped a policewoman and only set her free in exchange for their cohorts who had been arrested. The police then set about evacuating the Jews from their encircled homes and did nothing to prevent their homes from being destroyed by the mob.

Now the Knesset's Interior Committee is demanding that a governmental commission of inquiry be set up to investigate what the Druse claim was police brutality in attempting to disperse the violent mob. For its part the Olmert government is distancing itself from Internal Security Minister Avi Dichter's decision to suffice with an internal police investigation of the policemen's behavior at the scene.

The question that arises is whether the leftist-dominated Knesset and the Olmert government act as they do out of fear or conviction. This question is given increased urgency as the Olmert government, under intense pressure from US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice moves closer to officially committing Israel to surrender Judea and Samaria and large swathes of Jerusalem including the Temple Mount to the Palestinian Authority. Such a commitment would not merely induce Israel to divest itself of the ability to defend itself while ensuring the establishment of a terror enclave within mortar range of its major cities. Given that the Palestinian state which everyone is so adamant in championing will be an apartheid state which will legally bar all Jews from owning land or acquiring residency or citizenship rights, the Olmert government's acceptance of the demand for Palestinian statehood involves an internalization of the anti-Semitic view which posits that Jews have fewer rights than everybody else.

RELEVANT TO this discussion is last week's decision by a cabinet committee to approve the 2005 election of Theophilos III as the Greek Orthodox Patriarch. On the surface, the government's approval of the appointment of a religious leader seems like a simple matter. But it is not. Theophilos's election two years ago to head the Greek Orthodox Church was the consequence of an anti-Jewish campaign of terror by Hamas and Fatah and the Jordanian government against the church and its leaders.

In the summer of 2004, Ma'ariv reported that the previous Greek Patriarch Irineos I had approved a 99-year lease of two hotels inside the Jaffa Gate of Jerusalem's Old City built on church-owned lands to a Jewish-owned company. A maelstrom ensued within the church. Irineos was illegally sacked and due to death threats has lived under armed guard even since.

The Greek Orthodox Church is one of the largest landholders in Israel. It owns the land on which both the Knesset and the President's residence are built as well as vast land tracts throughout the capital city and the country as a whole. Since the Patriarch oversees those lands, his identity is anything but trivial.

After sacking Irineos, the church held elections for his successor. According to a World Net Daily report, all the candidates were required to sign a letter to the Palestinian Authority pledging, "We, the candidates of the Greek Orthodox Church, hereby agree that…in the event that we are elected, we shall act for the cancellation of all transactions made during the period of Irineos I, and shall keep the Orthodox religious trust."

In keeping with centuries-old practice, for the Greek Orthodox Patriarch to formally assert his authority, he must first receive the approval of all the relevant governments. Today this means he must receive the approval of Jordan, the Palestinian Authority and Israel. After Irineos was ejected from office, Theophilos immediately distinguished himself from his fellow clerics with his enthusiasm for barring Israel and Jews from using church lands. He secured Palestinian and Jordanian backing ahead of the elections by pledging to operate in accordance with Jordanian rather than Israeli law. Jordanian law prohibits all land sales to Jews.

In light of this, it is obvious why, until last week Israel refused to accredit Theophilos. Then too, like the government's response to the anti-Jewish mob violence in Peki'in, the ministerial committee's decision to approve Theophilis's election and so pave the way to formal governmental acceptance of his credentials raises serious questions about the Olmert government's commitment to defending the civil and human rights of Jews and Israel's identity as a Jewish state.

By accepting Theophilos as Patriarch, Israel is siding with its enemies against itself. It is signaling to Israel's antagonists that terror and extortion continue to pay. Just as terror is viewed as the force which compelled Israel to vacate Gaza and south Lebanon, so in the case of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch, Israel's enemies would be justified in believing that their decision to terrorize the church leadership and force it to embrace anti-Semitism and the jihadist aim of ethnic cleansing of Jews from the Holy Land was the right decision.

OBVIOUSLY, as owner of the lands, the Greek Orthodox Church is entitled to do whatever it wishes with its properties. The issue here is not whether the Church has the right to be anti-Semitic. The issue is the Olmert government's apparent acceptance of anti-Semitic norms of behavior. Israel is under no obligation to accept Theophilos. By approving his appointment, the cabinet committee did not passively tolerate his anti-Semitism. It took an active step to legitimize it.

And herein lays the final aspect of the perfidy of the government's behavior. At the same time that the Olmert government is taking active steps to enable the Greek Orthodox Church to implement its new anti-Jewish land policies, it is leading an all out war against the Jewish National Fund's right to advance its pro-Jewish charter.

Since its founding by Theodor Herzl at the end of the 19th century, the JNF has used donations from world Jewry to purchase land in the land of Israel for Jewish settlement in accordance with its charter. Over the past three years, the government, prodded by the post-Zionist Attorney-General and the post-Zionist Supreme Court, has worked to compel the JNF to lease its lands to Arabs in open breach of its charter and its fiduciary commitment to its donors, the Jewish people, who provided the funds through which those lands were purchased for specifically Jewish settlement.

Here again, there is some question of what is motivating the government to behave as it does. Is it treating Jews as second class citizens and denying the JNF's legal right to use its land as it deems fit while enabling the Greek Orthodox Church and the Islamic Wakf to openly implement anti-Semitic land policies simply because it cannot stand up to outside pressure? Is the government's behavior merely the consequence of its incompetence or meekness?

THE ANSWER to this question was provided last week by Interior Minister Meir Sheetrit in his address before the Jewish Agency's Board of Governors. Standing before the men and women who lead the agency tasked with encouraging and facilitating Jewish immigration to the Jewish state, Sheetrit announced that he believes that "Israel should no longer grant automatic citizenship to Jews." He continued that Jews should be forced to live in Israel for five years and then take a citizenship test before being granted citizenship; that no effort should be made to encourage Jews to move to Israel; and that underprivileged Jewish communities should be barred from immigrating to the country.

Since the dawn of modern Zionism, the Jewish people built and secured our massive majority in Israel through the encouragement of Jewish immigration to Israel. The Law of Return, which grants automatic citizenship to any Jew who requests it, is the embodiment of Zionist ideals of Jewish nationalism.

Today, the government defends its desire to surrender Judea, Samaria and parts of Jerusalem to the Palestinians by claiming that doing so is the only way to ensure the continued Jewish majority in Israel. This of course strains belief since establishing a Jew-free state in Israel's heartland will not remove one Arab or add one Jew to Israel's population rolls. It will merely make it impossible for Jews to live securely in their truncated state. Obviously, if the government's chief concern is maintaining Israel's Jewish majority, then its main goal should be to encourage and increase Jewish immigration to the country.

But in his address before the Jewish Agency, Sheetrit renounced Jewish immigration and with it, the central pillar of Zionism. That is, speaking as the representative of the Olmert government, and as the minister empowered to grant citizenship, Sheetrit stated that he wishes to undermine Israel's identity as a Jewish state.

All of this leads inevitably to but one conclusion. While international pressure, cowardice and incompetence no doubt play a role in inducing the Olmert government to side with Israel's enemies against the country, these are not the sole sources of the government's behavior. What Sheetrit made clear is that the Olmert government's favoritism towards anti-Semites and anti-Zionist causes stems also from the ideological convictions of its members.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Lies and deceits</title>
<date>24/12/2007</date>
<content>
In a Paris courtroom last month, after seven long years, the myth of Muhammed al-Dura finally unraveled. That myth, propagated in a report by France 2 television network on September 30, 2000, falsely accused Israeli soldiers of killing a Palestinian child named Muhammad al-Dura while he was crouched behind a barrel with his father at Netzarim junction in the Gaza Strip.

An IDF probe into the incident, ordered by then-OC Southern Command Maj.-Gen. Yom Tov Samia, has ruled out the possibility that the gunfire that apparently harmed the boy was fired by IDF soldiers.

Last month, France 2 was ordered to show the 27 minutes of uncut footage its cameraman testified he filmed at the scene that day and from which the 55 second news story of the purported shooting of al-Dura by IDF soldiers emerged. Charles Enderlin, France 2's permanent correspondent in Israel who reported the story, made a grand entrance into the courtroom where Philippe Karsenty is appealing a libel conviction he received last year after Enderlin and France 2 sued him for publishing an article arguing that the al-Dura story was a hoax.

In the courtroom, in seeming defiance of the court order, Enderlin showed an 18-minute film - which eyewitnesses claimed was obviously heavily edited - of the events of the day. Although apparently doctored, the film's finale was all that was necessary to prove his report to have been a massive deception. For in the last three seconds of the film, al-Dura, showing no signs of injury, raised his hand and peeked at the camera after Enderlin proclaimed him dead and gone.

The French court is in recess until February but the session last month incontrovertibly destroyed the myth of al-Dura. Yet the truth which took seven years to come out cannot erase the consequences of the falsehood.

Enderlin published his report two days after the Palestinians launched their jihad against Israel. The false image of the victimized al-Dura served as a moral indictment of Israel which fueled the murderous campaign against Israel and Jews worldwide which followed. Just as al-Dura's name was invoked by Palestinians as justification of their massacres of Israeli civilians, so it was invoked by Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl's executioners and by Muslim mobs in Europe as they attacked Jews and Jewish institutions.

Enderlin's alleged hoax went beyond journalistic malfeasance. He put blind faith in the reports of a cameraman who was clearly lying to him. And when faced with the facts of the deception, he aggressively dismissed them over the course of seven years. While it is hard to say how events might have unfolded if he hadn't chosen to act as he did, looking forward the murderous consequences of the al-Dura myth speak volumes about the moral imperative for journalists to get their facts straight and to acknowledge mistakes when they are discovered. So too, it underlines the need for policymakers to base their decisions on facts, even when they expose difficult and inconvenient realities.

FACTS OF course, are slippery things. Authoritarian regimes and political movements often engage in the deliberate dissemination of disinformation to advance their interests. The KGB in its day devoted the overwhelming majority of its efforts not to classical espionage activities but to the dissemination of false information to the West in an effort to demoralize Western societies and convince them that there was no moral justification for fighting communism.

Since Israel was established in 1948 the Arabs have devoted the lion's share of their efforts against Israel not to armed attacks against the state but to the dissemination of false information about Israel which is aimed at demonizing it internationally and demoralizing Israelis internally. So too, both the Arab states and the Palestinian Authority indoctrinate their own people to seek Israel's violent destruction through massive internal propaganda efforts.

Even when independent media outlets use their best efforts to report the facts in a credible way, they sometimes get it wrong. For instance, on November 27, the Jerusalem Post reported a quote made by an Arab diplomat to AFP news agency in Riyadh claiming that the Bush Administration had bowed to the Arab demand to force the Israeli delegation at the Annapolis conference to enter the conference hall through a separate entrance from the Arabs. In the diplomat's words, "The Saudis told Washington that they do not want to meet anyone from the Israeli delegation, either by chance or by prior arrangement. Hence it was decided that ... delegations would enter into the meeting room from different doors."

His assertion was made credible by statements from US officials regarding the Saudi demand for segregation between the Arabs and the Israelis at the conference. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said, "As the Saudi foreign minister put it, nobody's interested in these uncomfortable situations where there are theatrics for the sake of photographs. We'll of course be respectful and mindful of that as we'll put together the various events."

It was these twin reports that informed my own decision to begin my Nov. 30 column "Apartheid not peace" with the story of the separation of Israeli representatives from Arab representatives at Annapolis. Happily, after my column was published, both the State Department and Israeli officials denied that the US had enforced the Arab demand for segregated entrances.

YET WHILE the Bush administration did not bow to the Arab demand for segregation at Annapolis, it is moving to advance the Arabs' bigoted demand for apartheid rather than peace in the Middle East. Since the Annapolis conference, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has repeatedly invoked the false Arab view that the physical presence of Israelis beyond the 1949 armistice lines is the source of the Arab-Israeli conflict rather than the Arab world's expressed refusal to accept Israel's existence and Palestinian society's expressed resolve to destroy Israel.

Rice's open and repeated assaults against Israel's plans to build housing in Jewish neighborhoods in its capital city of Jerusalem and her studied silence on the issue of Arab and Palestinian Authority sponsorship of terrorism against Israel make her internalization of the bigoted and false Arab narrative clear. Indeed, in an interview with the BBC last week, Rice placed the blame for the seven-year suspension of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians not on the Palestinian Authority which directed and sponsored the terror war against Israel which has claimed more than a thousand Israeli victims, but rather on the Israeli government for its support of the presence of Jews in disputed lands. As she put it, "On the Middle East peace process, I don't think in 2001, with the intifada having just been launched and frankly, Ariel Sharon, the father of the settlement movement, having just been elected prime minister of Israel, that there was much prospect for a final-status negotiation."

IT COULD be argued that in adopting her overtly anti-Israel and bigoted view of the Arab world's conflict with Israel that Rice is the victim of disinformation and general ignorance. This view might have some credibility were it not for the fact that the administration itself is actively ignoring evidence which shows its view of the Palestinians and other Arab states to be false.

For instance, in upholding PA Chairman and Fatah leader Mahmoud Abbas as a man of peace, the administration ignores an overwhelming body of evidence showing his own security forces' involvement in terrorism and his government's rejection of Israel. Rice ignores the fact that Fatah security forces murdered Ido Zoldan last month while she supports the arming and training of those same forces. So too, while she insists that Israel must not build in its capital city and must plan to expel some 250,000 Israelis from their towns in Judea and Samaria, she has been silent on the fact that Fatah's 43rd anniversary posters depict the map of Israel covered by a Palestinian keffiyeh, a rifle, and a portrait of Yasser Arafat.

Regionally, as the US legitimizes Bashar Assad's murderous regime in Syria, the administration is making concerted efforts to prevent Congress from understanding the depth of Syria's involvement in terror and nuclear proliferation. According to a publication by the Federation of American Scientists, President George W. Bush is threatening to veto the 2008 Intelligence Authorization bill because the bill requires that the While House fully brief the House and Senate intelligence committees about the nature and target of Israel's September 6 attack on what was reportedly a North Korean-built nuclear installation in Syria.

According to Congressional sources, the administration is withholding information about the Israeli attack for it believes that a revelation of the nature of the attack will cause an outcry in Congress. Such an outcry will force the US to back away from its current engagement of Syria and North Korea and instigate the tightening of sanctions against both countries - and perhaps against Iran.

TYRANNIES require disinformation to maintain and justify their grip on power to their own people and to the outside world. But democracies can only flourish through the open flow of information. When the media of free nations publish lies and distorted accounts of fact, and the governments of free nations base their policies on falsities, their national interests are necessarily harmed.

Mistakes happen. Falsities inevitably find their way into discourse. But with good will and a basic, underlying commitment to facts, these mistakes can be easily corrected.

Unfortunately, between the Western and Arab media's often deliberate dissemination of disinformation and the studied refusal of Western policymakers to acknowledge inconvenient facts in favor of easy lies and deliberate deceits which enable them to avoid contending with harsh realities, it is no surprise that our public discourse today is increasingly based on equal doses of mendacity and wishful thinking. And tragically, as the al-Dura affair showed so well, the murderous results won't be long in coming.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Telling friend from foe</title>
<date>12/2/2007</date>
<content>
One of the most difficult things in life is to draw the line between friend and foe. Take the Palestinian terror groups.

Last week in Mecca, the Fatah terror group, which mixes the murder of Israelis with negotiations with Israelis, officially joined forces with the Hamas terror group, which murders Israelis while refusing to negotiate with us.

Although the agreement makes it clear that both are at war with Israel, on Sunday the Olmert government decided to reserve judgment on the terror unity deal. And Monday morning Vice Premier Shimon Peres warned that saying bad things about the Mecca deal would only weaken Fatah terror boss Mahmoud Abbas, whom we should strengthen because he likes to negotiate while killing.

Given how hard it is for Israel to identify its Arab foes, it is little wonder that identifying Jewish foes is a near-Herculean task.

Last month the American Jewish Committee took an important first step in this direction by publishing a paper by Prof. Alvin Rosenfeld from the University of Indiana entitled, "'Progressive' Jewish Thought and the New Anti-Semitism." Explaining the difference between criticism of Israel and demonization of the Jewish state, Rosenfeld wrote, "To call Israel a Nazi state… as is commonly done today, or to accuse it of fostering South African-style apartheid or engaging in ethnic cleansing or wholesale genocide goes well beyond legitimate criticism." Rosenfeld noted that these descriptors of Israel, which aim to single out Israel "as a political entity unworthy of secure and sovereign existence" are today "part of a standard discourse among 'progressive' American Jews, who seem to take for granted that the historical record shows Israel to be an aggressor state guilty of sins comparable to Hendrik Verwoerd's South Africa and Hitler's Germany."

HAVING described the phenomenon, Rosenfeld proceeded to identify prominent American Jews, including New York University Prof. Tony Judt, playwright Tony Kushner, Washington Post columnist Richard Cohen, Noam Chomsky, and Adrienne Rich as leading Jewish lights in the leftist assault on the Jewish people's right to self-determination in our homeland.

Rosenfeld's paper evoked strong reactions in the American Jewish community. A New York Times write-up of the controversy entitled, "Essay Linking Liberal Jews and Anti-Semitism Sparks a Furor," described how the same "progressive" Jews and their supporters are up in arms over being painted as anti-Semites. Judt opined that the point of the article was to silence them.

This of course, is pure nonsense. All the Jews in America couldn't silence Judt and his colleagues even if they wished to. As anti-Israel Jews, they will never lack prestigious forums from which to propagate their hatred for Israel.

Far from seeking to silence these hostile Jewish voices, Rosenfeld's essay simply serves to draw lines between friend and foe where such lines are important. The views of Kushner, Judt and Cohen are no less anti-Jewish than similar statements by non-Jews.

Rosenfeld's efforts, while important, are insufficient. The likes of Judt and Kushner use their professed Jewishness as a tool to advance the cause of Israel's denunciation. Others hide behind protestations of Zionism to undermine Israel's right to defend itself against enemies actively working toward its destruction.

CASE IN point is the Union of Progressive Zionists. The UPZ is the US campus representative of the Labor and Meretz parties as well as of Hashomer Hatzair and Habonim Dror. In its mission statement, the UPZ claims to be "a network of student activists organizing on campuses across North America for social justice and peace in Israel/Palestine. The UPZ was created to provide guidance, education and resources to students who seek to impart a progressive voice into the campus debate on Israel."

Mission statement in hand, the UPZ joined the Israel on Campus Coalition (ICC) - a pro-Israel umbrella group established to build support for Israel and fight the rise in anti-Israel incitement on college campuses. Yet, while operating under the ICC umbrella, UPZ is actually promoting hostility toward Israel and so advancing the cause of those who maintain that Israel has no right to exist.

In recent months, under the aegis of the ICC, the UPZ has hosted members of the radical leftist Israeli organization "Breaking the Silence" on a number of college campuses. "Breaking the Silence" was established by former IDF soldiers for the declared purpose of "exposing" the "irreversible corruption" of Israeli society by the IDF's counterterror operations in Judea and Samaria.

Armed with photographs which purposely present a distorted image of IDF operations, soldiers and Israeli civilians in Judea and Samaria, the group works to demonize and criminalize the IDF and so undermine Israel's right to defend itself against the Palestinian jihad. That is, it seeks to advance an aim which is diametrically opposed to the goals of      the ICC.

Ilan Benjamin, an Israeli chemistry professor at University of California at Santa Cruz, attended the UPZ-sponsored "Breaking the Silence" event on his campus. In a letter to the ICC Benjamin wrote, "the presentation was neither fair nor balanced, but was rather unabashedly anti-Israel." He continued, "There was almost no mention of why the Israeli army is inside Arab towns. [The program's speaker] dismissed the notion that security checkpoints prevent a large percentage of the suicide bombers… [S]tudents who attended the event did not get a crucial point of information necessary for a critical understanding of the conflict, namely, that Israel is in a state of war with a terrorist organization imbedded in civilian neighborhoods."

THE CONTRADICTION between the UPZ and "Breaking the Silence's" protestations of Zionism and the aim of their programming is so blatant that even the Israeli Consulate in Los Angeles weighed in on the issue. In a report to the Foreign Ministry published in Yediot Aharonot, Ehud Danoch, the consul-general warned: "The willingness of Jewish communities to host these organizations and even sponsor them is unfortunate. This is a phenomenon that must not be ignored."

But the ICC has decided to ignore the phenomenon. Last month, the Zionist Organization of America, which is also an ICC member, requested that the ICC's Steering Committee expel the UPZ on the grounds that through its sponsorship of "Breaking the Silence" it contravened the ICC's explicit mission of defending Israel.

The Steering Committee, which includes representatives of the American Jewish Committee, the Anti-Defamation League, AIPAC, Aish HaTorah, the Jewish National Fund, Hillel, the Jewish Council for Public Affairs, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, and the Shusterman Foundation, voted unanimously to reject ZOA's request. (Aish HaTorah later renounced its vote and joined ZOA in calling for UPZ's eviction from the Coalition.) In their decision, the member organizations argued that there is no "cause under the ICC's membership criteria to remove UPZ from the Coalition."

Although unjustifiable, the ICC's refusal to expel the UPZ is understandable. Obviously, it is hard to get beyond labels. The UPZ's self-definition as a Zionist group makes it even harder to attack than self-professed Jews who declare their anti-Zionism. This is the case despite the fact that the damage the actions of both groups cause to Israel's position in the world is more or less the same.

There is also UPZ's "progressiveness" to consider. Given that for four generations, American Jews tied their fortunes almost solely to the Left, expelling leftist groups from Jewish umbrella groups involves openly recognizing the painful fact that today the Left makes little place for the pro-Israel community in its ranks.

As Rosenfeld put it, "Because... the ideological package that informs progressive politics today links anti-Zionism to anti-capitalism, anti-imperialism, anti-globalization, anti-racism, etc., one is expected as a matter of course to be against Zionism." Or as he quotes political scientist Andrei Markovits, "If one is not at least a serious doubter of the legitimacy of the State of Israel… one runs the risk of being excluded from the entity called 'the left.'"

THE LEFT'S abandonment of Israel is compounded by the fact that the Palestinian jihad, which is rooted in a Palestinian rejection of the notion of coexisting with Israel, has rendered irrelevant the "progressive Zionist" goal of forcing Israel to withdraw its forces and citizens from Judea and Samaria in order to establish a Palestinian state in the areas, as well as in Gaza and eastern Jerusalem. Instead of accepting this paradigm-shattering truth, "progressive Zionists" have chosen the path of radicalization. Rather than calling on the Arabs to abandon jihad and accept Israel, they have turned to criminalizing Israel for defending itself from the jihadist forces bent on the wholesale slaughter of its citizens.

Like Israel, if American Jews are to have any chance of properly defending themselves, they must first openly identify the trends. As political loyalties and alliances shift, a small people like the Jews must be willing to distinguish friend from foe. This is true whether the friend or foe in question is an Arab or a Jew; a self-proclaimed progressive or a self-proclaimed conservative.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Power and Politics: Breaking Begin</title>
<date>6/3/2007</date>
<content>
This Friday marks the 15th anniversary of the death of Menachem Begin. He died of a broken heart on March 9, 1992, vilified as a warmonger by the Left and cast off by right-wing purists after he traded the Sinai Peninsula in exchange for a peace treaty with Egypt in 1979. The purists also berated Begin for his 1978 Camp David offer of five years of limited self-government to the Palestinian Arabs in Judea, Samaria and Gaza, to be followed by final-status negotiations between Israel and a Jordanian-Palestinian negotiating team - a proposal the Arabs rejected.

Begin would have been my hero even if he had never become prime minister, never ordered the destruction of Iraq's nuclear reactor, in June 1981, and never negotiated Israel's first peace treaty with an Arab neighbor.

I admired him for commanding the Irgun during the revolt against the British; and for navigating a course midway between the moderation of the Hagana and the militancy of the Stern group. Perhaps most of all, I respected his reaction to David Ben-Gurion's unforgivable order that the Hagana attack the Irgun arms-ship Altalena: Begin prevented the tragedy from deteriorating into a Jewish civil war.

After 1948, with the system stacked against him, Begin became leader of the loyal opposition. A principled ideologue and fiery orator, he campaigned forcefully in 1952 against Israeli acceptance of financial reparations from Germany - and lost. He had every reason to challenge the legitimacy of a political system in which the allocation of virtually all resources was monopolized by Mapai, but he didn't.

Granted, Begin was no saint. He didn't encourage opposition to his leadership inside Herut. But he was an honest politician, lived modestly and preserved the philosophy of Ze'ev Jabotinsky.

MOST OF THE world had never heard of Menachem Begin until May 1977, when he was elected as Israel's first non-Labor premier. But from that day until he resigned in September 1983, his spirit broken by IDF losses in the war in Lebanon and the 1982 death of his wife and life-long companion Aliza - and ultimately, I would argue, by an unparalleled five-year campaign spearheaded by Peace Now and its allies abroad to force his government to embrace dangerously accommodationist policies toward the Arabs - Begin wasn't given a moment's respite.

Never before had an Israeli premier been so beleaguered, so vilified, so undermined by an alliance of left-wing domestic opponents, the Jewish Diaspora establishment, an implacable White House led by Jimmy Carter and a spiteful international media.

His foes found him "too Jewish," and his idea of trading "peace for peace" a non-starter. Thomas L. Friedman, who reported for The New York Times, first from Beirut and then from Jerusalem during the Begin years, later thus encapsulated the left-wing attitude toward Begin: "What made Begin… dangerous was that his fantasies about power were combined with a self-perception of being a victim… Begin always reminded me of Bernhard Goetz, the white Manhattanite who shot four black youths he thought were about to mug him on the New York subway… [Begin] was Bernhard Goetz with an F-15."

Even mortal threats to Israel had to be belittled because the Left was determined that Israel withdraw from Judea, Samaria and Gaza, captured 10 years earlier in the Six Day War. Failure to do so, leftists convinced themselves, would obliterate the possibility of a rapprochement with the Arabs. No matter how blood-curdling Arab deeds were, the Left discerned intimations of Palestinian moderation which needed to be encouraged by substantive Israeli concessions.

For Begin, this was anathema. First off, he believed Jewish claims to the West Bank and Gaza were rock-solid - far superior to those of Palestinian Arab nationalists. To a media that wouldn't give him the time of day he sought to make the legal, historical and strategic case for calling the territories Jewish. And, anyway, he didn't think sacrificing the West Bank and Gaza would bring peace; he was convinced that the Arabs had not accepted the idea of a sovereign Jewish state anywhere in the land.

WHAT REALLY unified and outraged his opponents - at home and abroad - was Begin's heart-felt embrace of the settlement enterprise. By the time he took office, some 24 communities had been established under Labor governments, according to Lords of the Land by Idith Zertal and Akiva Eldar (though Gershom Gorenberg, in The Accidental Empire, claims there were nearly 80). Whatever the specifics, the first settlements included Kfar Etzion, Alon Shvut, Ma'aleh Adumim, Kiryat Arba, Elazar and Ofra. In fact, the first yishuv to be re-established after the Six Day War was in Gush Etzion, just south of Jerusalem, in September 1967.

For strategic reasons, as well as to solidify Israel's claim to the capital, Labor governments were eager to build in and around metropolitan Jerusalem and over the Green Line. But Labor only reluctantly allowed Gush Emunim's Orthodox settlers, who were inspired by a combination of theology, messianic zeal and nationalism, to build "non-strategic" settlements.

On May 19, 1977, just after his election, Begin (accompanied by Ariel Sharon) drove to Elon Moreh (Kaddum) outside Nablus. Here is the scene as described by Gorenberg:

"Begin, with a ring of thin black hair and heavy glasses that magnified his eyes, looked exhausted. His two bodyguards could not hold off the crowd. People kissed him, embraced him. Yeshiva students danced around him. After a brief tour, he stood in the square between the mobile homes and took the velvet-covered scroll in one arm, putting the other around Ariel Sharon's shoulder. Four men took the corners of [the] prayer shawl and held it over his head; a band prepared to play.

"Before the ceremony, Begin made a statement to the crowd. 'Soon,' he said, 'there will be many more Elon Morehs.'"

Begin was not going to "tolerate" settlements; he was going to make building them government policy. And this the US administration could not tolerate because it went against bedrock US policy: Israel would trade land for peace, and if there was no West Bank to trade - somewhere down the line when the Arabs would presumably be willing to take it - there would be no possibility of peace.

Nor would the Israeli Left tolerate settling the biblical Jewish heartland. It had a very different vision of Israel - a Western-oriented consumer society on the Mediterranean; the fewer Arabs, the better; the less traditional, the more cosmopolitan, the better.

For the Left it was inconceivable - simply beyond belief - that the Arab-Israel struggle would go on ad infinitum. As humanists, they couldn't abide the notion of an Israel ruling over hostile Arabs or settling land claimed by them. And, anyway, how were all these settlements going to be paid for, and at whose expense?

WHAT FOLLOWED was a scenario of political manipulation aimed at forcing Begin to change his policies or, better yet, returning the government to Labor. It was to be a multi-pronged effort: The White House would signal that the US-Israel relationship was jeopardized by Begin's election. The American Jewish leadership would radically "disassociate" its support for Israel from Begin's West Bank policies. And inside Israel, a campaign of street demonstrations and newspaper ads would create the impression that Begin's ideas were outside the mainstream.

The foreign press portrayed Begin as a former terrorist. Time magazine helpfully instructed its readers to pronounce Begin's name by rhyming it with the Dickens character Fagin. Newsweek labeled Begin a zealot and a fundamentalist.

Carter's White House immediately issued a "Notice to the Press" to set the "historical record" straight. Based on what we now know about Carter, his initial response to Begin's election is telling. You have to remember that in 1977 the Palestinian leadership wasn't even pretending to compromise. The possibility of cutting a West Bank deal with Jordan was still out there. No one was pushing a Palestinian state, and only the Arabs and the extreme Left embraced the "right of return."

But the White House engaged in a psychological campaign against Begin. If he had the hutzpa to claim that the West Bank was disputed, the White House would remind the world that Israel itself was disputed. And so it recalled: "UN General Assembly Resolution 181… [which] provided for the recognition of a Jewish and an Arab state in Palestine, and UN GA Resolution 194… [which] endorsed the [Palestinian Arab] right to return to their homes or choose compensation for lost property…"

I'll leave a fuller description of the appalling treatment Begin received at the hands of Carter, the prestige media, and much of the American Jewish leadership for another time. Suffice it to say that the president routinely pressured US Jewish leaders (who anyway were hankering for the good old Labor days) to lobby Begin to change his West Bank policies. The insinuation was that if all they did was echo the Likud platform, the community might be open to regrettable charges of dual loyalty.

IT TOOK about two months, but in July 1977 the shock of Begin's victory galvanized a group of IDF reservists, many of whose leaders happened to be associated with Jerusalem's Van Leer Foundation, to issue an open letter to the new prime minister calling on him to pull Israel back to - what amounted to - the 1949 Armistice Lines.

No thanks to Jimmy Carter, just six months after Begin came to power, in November 1977, Egyptian president Anwar Sadat accepted Begin's invitation to address the Knesset.

Peace Now took the Sadat visit as a call to arms. By January 1978, the group was pressing Begin for a more conciliatory Israeli negotiating approach.

On March 11, 1978, Fatah terrorists infiltrating by sea from Lebanon carried out what became known as the coastal road massacre. They murdered 35 Israelis and wounded another 100. Begin ordered Operation Litani to go after PLO strongholds in Fatah-controlled southern Lebanon.

None of this weakened Peace Now's resolve. By April 1, 1978, it was able to muster a rally of some 20,000 supporters in Tel Aviv. From then on, demonstrations - outside his office, home, and along the highway to the airport - would be coordinated every time Begin went to Washington to see Carter.

Peace Now took an increasingly confrontational approach to the settlement enterprise. Activists blocked roads to communities; one group marched on the Jewish enclave in Hebron. Yuval Neriya, one of Peace Now's founders, explained: "Our idea was to show the prime minister that he did not have the nation behind him when he refused to negotiate [with Sadat and Carter] over Judea and Samaria to get peace."

Tzali Reshef, another movement founder, reiterated that Peace Now opposed retention of the West Bank and Gaza; opposed the confiscation of West Bank land (whether private or not); and opposed "on moral grounds"… "colonization [which] would lead to apartheid."

Israel's resources, Reshef argued, should be invested inside the Green Line, not on settlements.

Meanwhile, in the Diaspora, in April 1978, Peace Now had captured the imagination of 37 famous American Jews, who signed a letter supporting the Israeli activists. They wanted the world to know that they too opposed a Jewish presence in the West Bank and Gaza, and urged Begin to show greater "flexibility" in negotiating with Sadat. The New York Times was instrumental in playing up the letter, putting the story on page one.

Signatories included the No. 2 man in the Reform movement, Albert Vorspan (No. 1 was Rabbi Alexander Schindler, chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations); political sociologist Seymour Martin Lipset; Ira Silverman of the American Jewish Committee; Saul Bellow, the Nobel Prize laureate; literary editor Leon Wieseltier; Rabbi Joachim Prinz, a former chair of the Presidents Conference; and professor Leonard Fein of Brandeis.

A LENGTHY and difficult negotiating process - complicated by Palestinian intransigence - between Cairo, Jerusalem and Washington finally culminated in the March 1979 Israel-Egypt peace treaty.

The signing of the treaty took some of the steam out of Peace Now, though it did manage a few big rallies. Behind the scenes, however, it was very much in operation. For instance, by 1981 activists Yuli Tamir and David Zucker broke new ground by meeting with Yasser Arafat's liaison to the Israeli peace camp, Issam Sartawi, in Austria.

But Peace Now didn't really take off again - and become the powerhouse it is today, openly funded by a host of foundations and foreign governments - until the outbreak of the June 1982 Lebanon War.

Operation Peace for Galilee, as that war was first called, was not a war of necessity, whatever its arguable merits. Janet Aviad, who had been a Peace Now leader, told me:

"There was an atmosphere in Israel that one does not dissent, especially during a war. We had to break those taboos, and it was our responsibility to do it. It was a very hard decision. Peace Now didn't go out during the first days of the war. It took three weeks to get people to realize that there was no choice."

The Left thus broke the taboo against holding anti-government rallies during wartime.

The media embraced the Peace Now complaint against Begin full-throttle. Leading the pack was The New York Times, which reported growing "dissent" within the US Jewish community. Meanwhile, its magazine fomented the "dissent" with, for instance, a cover story by Amos Oz entitled "Has Israel Altered its Vision?"

Nevertheless, the government managed to hold firm against extraordinary pressures until it expelled Arafat from Lebanon in September 1982.

AND THEN all hell broke loose. Israel's ally, the Phalangist leader Bashir Gemayel, was assassinated on September 14, 1982, in a massive explosion at his Beirut headquarters. In bloody retribution, on September 16-17, his Christian Arab militia massacred many hundreds of Palestinian Arabs in the refugee camps of Sabra and Shatilla.

No Israeli soldiers were involved, nor were any even aware of what was going on. Peace Now, however, argued that the slaughter could not have happened absent IDF "sponsorship" - after all, Israel was in military control of the area. Of course, this begged the question of why Israeli "military control" hadn't saved Gemayel from assassination in the first place.

But it was Peace Now's big moment. It organized a gigantic Saturday-night rally on September 25, 1982, in Tel Aviv, which drew over 250,000 anguished Israelis. Begin's Lebanon policies were in shambles.

Peace Now harassed Begin without letup. Protesters stood outside his windows with signs calling him a killer; others hoisted the tally of IDF soldiers killed in action. Then, on February 11, 1983, as Peace Now was holding yet another march through a hostile Jerusalem heading for the government compound near the Knesset, where Begin's dispirited cabinet was meeting to agonize over the Kahan Commission report, tragedy struck again.

As the rally was breaking up, a troubled man, a right-winger named Yona Avrushmi, lobbed a grenade; it killed 33-year-old Emil Grunzweig, a Van Leer Foundation staffer. In denouncing the killing, Begin was grief-stricken: "God forbid that we should go the way of heinous violence," he mourned. "God forbid."

Begin would hold on just seven months longer.

LOOKING BACK all these years later, neither Begin nor Peace Now got the Israel they wanted. In the very year Emil Grunzweig was killed, and despite all of Peace Now's marches, all the newspaper ads and all the foreign support, construction began on the northern Jerusalem neighborhood of Pisgat Ze'ev - over the Green Line. Renovation of the Jewish Quarter in Jerusalem's Old City was also completed.

Peace Now was never able to mainstream its contention that Israelis could live securely within the - more or less - 1949 armistice lines, or that the Palestinians had genuinely accepted the idea of Jewish sovereignty within a truncated Israel.

Begin, for his part, was never able to sell Israelis - especially the non-Orthodox majority - on the idea that the settlement enterprise was a practical answer to Israel's West Bank dilemma.

We'll never know how things would have played out had Begin's strategy of marginalizing the PLO's intransigent external leadership not been undermined.

What if Begin's idea for genuine Palestinian autonomy, tantamount to nation-building, had been widely embraced by Israel's Left and the international community? What if autonomy had been nurtured by the resources the US and EU subsequently channeled into the Palestinian Authority? Wouldn't West Bankers and Gazans have been better off? With a political infrastructure and a history of competent self-government, wouldn't Palestinian demands for statehood today be more viable?

Begin was never given a chance, so we'll never know.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Pray for success, because Israel will pay the price of Annapolis failure</title>
<date>3/12/2007</date>
<content>
The Annapolis process is on its way. This week the permanent status negotiations will formally commence. On December 17 the international community will be convening in Paris to launch the second pillar of the process by committing hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuilding the Palestinian economy and supporting Palestinian institution development. Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian Prime Minister Salaam Fayed together with Israeli and Palestinian security officials are already deeply engaged in beginning to implement the Palestinian obligations of the Road Map. The Israeli side will also have to begin to implement its obligations, firstly removing unauthorized outposts and redeploying outside of the Palestinian areas.

Retired Marine Gen. James Jones has been given his marching orders, and he too, is on the way.

Everyone is skeptical regarding the possibility of success. Israelis and Palestinians are equally doubtful that reaching an agreement is possible and even more suspicious that implementing what is agreed upon and what the parties have already agreed to do in the past will be implemented.

The level of trust between the sides remains below the zero point despite the positive dynamics that have developed between the two leaders. This is completely reasonable - objectively there is absolutely no reason why Israelis and Palestinians should trust each other.

While considering the questionable ability of the sides to get to peace, it is worthwhile to consider the possible and perhaps likely repercussions of failure.

In particular of interest to me is what failure would mean for Israel. There is no way of fully knowing in advance what the future holds, however; it is possible to see current trends and to project forward on that basis.

Today the international community wants the Annapolis process to succeed. Responsibility for failure of the process is likely to be placed on the shoulders of Israel. The international community does not see any symmetry in the Israeli-Palestinian relationship. There is an occupied and an occupier, there is a strong party with a state, a growing economy and a powerful army - and on the other side there is a non-state entity, with growing poverty, a lack of hope and, as a result, religious extremism.

There is already a growing international movement calling for boycott, divestment and sanctions against Israel - even now as Israel is engaged in a peace process. It is a small movement lead by the same coalitions that are against globalization and against the war in Iraq. Even though this global movement is presently small and perhaps insignificant, it is being advanced by a tight net of small organizations of activists, many of whom were behind the successful campaign against apartheid. Failure of the Annapolis process is the fuel that these people and organizations are waiting for.

Israel is already investing considerable energy and resources to counter these anti-Israeli trends, particularly in Europe.

THE POLITICAL basis of the anti-Israeli campaigns is support for the so-called one state solution. The use of the word "apartheid" and "apartheid wall" is intentional. The desired outcome is a cognitive and psychological association to be drawn between present day Israel and apartheid South Africa.

The "one-state solution" is translated in their political discourse into "democracy: one person, one vote." Behind this platform is also the total rejection of Israel being defined as the state of the Jewish people.

Parenthetically, I will say that Israel fell into their trap by demanding as a pre-condition to the Annapolis meeting, Palestinian recognition of Israel as a Jewish state. The Palestinian replied by saying "we recognize Israel as a sovereign state, you define your identity. Don't make us define your identity."

Israel did not demand from Jordan or Egypt to recognize the Jewishness of Israel, nor does Israel demand this from any other state. Why do we demand from the Palestinians to define our identity, our identity as a state and as a people is an Israeli question, not a Palestinian one.

A failure of the peace process will lead to a sharp decline of international support for the two-state solution. The current perception that a Palestinian state next to Israel is still viable will diminish sharply. The settlers and their settlement movement will be victorious in putting a final end to the possibility of Palestinian statehood. The crown of their victory will be the demise of the viability of Israel as a Jewish state as well.

Yes, they will control the land of Israel in whatever borders the government of Israel decides unilaterally to control. But their victory will lead to the end of the Zionist enterprise. Israel may try all kinds of patents like "convergence" or other forms of unilateralism, but this will not relieve Israel of its responsibilities under international law for the welfare of the Palestinians living between the Jordan River and the sea. The Israeli "dream" that we can deliver Gaza to the Egyptians and the Palestinians in the West Bank to Jordan has no contact with the political realities of the Middle East.

Without peace with the Palestinians, Israel will be trapped by its own expansionist ideologies and practices with millions of Palestinians within its borders, and like it or not, agree with it or not, the world will perceive Israel as the new apartheid. Once the international community comes to the conclusion that the failure of the peace process automatically implies, that the two state solution is no longer possible, the only option remaining will be the one state solution.

Israel will reject this conclusion. Israel will not automatically agree to commit national suicide as a Jewish state. But the impact of an international movement of solidarity with the Palestinian people and against "apartheid" Israel will have its toll.

Israel will be isolated in international forums. Not only Israeli academics will be boycotted by universities around the world; Israeli companies will be "un-welcome" at international trade fairs.

Israeli civilian aircraft will be denied entry to airports around the world. Israeli products will be removed from the shelves of stores around the world. Israeli tourists may be denied visas and entry to more and more countries. Already IDF officers have the threat of being arrested for war crimes in various countries, including the UK. Imagine the impact of this trend growing around the world.

THERE IS of course no way of proving the accuracy of these projections. Only time will hold the answer. It is clear though, that the above scenario is completely possible. It is not beyond the limits of our imagination and the limits of international realities. We must all seriously consider each and everyone one of us, what failure to make peace will mean and how that failure will impact on my own life. There are those among us who fear peace, there should be more among us who should fear the failure to make peace.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: Coming home from the land of miracles</title>
<date>11/4/2007</date>
<content>
I was watching my seven-year-old boy and some black kids chasing each other around a jumping castle at a family restaurant in Johannesburg, a sight that could not have been seen a generation ago. After the joy of it passed, I got a little wistful. What were the chances, I thought, of my son running around a jumping castle with a bunch of Arab kids in Israel - and so freely, so unselfconsciously, with their Jewish and Arab parents sitting around hardly paying attention, treating it just as normal Israeli kid behavior?
I don't know of a restaurant, or park, or any public place in this country where that could happen.

The way I saw blacks and whites mingling easily during my vacation in South Africa - or at least middle-class blacks and whites - was something I don't think I'll ever see between Jews and Arabs over here. Frankly, I wouldn't bet that my seven-year-old son will ever see it, either.

And maybe the worst part is that I don't think most Israeli Jews and Israeli Arabs are bothered by this. Some definitely are, but most Jews and Arabs here do not want to mix with the "other kind," unless it's to sell them something. The Arabs would like equality, of course, but otherwise the majority of them seem as agreeable to the separatist, segregationist, mutually hostile Israeli status quo as a majority of Jews are.

MY WIFE is from South Africa, and I've been there several times since my first visit a few months after Nelson Mandela was released from prison in 1990, which spelled the beginning of the end of apartheid. Over the years, I saw Johannesburg shopping malls fill with black and white customers being served by black and white clerks, everyone sauntering around each other, standing in line together, smiling politely, without a hint of tension in the air. It was like apartheid had never existed.

Once I ran into a Jewish school principal I'd met and mentioned this to him, adding that I couldn't imagine it happening between Jews and Arabs in Israel, and he nodded in agreement. "There just isn't the kind of hatred here that you have in Israel," he explained.

On this last trip I was told - first by a Jewish friend of the family and then by a black tour guide - that it was South Africa's blacks, not the whites, who deserved credit for dissolving the hatred because they were the ones who had to forgive.

Arabs and Jews, at least in Israel, I think we can agree, are not the forgiving kind.

But then I don't think too many South Africans, black, white or other, believed a generation ago that people of all races - or, again, at least middle-class people of all races - would one day live together in their country like they do today.

Especially in the Cape region, we saw blacks, whites, Indians and "coloreds" eating, shopping, working and traveling side by side. We saw mixed couples, mixed families, mixed groups of friends, and people seemed to take it for granted.

I DON'T MEAN to paint a picture of a wall-to-wall utopia; everyone knows South Africa has horrific problems with AIDS, crime and poverty. All the beautiful houses are walled and electronically fenced; on the lush, green, residential streets, signs warn of "armed response."

In Johannesburg, white people, for the most part, only walk outdoors to get in or out of their cars, while the only people seen on the streets of their neighborhoods are their black gardeners and maids.

Downtown Jo'burg, which has filled up with refugees from Zimbabwe, Congo, Nigeria and other African "failed states," looks like scorched earth, a trash-heaped, predatory no-go zone. In the countryside are tin shantytowns that look like sprawling junkyards.

But since the African National Congress took over in 1994, the government has built 2 million sturdy homes for poor blacks and "coloreds," and says it will build 2.5 million more. Thirteen years after the end of white rule, there is a large South African middle-class of blacks and other non-whites, millions of them, and a still larger second generation is coming of age. With a population that's 80% black, the average yearly income is over $12,000, and rising.

DESPITE A massive underclass and the awful violence and disease that comes with it, South Africa is more than a success story - it's a fairy-tale come true, a miracle. In 13 years that nation has achieved so much more than any level-headed observer could have predicted, while disproving all the doom-sayers, including the Israeli officials who warned South African Jews to hurry up and make aliya before the blacks took revenge and chased them out of their swimming pools.

On this last vacation, I could see the insecurity in Johannesburg's Jewish neighborhoods from the rows of street lamps pasted with handbills for tours to Israel and an upcoming Matisyahu concert.

But the encounter that inspired me most was not with the generous-hearted blacks or self-confident Jews we came across, but with the team of 15-year-old Afrikaner rugby players from Pretoria we saw at Cape Town's Table Mountain. These kids belong to South Africa's supposedly "defeated" race, yet they seemed anything but defeated - they were laughing and carrying on with each other in Afrikaans, and going up to all the tourists they passed and asking them in English where they were from, how they liked South Africa, etc.

I didn't talk politics with them, only rugby and American football. I don't know what they think of the ANC, or President Thabo Mbeki, or blacks in general. But they seemed completely at home, and happy to be there. They weren't "circling the wagons," they were venturing out. They were curious and unafraid of people different from themselves. They were young, these Afrikaner boys from Pretoria, just like their country.

MYSELF, I've always felt at home in Israel. But it doesn't inspire me like South Africa does, certainly not lately. This country has become more and more inward-looking, suspicious and closed. Its spirit has been growing old.

I'd like to say that if South Africa can do it, so can we. But the sad truth is that most Jews and Arabs in Israel really do not want to live together. They much prefer living apart. I don't know if there's an Afrikaans word that describes this social arrangement to the letter, but I do know of one that captures its spirit.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling The Cage: Shalom, Myanmar</title>
<date>2/10/2007</date>
<content>
It could be that the Myanmar troops who've been shooting demonstrators to death were using Uzi submachine guns that Israeli arms dealers sold to the country's military dictatorship. According to Jane's Intelligence Weekly, Israeli "security companies" are believed to have sold Uzis and parts from Galil assault rifles to the junta. Israeli mercenaries are also said to have trained Myanmar's infamously repressive police force.

"Given its sensitive nature, it is difficult to see how this assistance could be given to Myanmar without the active involvement, or at least the full knowledge and support, of the Israeli government," reported Jane's in 2000. Myanmar, formerly Burma, has been one of the world's worst police states since 1988.

Jane's continued: "Israel's repeated denial of any military links with Myanmar are not unexpected. Israel has never liked advertising such ties, particularly with countries like Myanmar, [apartheid-era] South Africa and China, which have been condemned by the international community for gross abuses of human rights."

To the list of military clients Israel never liked advertising, you can add the dictatorships that once ruled Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Nicaragua and other Latin American countries, as well as past and/or present military dictatorships in Congo, Angola, Sierra Leone and other African nations.

The sadistic Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega owed his life, and his power, to Mike Harari, the ex-Mossad agent who led the team of mercenaries that was Noriega's palace guard. The Israeli arch-mercenary Yair Klein and his boys trained Colombia's right-wing death squads, drug cartels and whoever else would meet his price. When the apartheid regime of South Africa was having problems with black demonstrators, Israeli "security companies" sold the white rulers electrified fences and gravel-spraying trucks.

THIS IS a partial list. Israel, tiny as it is, sells 10%-12% of the world's arms. Who really knows where it all ends up? And as long as it doesn't reach Muslim hands, who in this country, besides of course the bleeding hearts and traitors, really cares?

There was a time, in the '50s and '60s, when Israel was something of an inspiration to the non-Arab states of the post-colonial Third World, when it was seen as this little socialist country with few natural resources that had learned how to farm the desert. In Africa, Israel's best-known shlichim,  or emissaries, were kibbutz agricultural advisers.

But then came the Six Day War, and the Yom Kippur War, and the hardening of the Israeli-Arab conflict, and Israel's abandonment of its socialist, agrarian ideals in favor of becoming a little Jewish Texas, and this country's best-known emissaries in Africa became mercenaries and arms merchants.

These are the chief shlichim we've sent to Myanmar, too.

WHAT'S OUR excuse? Self-defense? Are those Buddhist monks trying to kill Jews? Were the blacks in South Africa blowing up synagogues? Were the farmers, teachers, unionists and journalists killed by Israel's friends in Latin America a threat to our national security? How do we justify strengthening these monsters? We justify this by saying "everybody does it."

And, of course, this is true. French energy companies are much, much more crucial to the Myanmar junta's survival than Israeli defense contractors. Apartheid South Africa did a lot more business with the US and Europe than it ever did with Israel. Third World dictatorships are magnets for mercenaries and arms dealers throughout the world; ex-IDF and ex-Mossad men have a very small piece of the pie (although, with only 1 out of 1,000 people in the world being Israeli, it's a disproportionately large piece).

I don't think Israel is unique or even unusual when it comes to war profiteering and propping up dictators, mass murderers, mass torturers and the like. It's an ugly world we live in. My point is that Israel is part of the ugliness. If we're no worse than the rest of the world, we're not better, either. We also help out evildoers, real bad ones, when it's in our interest.

But we don't admit this, we pretend not to know it, we wash it out of our minds. And from this phony pretext of moral superiority, we condemn Russia and China and Europe for doing business with Iran, for selling arms to Syria, to Saddam's Iraq, to any Arab or Muslim dictator aligned against us.

WHO ARE we kidding? If these dictatorships weren't our enemies but somebody else's, we'd do business with them, too, we'd sell them arms, too, we'd train their secret police, too. Israel has been doing this sort of thing for decades, only with dictators who are somebody else's enemies. We can't really get all huffy when the shoe happens to be on the other foot.

There are no moral principles in the war business, only interests. This is called realpolitik. Israel does its war business according to realpolitik rules, then insists that the rest of the world do business according to moral principles. This is called a double standard.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Reason, for the time being, prevails out of Africa</title>
<date>6/8/2007</date>
<content>
What country in the world boasts the highest rate of support for Israel? The United States? Wrong. The highest rate of support for Israel can be found in the Ivory Coast, where 61 percent support Israel and only 16 percent support the Palestinians.

The same ratio is true where support for Hamas is concerned: Only 2% have a favorable opinion of Hamas and 37% have a "very negative" opinion of this organization.

This surprising finding is part of a global opinion survey conducted this year by the PEW Research Center, which included tens of thousands of participants in 47 countries. And Ivory Coast is not the only African country to demonstrate a high rate of support for Israel: In Ethiopia, which is half Muslim, the rate is 37%, as opposed to 25% who support the Palestinians. Similar rates can be found in Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Even the Muslim country of Mali has a perceptible support rate for Israel - 13% - higher than in Spain and Italy.

None of the African countries polled, with the exception of Mali, demonstrated opposition to Israel of the kind we find in Britain, where 29% support the Palestinians, as opposed to only 16% percent who support Israel.

The opposition to Hamas in the African countries polled is even higher. The exception to this rule is Egypt, in which the opposition to Israel is all-embracing and support for Hamas especially high.

SUPPORT FOR Israel in African countries is exceptionally striking in view of the fact that the global anti-Israel campaign consistently presents Israel as an "apartheid," colonialist and racist country. Despite this, and in marked contrast to Britain, where this propaganda has taken on fascist proportions, African countries support Israel more than they do the Palestinians.

What is the reason for this?

In absence of a scientific study, we can only guess that support for Israel likely has a number of sources: the memory of the Arab slave trade (to this day, the Arabic word for "black African" is the same as the word for "slave"); the threat of Muslim expansion; the genocide perpetrated by Sudanese Arabs in Darfur; the asylum Saudi Arabia provided to murderer Idi Amin, and the absorption of Ethiopian Jews in Israel (which may explain the results of the survey in Ethiopia).

However, there may be a secondary reason: Israel's own anti-Zionist propaganda squads are not active in Africa: There could be a hidden connection between this activity and the level of hatred for Israel in other places.

AS A CASE in point, take Britain's Oxford University. The following activities were held there in the past school year: "Israel's wars in Gaza and Lebanon," with Avi Shlaim and Shachar Nativ; "The ethnic cleansing of Palestine," with Ilan Pappe; "Israeli apartheid week," with Avi Shlaim and Jemal Zehalka; screening of the film Route 181 by Eyal Sivan (the screening of which was canceled by the government of France because of French Jewish community claims that it was anti-Semitic); "Ethnic terror as a crime against humanity: The case of Palestine" - Lecturer: Ilan Pappe.

The list of one-sided, hate-filled, anti-Israel lectures goes on and on - all with the eager participation of Israelis or former Israelis.

These propaganda squads have not yet visited countries in Africa; they have not yet spewed their venom there. But it's never too late.

Come on, professors; come on, directors; come on, signers of the pro-Iranian petition at Tel Aviv University. Come on, post-Zionists and post-sociologists, come on, members of the editorial board of Theory and Criticism - come on over to Africa. I'm sure if you put your minds to it, you can produce the exact same results you achieved in Britain's universities.

The writer, former president of the Interdisciplinary Center - Herzliya, has been minister of education and a member of the Knesset.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rethinking the core issues</title>
<date>15/10/2007</date>
<content>
US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is shuttling between Jerusalem and Ramallah to help Israeli and Palestinian negotiating teams craft a joint declaration for the upcoming Annapolis summit that addresses the "core issues," particularly, - refugees - known as the Palestinian "right of return" - final borders, and Jerusalem. Palestinian and Israeli positions are significant as the joint statement will serve as a key point of reference in ongoing final status negotiations between the sides. PA Chairman Mahmoud Abbas's opening demand is for a complete Israeli withdrawal to the 1949 Armistice lines including in Jerusalem. Abbas even quantified his demand; each one of the 6,250 kilometers comprising the West Bank and Gaza.

Israel's focus has been elsewhere. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni have expended the best of their political and diplomatic capital battling the so-called Palestinian "right of return" to Israel. Olmert has worked endlessly over the past year to convince Abbas to concede on the issue. He also singled out the "right of return" as the deal-breaker in the Saudi peace initiative. Livni's diplomacy has positioned the "right of return" as the single major threat to Israel's future as a Jewish and democratic state.

OLMERT AND Livni are correct in principle. A return of millions of Palestinian refugees would indeed uproot Israel's Jewish character. However, the issue is a "non-starter" politically and diplomatically. There is "wall-to-wall" agreement in Israel rejecting the "right of return" to Israel. There is also broad international opposition to the flooding of Israel with Palestinian refugees.

US President George W Bush's April 14, 2004 letter of assurances to former prime minister Ariel Sharon diplomatically neutralized the Palestinian demand. The Bush letter, affirmed overwhelmingly by both Houses of Congress, assigned a future Palestinian state, not Israel, as the address for the return of Palestinian refugees. European leaders and senior Quartet officials, Javier Solana, Miguel Moratinos and Tony Blair also support a return of Palestinian refugees only to a Palestinian State based on the same principle.

There are even recent indications that Jordan has offered to play a role to solve the Palestinian refugee problem. According to a report in the London-based Al-Quds al-Arabi Jordan's King Abdullah II has offered Jordanian citizenship to 95,000 east Jerusalem Palestinians. Moreover, Jordan already considers 1948 Palestinian refugees living in Jordan to be Jordanians, while senior Jordanian officials have indicated publicly over the past two years that Jordan may offer citizenship to Palestinians refugees from 1967 as well.

ISRAEL IS therefore mistaken to waste most of its diplomatic energy "killing" the Palestinian "right of return," when there is no danger that Israel will be forced to absorb millions of Arab refugees. Diplomatically, Israel has already won that battle.

But on two other "core issues," borders and Jerusalem, that are no less critical to Israel's future as a Jewish and democratic state, and are today in great peril, Israel has a bloody diplomatic fight ahead.

Senior Palestinian sources close to Abbas told this writer that Abbas' opening demand is essentially his "red line." Abbas can not and will not accept less than a full Israeli retreat to the pre-1967 borders, including in Jerusalem, notwithstanding minor swaps.

This creates a quandary for Israel. The country's minimal physical security is dependent on the long-standing policy of defensible borders. This requires the Israel's retention of some areas in the strategically vital West Bank whose hilltops overlook greater Tel Aviv and can be easily exploited by Palestinian terrorists who could easily launch rocket and mortar attacks against Israel's main population centers, roads, and national infrastructure, including Ben-Gurion Airport. And Israel's international legal rights to defensible borders are already deeply rooted in UN Security Council Resolution 242, that was approved unanimously in November, 1967.

THE PHYSICAL threat is not merely theoretical; Israel's strategic vulnerabilities on the eve of the 1967 Six Day War resulted in the bombing of Jerusalem in which more than 1,000 Israelis were wounded and hundreds of buildings were destroyed. The mortar rockets fired then by the Jordanians are the same ones the Palestinians are firing today at Sderot.

Since the 1967 war, the Israeli imperative of being protected by defensible borders especially the entire Jordan Rift Valley, and the areas around Jerusalem has guided the security thinking of Israeli prime ministers from Golda Meir and Yitzhak Rabin, to Binyamin Netanyahu and Ariel Sharon.

In fact, George W. Bush's April 14, 2004 presidential letter commitment to Sharon, given as a quid pro quo for Israel's quitting Gaza, not only assured Israel on the Palestinian refugee issue mentioned above, but also guaranteed Israel US support for defensible borders. The unprecedented US letter commitment, that Olmert himself is now insisting be included in the current joint declaration guidelines, assured "defensible borders" to Israel in addition to US support for Israel remaining in major population centers east of the 1949 armistice lines based on "current demographic realities."

ISRAEL MUST therefore insist on its rightful and well-established claims backed by international law and US diplomatic assurances to demand defensible borders opposite Palestinian demands for a full Israeli withdrawal to the 1949 Armistice lines.

Jerusalem, a third "core issue" of the Palestinian Israeli Joint declaration, has the most far reaching implications for Israel's future as a Jewish state. At the heart of the struggle over the future of Israel's capital is the Palestinian demand to replace Israel as the sovereign authority over the Temple Mount and most of the ancient old city.

The battle for Jerusalem is not over the city's Israeli-Palestinian demographic challenges as Vice Premier Haim Ramon and Minister Avigdor Lieberman have argued recently in saying "What does Israel need to look for in (the Arab neighborhood of) Shuafat? Control of east Jerusalem's Arab neighborhoods alone are a "non starter" for the Palestinians. They will settle for nothing less than all of east Jerusalem including the Old City, as was clarified recently by Abbas' Advisor on Jerusalem Adnan Husseini, who also served as director of the Temple Mount's Islamic Wakf.

Palestinian sovereignty over Jerusalem's Muslim and Christian holy sites would, in the Palestinian view, make them a major player in Arab Muslim geo-politics placing them on an equal footing with the Saudis as the custodians of Mecca and Medina, and the Iraqis as the custodians of Karbala and Najaf.

FOR ISRAEL, redividing Jerusalem and conceding Jewish sovereignty over its old city and Temple Mount would endanger the city. Only since Jerusalem's unification in 1967, have Jewish, Christian, and Muslim shrines been equally protected by Israeli security forces. Only Israeli security control guarantees free and safe access. Israel has enormous responsibility to the international community to continue to secure that freedom.

Palestinian and especially Hamas control would likely end secure and free religious access for Jews and Christians, while Palestinian rockets fired from PA controlled neighborhoods would threaten the entire city. Palestinian destruction of Joseph's tomb in Nablus and past attacks against Jericho's ancient synagogue and mother Rachel's tomb in Bethlehem indicate future dangers to Jewish worshipers at the Western Wall. Stones that rained down on Jews at the Western Wall during the Aksa terror war are a recent reminder, and the wholesale Arab desecration of Jerusalem synagogues between 1948 and 1967 still resonate.

Far reaching Israeli concessions in Jerusalem would also energize calls by Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and other radical Islamists for Israel's destruction as an illegitimate entity whose occupation desecrates Islam's third holiest shrine. This message already resonates in the Arab world. Abbas himself denied the existence of the Jewish Temple while the PA has worked to destroy its archeological remnants.

BEYOND THE security aspects, a re-division of Jerusalem, and concession of Israel's sovereignty over the Old City will, paradoxically, further undermine the entire legitimacy of the Jewish Zionist enterprise in the eyes of the international community. Deep Israeli concessions in Jerusalem would vindicate prominent voices in the West such as former US president Jimmy Carter who slam Israel as an occupying, apartheid state. It would also justify the widely expressed doubts cast in Europe, at the UN and other international bodies over Israel's very legitimacy.

For the past 15 years Israel has been on the diplomatic retreat. Territorial withdrawals in Judea and Samaria, a unilateral withdrawal from Gaza, Israeli willingness to concede the Golan Heights to Syria and the current offer to concede large parts of Jerusalem to the Palestinians have only served to remind the international community that Israel is profoundly unsure of its legal, national, and religious rights and even questions the justice of its national case and historical legacy.

Paradoxically, if Israel were now to collapse on the core issues of defensible borders and Jerusalem, it would further undermine Israeli national and Jewish self-confidence. It would also confirm the growing sense among the international community that the 3,000-year-old Jewish Zionist connection to Jerusalem and the land of Israel is, as the Palestinians insist, a stolen Palestinian Arab inheritance called "Palestine" whose holy capital "Al Quds" is finally being liberated and returned to its rightful owners.

The writer is director, Institute for Contemporary Affairs and Foreign Policy Analyst, Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 3: Right and Wrong</title>
<date>2/9/2007</date>
<content>
Right & wrong

Sir, - Finance Minister Ronnie Bar-On has announced that the contract of Yaron Zelekha, appointed to root out corruption, will not be renewed in October. Bar-On resigned as attorney-general in 1997 following allegations that certain officials had recommended his appointment in order to aid organized crime.
In disembarrassing himself of Zelekha, what message is Bar-On sending? ("Corruption-buster to fight for his job," August 31.)

GERRY MYERS
Beit Zayit

Sir, - I'm thrilled we have people like Yaron Zelekha around.
NAOMI KUBITSKY
Ganei Omer

Call him corrupt

Sir, - Re "Idaho senator resigns over sex sting in airport men's room' (September 2): The guy gets caught with his pants down, then pleads guilty, then says he is innocent. Go figure. Sounds like corruption to me, the disease of greedy politicians.

MICHAEL ISHOJ
Thornhill, Ontario

Pain for the righteous

Sir, - In addition to Stewart Weiss's very proper critique of Ovadia Yosef's highly improper attribution of sin to fallen soldiers, we could mention biblical and talmudic statements that contradict the cruel concept of death in battle as punishment
for non-observance of mitzvot.

One such passage is: Skhar mitzva behai alma leka (the reward for good deeds in this world does not exist). Another is: Ein lanu mishalvat hareshaim umiyesurei hatzadikim - we do not know why the wicked are at peace and the righteous suffer pain.

Certainly the encomium of Kedoshim which we attach to our martyrs implies that when they fall for the sanctification of God's Name, they fall even though they are righteous. A biblical passage in connection with the deaths of Nadav and Avihu, the sons of Aaron who die in the very midst of serving in the initiation ceremonies of the Tabernacle in the desert, reads: "I am sanctified by those close to Me."

Are we to assume, according to Rabbi Yosef's theory, that the Ten Martyrs we pay tribute to on Yom Kippur during the Musaf service, and also on Tisha B'Av, were sinners?

("Rav Ovadia: Get to know our army," September 2.)

RABBI JACOB CHINITZ
Jerusalem

Sir, - Stewart Weiss's urging Ovadia Yosef to "Get to know our army" is appropriate not only for this rabbi but should apply to all rabbis involved in educating soldiers prior to their IDF service. I would like to see a law requiring such educators to have combat experience so they truly understand the conflict they create when they advise a soldier to disobey a lawful order. Only through a process of education of our rabbis in the reality of army life can we hope to narrow the gap between secular and religious in the IDF.

PAUL BERMAN
Shoham

Who's out of touch?

Sir, - Among the 90 or so Talkback comments that the online Jerusalem Post published as a response to "British Zionist Federation cancels Israeli reporter's talk over 'apartheid' comment" (September 2) there was hardly one in defense of Haaretz columnist Danny Rubinstein, who considers that "Today Israel is an apartheid state with different status for different communities."

Moshe Arens recently expressed it not very differently: "In a democratic state one cannot condone laws that discriminate between citizens on ethnic grounds. That was certainly not part of Herzl's vision of the Jewish state."

Could Prof. Arens also be "out of touch with reality"?

ZEEV RAPHAEL
Haifa

Sir, - So what's the big deal? It's the same here, in Quebec. English speakers are second-class citizens, and we live with it, or move.

HOWARD KIRSCH
Montreal

What about Israel's...

Sir, - After reading M. Perkins's letter sent from Collinsville, Illinois ("Hebrew land," Letters, August 31), I wonder if he, like me, can also pray to our Lord to enlighten Israel's political and military leadership in order to let the country live peacefully side by side with an independent Palestinian state within the rules of international law. If our Lord accepts our prayers, we will have Israel living in peace for the next centuries. Otherwise, there will be no Israel in some years from now.

MICHAEL KREUTZBERGER
Santiago de Chile

...inalienable right?

Sir, - Please, ask the UN secretary-general to organize an international Conference of the Inalienable Right of the Israeli Jewish State to be Recognized by all UN Members. This may add much respect to the status and behavior of the UN and the European Parliament ("European parliamentarians attack UN conference as propaganda that presents only the Palestinian narrative," September 2).

MICHAEL CHECINSKI
Haifa

Terrible history

Sir, - Re "This wasn't genocide" (Letters, September 2): While there are many legitimate doubts and questions regarding the genocide of Armenians during WWI, Shlomo Bar-Meir misrepresents the facts and ignores much of the history of that period.

He writes that Armenian soldiers deserted the army, but neglects to mention the mass execution of those who remained; he mentions attacks by Kurds, but not of the near-systematic abuse and murder of the Armenians by the Turks themselves, in the desert and in Armenian villages. He also ignores completely the murder of intellectuals and political leaders on April 24, 1915, widely considered a turning point in the history of the genocide.

It must also be noted that Turkey had a dark history of oppressing and massacring the Armenians, and that genocidal statements were made prior to WWI.

He correctly notes that many Armenian organizations were themselves guilty of criminal and immoral actions, but this is not relevant; after all, the same is true of the RPF in Rwanda, and few would deny the authenticity of that genocide.

A single letter cannot do justice to this terrible history, but I suggest Vahakhn Dadrian's History of the Armenian Genocide for further reference.

MEIR BROOKS
Haifa

Cute cartoon

Sir, - What a cute new strip! Even if the wife does not seem too happy about having her father-in-law in her home, my husband and I will sure enjoy him in ours. (Back2Basics, Matt Zalen, September 2).

NORMA KURAS
Petah Tikva

Inner conflict

Sir, - I've lived in Jerusalem for 15 years now, and never been hectored or even accosted by beggars ("Where beggars can be choosers," Letters, September 2). But I do often feel an inner turmoil when they plead their cases. Yes or no to give, and how much? Maybe they deserve their poverty - or my money; or maybe they have plenty?

It isn't the beggars who cause this unpleasantness, though - it's a fight between my stinginess and my saintliness. That can be upsetting; but why blame these people in need for our own moral weakness?

M.M. VAN ZUIDEN
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 4: Democrazy</title>
<date>4/9/2007</date>
<content>
Democrazy

Sir, - Your reader quotes Moshe Arens as saying: "In a democratic state one cannot condone laws that discriminate between citizens on ethnic grounds ("Who's out of touch?" Letters, September 3). Your August 30 headline "Abbas's new Jerusalem adviser wants to reopen Orient House along with other Palestinian institutions" is a case in point.

Surely any such discussion should be immediately preceded by implementing Jewish prayer on the Temple Mount, the holiest site of the Jewish people. (While not all rabbis agree with this, there is sufficient halachic precedent to make it permissible for many Jews.) The fact that such prayer is now forbidden by the government, and that the ban is enforced by Israeli police on the site, is a prime example of democracy gone awry.

SIMCHA RUDMAN
Jerusalem

Wrong ways to be pro-Israel...

Sir, - On my blog, Yidwithlid, I posted a response to "There's no single, correct way to be pro-Israel" (August 29) by Jeff Halper, head of the Israel Committee against House Demolitions (ICAHD), an Israel-based, anti-Israel NGO. Halper described an unpleasant airport encounter he had with Prof. Steinberg of NGO Monitor, and used it to point out that there is more than one correct way to be pro-Israel.

I pointed out that there are also wrong ways to be pro-Israel, and commented that Halper's version of events didn't sound like the Steinberg who spent a few Shabbosim at my shul. I also pointed out that Halper's article attacked Steinberg, but didn't answer any of the facts NGO Monitor had published about him or the ICAHD - things like partnerships with anti-Israel organizations, calling Israel an apartheid state, blaming Israel for the break up of Oslo, etc.

To my surprise, I received a return e-mail from Halper; and just as with Prof. Steinberg, he attacked me, but again did not refute any of the facts I had laid out.

SAMMY BENOIT
New York

Sir, - Jeff Halper mocks the accusation that he is a "Jewish anti-Semite." If anti-Semitism is not instigating baseless hatred of Jews among non-Jews, then I don't know what is.

A case in point: On the 40th anniversary of the Six Day War, Halper's group, the ICAHD, published two full-page ads in The New York Times and the UK Guardian (June 3 and 6), 2007, aimed at arousing the reader's animosity toward Israeli Jews. In the Times ad, emotive words such as "traumatic and devastating" described the effect of Israeli actions on the Palestinians, and a photo was printed of a lone Palestinian woman with uplifted hands confronting an Israeli bulldozer.

In the Guardian ad - appealing to many Brits predisposed to dislike Israel - the tone was even harsher. Beyond impassioned words such as "most cruel expression" and "horror" to characterize Israeli actions (the photo was of a Palestinian child amid the rubble of her demolished home), the ad also related "the Occupation's first killing," the apparent death of an elderly Palestinian woman whose home was destroyed on top of her - an accident which Halper must know happened during the chaos of the 1967 war.

JACOB MENDLOVIC
Toronto

...right ways to interpret reality

Sir, - In "Misinterpreting the Mideast" (August 31) Moshe Ya'alon wrote one of the best, most clear-minded opinion pieces I have seen in the mainstream media, one that can compete with the best on the Internet. It is worth repeating Ya'alon's main points, which should be considered a mantra for any sane politician living in today's world. (These points are rarely seen in print, showing how delusional other politicians tend to be):

The Mideast conflict is not territorial, but ideological. And ideology cannot be defeated by concessions.

Arabs use "occupation" to refer to all of Israel.

The Palestinian-Israeli conflict is not the most significant one today. It's the battle between jihadist Islam and the West, in which our conflict is merely one theater.

MLADEN ANDRIJASEVIC
Beersheba

Sir, - Mr. Ya'alon: Your insights and presentation were first-class. May you continue with your voice of reason.

ALAN J. BAUER 
Jerusalem

Names, please

Sir, - Rabbi Eric Yoffie, president of the Union for Reform Judaism, has apparently fallen into the CNN-Christiane Amanpour trap of believing that Jewish extremists pose as much danger to the world as Muslim extremists ("At American Muslim meeting, Reform leader urges joint fight against extremism in both faiths," September 2).

It would be helpful to know which Jewish extremists the rabbi considers as dangerous to the world as the Muslim extremists. His naming names would dispel the impression that he is merely making blanket statements to ingratiate himself to his Muslim audience.

MILTON H. POLIN 
Jerusalem

No lullabies in Sderot

Sir, - A Kassam rocket fell in Sderot yesterday afternoon, near a day care center. Thank God the babies were not physically hurt, but they were traumatized and in shock. The prime minister has an opportunity to make his concern for the people of the town crystal-clear by moving there immediately with members of his family, and declaring that from now on his cabinet will meet only in Sderot ("Sderot kids to stay away from schools following morning's rocket salvo," Online Edition, September 3).

TOBY WILLIG
Jerusalem

Insulting charge

Sir, - Larry Derfner's charge that HonestReporting and other "Israel advocates" want no criticism of Israel whatsoever insults the intelligence of our 150,000 subscribers. Why does Derfner label anyone who defends Israel against a hostile media as being part of the "Jewish Right"?

Our readership spans the full political and religious spectrum. Irrespective of one's opinions on settlements and issues that do not command a consensus view, our readers are united in the belief that Israel should be judged by the same standards as any other country, free from the constant demonization to which she is subjected.

Derfner contradicts himself by acknowledging the main thing CNN didn't make clear: that in Israel, unlike in the Muslim world, religious terrorists are the exception rather than the rule. Why shouldn't Israel advocacy organizations flag CNN on this?

Derfner's attack echoes the flawed pseudo-academia of Walt and Mearsheimer, who claim their voices are being silenced by an "Israel Lobby" while branding anyone who speaks up for Israel intolerant and an enemy of open debate.

On the contrary, while Israel is certainly not infallible, the efforts of our subscribers and other Israel advocates ensure that media outlets' letters pages and comment boxes are not the sole domain of the anti-Israel brigade ("2.5 Cheers for CNN," August 30) .

SIMON PLOSKER
HonestReporting
Jerusalem

All hail

Sir, - I am doing some research for the International Journal of Meteorology into the severe hailstorm that hit Jerusalem on May 16-17 this year. I would be most interested to hear from any reader who has memories of this storm, and am particularly interested in color photocopies of hailstones or damage. Please write to 112 High St., Macclesfield, SK11 7QQ, UK; or email richmuirhead@tiscali.co.uk

RICHARD MUIRHEAD
Macclesfield, UK

Against the tide

Sir, - Shmuley Boteach does "not know of a single important female voice decrying the tsunami of porn and the denigration of women in our time" and is "astonished at the deafening silence" ("Why women dress skimpily in the cold," September 2). Author Wendy Shalit has recently published a bestseller, Girls Gone Mild, which not only decries the degeneration of social norms today but offers alternative role models of young women who, as described in the book's subtitle, "Reclaim Self-Respect and Find It's Not Bad to be Good." Although she herself is a young, Orthodox mother, she promotes modesty as a virtue that need not necessarily be religiously based.

Take a look at the book's Web site (www.girlsgonemild.com) and you'll hear the voices of young women who are empowered, dress and act modestly, uphold virtue as a virtue and swim against the tide of porn... in old-fashioned, one-piece bathing suits.

SHIRA LEIBOWITZ SCHMIDT 
Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 9: Suicidal tendencies</title>
<date>8/9/2007</date>
<content>
Losing out...

Sir, - In "Don't reject Christian friendship" (September 4), Malcolm Hedding, executive director of the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem, accused me of prejudice and applied the analogy of apartheid to my defense of the Jewish heritage.

His indictment is untenable. That I maintain the Jewish right, as well as the right of all religions, to function as independent faith communities, with distinct traditions and theology, would surely not fall into the category of racism.

I can't recall whether Mr. Hedding and I have ever met, but he feels he knows me well enough to state: "For her, there can be no such thing as Jewish-Christian friendship, solidarity and collaboration... I note that while Ms. Horowitz is very strident in her claims, she has never come in to see us. Isolation is always a good breeding ground for prejudice."

I can assure Mr. Hedding that many of my reservations regarding Judeo-Christian trends, and calls for a Messianic Jewish restoration, are based on personal observation through my direct involvement with    the Christian evangelical community.

I was featured in a widely promoted and televised documentary with Donna Holbrook, Canadian director of ICEJ, Mr. Hedding's organization. I've worked at ICEJ's Feast of the Tabernacles, have lectured to and engaged in business dealings with the evangelical community, and have welcomed groups of Christian tourists to my moshav in the Golan Heights. I have also consulted with and collaborated with Christian friends on my articles covering these very issues.

I did not accuse Christians of robbing the Jewish people of their birthright, but I did suggest that my own people have lost a part of themselves - sold their birthright, so to speak - in an attempt to relieve themselves of their universal  role and responsibilities to       all of mankind.

I certainly won't reject Christian friendship, as long as our relationship is built with an understanding and respect for differences rather than an insistence on seeking out common theological denominators.

ELLEN W. HOROWITZ
Golan Heights

...count me in

Sir, - Malcolm Hedding's response to Ellen Horowitz's anti-Christian diatribe was elegantly and powerfully written, and extremely welcome. As someone who has been closely involved with these self-professed Christian Friends of Israel for many years now, and having come to know something of this community not only professionally but also in a very close and personal way, I found Ms. Horowitz's article narrow-minded, inappropriate and embarrassing.

I have been deeply moved by the willingness of the very great majority in this Christian world to confront past anti-Jewish ugliness, to acknowledge Jewish suffering and dreadful historical memories and, with great courage, to reach out to us  and hopefully try to build a better future.

I am quite sure that my devotion and dedication to Judaism and to the survival of the Jewish people are as profound as anything claimed by Ms Horowitz. But I am grateful that I am not so rigidly shackled by the past as to be unwilling or unable to work for a better relationship with this Christian world, in particular one so utterly committed to Israel.

In spite of all the great differences between us, I for  one gladly accept this outstretched hand.

FREDA KEET
Jerusalem

Suicidal tendencies

Sir, - Jonny Paul did a good job of explaining the absurdity of the New Statesman's latest Israel-bashing effort ("British magazine compares IDF youth programs to Islamic Jihad 'summer camps,'" (September 5). But debate over the article, while exposing the British far Left's growing madness on this issue, leaves out an important, very revealing point.

The New Statesman article ignored the rather significant detail that British Muslims training in Yemen, Pakistan or Afghanistan in radical Islamist camps might well attack within Britain. Many such terrorist operations have been launched.

The fact that a leading British journal, in its passion for demonizing Israel, doesn't even bother to mention as significant that the Islamists are training to murder British citizens and blow up, say, British airports shows how much members of the far Left have turned against their own democratic countries to side with totalitarian forces.

BARRY RUBIN
Director, GLORIA Center
Tel Aviv

Granny's right

Sir, - In "Religion? It's a personal choice" (September 5) Cynthia Kane argued that she can remain Jewish with a non-Jewish boyfriend/husband.

Not likely. What are you passing on to your children, Cynthia?

Your bubba is right.

GORD BUSHEWSKY
Edmonton

Singing with the angels

Sir, - With deepest sorrow I mourn the death of Luciano Pavarotti, the greatest tenor since Caruso. The whole world will miss him and his amazing gift of music. May he rest in peace, and may his immortal soul be in Paradise. ("Italian tenor Luciano Pavarotti dies at age 71," Online Edition, September 6)

MARILYN BENNETT
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Shame on 'Haaretz'</title>
<date>6/11/2007</date>
<content>
We frequently boast that notwithstanding its limitations, the Israeli media is unfettered by government intervention and could serve as a role model for a free press in any democracy.

As in most Western countries, Israeli journalists are inclined to the Left and substantially outnumber the more conservative-minded. In fact, one constantly hears complaints that to hold right-wing views is a major stumbling block in obtaining promotion in the media world. But that is not unique to Israel.

The majority of Israelis who read a newspaper on a daily basis read one of the tabloids. In that sense, the broadsheet Haaretz stands alone. It presents as a serious liberal newspaper and aspires to assume the mantle of a Hebrew-language counterpart to The New York Times. Despite a limited circulation, it is extraordinarily influential and read by most opinion makers.

Its news coverage and access to inside information exceeds that of the tabloids. However, whereas it carries superb pieces on culture and society, with especially insightful articles on religious issues, its frequent endorsement of radical policies does tend to increasingly link Haaretz with fringe rather than mainstream opinion.

Indeed, many would even argue that a considerable proportion of Haaretz editorials and op-ed columns are politically off the wall. Its op-ed and magazine articles demonizing Israel and inclined toward post-Zionism are increasingly being quoted by Arabs and anti-Israeli propagandists. In fact, a man from Mars observing the level of the newspaper's frequent vitriolic condemnations of Israeli governments could understandably be misled into believing that some Haaretz writers are consciously acting as propagandists for the Palestinian cause.

CURRENT EDITOR David Landau is an observant Jew wearing a black kippa. He made aliya from London and is a highly talented writer. His book on haredim published in 1993 to this day remains the best reference work on the subject in the English language. And the English edition of Haaretz was unquestionably his brainchild.

I first met him in March 1987, when he was a senior staffer at The Jerusalem Post, then being edited by Ari Rath and Erwin Frenkel. Landau had been sent to cover the second Asian Jewish Colloquium of scholars in Hong Kong, which I had organized on behalf of the World Jewish Congress and the Asia Jewish Pacific Association.

Since he assumed the role of editor at Haaretz, the newspaper's traditional bias relating to the Israel-Palestinian conflict has intensified.

Landau concentrates much of his wrath on religious Zionists, regarding those who settled across the Green Line as messianic lunatics and the greatest threat to Israel. This obviously makes him a darling of the ultra-Left.

Today Landau allegedly even refuses to correct articles containing blatantly false information if they conflict with his political agenda. According to the Web site of the highly respected American Jewish media watchdog organization CAMERA, not only did Landau decline to consider its complaints regarding alleged falsehoods published in Haaretz, he even went on record informing the JTA that "as a matter of principle" he had instructed his staff not to respond to criticism from CAMERA because they were a "McCarthyite" organization.

NEEDLESS to say, this casts an ugly shadow on a daily newspaper purporting to represent the highest levels of journalistic integrity. It is now widely accepted that many policies promoted by Haaretz are effectively supportive of Israel's adversaries.

In fact, Nahum Barnea, the distinguished Yediot Aharonot columnist, went so far as to describe senior Haaretz journalists Gideon Levy, Amira Haas and Akiva Eldar as failing to pass the "lynch test" - i.e., even failing to condemn Palestinians when they murdered two Israelis in a lynch mob in Ramallah at the onset of the second intifada.

More recently, consistent with frequent Haaretz depictions of Israel as a racist entity, the paper's chief Arab affairs expert, Danny Rubinstein, told a UN body that Israel was indeed an apartheid state.

Of course, behind this torrid situation stands the publisher of Haaretz, Amos Schocken, who is personally convinced that Israel does indeed practice apartheid.

BUT IT was only recently that Landau threw away all semblance of journalistic integrity and publicly confessed to crossing the ultimate red line that distinguishes reputable journalism from propaganda.

According to The Jerusalem Post, at the recent Russian Limmud Conference in Moscow, Landau, one of the few non-Russian-speaking participants, dropped a bombshell. He stunned those present by boasting that his newspaper had "wittingly soft-pedalled" alleged corruption by Israeli political leaders including prime ministers Ariel Sharon and Ehud Olmert, when, in the opinion of Haaretz, the policies of those leaders were advancing the peace process.

When participants challenged him concerning the morality of such an approach, Landau responded with the extraordinary assertion that "more immorality happens every day at a single roadblock [in Judea and Samaria] than in all the scandals put together."

He then unashamedly assured those present that Haaretz was ready to repeat the process in order "to ensure that Olmert goes to Annapolis."

Even former Bolsheviks in the audience must have gasped at such views, openly stated, which incorporated all the hallmarks of the Stalinist era.

It is surely scandalous for the top editor of what purports to be a reputable and prestigious daily newspaper to publicly proclaim - and take pride in - having deliberately "soft-pedalled" and possibly even covered up acts of corruption by senior political leaders in order to promote his own political agenda, and, moreover, boast that his paper would continue to do so in the future.

Could one, for instance, visualize The New York Times suppressing information about an American president involved in corruption out of a desire to promote the administration's foreign policy objectives? No newspaper of integrity in the world would tolerate an editor making such an outrageous statement.

THE ISRAELI Press Council code of ethics contains clauses explicitly condemning such practices. Article 40 (and 16a): "A newspaper or a journalist shall not refrain from publishing information where there is a public interest in its publication, including for reasons of political, economic or other pressures."

Article 7: "Mistakes, omissions or inaccuracies which are in the publication of facts must be corrected speedily…."

If in the face of such violations of their charter by the editor of one of their most prestigious newspapers the Press Council fails to publicly condemn such behavior, it should be dissolved and the public must demand an accounting.

Exploiting a newspaper as a propaganda vehicle for a clique of leftist ideologues willing to do anything, including suppressing or "soft-pedalling" information about potentially criminal actions in order to pursue a private agenda must not be tolerated in a country which purports to adhere to ethical and democratic norms of conduct.

The writer chairs the Diaspora-Israel relations committee of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs and is a veteran international Jewish leader.

ileibler@netvison.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Snap Judgment: Union blues</title>
<date>7/6/2007</date>
<content>
The following minutes are from the most recent meeting of the National Union of British Chimney Sweeps, held in London earlier this month.

Chairman: "Mr. Secretary, would you read back from the minutes the resolutions passed during this meeting."

Secretary: "Mr. Chairman, the National Union of British Chimney Sweeps has resolved to demand from employers a  5-per-hour pay raise, increased health benefits for pensioned union members and the preservation of all existing wood-burning fireplaces throughout the United Kingdom."

Chairman: "Very good Mr. Secretary. Now, if there is no further business, I move we adjourn..."

Delegate No. 1: "Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman! May I have the floor?"

Chairman: "The chair recognizes the honorable delegate from Brixton Local 101."

Delegate No. 1: "Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw the attention of this assembly to the fact that in recent months, several of our fellow unions and trade associations, including those of British academics, journalists and architects, have passed resolutions condemning Israel for its brutal oppression of the Palestinian people and calling on its members to cease all business, cultural and social dealings with the Zionist-racist Jewish state. Therefore, I call on this union to pass a similar resolution forthwith!"

Chairman: "Well, that is a very sound suggestion. Do I hear a second from the floor?"

Delegate No. 2: "Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman!"

Chairman: "The chair recognizes the honorable delegate from Golders Green."

Delegate No. 2: "Mr. Chairman, fellow members, I would like to know the relevance of this resolution to the business of this union."

Delegate No. 1: "I remind our fellow delegate from Golders Green - Mr. Ja-cob-son - that fellow Palestinian union members of our profession throughout the West Bank and Gaza are finding it difficult to make a livelihood due to the Israeli military roadblocks, patrols and barriers which inhibit their freedom of movement and prevent them from carrying out their business."

Delegate No. 2: "I point out to the honorable delegate from Brixton the fact that to the best of my knowledge, there are in fact no Palestinian chimney sweeps."

Delegate No. 1: "Technically that is correct. But I remind the floor that five years ago, this union passed a solidarity resolution twinning itself with Jenin Local 507 of the Palestinian Guild of Combustible-Belt Makers, and the Israeli military measures I just described are indeed making it extremely difficult for members of our sister union to make a living."

Delegate No. 2: "Make a dying is more like it."

Delegate No. 1: "Mr. Chairman, that remark is out of order, and I ask that it be stricken from the record. Furthermore, I point out that our comrades in the Palestinian Guild of Combustible-Belt Makers have themselves already passed their own resolution of solidarity with this union, and we would be remiss if we did not in turn recognize and reciprocate their generous and selfless gesture."

DELEGATE No. 2: "Mr. Chairman, with your permission I would like to read out the actual text of that resolution of 'solidarity.' Quote: 'To our infidel chimney-sweeping brothers in Britain: If you do not renounce your evil imperialist nation and submit yourselves to the words of the true prophet Muhammad, if you do not slay the Zionist unbelievers in your midst, cover up your lewd and lascivious sisters and bow down before the will of Allah, you will be swept from the face of the earth for all eternity by the force of irresistible jihad, jihad, jihad!'"

Delegate No. 1: "Mr. Chairman, I protest that the delegate from Golders Green is showing great cultural insensitivity by taking the words of our comrades in Jenin so literally. Clearly, in this context 'jihad' is meant to be interpreted as an affectionate token of proletarian fellowship. Let me also point out that just last year this union sent a representative to Israel, Mr. Bert, to make an official assessment of the situation facing our comrades in the Palestinian areas. His subsequent report not only confirmed the oppressive conditions in which they labor, but also described the feelings of warmth and appreciation felt by our Palestinian brethren for our efforts on their behalf."

Delegate No. 2: "May I point out to the honorable delegate from Brixton and the rest of the floor that since arriving in Gaza eight months ago, our honorable representative to the Palestinians has not been seen nor heard from at all, except for this report and one videotape in which he decries Zionist oppression and British imperialism, swears fealty to Allah and the Palestinian cause and calls on this union to pay the sum of $5 million to his captors to obtain his release."

Delegate No. 1: "Mr. Chairman, I most strongly object to the use of the words 'captors.' Our representative is clearly still a guest of our Palestinian comrades, and my understanding is that this sum is simply meant to cover additional travel expenses he accrued while visiting Gaza."

Delegate No. 2: "I forgot to also mention the severed pinkie from his left hand that was delivered to union headquarters last week."

Delegate No. 1: "And clearly there are some medical expenses owed as well. But, Mr. Chairman, all this is irrelevant. The fact remains that our Palestinian comrades are suffering every day from the occupation in the West Bank and Gaza. Shockingly, this includes the participation of Israeli members of our own profession. For example, I have here a photograph of an Israeli chimney sweep, having come straight from work and still covered head-to-toe in soot, standing guard outside Israel's notorious 'apartheid wall' and enforcing its racist policies."

Delegate No. 2: "Mr. Chairman, I believe the honorable delegate from Brixton has in fact confused a photo of an Ethiopian-Israeli for that of a chimney sweep."

Chairman: "Come, come, gentleman, I believe we've heard enough debate on this issue, and suggest we immediately bring this motion to the floor. All those in favor of boycotting the State of Israel and ceasing all contact with all Israeli members of the chimney sweep profession, say aye."

Delegates: "AYE!"

Chairman: "All those opposed, say nay."

Delegate No. 2: "Nay."

Chairman: "The motion passes, 171-1."

Delegate No. 2: "Mr. Chairman, can I at least ask that this union, in conjuncture with this motion, pass similar resolutions condemning the far worse human rights violations in many other countries across the world, especially in Arab and Islamic nations, and also the rising tide of anti-Semitism here in Great Britain?"

Chairman: "Now Mr. Ja-cob-son; what possible relevance could those issues have for a bunch of chimney sweeps?"

The writer is director of communications for the Jerusalem office of The Israel Project (www.theisraelproject.org)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Speaking truth for peace</title>
<date>18/12/2007</date>
<content>
For years, countless synagogues and other Jewish institutions in the United States have flown the banner declaring "We Support Israel in Her Quest for Peace."

For most American Jews, these words have given voice to a shared love and concern for Israel as a homeland for the Jewish people, and to a hope that the conflict that has raged on and off since even before Israel's founding in 1948, will finally end. For some, this devotion to Israel has been embodied in unwavering support for the policies and actions of her government. For others, it has included criticism of that government, when its words and deeds were seen as antithetical to the interests of an Israel that seeks a just and lasting peace in that troubled corner of the world. The gap between these groups of American Jews, both caring deeply about Israel but from markedly disparate perspectives, has for years seemed unbridgeable.

But now, the time has come to build the bridge.

Why? Because, for the first time in seven long and painful years, there is serious talk of peace. The Annapolis conference, with all its shortcomings, happened. Almost 50 countries participated, including Saudi Arabia and Syria among many Arab states. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and President Mahmoud Abbas earnestly pledged to "resolve all outstanding issues" before the end of 2008, and serious bilateral negotiations have begun.

This real prospect of peace has led to some remarkable pronouncements. In his Annapolis speech on November 27, Olmert directly acknowledged that the alienation, bitterness, and deprivation suffered by so many Palestinians is a significant cause of the "ethos of hatred" toward Israel, and that, "we are not oblivious to the tragedies you have experienced."

This unusual recognition by the Israeli leader was followed a few days later by his statement to journalists that, four years ago, he had said "if we don't do something, we will lose the possibility of the existence of two states" and "[w]e will be an apartheid state." This is Ehud Olmert speaking, not Jimmy Carter or Desmond Tutu.

A month earlier, Orthodox Rabbi Yosef Kanefsky, recent president of the Board of Rabbis of Southern California, boldly observed that Israel must not "come to the negotiating table telling a dishonest story - a story in which our side has made no mistakes and no miscalculations, a story in which there is no moral ambiguity in the way we have chosen to rule the people we conquered, a story in which we don't owe anything to anyone."

Rabbi Kanefsky passionately declared that peace and reconciliation are only possible through the telling of truth. The Palestinians must own up, but so must Israel. By so stating, he effectively legitimized what has been viewed by many American Jews as a taboo: the open acknowledgement that Israel, too, comes to the table with hands that need washing.

So, Rabbi Kanefsky admonishes that before we can ever celebrate peace, we need a clear and honest reckoning from both the Israeli and the Palestinian sides. Olmert, by his words, has begun that process. American Jews should encourage him to continue to speak truth, even, and especially, when difficult. We must urge him to follow through, with a proposal for peace that is fair and just, and that best ensures the flourishing of two viable states, a Jewish homeland and a Palestinian homeland, side by side, in friendship and security. The Clinton-Taba-Geneva outlines of such a resolution are well known; the hard but reasonable compromises they embody call out to be endorsed. By speaking truth, by recognizing the wounds inflicted and the pain endured, both sides can provide the oxygen needed to nourish a healing process that leads to reconciliation.

We, the American Jewish community, should firmly embrace that process. And when we do, perhaps we'll even find ourselves choosing to unfurl a new banner, that proclaims: "We Support Israel and the Palestinian People in their Common Quest for Peace."

The writer is an attorney and president of Boston Workmen's Circle, a 100-year old Jewish communal organization committed to promoting social justice and the celebration of Jewish/Yiddish culture. michael.felsen@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Stop Durban II</title>
<date>22/8/2007</date>
<content>
Let's say you wanted to hold a conference to promote peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Wouldn't it be a good idea to fairly represent the Israeli point of view? Might it be counterproductive if the conference were to degenerate into an anti-Israel hate fest? What if this did not happen by accident, but by design? You might conclude that the purpose of a conference like that would not be to promote peace at all, but to build the case and groundwork for Israel's destruction. And you might therefore be surprised were you to discover that such a conference were being sponsored not by a virulently anti-Israel organization, but by such august bodies as the United Nations and the European Parliament.

Yet there is no other conclusion that can be drawn simply by glancing at the agenda of the "United Nations International Conference of Civil Society in Support of Israeli-Palestinian Peace," which is to be held next Thursday at the European Parliament in Brussels. The thrust is obvious right from the opening plenary, which will feature five speakers representing: the UN Secretary General, the European Parliament, the UN Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, "Palestine," and the International Coordinating Network for Palestine.

If anti-Israel groups want to hold a conference completely excluding an Israeli point of view, there is nothing stopping them. But what are the UN Secretary General's office and the European Parliament doing there? How does such a conference "promote peace"? Actually, there will be Israelis there. As Hillel Neuer of UN Watch puts it: "The conference will showcase Arab presenters who justify suicide bombings and accuse Israel of being vile, racist and illegitimate, and for balance it will also feature Israeli presenters who justify suicide bombings and accuse Israel of being vile, racist and illegitimate."

We know what this looks like because it has happened before. The infamous 2001 Durban conference "against racism" restored the "Zionism is racism" canard a decade after that resolution was repealed by the UN General Assembly, and openly excluded anti-Semitism from the hatreds it was ostensibly meant to combat.

At Durban a large contingent wore T-shirts emblazoned "Occupation = Colonialism =Racism, End Israeli Apartheid." Palestinian NGOs distributed leaflets depicting Hitler and the caption, "What if I had won?" The answer: "There would be no Israel and no Palestinian bloodshed." South African activists, including local Arabs and Muslims, marched through the conference area chanting, "What we have done to apartheid in South Africa, must be done to Zionism in Palestine."

The Durban conference became so hate-filled that the US and Israeli delegations felt compelled to walk out. But what about all the countries that were embarrassed, issued mumbled "regrets," and stayed? What about the distinguished human rights groups, like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, which acted as if they were innocent bystanders to this melee?

Next week, the UN is holding a planning meeting in Geneva for a 2009 follow-on conference to Durban. Given the groups behind this meeting, we can expect it will be more of the same. Before Durban, well-meaning groups and governments could say they were blindsided. Now that we and they know what's in store, what can be done to prevent another fiasco? First, our government must launch a campaign to compel the UN and Europe to choose: either they make these conferences fair and constructive, or they drop their association with them and shut them down.

The Polish members of the European Parliament deserve credit for showing the way by announcing their refusal to participate in the Brussels conference. As Bronislaw Geremek, a Polish MEP, was quoted as saying by the web site Europa21: "Although there is no official statement that Israel must be pushed down to the sea there, the choice of subjects ... shows that it will be a biased, conflict generating conference. Actually we can call it anti-Israeli." MEP Konrad Szymanski stated, "I am astonished that the European Parliament allowed such activity in its building."

This is a time when UN and European claims to be honest brokers and even friends of Israel will be put to the test. It is not possible to press for peace and to sponsor and participate in the fomenting of hate. It is not enough to retroactively express "regret" at outcomes that were foregone conclusions. The time to stop Durban II is now.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Tell them the truth, Mr. Leibler</title>
<date>20/11/2007</date>
<content>
Yet again, the important research presented recently by Steven Cohen and Ari Kelman, which demonstrates the estrangement of young Diaspora Jews from Israel, is being used to demonize organizations and values that do not comply with an invisible but real "party line."

Isi Leibler condemned the New Israel Fund, among others, as a "Jewish defamer of Israel" in these pages. Apparently, providing a platform for two prominent Arab citizens of Israel - among the 28 diverse representatives of Israeli society who spoke at the recent NIF Forum in New York - is enough to consign our organization to the infamous category of self-hating Jews.

Notwithstanding Leibler's criticism, NIF is proud of the fact that we encourage open debate regarding sensitive topics, and allow an often-unheard minority to present their perspectives of their role as Israeli citizens to an audience that cares passionately about the future of Israel.

The saddest aspect of this knee-jerk reaction is that it will undoubtedly increase the disaffection so many young Diaspora Jews feel for Israel. Our own research demonstrates that many American Jews, of all ages, love Israel but are distressed by certain flaws in its democratic character. They - and we - would like to see Diaspora Jewish communities become as vibrant, passionate and free-wheeling in debate about the future of Israel as are Israelis, and without fear of the self-appointed censors who denounce such conversations as anti-Israel or subversive.

Suppressing discussion of Israel's choices, and of its character and identity, will guarantee that even more Diaspora Jews are alienated from dishonest and manipulative efforts to "defend" the state.

This is especially true for younger Jews. Every parent knows that if there is one evil that young people immediately recognize, it is hypocrisy. When Jewish organizations trumpet Israel as "the one democracy in the Middle-East," and then denigrate those who point out where Israel does not quite live up to the title, today's young Jews will not be fooled. When organizations attempt to equip young Jews with information to battle the all-too-real anti-Israel propaganda on college campuses, but do so by ignoring issues pertaining to human rights and social justice, the most likely outcome is alienation from the propaganda emanating from both sides in the all-or-nothing screaming match. Certainly, most young Jews would like to respond to ignorant calumnies by those who categorize Israel as an apartheid state, but not by avoiding the intricate and difficult story of two peoples and one land.

WE AT THE New Israel Fund actually have a special tie to the younger generation - we employ and work with many of them at SHATIL, our action arm in Israel. Hundreds of Israelis younger than 35 regularly train and empower underprivileged people and communities all over the country, from the five Jewish-Arab mixed cities to the neglected development towns, from urban slums in Tel Aviv and Haifa to Beduin tents in the Negev.

The young people leading our economic empowerment, religious pluralism and human rights programs are themselves the best example of how Israel can evolve into a society that lives up to the values of its founders. We would venture a guess that an encounter with these activists, who work 60 and 70-hour weeks to improve the country they love, would do more to build a sense of connection among young Diaspora Jews to the real Israel that exists than any number of expensive public relations or outreach campaigns.

Our New Generations program has provided a constructive venue for young donors and activists to participate in an open intellectual environment. For many of these formerly disconnected Jews, there is real power in conversation. And, as an observer remarked of the recent NIF Forum, "Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of this conference was the large presence of young people in their 20s and 30s - a demographic group that Jewish and especially liberal Jewish organizations have had difficulty recruiting in recent years."

AS SOMEONE who has worked in various countries around the world promoting democracy, I am excited by the fact that my current job allows me work for an established, albeit flawed, democracy, with a thriving civil society that holds the Israeli government accountable for its actions.

Having spent several years living in Israel during the second intifada, I also appreciate the profound sense of physical and psychological insecurity that many Israelis experience on a daily basis.

Balancing democratic freedoms with security concerns is no easy matter, as Americans have quickly learned in the years since 9/11.

But it cannot be, as Leibler claims, de-legitimization of Israel or of Zionism to point out that the state is threatened by the forces of extremism, intolerance and ultra-nationalism. The week after hundreds of soccer fans booed the memory of Yitzhak Rabin, while cheering his assassin, is a strange week to be criticizing progressive organizations for their supposed disloyalty to Israel.

NIF will continue to promote the values of democracy, equality and social justice for all Israelis. We believe our work, and our values, will attract young Jews to a realistic vision of Israel - the Israel that still strives to live up to its ideals. In the marketplace of ideas, we are confident that our vision of advancing democratic change will stand up quite well, no matter how many shrill voices attempt to force us into a dying paradigm.

We are not alienating the Diaspora from Israel; we are offering the Diaspora a way to work with Israelis to build the state we all know to be possible.

The writer is the CEO of the New Israel Fund.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The GOP - the only viable choice</title>
<date>1/3/2007</date>
<content>
Republican control of the White House and of Congress in 2008 is critical for maintaining Israel's security. Since Israel came into existence in 1948, the Democrat and Republican parties have changed places regarding the Jewish state. Since 1990, the Democratic Party has cooled toward Israel, while the Republicans have shown themselves to be among Israel's staunchest supporters.

A Wall Street Journal/NBC poll taken before the 2006 mid-term elections found that 84 percent of Republicans said they sympathized more with Israel than with the Arab states, as opposed to only 43% of Democrats.

It is not just a matter of polling data. Philosophically, there is a wide chasm between Democrats and Republicans on foreign policy issues. The Democratic Party has in recent years endorsed the view that international problems should be resolved multilaterally, a policy that means invoking institutions like the United Nations, the European Union, and the International Court of Justice that have been at best incompetent and at worst anti-Semitic and anti-Israel.

Multilateralism also means dialoguing with states that harbor despotic regimes and embrace fundamental Islamic theologies with their intractable hostility towards the Jewish state and the Jewish people.

The Republican approach, on the other hand, has been to utilize America's predominant position to combat terror and terror-based regimes, and not to shrink from use of economic and military sanctions to confront existential threats.

There could be no more dramatic illustration of this disparity in philosophy than the parties' responses to last summer's Lebanon war. While the UN secretariat and EU foreign ministries strove to squelch Israel's response to Hizbullah's unprovoked kidnapping of IDF reservists and missile attacks on Israel's northern cities, the Republican-led White House and Congress stood firm in their resolve to enable Israel to dispatch the Iranian and Syrian proxies in southern Lebanon.

One should keep in mind that the last two Democratic presidents, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, embraced and continue to support policies that were inimical to Israel's very survival. Carter, calling Israel an "apartheid state," has even demanded that it remove its security barrier, which has been proven effective in protecting Israeli citizens.

With threats by Hamas, Hizbullah, Syria, Iran and fundamentalist Islam to wipe Israel off the map, American voters cannot afford to place the reins of US foreign policy in the hands of Democrats who seek to "get America out of Iraq and Israel out of Palestine."

The Republican Party's clear focus on how to deal with these threats has lead the overwhelming majority of American voters in Israel to support the Republican Party in the past several elections. When it concerns Israel, Iran and the war on terror, American voters have only one real choice - the GOP.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The people behind land-for-peace</title>
<date>27/11/2007</date>
<content>
US president Jimmy Carter's behavior at Camp David leading up to the signing of the Accords between Israel and Egypt may have ranged somewhere between naive and diabolical, you decide.

As the self-described honest broker, his pressure on Menachem Begin to give up complete control of the Sinai, the West Bank and the Golan Heights never ended. And the Camp David Accords he engineered required Israel to turn over 100% of the Sinai to Egypt.

Yet our own US Joint Chiefs of Staff report, kept classified until after Carter left office, would have told him that Israel's minimum security required the retention of significant portions of all three.

Mikhail Gorbachev's views of security for the then Soviet Union were at odds with Carter's view of Israel's security needs. He insisted that we in the West did not understand that for the Soviets (280 million people on eight million square miles) security was their most basic need. So his objection to a re-unified Germany was uncompromising. As he saw it, a united Germany
with 80 million people might want to expand.

But like Carter, he deemed Israel's return to pre-1967 borders perfectly acceptable. Borders that would leave its four million Jews a country of
8,000 square miles, with a third of its length under 25 miles wide, its center under 10 miles wide, and its Jerusalem capital on the border and
vulnerable to attack. That there were concrete plans for Israel's destruction made no difference to either one.

White House perceptions of US security needs under presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush when faced with a minor enemy state located some 2,000 miles from Washington, DC, also differed from Carter's notions of Israel's needs. Grenada's leaning toward Cuba, and perhaps eventually the Soviets, warranted a US invasion. Panama's Assembly putting strongman General Manuel
Noriega in power and declaring the country "at war with the US" called for another US invasion.

Decades after leaving the White House, Carter described himself as "knowing about as much about the Middle East as anyone." How is it possible that, while serving as president with a host of military and Middle East advisors, he didn't know of the Chiefs of Staff report, or that the impossible-to-defend pre-1967 borders would be suicidal?

And if Carter knew, what does his pressuring Begin to return to those suicidal borders say about his agenda, his ethics, his morals? He has gone on to call Israel an apartheid state; but apart-hate, much like beauty, is in the eyes of the beholder.

Still, if his expertise, his morality and his "vision" are acceptable, consider joining the Saudis in funding the Carter library.

The Palestinian state pretext that would have Israel back to pre-1967 borders was never aimed at solving the Arab refugee problem created by Arab wars. That problem could and would have been solved during the 19 years that the West Bank and Gaza were in Arab hands and the refugees were a small fraction of their present number. Or at any time since by sparsely populated Arab League states that occupy more land than the US with Mexico and a few Central Americas thrown in more land than 2,000 Gazas plus 2,000 West Banks.

The destruction of Israel as Step I and the destruction of Lebanon as Step II are summed up by the Arab slogan: "First the Saturday people, then the Sunday people!" The goal: cleansing the Sea of Islam of unclean dhimmi islands. With Lebanon under the Syrian thumb, that order may change.

Islam itself provides the overall takeover plan by dividing the earth into two parts: Dar al-Islam, the domain where Muslims already rule, and Dar al-Harb, the domain of war, where Muslims have yet to take control. Muslims know they are obligated to war for control of non-Muslim lands.
But is anyone else paying attention?

President George W. Bush, a man of unquestioned good will towards Israel, has so  much on his plate, from Iraq and Iran to Afghanistan and Pakistan, and more, he cannot be fully focused on the Jewish state. That's why, when he is pressuring Israel to leave areas essential to its survival, his advisors deserve careful scrutiny. Like those at the James Baker Center.

As secretary of state James Baker had to know that Arabs and Jews were not one people, that Israelis were outnumbered 30:1 and outspent countless times for military equipment, that Israel's borders were rarely quiet. Yet Baker
demanded Israel's return to the indefensible pre-1967 borders that leave one-third of the country under 25 miles wide, its center just nine miles
wide and its capital, Jerusalem right on the border.

But consider his satellite interview from Seoul. Although North and South Koreans were one people (although the South outnumbered the North 2-to-1 and  according to John Pike  outspent the North 3-to-1 for defense, and although their shared border had been quiet for decades, Baker maintained that the US could not leave the South because Seoul was 25 miles from the border and vulnerable to attack from the North.

Except for Israelis being outnumbered by a factor greater than 30 times and facing far greater amounts of more sophisticated weapons, since then nothing has really changed. Yet Baker's demands that Israel return to the suicidal pre-1967 borders, the ones Abba Eban labeled "Auschwitz borders," have not been recognized for what they are and discarded.

Instead those demands, the cornerstone of the Saudi Middle East "Peace" Plan are voiced through the James Baker Center that guides the Middle East policy of today's White House. And the voices now chanting those demands have been
supported by more petrodollars than could have been imagined back in the days of the satellite interview from Seoul.

Can we call it coincidental that Baker served as senior counsel for and shareholder in the heavily-influenced-by-the-Saudis Carlyle Group, where in
2001 shareholder stakes averaged 180 million dollars? As coincidental perhaps as Condaleeza Rice's serving for many years on the directorate of the heavily-influenced-by-the-Saudis Chevron, for unspecified but no doubt hefty fees? (see Robert Baer's book Sleeping with The Devil)

Truly he who pays the piper calls the tune. All that remains is for Ehud Olmert, a publicity addict and reputedly on-the-take prime minister, to appear on stage at Annapolis and dance to the music.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Truth and hypocrisy</title>
<date>21/6/2007</date>
<content>
No longer can we bury our heads in the sand. We have become a pariah state, likened to South Africa during its years of apartheid. However unfair the comparisons, the same methods of political, economic and diplomatic isolation that were applied to South Africa are now being slowly but steadily applied to the Jewish state.

Britain's University and College Union (UCU) voted to boycott Israeli academic institutions, protesting Israel's policy in the territories. To add insult to injury, the union pledged to arrange for academics from the Palestinian Authority to attend scholastic conferences in the United Kingdom.

South Africa's trade unions will soon launch a campaign against "the Israeli occupation of Arab lands," demanding that Pretoria impose a boycott on all Israeli products and sever diplomatic relations. The president of the Congress Trade Union, Willy Madisha, said: "The best way for Israel to comply with United Nations resolutions is to pressure it by a diplomatic boycott such as the one imposed on apartheid South Africa."

It is relatively easy to deflate the skewed comparisons between Israel and apartheid South Africa. Further, it is a slam-dunk to point to the intellectual dishonesty of such boycotts - be they academic, economic or political.

Our academicians are not kosher, but Palestinian intellectuals are? The Palestinian Authority that sees Hamas and Fatah exchange gunfire in hospitals, throw people off roofs, murder each other in the streets execution-style and burn each others' houses to the ground, killing all the occupants including innocent children - its scholars are welcomed guests of the UCU?

Does the UCU see no contradiction in opening its university doors to Palestinian academicians whose leadership tramples human rights with impunity? Extending preferential treatment to Palestinian academics makes a mockery of the UCU's boycott.

Given the UCU's and South African trade unions' objection to occupation, why not boycott American professors? After all, the US is occupying Iraq in a manner far more brutal than Israel's occupation of the West Bank. How many thousands of innocent Iraqis have been killed by indiscriminate carpet bombing? We will never know because of the White House's total control of press coverage of a war that was waged under false pretenses. (No comparable censorship exists in Israel.)

What about the security wall that the United States is constructing in Baghdad (and along the US border with Mexico), or systematic torture that is virtually US government policy? Oh, I forgot: If the UCU spurned American scholars from participating in conferences at Oxford or Cambridge, it would have to boycott itself because of its country's willing participation in the war.

China, one of the most authoritarian regimes in the world, is hosting the Olympic Games. One does not hear British and South African unions protesting this absurdity. We could literally take a trip around the globe, particularly to countries on the same continent as South Africa, to single out nations whose repression of their own people far outstrips anything that Israel is doing in the occupied territories.

Israel's right to defend itself against suicide bombings, kidnappings and constant threats to wipe it off the face of the earth apparently play no part in the decision by the UCU and the South African trade unions to boycott the Jewish state.

AND YET, we know in our hearts of hearts that while such boycotts are not justified on the universal plain of comparisons, there are more than a few elements of truth in what these hypocrites claim.

For one segment of the population over whom we have responsibility, we have abrogated any semblance of democracy. It is especially painful that some in South Africa have joined the fray of those who boycott us, because of that country's moral authority - given how blacks suffered years of unspeakable oppression under white minority rule.

But how would one describe certain things we are doing in the West Bank that have virtually no security value - checkpoints between Palestinian villages and within Palestinians cities; separate roads for Palestinians; thousands of Palestinians arrested under administrative detention; confiscation of Palestinian property for illegal Jewish settlements; a twisted route for Israel's security barrier that separates Palestinians from their lands and divides villages in half; administrative home demolitions; covert protection for Jewish settlers who harass Palestinians tending their agricultural fields; preventing Israelis who marry Palestinians from living in Israel; banning Palestinians from swimming in natural springs along the Dead Sea?

And yet, despite the above, Israel's present situation is still not politically analogous to South Africa's history of discrimination; and so, we confidently argue that "apartheid" is not an appropriate term to apply to what we are doing in the West Bank.

But what term would one choose to define a privileged protectionism for a few thousand Jews in the West Bank over a separate and unequal existence for over two million Palestinians?

The fact that compared to other countries we are a paragon of moral virtue does not obviate another fact: We have shamed ourselves as a Jewish state that sought to educate the world that we would not be a nation like other nations, that the Zionist enterprise would fashion a society based on a prophetic vision of social justice. Instead, we have created a moral morass - and, if it takes the hypocritical self-righteousness of some foreign pseudo-intellectuals and pig-headed unionists to open our eyes and alter this unacceptable reality, then something positive will ultimately be served.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>View From America: The JNF vs. politically correct Zionism</title>
<date>5/8/2007</date>
<content>
For more than 100 years, that little blue box has been a mainstay of Jewish life. The coins that accumulated in the Jewish National Fund's trademark pushkas helped purchase land that became the bridgehead for the Jewish state envisioned by Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern Zionism.

In the nearly 60 years since Israel's founding, the fund has continued to serve, along with the Israel Land Authority, as the custodian of a large portion of the country. JNF also continues to support vital infrastructure projects, such as preserving the nation's scarce water sources, and of course, planting trees in its forests.

But the organization has run into trouble lately - not because of any misdeeds on its part, but because it has stuck to its Zionist mission.

Opinion: Say goodbye to the JNF

The problem is that its policy of settling only Jews on the land it owns is seen by some in Israel, as well many in the Diaspora, as discriminating against the Arab minority.

In 2005, Israel's Attorney-General Menachem Mazuz ruled that restricting land leases to only Jews was illegal. JNF has responded that it accommodates Arabs who want land by arranging land swaps that allow it to maintain its tradition while giving any would-be buyer the property they want; its critics say that isn't enough.

The Knesset has responded to this challenge by considering a special law that would let the JNF policy stand. But the progress of this bill toward passage has set off even louder cries of protest.

Luminaries across the Jewish spectrum, including the heads of both the Reform movement and the Anti-Defamation League, agree that the "Jews-only" policy must be scrapped.

These critics say that not only is it wrong for Israel to treat Jews and Arabs differently when it comes to land, they argue that the policy is poison for the state's image. With Israel-bashers around the world maliciously promoting the false charge that it's an "apartheid" state, now is no time for reaffirming the old model of settling only Jews on the land, insist foes of the policy. This point, especially, resonates with friends of Israel who are concerned over how such canards have worked their way from the margins of academia to more mainstream forums in recent years.

BUT THOUGH I share these concerns for Israel's image, as well as respect the rights of its non-Jewish minorities, I cannot join the chorus of opposition.

It's easy to view the JNF policy and the law being considered to uphold it solely through the prism of the American legal tradition. Everyone here ought to be, at least in principle, equal before the law.

Covenants that prohibit land sales to any group are rightly considered abhorrent. In the last century, such bias was freely applied against both Jews and African-Americans.

But it is simply wrong to think of the JNF case in that same light.

The land in question here is not mere real estate. JNF's property is the inheritance of the entire Jewish people; its mission is the task of building homes for a nation that has no other haven.

Israel is, after all, not just another country. It is the world's only Jewish state. Like the Law of Return that enables Diaspora Jews - and not anyone else - to come home to their ancestral homeland and obtain citizenship, the JNF rules are specifically crafted to solve the historic problem of Jewish homelessness, not the arbitration of abstract real estate disputes or the whims of home buyers who have a multitude of other options.

Those who would scrap JNF's policies or force it to end its role as the custodian of our historic legacy may have good intentions and be focused on effective advocacy. But this is not the time for a politically correct course that effectively abandons the notion that certain Israeli land belongs to the Jewish people. Nor should we allow our fears of being seen as parochial allow us to buy into the notion that the State of Israel belongs solely to all of its current citizens, rather than being a trust for the Jewish people.

As much as it is appropriate for Diaspora Jews to defer to the Israelis who serve in its armed services and pay their country's confiscatory tax rates on most issues, this basic issue is one on which world Jewry's concerns deserve respect.

At times, Israel must walk a fine line in maintaining its status as a democracy, while also being faithful to its mission in the fulfillment of Zionism. Non-Jews living in Israel may chafe against this situation, but as much as we may wish them no harm and support their rights before the law, that cannot give them the right abrogate the basics of Israel's Zionist purpose.

The question here is the legitimacy of Zionism, not discrimination. As difficult as it may be for high-minded friends of Israel to accept, JNF's policies on the land should stand.

The writer is executive editor of the Jewish Exponent in Philadelphia.
tobin@jewishexponent.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>View from America: The 'Palestine' Purimspiel</title>
<date>3/3/2007</date>
<content>
In case you missed it, last month college campuses in the United States, Canada and Britain hosted an "Israeli Apartheid Week," in which prominent scholars and artists all got together to agree about the State of Israel's beastliness.

That such nonsense is presented at places like Hunter College in New York City, the University of Toronto and even at supposedly more illustrious venues such as Oxford and Cambridge is hardly shocking.

But what is curious is the unprecedented growth of Israel-bashing in recent years and not merely at universities, and the increasing role of Jewish opponents of Israel in these events.

The inversion of the truth in which the one small Jewish state is now portrayed as the mighty oppressor of the vast Arab and Muslim worlds is an appropriate topic to consider this week as Jews celebrate the holiday of Purim. The holiday commemorates the salvation of the Jews of Persia who - at the very end of the Babylonian Exile - were collectively subjected to a sentence of death. The evil plan was foiled, and since then the festival has been celebrated with general silliness, carnivals as well as "Purimspiels" or satiric plays or writings that turn the world upside down and inside out.

But while Purimspiels have a short shelf life, the less innocent falsehoods of the anti-Israel crowd are year-round canards whose growing power ought to concern everyone.

The "Israeli apartheid" charge, popularized in this country by former president Jimmy Carter's appalling recent book, is, of course, an insult to the sufferings of black South Africans and so divorced from the truth as to render any debate about it to be mere absurdity.

Israel is, after all, a democratic country whose Arab minority has the right to vote and is represented in its parliament and even boasts a member of the current cabinet. For the last decade-and-a-half and as part of the policy of several governments, it has been trying to divest itself of rule over parts of the disputed territories it acquired in a war of self-defense in 1967.

Palestinians have had autonomy since the Oslo Accords of 1993 and rule Gaza as an independent state in all but name since Israel's unilateral withdrawal in 2005 removed not only a military presence, but every trace of of Jewish life in the area.

The Palestinians have turned down peace offers dating back to before the Jews regained sovereignty over part of their historic homeland in 1948. In 2000, their leader Yasser Arafat memorably declined an offer of statehood, control of virtually all of the West Bank, Gaza and part of Jerusalem, and answered with a terror war of attrition.

Since then, the Palestinians have enjoyed free elections to determine their own government and chose Hamas, a terror group committed to war against the Jews without end.

THUS, EVEN for those Jews who believe ridding Israel of all of the territories is a good idea - for example the Peace Now crowd - and those who support the peace process as a general principle, it is understood that the persistence of the conflict simply is not the Jewish state's fault.

And yet despite these objective circumstances, the notion of Israel as aggressor and the Palestinians as victims persists.

This is the case despite the fact that it is the Palestinian side that continues to reject peace and persists in pursuing war. And the Israel-as-aggressor notion isn't merely the conventional wisdom in the fever swamps of the far-Left and America's ultra-Right, it is the conventional wisdom of a not insignificant segment of enlightened liberal opinion in Europe and among American academics.

Sadly, this latter category includes many Jews.

THUS, IN this bizarre yet increasingly fashionable inversion of the truth, the Jews get to reverse the verdict of Purim itself.

In the Book of Esther, it is not an outside power or even the direct intervention of Providence that saves the day but the Jews themselves, in the person of the valiant Esther, the wise Mordecai and the community as a whole, which rises up to defend itself and slay the murderers.

But today, it is often Jews who provide a fig leaf of respectability for such inane events as the "Israeli apartheid" extravaganzas.

Let's also specify that we are not discussing mere criticism of Israel's government or policies. Much about the State of Israel is itself something of an ongoing Purimspiel. Its governments are often run by men and women of less than sterling character. And the practices of Israel's leviathan of an official bureaucracy are often so wrongheaded and arrogant so as to make any American state's department of motor vehicles blush.

But the "apartheid" Purimspiels are not about Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's reportedly shaky ethics and even more questionable judgment about political and military affairs or those of his even less able colleagues at the cabinet table.

What this increasingly vitriolic campaign of delegitimization is about is the right of Israel's people to elect any leaders, be they wise or foolish, and to defend themselves against terror and the threat of annihilation from both Palestinian gunmen and Iranian nuclear mullahs.

Those Jews who play a part in this campaign - be they feckless American intellectuals or extremist Israelis with queasy consciences about the messy business of conducting a long-term war against terrorists - need to understand that the undermining of Israel is not a game in which they may dabble without a cost that will ultimately be paid in innocent Jewish blood.

For the rest of us, including those who think that speaking up for Israel is simply too unpopular a cause to engage in, we must remember that the "apartheid" lies must be fought with the same sort of vigorous in-your-face advocacy that the anti-Zionists have adopted, not mealy-mouthed avowals of good intentions.

In another Purim-like twist, it has become the fashion for Israel-haters and anti-Semites to claim that they are being suppressed, even as their voices grow louder.

We must defend the right of free speech for all. At the same time, those who support the right of every people to self-determination (and self-defense) except the Jews are simply racists and richly deserve to be labeled and ostracized as such.

The lesson of Purim is that no one, no matter how seemingly secure their lives may be, can rest easy while hatred rules. In this spirit must every decent person, be they Jewish or non-Jewish, respond to the anti-Zionist Purimspiel.

As it happened with Haman, we must not let these liars get away with murder.

The writer is executive editor of the Jewish Exponent in Philadelphia.

jtobin@jewishexponent.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>What Ehud Olmert told us</title>
<date>31/12/2007</date>
<content>
Isi Leibler misquotes Ehud Olmert's remarks at an Israel Policy Forum gathering, which I attended, and provides no context for them ("Outright defeatism," Dec. 20). Many others have done the same in their zeal to criticize the Prime Minister's policies toward the Palestinians since his assumption of that office.

It is time to set the record straight. In fact, it's long overdue. Below is a transcript of remarks Mr. Olmert delivered to Israel Policy Forum's annual event on June 9, 2005, while he was Vice Prime Minister and Ariel Sharon was Prime Minister and in good health - nearly 10 months before Olmert was elected Prime Minister.

Mr. Leibler criticizes Olmert for saying to the Israeli media who covered the Annapolis conference that Israel "risked being compared to apartheid-era South Africa and 'if the two-state solution is shattered… the State of Israel is finished'."

"What is this if not outright defeatism?" Leibler asks. It most certainly is not. Olmert's statement actually is forthright realism.

If, as Leibler wishes, Prime Minister Olmert refuses to enter into talks to establish a two-state solution with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who has declared his desire to negotiate with Israel time and time again, Israel cannot remain a Jewish and a democratic state. If Israel holds on to the entire West Bank, Jews will become the minority in another generation or two. Israel will no longer be a Jewish state unless the Jewish minority holds onto power through undemocratic means. In other words, through a South Africa apartheid-like system. Similarly, Jerusalem will lose its Jewish majority if it continues to hold on to the Arab villages annexed after 1967, which were never part of the historic, holy city of Jerusalem.

Israel is fortunate to have a leader able to understand and confront realities such as these, and adapt policies to changing realities. That was the theme of the first half of Olmert's remarks to the Israel Policy Forum on June 9, 2005, which were as follows:

"There was a very strange experience that I was going through tonight. Everyone that came to me whispered in my ear, 'You know, Mr. Olmert, we are really happy that you came. It's so nice that you agreed to come' and, you know, similar such statements. And what I felt was that it really wasn't so simple for you to invite me, in the first place. And let me tell you something, it wasn't the most natural thing for me to accept the invitation. But I am very, very happy that I am here. And I am very, very happy that you invited me.

"Thank you very much for this. And I will tell you why, why do I feel this way. Why do I feel for myself and why I dare say I feel happy for you that you have invited me. We have to depart from the old prejudices that somehow have dictated some of our positions in the past and to be able to break through the new horizons, which are developing for us in general, and this is also true about the internal relations within the Jewish people. I know that there are many people sitting here in this hall that feel very strange that a special letter of Ariel Sharon, Prime Minister of the State of Israel, is read in honor of the event of [the] Israel Policy Forum. You will all admit it. It's not the usual event where you get a letter from Prime Minister Sharon. And it's not so simple and natural for Ariel Sharon to write a letter for a very significant and important Jewish organization, which hasn't spared much love to him over the years. So, it only shows that things are changing. And, I'm very happy.

"I'm very happy that things are changing. That doesn't mean though, don't get excited, that doesn't mean though, that Sharon and you will agree on everything. I'm not certain that even I will agree with you on everything. There are still some differences. But we come closer, and we must be very happy about it. We must be very happy that we can come across the barriers that separated us as we move forward, and we try to move the State of Israel forward into new policies, into new horizons, and into dramatic changes, which hopefully will bring, at the end, peace and security to ourselves and to the Palestinians, that will live alongside the State of Israel in an independent state of their own.

"This is a remarkable process, which we are going through now. What the government of Ariel Sharon is doing is a dramatic change that will have an enormous impact on everything that will happen thereafter, in the State of Israel and in the Middle East. The most fundamental part of this change is the understanding that it is incumbent first and foremost upon ourselves to make the move, that we don't have to wait anymore, that we really don't need the United States to lead the process in the Middle East, we will lead this process in the Middle East.

"We will lead it because it's good for us. And we will lead it because it may be good for the Palestinians. And we believe that if it will be good for us and will be good for the Palestinians, then it will be good. It will bring more security, greater safety, much more prosperity, and a lot of joy for all the people that live in the Middle East.

"And we all desperately need it. We are tired of fighting, we are tired of being courageous, we are tired of winning, we are tired of defeating our enemies. We want that we will be able to live in an entirely different environment of relations with our enemies. We want them to be our friends, our partners, our good neighbors, and I believe that this is not impossible. It may not be as fast as we all want it to be, it may take longer than we expect, it is not as simple as it sometimes appears to the eyes of the outsiders that are not fully aware of all the complexities of the memories, and the biases, and prejudices and fears, and suspicions which characterize these relations between us and the Palestinians over such a long period of time. But this time I can say, that I have reached, as many of my colleagues, first and foremost the prime minister of Israel, that this is not impossible. That it is within reach if we will be smart, if we will dare, if we will be prepared to take the risks, and if we will be able to convince our Palestinian partners to be able to do the same. So that together we will move forward in this direction of building up different relations, better understanding, and greater trust between us and them."

Seymour D. Reich is president of the Israel Policy Forum and past chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>What if the Earth really is round?</title>
<date>23/6/2007</date>
<content>
Sometimes we make the most fundamental errors. When large numbers of people make mistakes - even monumental ones - it is almost impossible to challenge the resultant prevailing view. It was once the conventional wisdom that the earth is flat. In ancient times if anyone dared to claim that the earth was round, they would have been denigrated as being detached from reality. When, in the 16th century, Nicolaus Copernicus dared suggest that the sun was the center of the solar system and not the earth, he was regarded as a heretic.

In today's world any attempt to explain the Arab-Israeli conflict in terms other than "Israel's illegal occupation of Palestinian land" and the "denial of Palestinian nationalist aspiration" is often regarded like a declaration that the earth is flat and the center of the universe. But what if this view is wrong? What if, in terms of understanding the Arab-Israeli conflict, we are living in pre-Copernican times? What if the Jewish State that is considered to be the root of all evil in the Middle East were instead the victim?

SOUTH AFRICA'S apartheid history is often invoked against Israel both internationally - by former president Jimmy Carter among many others - and in South Africa by trade union leaders and politicians. But what if the real apartheid of the Middle East is the one directed against the Jews? And what if Israel is more akin to the African National Congress (ANC) - the famous South African liberation organization led by Nelson Mandela and now the governing party?

In South Africa the conflict was caused by a white racist apartheid regime. The ANC was always ready to talk peace, but the regime refused to talk and so the conflict could not be resolved, and the ANC was forced into an armed struggle. Like the ANC, the Israeli government has always been ready to talk peace but has been forced since the birth of the Jewish State into an armed defensive struggle because the anti-Semitic Arab world has not been prepared to talk peace.

The ANC had to wage an armed struggle for many years until finally white South Africans were ready to talk, and then the long-standing conflict was resolved relatively quickly. Unlike the ANC, Israel has not found genuine negotiating partners. And so its struggle continues, and peace remains a distant dream.

WHAT IF Zionism is not colonialism but rather an ancient people's deep connection to their native, historical and covenantal land? What if the real colonialism is Arab expansionism, which contests a Jewish state on even 1/520th of the area of Arab lands?

Nearly 4,000 years ago the forefathers of the Jewish People, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob lived in the land of Israel, which God had promised to them and to their descendants forever.  That promise was confirmed at Mount Sinai, and was delivered upon by God through Joshua, after the death of Moses, more than 3,300 years ago when the Jewish people entered the land after being liberated from Egyptian slavery and oppression. About 3,000 years ago King David established Jerusalem as the capital city of the Promised Land.

The Jewish people lived in the Land of Israel for 850 years until their expulsion by invading Babylonians. They returned in large numbers 70 years afterwards and remained for many centuries until their eviction by the Roman Empire.

Despite unremitting anti-Semitism and persecution some Jewish communities managed against great odds to remain in Israel during the long interval between the Roman dispersion and the events leading to the re-establishment of the Jewish State in 1948.

WHAT IF the dispute has never been about Palestinian statehood but really about the destruction of the Jews and the only Jewish State on earth? In 1917, the Balfour Declaration, confirmed later by international law through the League of Nations, declared the British Mandate of Palestine to be a National homeland for the Jewish people, recognizing 4,000 years of Jewish connection to the land, and the injustice of the destruction of ancient Israel by the Romans and the forced removal of the Jewish people.

In 1922 the British took 76% of the land designated for a Jewish state in Palestine and allocated it instead to the Arabs, creating east of the Jordan River a new country then called Transjordan, and later, to be known as Jordan, which to this day has a Palestinian majority.

IN 1947 the United Nations voted to establish two states - one Arab and one Jewish - west of the Jordan river on the remaining 24% of the original portion of land allocated for a Jewish State by the international community.

In spite of this reduction to their original portion the Jews accepted the offer, which was then rejected by the Arabs. This was the beginning of a long history of Arab rejectionism. And so, in 1948 the newly reborn State of Israel was invaded by Arab armies from Egypt, Lebanon, Iraq, Syria and the Arab Legion, all of which made it quite clear that they intended to destroy the tiny Jewish state at its rebirth and to massacre its citizens, many of whom were Holocaust survivors.
Israel survived the war, and from 1948 to 1967, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip were in Arab hands and there was no "occupation" of these territories then.

If the cause for the Arab-Israeli conflict is the "occupation" of the West Bank and Gaza then why did the conflict rage throughout these years unabated, with continued Arab refusal to recognize Israel and to make peace with its Jewish neighbor? Why was it that in mid-1967 just before the Six Days War, and before the West Bank and Gaza fell into Jewish hands that Arab leaders called for the destruction of Israel? What "occupation" was at issue? Why at that time did the Syrian leader order his soldiers to attack Jewish civilian targets to "pave the Arab roads with the skulls of Jews"?

FOR THE 19 years that Jordan controlled the West Bank and Egypt the Gaza Strip, the Arab world had the opportunity of establishing another Palestinian state in those territories, and chose not to.

Why not? If the conflict is about Palestinian statehood, then why was there no talk whatever of a Palestinian state for all those 19 years? After the Six Days War Israel immediately tried to enter into negotiations with the Arab world about the political future of the West Bank and Gaza. The response came from the Khartoum Conference of all the Arab States on September 1, 1967 in the form of the infamous 3 No's - "No Peace, No Negotiation, No Recognition."

And so, when in 2000 at Camp David, Yasser Arafat rejected without making a counter-offer at all, Israel's proposal of 95% of the West Bank and Gaza as well as land compensation for the remaining 5%, his intransigence was wholly consistent with Arab rejectionism of any Jewish presence at all.

IF THE Arab-Israeli conflict is about a Palestinian state than there has always been an obvious solution of two states living in peace side by side. The conflict is more fundamental and therefore, all the more intractable, and is really about Arab rejection of the very presence and existence of a Jewish State, and probably any Jews at all, in the heart of the Middle East.

And so the charter of Hamas calls for the murder of all Jews world-wide. And rockets from Gaza continue to target Israeli civilians even after Israel's evacuation. And threats of genocide and a second holocaust, together with denial of the first, emanate from Iran. And the Arab world is awash with the most rabid and pernicious anti-Semitism.

WHAT IF the war directed against the State of Israel, is really the global war of fundamentalist tyranny against freedom and democracy? Then indeed all of those who believe, with the best of intentions, that they are defending a vulnerable victim, are actually being complicit in one of the worst injustices in the history of human civilization. They will have sided with the forces of death and destruction, of fear and prejudice.

What if the world is siding against the only beacon of freedom and democracy in the Middle East, thereby endangering us all, because the fate of Jews is often a sign portending the future? Hitler came after the Jews first, and then he attacked the world. Suicide bombings began in Jerusalem and then migrated to New York, Bali, Madrid, London and Nairobi.

We need clarity to understand these tumultuous times. We also need an ultimate vision of peace and reconciliation between Arab and Jew. The conflict in the Middle East is between brothers, and that is the real tragedy. We are all the children of Abraham; Jews are the children of his son Isaac, and Arabs the children of his son Ishmael.

The Talmud tells us that, although the sons of Abraham fought for many years, when Abraham was buried in Hebron, Isaac and Ishmael were reconciled at his grave. Let us all pray to God that we will merit to see the day when brother will once again be reconciled with brother in the Middle East.

The writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Whose road map?</title>
<date>6/11/2007</date>
<content>
As did his pronouncements last August in Jericho, where Prime Minister Ehud Olmert indicated a willingness to withdraw from an area equivalent to 100% of the occupied territories, his latest declarations to the Saban Forum, in the presence of Condoleezza Rice and Tony Blair, sounded promising, even stirring. "Annapolis is a landmark," he said, "on the path to negotiations and of the genuine effort to achieve the realization of the vision of two nations: the State of Israel - the nation of the Jewish people; and the Palestinian state - the nation of the Palestinian people."

Moreover, he expressed the hope that the two-state solution would be achieved before US President George W. Bush's term ends in January 2009.

The speech sounded sincere, even impassioned. Olmert gave the impression that he was willing to confront all the difficulties - including the necessity of Israel fulfilling its part of the road map bargain. He stated firmly and clearly that Israel had now "partners for peace" in the Palestinian leadership. All the bases appeared to have been covered; the commitment of the Israeli government to the road map and a two-state solution beyond doubt.

SO WHAT is the problem? The missing piece, the crucial document that subverts any viable two-state solution, a factor in Israel's strategic considerations mentioned by Olmert as an aside only a few days ago, is Bush's letter of April, 2004, to then-prime minister Ariel Sharon. This little-noticed document fundamentally changed the parameters of what is to be discussed in any "peace process" and what Israel's obligations are under the road map. It is considered by the Israeli government as perhaps the most crucial element in its effort to retain the major settlement blocs and in that way foreclosing the possibility of a viable Palestinian state.

The essence of the Bush letter, which was subsequently ratified by the House of Representatives by a vote of 407-9 and by the Senate by 95-1, is the following passage: "In light of new realities on the ground, including already existing major Israeli populations centers, it is unrealistic to expect that the outcome of final status negotiations will be a full and complete return to the armistice lines of 1949."

In one seemingly innocuous sentence, President Bush fatally but knowingly undermined UN Resolution 242, the very basis of the two-state solution since 1967 and of his own road map initiative, by nullifying the requirement that Israel return to the Green Line (with agreed-upon adjustments) so that a viable Palestinian state might emerge.

Israel takes the American position - rejected by the other three members of the road map Quartet, the UN, Europe and Russia, but so what? - as agreement to its retaining its major settlement blocs. They are six or seven in number: the Jordan Valley, the Ariel bloc, the Modi'in bloc, the three blocs that make up "Greater Jerusalem" (Givat Ze'ev, Ma'aleh Adumim and the Etzion Bloc/Efrat), and perhaps a salient into the Hebron.

When, then, Olmert speaks of "conforming to the road map," he speaks of withdrawal from all the occupied territory outside those settlement blocs, since the Bush letter de facto annexes them to Israel. The massive building of settlements and highways within these settlement blocs do not, therefore, constitute a breach in Israel's responsibility to end settlement construction in the first phase of the road map, since they are no longer parts of the occupied territory.

The area of the settlement blocs that Israel wishes to retain may not seem like much; between 10-20% of the West Bank, including "Greater Jerusalem." But they are crucial for a viable Palestinian state - and "viability" is a term of reference in the road map.

The settlement blocs of an Israeli "Greater Jerusalem" remove from the Palestinians the economic heart of their future state, since up to 40% of the Palestinian economy, according to the World Bank, revolves around tourism in Jerusalem. The other blocs carve the West Bank into three "cantons" (Sharon's term, since Olmert's Convergence Plan, which he never abandoned, is based on Sharon's Cantonization Plan). The Jordan Valley bloc ensures Israeli control of the border and of the Jordan River's water.

Indeed, while accepting the road map, Olmert has in mind a very different document than that of the UN, the Europeans, the Russians and the Palestinians themselves. Integral to Israel's version of the document are the "14 reservations" it appended, which effectively nullify the road map as a genuine path to peace.

Reservation 
 5, for example, states that "The provisional state will have provisional borders and certain aspects of sovereignty, be fully demilitarized…, be without the authority to undertake defense alliances or military cooperation, and Israeli control over the entry and exit of all persons and cargo, as well as of its air space and electromagnetic spectrum."

IN THE end, the Palestinians may get 80-90% of the West Bank, but they do not get a viable state. They will have sterile swatches of territory whereas Israel retains control of the borders, movement of people and goods both within the Palestinian state and between it and the countries around, much of the country's arable land, almost all its water, the Palestinians' airspace and even control of their communications. The Palestine state is deprived of a viable economy. Given that 60% of Palestinians are under the age of 18 and that mini-state must absorb hundreds of thousands of refugees, it's prospects for being a viable, stable and truly independent state are nil given the unspoken parameters outlined in the Bush letter.

There will be a Palestinian state. Israel has an urgent demographic need to get the almost four million Palestinians of the occupied territories off its hands. It might even attempt to "swap" a couple hundred thousand Israeli Arab citizens of the Galilee Triangle under the pretense of giving the Palestinians more land. The crucial question is: will it be a viable state? If it's true that Olmert intends that Israel permanently retain the settlement blocs, an Israeli "greater" Jerusalem and effective control of the entire country to the Jordan River, then we will merely be substituting a sophisticated form of apartheid for occupation. The devil is in the details.

The writer is the coordinator of the Israeli       Committee Against House Demolitions.

jeff@icahd.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Who's naive now?</title>
<date>14/10/2007</date>
<content>
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is catching considerable flak from competitors in her own party for flip-flopping on Iran. In July she blasted Barack Obama for saying he would meet with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, calling his stance "irresponsible and naive." On Thursday Clinton said: "I would engage in negotiations with Iran, with no conditions, because we don't really understand how Iran works. We think we do, from the outside, but I think that is misleading."

Obama was quick to retort, "I'm not sure any of us know exactly where she is standing on this issue. But I can tell you this - when I'm president... the world will always know where I stand." This is a bit rich coming from Obama, given that he introduced a bill to impose sanctions on Iran, yet he chose to be absent on (and said he would have voted against) a bipartisan provision backed by three-quarters of the US Senate to designate the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization.

The effect of that amendment was precisely to tighten economic sanctions against the Iranian regime. There was nothing in it that even hinted at authorization of the use of force. Yet Obama bowed to the hard left in his party and opposed the strategy he had supposedly endorsed, that of tightening sanctions as the primary hope of averting both military action and a nuclear Iran.

Clinton sensibly voted for that amendment, and now seems to be tacking the other way with her pledge to engage Teheran's Islamofascist regime.

As Democrats, it is hardly surprising that Clinton and Obama are opposed to giving President George Bush a blank check on anything, including a confrontation with Iran. But they seem to have nothing to say to those many of their supporters who are much more concerned about Bush than about Ahmadinejad.  Whenever the two leading Democratic candidate start down the road of sanctioning Teheran - to say nothing of military action or helping the Iranian people rid themselves of a hated regime - they are yanked back into a hyper-pacifist position by the ostrich wing of their party.

Perhaps all this can be dismissed as a function of the politics of primaries, in which each party's more extreme wing tends to flex its muscles. Yet, what is more difficult to shrug off is how Clinton explained her latest position, that of supporting talks with Teheran.

The Bush administration, and previous administrations of both parties before it, have talked to Teheran. While such talks have generally backfired both politically and on the ground, talks per se are not to blame but the usually fuzzy-headed thinking behind them.

There is a big difference, for example, between giving the Iranians an ultimatum that they had better abandon their nuclear program and support for terrorism and, on the other hand, pretending that Iran shares an interest in a stable Iraq - as argued by the thankfully forgotten Baker-Hamilton report.

Clinton, however, justifies talks on even more bizarre grounds: "we don't really understand how Iran works." This is an astonishing statement, in that it suggests that what Iran really needs is an encounter session.

We know how Iran works: It is an aggressive, reactionary dictatorship seeking the most potent weapons on earth to enhance and project its power. Would Clinton have suggested that America needed to better understand how apartheid South Africa, or Pinochet's Chile, or Marcos's Philippines, or Stalin's Russia, or Hitler's Germany "worked"?

We know too much about how the Iranian regime works; how its president denies, at Columbia of all places, the existence of homosexuals; how it stones women to death for alleged adultery; how it leads the world in executions of children; how it has jailed thousands of regime opponents; and how it has been blowing up Americans in Iraq, funneling weapons into Lebanon, and opposing peace between Arabs and Israelis with all its might.

However much Americans distrust Bush, they - along with Europeans, Israelis, and free peoples everywhere - understand that the Iranian regime is a menace that must be stopped. Any candidate for leader of the free world has the duty to explain how they would do so, not least to those members of their own party who have become blind to the most urgent global threats to everything they claim to believe in.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why failure is not an option at Annapolis</title>
<date>18/10/2007</date>
<content>
October 2009: After the failure of the Annapolis conference two years ago, the two-state solution has finally been buried. The Palestinian Authority has disbanded itself, proclaiming that the official policy of the Palestinians will henceforth be a one-state solution, a democratic state with the right to vote for all its citizens over the age of 18. "The battle of the womb," they call it. "We will win through the womb. There will be a majority of Palestinians in this state."

The responsibility for caring for the Palestinian population has been thrust back into Israeli hands. With no PA to care for education, health and all the other daily needs of the Palestinians, the government in Jerusalem has been forced to take over, creating a heavy economic burden. Hamas has become the dominant factor in Judea and Samaria. It has ceased all violent actions against Israel, proclaiming that "the womb" is a more powerful weapon than Kassam rockets or suicide bombers.

A worldwide movement has gathered momentum denigrating Israel for its "apartheid" policies and calling upon it to grant voting rights to all its inhabitants. Demonstrations are held daily outside Israeli embassies, in a similar fashion to the rallies outside South African embassies during the apartheid days. The legitimacy of the State of Israel is increasingly being called into question as country after country slap boycotts on Israeli goods and institutions. Anti-Semitism is on the rise, with daily attacks on Jews. The pro-Israeli stance of Washington is coming under fire in American public opinion for defending a state that is so blatantly ignoring basic democratic rights.

***

SOUNDS BAD? A one-state solution is rapidly gaining supporters among Palestinian radical elements.  A failure in Annapolis could eventually tip the balance in its favor. The idea being currently floated in certain circles in Israel, that the Palestinians would become Jordanian citizens with the West Bank remaining under Israeli rule, is laughable; the Hashemite Kingdom would be committing hara-kiri by agreeing to such a solution. There could be an eventual confederation between Jordan and Palestine, but only after the Palestinians first achieve independence.

I just cannot understand our right-wingers, good Zionists, for failing to realize that the failure of the two-state solution spells disaster for the Zionist dream. This is not a question of Left versus Right; it is about understanding the reality on the ground. For Israelis - and Palestinians - to lead normal lives they must separate from each other, and that means living in two separate states.

A two-state solution, however, has its price, which both Israelis and Palestinians will have to pay. Jerusalem, a key factor in any solution, is a case in point. Jerusalem, arguably, is today the most divided city in the world - Jerusalemite Jews don't venture into Palestinian suburbs, and the Palestinian Jerusalemites steer clear of west Jerusalem.

Take, for example, the isolated village of Walaja, a so-called suburb of Jerusalem, mentioned in Prime Minister Olmert's speech in the Knesset last week. How many Jewish Jerusalemites have ever heard of Walaja? How many have ever visited it? How often does the Jerusalem Municipality tender to its needs?

As for the Shuafat refugee camp, you could count the number of Jerusalem Jewish civilians who have ever been there on the fingers of one hand, and still not use all the fingers. I could offer a dozen more names, all part of the Jerusalem Municipality and all equally unknown to the vast majority of Jerusalemites.

When the leader of the opposition, Bibi Netanyahu, theatrically declares in the Knesset that Annapolis will decide on the division of Jerusalem, he means Walaja, Shuafat, Kalandiya and a dozen more such places.

The real problem of Jerusalem, of course, is the Old City and the Temple Mount. Creative solutions that will satisfy neither side will have to be found; that will be part of the price for a two-state solution. Zalman Shoval, head of the Likud's foreign relations department and a former ambassador to the US, intimated as much when he addressed the Foreign Press Association this week.

IT WOULD be infantile to imagine that the Israeli and Palestinian negotiating teams could come up with solutions for Jerusalem, the refugee question and borders before the Annapolis event.

They will, however, have to decide on a document that will be sufficient for Annapolis to take place and be termed a success, for failure is not an option. Its consequences would be too harrowing - the collapse of the moderate, anti-violence and pro-peace camp of PA Prime Minister Salaam Fayad and President Mahmoud Abbas, victory for Hamas and other extremist factions, and the eventual demise of the two-state solution.

Annapolis will have to be the trigger that can initiate serious negotiations.  Annapolis must not be a one-off affair; it must be the start of a series of meetings to move the process forward, and to get the international players - and in particular the US - more involved. The Palestinians will have to take steps against the terrorist organizations; the Israelis will have to freeze settlement building and remove illegal outposts.

It will not be easy. Both sides will have to make painful concessions. There will be strong opposition, Israeli and Palestinian, to moving from the maximal demands that exist at present.

But eventually we will have to make the choice - to make the most of the opportunity that exists to end the conflict, or to be drawn, willy-nilly, into the unknown of a one-state solution, with all its dire consequences.

The writer is president of the Israel Council for Foreign Relations, an independent organization operating under the auspices of the World Jewish Congress, and a former director-general of the Foreign Ministry.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why I am a neo-Zionist</title>
<date>30/7/2007</date>
<content>
With the very real possibility of a renewal of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process comes a revival of the possibility of polemic politics in Israel. If the peace process does advance, the divisions between the so-called left and the so-called right which have been watered down into Israeli centrism, mainly since the beginning of the second intifada in 2000, will resurface as an existential debate probing matters of our raison d'etre as the nation state of the Jewish people.

A renewed peace process will force Israel to finally deal with the question of its borders, its relationship to Jewish history and heritage, and to the very identity of the state vis-à-vis its Jewishness and democratic values. The debate will come down to a divide between those who's minds are focused on the past, roots and traditions versus those who are searching for a new future which uses the past, roots and traditions as a link to the future but not as shackles to it.

I AM A neo-Zionist. I adhere to my right, my responsibility and my vision to the State of Israel as the state of the Jewish people. I also am a democrat whose values for fairness, equality, dignity, tolerance, and mutual respect are deeply imbedded in Jewish traditions, texts, heritage and learning.

As a neo-Zionist I genuinely understand that the Land of Israel found within our sacred texts is not Tel Aviv, but in the hills and valleys of the West Bank. But I also comprehend that Jewish survival in the Land of Israel is only possible if we give up that part of the Land so that our Palestinian neighbors can have a state of the own and live in peace with us.

There is no other way. As a neo-Zionist I am more concerned with the Jewish future than the Jewish past, and as such I recognize that we must come forth from the passages of Torah into the reality of the 21st century Middle East, and make the necessary concessions now so that our neighbors can live with the same collective and national dignity that we demand for ourselves.

In the Jewish fight over the Land of Israel it is the battle for Jewish survival between the so-called Zionists - the settlers and their supporters and those like me, the neo-Zionist, the majority of Israelis who are not blinded by a messianic dream and believe that in the ultimate balance of values, peace with our neighbors outweighs peace with our past.

Those among us who continue to advocate the Jewish settlement of the Land of Israel beyond the Green Line are in fact guilty of leading the Zionist enterprise toward its end. The settlement project in the West Bank is nothing less than an act of national suicide. The most significant and dangerous obstacle in our ability to reconcile peace with our neighbors is the continuation of the adherence to the archaic modes of our yearnings for Zion expressed by settling the hilltops surrounding Palestinian towns, villages and cities that turn the lives of the Palestinians into a daily hell.

THIS IS not what Zionism was to supposed to be about. This is not the national liberation movement of the Jewish people that sought freedom and dignity, prophetic Jewish expression in daily life and safety and security for Jews all over.

Like the zealots of bygone days, the settlers are dragging us to our own destruction. There can be no peace with settlements. This is a fact that the history of the peace process should have taught us. Even Ehud Barak who went further than any Israeli leader before him in negotiations with the Palestinians, destroyed the very process that he wanted to conclude by his misguided continuation of an accelerated settlement program. It is impossible to comprehend, certainly from the Palestinian side of the table, how one can speak about territorial compromise and withdrawal while settlements are being built and expanded. The network of settlements, bypass roads and other systems of control and protection necessary to allow the settlers to live on their hill-tops throughout the West Bank can produce no reality other than an Israeli form of apartheid and this is as far away from prophetic justice as day is from night.

When the peace process gets underway and we will once again be forced to deal with the territorial issue, we will have to choose between settlements and peace. The only decision, for those of us more concerned with our future than our past will be for peace.

The settlers themselves will ultimately have to ask themselves where they reside, in the pages of the past or in the remaking and rebuilding of the State of Israel which will have to go beyond occupation and war.

LOOKING AT how we dealt with the former settlers of Gaza, we must engage in a serious soul searching. There is nothing that endangers the justice of calling on West Bank settlers to come home to Israel than the way that the government has shamefully treated those settlers who already came home.

Neo-Zionism concerns itself with the people of Israel inside the State of Israel. When settlers come home we must concern ourselves with ensuring that they feel at home, that they have a place within society. The secular Left in Israel feels detached, to a large extent from the Jewishness of Israel which is perhaps why it is so difficult for them to feel empathy toward the suffering of the settlers who left Gaza.

It is a great challenge for the Israel that sees itself mainly in the context of cosmopolitan secular Western-oriented Tel Aviv to find its connection to our Jewish roots and our sense of peoplehood which goes far beyond our Israeliness. We must find and invigorate the Jewishness of Israel that takes us beyond the synagogue, prayer and halacha as interpreted by Orthodox Judaism. Yet this too is one of the major challenges of modern day Israel and a focal point for neo-Zionism.

Likewise, neo-Zionism must concern itself, now and certainly in a post-peace period even more intensively, with a new definition of Israeliness that works overtime to be inclusive to the Palestinian citizens of Israel.

President Chaim Weizmann once said that Israel would be judged by the peoples of the world by how Israel treats its Arab citizens. That could explain one of the reasons why the world is so critical of Israel. But more important than how the world judges Israel is the question of what we do to make Israel into a country where all of its citizens are proud to live, desire to take part in the building of the state, view their present with pride and their future with hope.

I cannot call myself a Zionist because those who use that term are following in the footsteps of the zealots of Masada. I am not a post-Zionist because I do believe that the Jewish people have a right to have a national homeland in the Land of Israel. I am a neo-Zionist, a proud member of the Jewish people; an Israeli patriot committed to a prophetic vision of embodied within our Declaration of Independence a believer in our future.
</content>
</article>
