<article>
<title>A free lunch for Hamas</title>
<date>7/2/2009</date>
<content>
Daily Telegraph (London) correspondent Tim Butcher recently reported from Gaza after the war, stating: "Targets had been selected and then hit... but almost always with precision munitions... I was struck by how cosmetically unchanged Gaza appeared to be. It has been a tatty, poorly-maintained mess for decades and the presence of fresh bombsites... did not make any great difference..." Butcher continued, "[O]ne thing was clear. Gaza City 2009 is not Stalingrad 1944."

Despite this, as far back as 1996 the NGO Human Rights Watch has been predicting an "imminent humanitarian crisis/disaster" in Gaza. Indeed, various NGOs have lodged annual claims that the Jewish state is responsible for the "imminent humanitarian crisis" in the Gaza Strip. Might they have stopped to ask: How has the Gaza Strip been "on the verge" of a humanitarian crisis in excess of 10 years?

In actuality, Israel has gone to extraordinary lengths, including the creation of the Gaza Coordination and Liaison Administration (CLA) where representatives of the IDF and government ministries work day and night, to prevent a humanitarian crisis. CLA commander Col. Nir Press spoke candidly of Hamas's "well-oiled media and propaganda machine which has succeeded in creating humanitarian 'crises' out of thin air." He gave as an example Israel's decision to suspend fuel supplies in early 2008 after a Palestinian attack on the Nahal Oz fuel depot. Before restricting the supply, Israel filled all gas tanks in Gaza to their maximum. Yet, "taking advantage of this as a PR opportunity," Hamas refused to draw on the fuel and "sent hundreds of people to gas stations in Gaza to stand with buckets in a long line."

Tony Blair, former British prime minister and current Quartet peace envoy, explained that "most people don't understand - that we're trying to urge Israel to get fuel into Gaza, and then the extremists come and kill the people bringing the fuel in. It's a crazy situation." Thus, time and time again, the aid that Israel has allowed to enter Gaza fails to reach the intended recipients: Palestinian civilians in need.

The "imminent humanitarian crisis" chorus is not only exaggerated, it is also entirely specious. In the words of the Israeli Foreign Ministry, the critics "should point their criticism toward the Hamas terrorist organization that controls the Gaza Strip." A ministry spokesman also stated that "Israel allows shipments of food, medicine, fuel and electricity to Gaza because it doesn't want a humanitarian crisis, but... there is 'foolproof' evidence that Hamas diverts supplies for 'terrorist use.' If only the Palestinians choose to cease their pointless and indiscriminate firing of rockets against hundreds of thousands of Israeli citizens, the entire region would return to normal."

Let's look at the facts.

According to the World Bank, the Palestinians are the largest per capita recipients of foreign aid worldwide. Regrettably, over the past 60 years, tens of billions of dollars have been mismanaged by the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) due to the organization's lax oversight and faulty accountability mechanisms. Last year, James Lindsay, former legal adviser to UNRWA, wrote a highly critical report calling on the organization to "ensure the agency is not employing or providing benefits to terrorists and criminals." Moreover, a member of the US Congress recently declared "there is absolutely no reason why the United Nations cannot take aggressive action to ensure that not one penny of US dollars is being redistributed to terrorists."

In the aftermath of the recent Gaza war, the immediacy of their criticism has never been greater, as nations with the best of intentions line up to donate millions for the so-called reconstruction of Gaza.

Several other relatively unknown facts regarding Gaza's potential are worthy of mention. First, Gaza's offshore gas deposits are worth an estimated $4 billion. This natural resource could be accessed to improve the lives of residents of Gaza once the anarchy and violence of Hamas is curtailed. Second, the population of Gaza is comparatively healthy and well educated. Life expectancy in the Gaza Strip is more than 72 years, which is higher than in Russia, the Bahamas, India, Ukraine and Glasgow East (Scotland).

Third, Gaza has a much lower infant mortality rate than Angola, Iran, India, Egypt and Brazil. Perhaps the most astonishing fact, is that literacy in Gaza stands at a staggering 92 percent.

Likewise, despite the ceaseless repetition by journalists that "the Gaza Strip is the most densely populated place on Earth," it is in fact markedly less densely populated than an array of other locales, including a number of economic success stories such as Monaco, Hong Kong, Singapore and Gibraltar. Additionally, Macau has nearly ten times the population density of Gaza. This is not intended to compare life in Gaza with Manhattan's Park Avenue or Beverly Hills. Neither should it be denigrated as a disaster zone.

An additional myth popularized by the media, NGOs and certain governments accuses Israel of violating international law by engaging in "collective punishment"' However, exercising legal countermeasures against a hostile entity (such as Gaza) does not constitute collective punishment under international law. Furthermore, there is nothing in international law that requires Israel to maintain open borders with a hostile entity. Examples abound of countries that elect not to trade with hostile neighbors for a variety of reasons: military, religious, economic and political. Thus in the past apartheid South Africa and Saddam Hussein's Iraq were subject to economic sanctions. Recently, others have sanctioned Cuba, Iran and even Israel.

Some provisions of international law impose upon Israel duties to act against Gaza and the Palestinian terrorists who are based there. First, Israel has the duty to prevent and punish Palestinian acts of genocide covered by the Genocide Convention (1948). Second, Israel has the duty, under UN Security Council Resolution 1373, to take various steps against Palestinian terrorists. Among the required steps, states must "refrain from providing any form of support, active or passive, to entities or persons involved in terrorist acts."

Thus, arguably, Israel is forbidden to supply aid to the Palestinian Authority, knowing that part of it will be diverted to Hamas and other terrorist groups and will, therefore, become passive support for terrorist acts. Additionally, Israel is required by Resolution 1373 to "[p]revent the movement of terrorists or terrorist groups by effective border controls." This means that Israel is required to continue maintaining strict controls on the passage of persons from Gaza to Israel.

The conflated message of the NGOs and the Hamas authorities in Gaza has long manipulated a complex reality to reap political and financial gains. In reality, the Palestinian-Israeli fighting in Gaza has been characterized by the extensive commission of war crimes, acts of terrorism and acts of genocide by Palestinian fighters. On the other hand, Israeli countermeasures have conformed to the requirements of international law. International law requires that Israel and other states take measures to bring Palestinian war criminals and terrorists to justice, to prevent and punish Palestinian genocidal efforts and, most importantly, to block would-be humanitarian donations from being misappropriated by Hamas. If you pay the piper, you get to call the tune.

In conclusion, there should be no free lunch. Why should the Hamas leadership, responsible for destroying what existed, be entrusted to dole out reconstruction financing? Simply put, terrorists and those complicit with them should not be handed the purse strings that will finance a new war.

Justus Reid Weiner is an international human rights lawyer and a member of the Israel and New York Bar Associations. He received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of California, Berkeley. He is currently a Senior Research Fellow at the Global Law Forum at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs and a lecturer at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The Global Law Forum is supported by the Legacy Heritage Fund (Ltd).
Avi Sutton is currently a research assistant working with Justus Reid Weiner at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. Sutton is a member of the Yale University class of 2010.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Another Tack: Justifying the feeding frenzy</title>
<date>12/2/2009</date>
<content>
Frustrating as these pages' preelection deadline may be, it does allow us to look back and revisit what the past news-packed weeks somewhat swept aside. Perhaps most galling is how Israel's self-defense in the South invigorated the most radical elements of Israel's far-out far-left.
Next time we carp about knee-jerk Israel-demonization abroad, we might ponder what weeds our democracy nourishes in our own overlooked backyard.

Israel-bashing sites throughout the Web boasted a petition urging the international community to "stop Israel's destructive criminal policy" and "insatiable Israeli violence" via "a massive intervention." The recommended measures include UN-imposed sanctions, "compelling" Israel to abide by the Geneva Convention, prosecuting Israelis "responsible for grave breaches" of that convention, "immediate restrictive measures" by the EU and "cessation of all upgrade dialogue with Israel."

Said petition originated from within Israel. Granted, the signatories included some of the most subversive of local Arab activists and the likes of Balad Knesset member Jamal Zahalka (fugitive Azmi Bishara's avid cohort). But also featured were hundreds of Jewish signatories - artistes, literati, academics, legal eagles and journalists - a veritable rogues' catalog, and all opinion-molders par-excellence.

PARDESS HANNA's native bard Yitzhak Laor is, expectedly, among them. This Ha'aretz literary critic loses no opportunity to side with Israel's would-be destroyers. Last week he warned in an op-ed that "Israelis will pay for years for standing behind the army as if it's 'part of us,' as if 'we sent them.'"

Last summer Laor reminded us of the sort of Arab extremism which enthralls him. It was right after the death of Mahmoud Darwish - "the Palestinian national poet," once an Israeli-Arab communist, later a PLO luminary and author of the Palestinian "Declaration of Independence." Darwish never softened his uncompromising abhorrence of Israel, not even for appearance's sake, as many of his fellow-Fatah leaders expediently did post-Oslo.

Darwish contemptuously labeled Israel's Jews "those who pass through passing words." He dehumanizingly referred to them as ephemeral despicable parasites - "flying insects" - spiteful transient interlopers, bound to depart without trace, leaving no vestige of ever having sojourned here. He steadfastly and unabashedly denied any Jewish connection with this land, any history, tie or right to remain here. He was the ultimate unrepentant advocate of ethnic cleansing and - barring that - of outright genocide. Directly addressing Israeli Jews, he demanded:

"Take your names and get out.

Steal what you will

From the blue of the sea and the sands of memory...

Don't pass among us like flying insects...

Take your bony skeletons...

Collect your illusions from abandoned holes and get out...

It's your time to get out.

Reside where you will but not among us.

Die where you wish, but not among us...

Ours is the past here

And the present and the future

Ours is the world here...

So get out of our soil

Our earth, our sea

Our wheat, our salt...

Our everything.

Get out

Of all memory

And remove with you your dead..."

Freethinking individuals may be forgiven for considering Darwish's visceral loathing anathema to progressive enlightened humanists. But those who lay claim to the liberal mantle often excel at perverting liberal articles of faith. Had any Jew dared utter an infinitesimal fraction of Darwish's harangues, he'd be ostracized, pilloried and probably tried by Israel's bon ton judiciary for incitement and hate-mongering.

BUT IT'S DIFFERENT STROKES for different folks. What wouldn't be tolerated from a Jew becomes cause for adulation in an Arab. By heaping honors and accolades on mortal foes, local pseudo-liberal sorts paint themselves as admirably benevolent. They massage their own inflated egos by embracing those who seethe with revulsion against their own people.

Little surprise then that Darwish's death was announced on our TV channels with sorrowful, somber expressions. Some radio stations accompanied the obligatory mournful tones with suitably solemn musical selections. Israel's most liberal daily - the one we should count upon to deprecate all fanatical racist exhortations - paid him the greatest tribute.

Ha'aretz commemorated Darwish with a special issue of its literary supplement - devoted exclusively to the poet who wished to expunge all of us from all memory. Exuding unmistakable post-Zionist zeal, the entire edition was headlined: "He wrote for us too." There was no hint of the mildest criticism.

There was, however, abundant unapologetic support for Darwish's denunciation of any accommodation with Israel. Laor agreed with Darwish's unmitigated rejectionism by ferociously attacking the PLO and Arafat for having ever "trusted its enemy." Laor quoted his own words to Darwish in 1994. Laor then reproved "the Palestinian national movement for having fallen into its enemy's trap." The enemy, lest the significance be missed, is still, nominally, Laor's own nation.

Laor's excesses typify the noticeable shift in his milieu. The two-state solution is no longer de rigueur. The resurgent cause celebre is the binational state - more accurately, the "democratic" state which, according to the original PLO Covenant, is to replace Israel. It'll rid itself of the Star of David flag, the menora emblem, the "Hatikva" anthem, the preeminence of the Hebrew language, Jewish holidays and, obviously, the Law of Return. This "state-for-all-its-citizens" will cease being a Jewish state.

It's exactly as Darwish envisaged, only that his version of democracy was strictly Judenrein. Laor apparently deludes himself that Darwish's militant torchbearers will be magnanimous. Still, supposing they let Laor live and hang around, what will his identity then be?
Perhaps Uri Davis, another of the above petition's signatories, can offer a clue. One of Israel's first and foremost anti-Zionists, Davis's activism reaches back into the 1960s. Member of the Palestine National Council, resident of Sakhnin and proponent of the "right" of so-called Arab refugees to inundate Israel, he was among the principal organizers of recent "Peace Flotillas" to Gaza. For years he equated Israel with apartheid South Africa, and in the name of human liberties involved himself in a host of anti-Israeli organizations.

Lately Davis converted to Islam and married Fatah campaigner Miyassar Abu-Ali. Thus someone who couldn't abide religion, especially Jewish, swore allegiance to Allah as his God and to Muhammad as his prophet.

Davis was continually a trailblazer to Israel's ultra-leftists. It's not unlikely that his hyper-radicalized disciples will indeed consider his path their logical conclusion and will follow in his footsteps. Otherwise, they'll be subject to the threats their lionized lyricist Darwish enunciated in his deceptively titled book, Leaves of Olives. It contains the 1964 poem "Identity Card" which bloodcurdlingly cautions: "The usurper's flesh will be my food. Beware! Beware of my hunger and my anger!"

All of us - with the likely exception of Davis -   are the usurpers whose livers the cannibal that Laor loves aspired to serve up for dinner.

Laor's above petition and similar documents of calumny will justify the feeding frenzy.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>April 21: Late, but welcome</title>
<date>20/4/2009</date>
<content>
Late, but welcome

Sir, - A positive step toward Israel was long in coming, but what a pleasant surprise that The Netherlands has finally taken it! In the '50s and '60s, when Israel still seemed the underdog to that fellow small country of peace-lovers - the murder of over 80 percent of its Jews freshly in mind - only then was there any sympathy for the Jewish state.

Its motivation is a bit off now; but as our sages teach, deeds count for more than motives.

From here, it is a long jump to assume that the Low Countries will join Germany, which has stood with us firmly ever since that infamous era. But in itself, the Dutch action is encouraging ("Obama: Durban II's anti-Israel slant is hypocritical," April 20).

M. VAN THIJN
Jerusalem

Tell me how

Sir, - Re "MK Zahalka in Geneva: I'm a victim of 'Israeli racist apartheid'" (April 20). If that is the case, how was he elected an MK?

MICHAEL PLASKOW
Netanya

Sir, - Am I a racist? I strongly believe Israel should be a Jewish state. There are some 22 Muslim states, and just one little Jewish state.

If Jamal Zahalka doesn't like the policies in Israel, he has the freedom to move to Palestine and join the Hamas and PA governments.

ANDEE GOLDMAN
Netanya

Sir, - Forgive me repeating what all honest Israelis know, but I'll keep it brief: Israel wants two states with secure borders. Hamas wants one state, and Israelis in the sea ("PA, Hamas reject Netanyahu's demand to recognize Israel as state of the Jewish people," April 19).

ESTHER DIAMOND
Jordan Valley

Sad state of affairs

Sir, - Several years ago, I was approached by some scientific colleagues from the former Soviet Union to help form a World Congress of Jewish Scientists. Since there are similar groups of Chinese and other ethnic scientists and there were serious problems facing Jews in science due to attempts to boycott Israeli academics and institutions, this seemed good idea.

We approached the Israeli Ministry of Science, Culture and Sport for support in trying to organize a "founding" conference in Jerusalem and were assured that some funds had been set aside for this purpose. However, the government changed to the Kadima Party, and we were told we would have to start the process again, including a meeting with the new assistant to the new minister.

When we met with this assistant, a very businesslike Israeli, she said she had read our material but objected to one aspect. In our preamble describing our group, we had referred to Israel as a "Jewish state." She indicated that if this offending statement wasn't removed, it would be difficult for us to receive funding.

We were taken aback, but unwilling to lose the funding, we asked her what her objection was and whether some other form of statement would be acceptable since as far as we knew, Israel is recognized by its own government as a "Jewish state."

After some discussion she said she would present our proposal to the minister, whom we could not meet. We were later told the funds had been used for other purposes.

So, unfortunately, it's not only the Palestinians who object to recognizing Israel as a Jewish state.

JACK COHEN, Visiting Professor
Hebrew University
Jerusalem

Ketzele's mistake

Sir, - Who doesn't know that marvelous "Ketzele" [Ya'acov Katz], his infectious smile and famous cane? He lives, eats and breathes for Israel and is viewed as a man of absolute principle even by those who disagree with his politics.

But if his letter to White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel was as reported by Matthew Wagner ("NU chairman to Rahm Emanuel: Don't forget you're Jewish!" April 20), I am afraid he has made a bad mistake.

Those of us Americans who support a strong America-Israel relationship do so as loyal Americans and because we believe it is in the US's best interests. America and Israel share the same values, including democracy.

Israel is a strategic asset to America whether in the Cold War or today in the universal fight against terrorism. To suggest that COS Emanuel act in a certain way because he is Jewish is wrong and, more importantly, counterproductive, opening up the door to the fallacious argument that American Jews have dual allegiance.

This argument was dealt with very effectively decades ago by Supreme Court Justice Brandeis in an essay ("Dual Allegiance") which argued convincingly that to be a good Jew in America one has to be a loyal and devoted American. This is as true today as it was then.

Ketzele also made a mistake in comparing Emanuel to Queen Esther. In the first place, Esther was better-looking. Secondly, this is the Pessah season, the period of salvation. Purim is behind us.

Unfortunately we will be tested in the future as we have been in the past; but after each Purim will come a Pessah and, God willing, a Yom Ha'atzma'ut.

Ad mea ve'esrim, Ketzele - but, please, no more letters like that.

SAMUEL M. EISENSTAT
New York

Red alert

Sir, - Re "Give Ramat Gan Stadium the red card" (April 20): Jeff Barak made some fine points about the unfortunate state of the top football facilities in Israel. Not only are they dangerous, they are 110 percent a disaster waiting to happen.

A couple of years ago, supporters at Jerusalem's Teddy Stadium coming forward from the stands onto the field were met by a huge iron gate that surrounded the pitch. Some fans were hospitalized but, thank God, no one was killed. The gates were removed before the following season.

I myself have been hurt at both stadiums - coming down the hill at Ramat Gan and, four years ago, crushed up against the iron fence outside Teddy Stadium near the ticket booths and entrances.

Much more work needs to be done, but until the rest of the Israeli press and football supporters protest the dangers en masse, Mr. Barak's voice will unfortunately go unheard.

JOSHUA HALICKMAN
Jerusalem

Small expectations

Sir, - Thanks to Ehud Zion Waldoks for his continuous, candid reporting on environmental issues. Reading "Israelis still have to learn how to clean up after themselves" (April 14), I once again shook my head in dismay at the weak expectations and even weaker responses to violators on the part of the NPA Inspector and KKL spokesperson.

Although education is  important in the long term, ad campaigns and public awareness messages are an ineffective response to pollution and ecological disasters-in-the-making, as well as to killers on the road. Sadly, a huge percentage of the population will not do the right thing unless someone is watching and there's a price to pay.

If people aren't good enough citizens to pick up their trash at picnic sites, how can we expect them to drive more safely and conserve water - unless there are painful consequences?

K. BRONSTEIN
Petah Tikva

'Post' goes to NY

Sir, - All major Israeli newspapers, and some magazines, are available in my former neighborhood of New York's Upper West Side - except the Post. Every time I return for family visits I check to see if your paper is there.

Finally, The Jerusalem Post is returning to New York ("From 'Post' to 'Post' - 'The Jerusalem Post' is coming to New York," April 20).

I always thought it scandalous to see a wide choice of Israeli reading material but not this veteran and venerable paper. Even with this new format, being part of another newspaper, the scar is not fully healed. In my opinion, the The Jerusalem Post deserves to be available as a separate paper and not merely an attachment.

AHARON GOLDBERG
Hatzor Haglilit
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 23: Sauce for the goose</title>
<date>22/8/2009</date>
<content>
Sauce for the goose

Sir, - Your August 20 edition had three articles which should really have appeared on the same page.

The front-page headline read "PM summons Ya'alon after his appearance at Feiglin event," implying that Moshe Feiglin is somehow beyond the pale. Apparently, people disagreed with Moshe Ya'alon's statement that we Jews have a right to build and live anywhere in our own country.

Luckily, this article was answered very handily by Douglas Bloomfield's "Risky business: Speaking truth to power." Of course, Bloomfield was referring to Nadav Tamir, our consul- general in Boston. Bloomfield was pleased that Tamir could speak his mind. Tamir was called home for his remarks, given a slap on the wrist and sent back where he will, of course, do more of the same.

Well, what's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Ya'alon deserves the same praise for speaking his mind. As Bloomfield said, "Truth telling should be encouraged, not punished." And in a democracy, side "A" gets equal talking rights with side "B."

Evelyn Gordon astutely pointed this out in "How the state encourages violence": When one side's votes are discounted and its opinions squelched, it is pushed into the corner from which violence emerges.

Peace Now referred to Ya'alon as a danger to Israeli democracy. This is true if "Israeli democracy" means that only the Left gets heard.

THELMA JACOBSON
Petah Tikva

Pliable vis-a-vis the powers that be

Sir, - As always, Irwin Cotler, a true champion of human rights, gave a lucid and convincing analysis in "The Goldstone Mission - tainted to the core" (August 17 & 19). However, I would like to suggest that it is not only the mission that is tainted.

I met Goldstone nearly 50 years ago, and have always admired his legal skills. When I practiced law in South Africa, I gave him his first brief at the Bar, and subsequently his first brief to the South African Appellate Division.

However, his recent conduct, alas, leads me to question his claim to moral stature, starting from his unjudicial rush to judgment against Ariel Sharon on Panorama, and now his foolish acceptance of chairmanship of the commission to examine the events of the Gaza war despite the obvious bias detailed by Prof. Cotler. A man of Goldstone's intelligence must surely have realized that he was chosen as a Jewish fig leaf to disguise naked bias.

Goldstone served as a judge in South Africa for many years in the apartheid era, initially as a trial judge and subsequently as an appeal judge. There is no question that, as such, he implemented apartheid law. It is well known that in the apartheid era, the death sentence was not handed down in any manner that could remotely have been described as just. Blacks received death sentences whereas whites would not - for the identical crime. In addition, for crimes other than murder, death sentences were given only to blacks.

This lack of simple justice pervaded the South African criminal system in all its aspects as well as administrative law in such matters as the Group Areas Act. Anybody who was part of this skewed system shares moral responsibility for it.

People make career choices and live with them. However, anybody who acted in this system as a judge or prosecutor cannot afterwards claim the high moral ground where human rights are concerned.

There were distinguished barristers who refused to accept judgeships in that era. Goldstone chose a different path, and this casts suspicion as to his pliability in favor of the powers that be - in this case the powerful anti-Israel lobby.

Surely it is not only the mission which is tainted, but the man himself.

LOUIS GARB 
Jerusalem

You can't beat an original

Sir, - Re your reader's August 14 letter in response to Sarah Honig's "(Trans)Jordan is Palestine" (UpFront, August 7): Although Buddy Holly has been dead a very long time, Yehuda Ben-David has a "brand new album" - no doubt because you can't beat an original.

Why, therefore, does Mr. Ben-David have a problem with Ms. Honig because her column applies to "a 50-year-old fact"? Does that make it any less valid or true - or is he suggesting that we adopt the Arab and Obama narrative where our historical rights are simply removed?

EDITH OGNALL 
Netanya

Home run

Sir, - Re "Lockerbie bomber to be released" (Online Edition, August 20): If Scotland can defy Barack Obama's wishes by sending Abdel Baset al-Megrahi home to Libya, why does Prime Minister Netanyahu find it so hard to stand up for Israel's legitimate interests? How can it be in Israel's interest to have had a de-facto settlement freeze for five months already, and received nothing in return?

PETER SIMPSON
Jerusalem

Bernie's secret life

Sir, - I couldn't believe the article about Bernie Madoff ("Madoff lover stayed on because of tenderness, lust," August 20). Who cares about the extramarital life of the greatest gonif the world has ever known?

Does Sheryl Weinstein, with a prestigious position at Hadassah headquarters, expect to recoup her investment by exposing her secret life in a book about her affair with Madoff?

David Voreacos and Linda Sandler of Bloomberg could have been more discreet in their reporting. I have The Jerusalem Post delivered daily, and my grandchildren visit me very often and many times they sit down to read my newspaper. What do I say to them if asked to explain the episode of Sheryl and Bernie?

It's trash, and does not belong in the Post.

L. BOLNICK
Jerusalem

Sir, - Adversity makes strange bedfellows, but not here. These two are birds of a feather, because both took without scruple what belonged to others.

What surprises me is that she entrusted her money to a cheater, yet still seems to value his words of endearment. Some people just don't want to know the truth.

M.M. VAN ZUIDEN 
Jerusalem

Top it off

Sir, - I wish the designers of the Taga bicycle-stroller all the success in the world ("Israeli-Dutch bike-baby carriage hybrid hopes to stroll to success," August 20), but I would like to see them showing more social responsibility.

Why in the publicity photo accompanying the article is neither mother nor child wearing a bike helmet? However sturdily built the Taga might be, facts are facts - one is nine times more likely to incur serious head injuries riding a bicycle without a helmet than with one.

The fact that this vehicle is not intended for street use is no defense; you can just as easily be involved in an accident on a bike path or park lane.

MICHAEL D. HIRSCH 
Kochav Ya'ir

Taking the pulse

Sir, - The article showing that many Ashkenazi Jews can be shown genetically to be of Sephardi origin left me wondering: Can an Ashkenazi Jew of Sephardi ancestry eat kitniyot on Pessah? ("Zeide wasn't meshugana - family has Sephardic genes," August 19.)

RONNIE STEKEL
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 27: Disservice to credibility</title>
<date>26/8/2009</date>
<content>
Disservice to credibility

Sir, - Human Rights Watch's Kenneth Ross stated that the scope of the Goldstone investigation has been broadened by the UN Human Rights Council president to include "all... violations committed in the context of the conflict (writer's italics)."

However, the council president's actual wording, according to a citation from Richard Goldstone himself, was "in the context of the military operations conducted in Gaza during the period from 27 December 2008 to 18 January 2009, whether before, during or after."

Ross's version indicates evenhandedness. The actual version does the opposite. The main issue in the Goldstone mission is its objectivity and fairness, which Ross wishes us to accept. By resorting to a verbal distortion to support his thesis, he has done a disservice to his overall credibility ("Don't smear the messenger," August 26).

ROBERT ENGLMAN
Jerusalem

To be exact

Sir, - "Netanyahu thrilled about visit to Palestine Exploration Fund" (August 26) incorrectly spoke of "40,000 photographs of Palestine, Jordan and Syria dating as far back as 1850," giving the impression that a state calledJordan existed at that time.

The territory of Transjordan was the western part of Palestine given by the League of Nations to Great Britain as a mandate to carry out its decision to create a Jewish state in Palestine. Said territory, torn by the British from the Mandate, became the country of Transjordan only in 1946.

BERNARD SMITH
Jerusalem

'Both sides of the conflict'

Sir, - Re "Int'l Elders to meet cross-section of Israeli and Palestinian societies" (August 25): Three weeks ago, the organizer of the Elders NGO contacted the Sderot Media Center about bringing a Sderot resident to Jerusalem to talk to the influential group.

Wouldn't they, we asked, visit not only the worst Arab parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, but also come to Sderot to meet with some of the countless families whose lives have been terrorized by the near-decade of rocket fire? The visit wouldn't take them far out of their way, we explained, reminding them that it takes only 15 seconds for a Kassam rocket from Gaza to hit Sderot.

The Elders organizer, while insisting that the trip was structured "to show both sides of the conflict," replied that they had no time to visit Sderot and refused a small donation to the Sderot resident who would lose a day's work in order to travel to Jerusalem.

Soon afterwards, a scheduled group of European students from a prominent worldwide Jewish organization came to Sderot to see the human side of the conflict. Several of them scoffed at a "corny and stupid" video of kindergarten children running for their lives in the midst of an oncoming rocket attack; the reality of terrorists targeting innocent civilians was lost on them. The group also criticized our work for not supporting the suffering in the Gaza Strip by not opening a media center there.

Their organizer was as stunned as we were by these reactions, clearly a reflection on the environment with which these Jewish students - described as "intensive and militant" - interact. Even the cream of the crop of European Jewish youth have, it seems, been embraced by the tentacles of Arab propaganda.

For us, it was just another day of advocating for Sderot.

JACOB SHRYBMAN 
Sderot Media Center
Sderot

Bostrom: Come visit an Israeli hospital

Sir, - Swedish journalist Donald Bostrom, who is so ready to accuse Israelis of organ-snatching, ought to visit a Jerusalem hospital and see the stream of Arabs, old and young, men and women, coming to seek medical treatment from Israeli doctors. Apparently, they are not afraid that the doctors and surgeons will illegally remove any of their organs. The number of Arabs who consult Israeli doctors clearly demonstrates their trust; and the skill and reliability of these professionals, and the respect they show to their patients (Letters, August 25).

JOEL LITKE
Jerusalem

Aw, shame - he stole your thunder

Sir, - Unfortunately for Dr. Neve Gordon ("Boycott Israel," Elsewhere, August 24), the fame that accrues to someone who labels Israel "an apartheid state" has already been preempted by former Jimmy Carter, for his book bearing that exact title.

Gentlemen: Apartheid is a policy of total separation and discrimination, based on antipathy to people of color and enforced by law.

Dr. Gordon should have realized the utterly ludicrous nature of the apartheid label being attached to Israel as he lectured at Ben-Gurion University - while witnessing the integration of the student body, faculty and all social and recreational facilities.

Carter, during his visits to Israel, should have noted that the public transportation system is used daily and indiscriminately by Arabs and Jews, and that its restaurants are frequented by all who choose to dine in them. Above all, Israeli hospitals administer quality health care to all in need - even enemy combatants in wartime.

ZEV CHAMUDOT
Petah Tikva

How about some presidential goodwill?

Sir, - While PM Netanyahu seeks ways to appease the Obama administration with tokens of misplaced goodwill ("Israel, US progressing on settlements," August 26), we have yet to see any reciprocity by Obama in releasing Jonathan Pollard.

Has Netanyahu forgotten the unkept promise former president Clinton made on October 23, 1998: "With respect to Mr. Pollard, I have agreed to review this matter seriously, at the Prime Minister's request"?

He should remind himself by reading The Wye River Memorandum (Revised Edition, December 1998, published by the Information Division - Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Jerusalem, page 25) and remind Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

COLIN L. LECI
Jerusalem

Down, and up

Sir, -  Judy Montagu's "Holding the heart" (August 26) showed that far from being a burden to their families and to society, Down Syndrome children can be a positive attribute, giving love, affection and, to quote Chaia Gilbar, "helping the family to grow." It was with some concern, therefore, that I read that the UK offers an abortion to any pregnant woman testing positive for the Down Syndrome gene.

Bearing in mind that statistics prove a total absence of Down people involved in the criminality and lawlessness that so besets modern societies worldwide, perhaps it would be a move in the right direction for scientists to attempt to identify and isolate the gene responsible for this character trait!

DAVID S. ADDLEMAN 
Mevaseret Zion

Sir, - When our daughter, Miriam, was born with Down Syndrome, she required life-saving surgery - similar, if not identical, to the surgery required by your writer's friend's daughter. It was suggested that we withhold consent for the procedure and then our problem would be "gone" in a few days. We were told that Miriam would never be able to do the things other children do.

Well, she showed them. She speaks, reads and writes Hebrew and English, rides a bike, swims and jumps rope. But more important, she's happy, charms everyone she meets, and simply makes our day.

Most important: We and our children are better people than we would have been without her.

TASYA AND ZVI STONE
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bibi on the well-trodden path of pragmatism</title>
<date>17/6/2009</date>
<content>
"The land of Israel is precious to me, precious to us, the Jewish people, more than anything. Relinquishing any part of our forefathers' legacy is heartbreaking, as difficult as the parting of the Red Sea. Every inch of land, every hill and valley, every stream and rock, is saturated with Jewish history, replete with memories... The right of the Jewish people to the Land of Israel does not mean disregarding the rights of others in the land. The Palestinians will always be our neighbors. We respect them, and have no aspirations to rule over them."

Ariel Sharon, UN General Assembly, September 2005

"We firmly stand by the historic right of the people of Israel to the entire Land of Israel. Every hill in Samaria and every valley in Judea is part of our historic homeland. We do not forget this, not even for one moment. However, the choice between the desire to allow every Jew to live anywhere in the Land of Israel to the existence of the State of Israel as a Jewish country - obligates relinquishing parts of the Land of Israel. This is not a relinquishing of the Zionist idea, rather the essential realization of the Zionist goal - ensuring the existence of a Jewish and democratic state in the Land of Israel."

Ehud Olmert, Herzliya Conference, January 2006

"But let me first say that the connection between the Jewish people and the Land of Israel has lasted for more than 3500 years. Judea and Samaria, the places where Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, David and Solomon, and Isaiah and Jeremiah lived, are not alien to us. This is the land of our forefathers... But we must also tell the truth in its entirety: within this homeland lives a large Palestinian community. We do not want to rule over them, we do not want to govern their lives, we do not want to impose either our flag or our culture on them."

Binyamin Netanyahu, Bar Ilan University, June 2009

The clear dividing line between the Left and the Right in Israel used to be over the principle of land for peace. Now, as Binyamin Netanyahu made clear in his speech on Sunday night, there is no mainstream political party that fundamentally rejects giving up part of the West Bank to the Palestinians. The only difference between a right-wing and a left-wing prime minister now, is how this concession is framed.

While the Left talk about the justice of establishing a Palestinian state, Netanyahu and his two immediate predecessors as prime minister believe in the fundamental right of the Jewish people to all of the land but pragmatically accept that this right cannot be implemented because of the presence of some 2 million Palestinians in the West Bank whom Israel does not wish to incorporate as citizens.

Yitzhak Rabin, who once described the religious settler movement, Gush Emunim, as "a cancer in the body of Israeli democracy," famously dismissed the settlers' protests against the Oslo Accords by remarking that they could "spin like propellers" for all he cared. By contrast, Sharon, Olmert and Netanyahu, speak first about the Jewish right to all the land.

A FRIEND OF MINE who grew up on a settlement in the West Bank says that this distinction is important. She protested Oslo vehemently, but Rabin's perceived contempt for the settlers hurt her more than his handshake with Arafat. She believes that, whether or not settling the West Bank was a mistake in hindsight, it was a mission that successive Israeli governments supported. Therefore, the settlers deserve expressions of understanding for the sacrifices they have made building their homes along the new frontier.

Like the Prime Minister, my friend has also moved from an uncompromising position on ceding land-for-peace to an acceptance that disengaging from the Palestinians is in Israel's interests - even at the cost of giving up the Greater Israel dream. It would be fair to say that not all of the West Bank settlers share her pragmatism. For them and for many others who share their ideology, Netanyahu's use of the term "Palestinian state" (demilitarized or not) was a profound act of betrayal. With the leader of the Likud joining the leaders of Kadima and Labor in signing up to the two-state solution - and even Avigdor Lieberman accepting it as the inevitable endgame - those who cannot countenance giving up more land or evacuating more settlements are feeling increasingly marginalized.

In this Jewish and democratic state the extreme Left is occupied by those who advocate eradicating Israel's Jewish character; it could now be said that the extreme Right - those who would have us rule the Palestinians permanently - is made up of those who would see Israeli democracy become apartheid.

Netanyahu has embarked on the now well-trodden path from "all of the land" to partition. Like those he has followed, he knows how important biblical Judea and Samaria are to the Jewish people. He just understands that even more crucial is securing Israel's future as a Jewish and democratic state.

The writer is an author and educator living in Jerusalem. Before making aliya from the UK he was a speechwriter and public affairs official at the Embassy of Israel in London.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bringing religion back to the frontlines</title>
<date>16/9/2009</date>
<content>
These thoughts are written at a time when there might be a narrow opening in the political peace process in the Middle East. We are in an important season in the religious calendar - a rare convergence of dates when the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the Jewish Days of Awe are adjacent to each other. The ideas of this sacred season give us reason to believe that we can turn this narrow opening into a wide window of opportunity.Rabbi Michael Melchior.Photo: Courtesy Michael Melchior





Many think that because something has failed once or three times, it is doomed to fail in all future attempts. Judaism teaches us the concept of repentance, which means that even if you have failed as an individual or as a society, you have a possibility of not only building a new future but turning the failures, by learning from them, into successes, or as Rabbi Nachman of Breslev said, if you believe in your power to fail, and to destroy, then you must surely also believe in your power to mend and build.When we look at the successes and failures in the pursuit of peace in the Middle East, we can see that there has been a failure to integrate religion and interreligious dialogue. The repeated attempts to ignore religion's critical role in the search for peace have been wrong. Today, almost no conflicts exist in which religion does not constitute a central component. US President Barack Obama's recent speech in Cairo highlighted the religious component of conflict, and consequently interreligious dialogue, and placed them back in their rightful places.This is the century of religion with both its positive and negative consequences. Religion should be a search for meaning, for values, for subordinating our lives to serve God. In parallel, we also know that religion has been used to crush life and hope and to hold the future hostage.Religion today assumes a very central role in people's lives, even more so than in the last century. In many ways the 20th century, with its nihilistic, totalitarian ideologies, formed a parenthesis in history, when not all conflicts were about religion or ethnicity. There were those who claimed that with the Cold War brought "the end of history." The return of religion brought us back to history, in the sense that we cannot deal with conflict resolution or management without understanding that religion is an important component.THE OSLO peace process between the Israelis and the Palestinians was led and developed by people on both sides who wanted to exclude religion from the solution. There were four main reasons: The first was sheer ignorance. Many of the decision-makers were not religious people and could not identify with those who looked to religion for legitimacy and identity, nor understand them.Secondly, many decision-makers believed it would be possible to ignore the process's religious element and it would just go away - things don't always go away, they explode in your face.Thirdly, many decision-makers thought they could deal with the conflict's underlying issues including the religious and cultural aspects after settling the political aspect, as seen in South Africa's the truth and reconciliation commission after the apartheid regime was deposed and a new political framework was in place. This kind of agreement in fact could never be workable because the underlying issues were never addressed.Finally, there is a dominant view among left-wing Israeli and Palestinian policy-makers that peace is a vehicle to secularizing society and that if there were no conflict, people wouldn't need religion.This attitude has emptied the peace process of its soul.Although there are religious components to the conflict, it is a national conflict between two peoples claiming the same piece of land. However, because religion was excluded from the solution, it became an ever-growing part of the problem. It was filled by extremist elements who tried to turn the conflict into a religious one - a conflict between "my God" and "your God" where there can be no compromise and no solution.I never would precondition a peace process on a religious track, but what has happened again and again is that a process that was supported by the whole world, and by a large majority of the people living here, has failed miserably. Every failed attempt just adds to the lack of hope for a different future.THE WAY to narrow the gap between the mess we are in and the place we would like to go could be through religious peace and interreligious dialogue.If it can be proven that religion can facilitate cooperation and peacemaking, that Islam is willing to live with the State of Israel in the midst of the Islamic world, Israelis would be much more open to the peace process, and it would restore hope for real progress. Likewise if the Palestinians would see that Israelis are not here to spearhead the clash of civilizations or to wipe out their national-religious aspiration, the Muslim world would be much more open to creating a different future together with Israelis.The Mosaica Center, which I head, deals with the core questions of coexistence and endeavors to create cooperation particularly among people with religious beliefs, who have been totally excluded from the process until now. This is a difficult move to implement since religion has its own language and narrative that is different from the standard language of conflict resolution. The belief of each religion that it holds the only and absolute truth is an inhibiting factor.However, it is precisely religious people, sure of their identity, who have the strength to bring about the progression toward a common language with the 'other.' We who look toward religion as our main source of identity can find a world not only of common interests but also of common values.THE BURDEN is on us to prove that we are able to rally the forces to do this. The good news, and the reason for optimism, is that over the few years of activity of Mosaica for example, we have already seen that if prepared in the right spirit, interreligious dialogue can make the walls of hatred and suspicion come tumbling down because there are believers on both sides.The two very intensive spiritual months of Ramadan and Tishrei create a double period of spirituality, an opportunity for finding God and for God to find us. As both Judaism and Islam express it, it is a time for us to recognize where the human limitation is and where we need to leave it to the Him to assist us and direct us. May it be God's will that we utilize this unique opportunity to build hope in a world which desperately it.A former Knesset member, the writer leads several civil society movements: Moe'tzet Yachad, a forum promoting dialogue between different strands in Israeli society; Meitarim, a network of pluralistic Jewish schools which enables religious and secular students to study together; the Citizen's Accord Forum, which campaigns for coexistence between Arabs and Israeli Jews and the correction of injustices against Israel's Arab minority; and the Mosaica Center for Interreligious Cooperation, devoted to expanding interreligious dialogue in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Ill winds from Washington</title>
<date>2/3/2009</date>
<content>
There are ominous vibes emanating from Washington signaling impending confrontations between the Obama administration and the incoming Netanyahu government.

Over recent weeks the administration has appointed to senior government postings, personnel with track records of hostility towards Israel such James Jones and Samantha Power.

But what utterly shocked friends of Israel was the selection of former US Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Chas Freeman, to head the National Intelligence Council. Freeman, who will determine what intelligence is to be presented to the president and personally attend his intelligence briefings, is a bitter foe of Israel. Until now he actually headed the Saudi-funded Middle East Policy Council where he justified Palestinian terror against Israel and even tried to rationalize Hamas behavior. Last year he accused the Bush administration of "supporting right wing Israeli governments to undo the Oslo Accords and to pacify the Palestinians rather than make peace with them". He also dismissed the two state solution as too little and too late "because what is on offer looks to Palestinians more like an Indian reservation than a country".

There were also disconcerting statements from George Mitchell, Obama's Middle East envoy. Some Israelis recollect that in the course of his involvement in the region during the Clinton era, his obsessive even-handedness resulted in an inability to distinguish between terrorists and victims. His failed 2001 plan was a classic manifesto of moral equivalency, repeating mantras about cycles of violence and condemning both sides equally for lacking restraint.

Hitherto, the US administration and Israel agreed not to negotiate with Hamas unless it unequivocally reneged on its objective to destroy the Jewish state. Mitchell has now planted the seeds for a confrontation with the incoming Netanyahu government by asserting that the divisions between the two Palestinian factions represent a major obstacle towards achieving a settlement and urged Hamas and Fatah to unite. He failed to explain the benefits of submerging the weaker Fatah into the more powerful Iranian proxy whose extremism matches that of the Taliban.

THERE ARE other troubling signals. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is providing Gaza with close to a billion-dollar bailout to be transferred through tainted bodies like UNWRA which will unquestionably strengthen Hamas. Clinton also angrily insists that Israel open border crossings, dismissing the fact that Gilad Schalit remains incarcerated and that Hamas continues launching missiles and shooting at Israelis.

Senate Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman John Kerry ominously suggested that while ultimately Israel must decide, the US would try to steer its ally in a direction that was good for Israel and the international community. Congressman Gary Ackerman, chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia, until now a strong supporter of Israel, made bizarre remarks bracketing "the same destructive dynamic which creates terrorism and the march of settlements and outposts" and "leads to the firing of rockets and perpetration of settler pogroms." Democrat Congressman Robin Baird urged the administration to reassess aid to Israel to pressure the new government.

Former US ambassador to Israel Dan Kurzer, a long-standing Obama Middle East adviser, warned that "a government headed by Benjamin Netanyahu which included Avigdor Lieberman would be a bad combination for American interests" which would be loath to "embrace a government that included a politician who was defined as a racist."

BUT THE GREATEST shock was the initial decision by the administration to participate "for the time being" in the preparatory committee for the Durban II conference, scheduled in Geneva on April 20. The original Durban "anti racism" conference in 2001 was a vile anti-Semitic hate fest boycotted by the Bush Administration. The Durban II Preparatory Committee is under the auspices of the Orwellian named UN Human Rights Commission, an evil body dominated by a coven of Moslem states and tyrannical regimes creating an obscene parody of human rights.

The committee is currently chaired by Libya, whose president accused Israel of responsibility for the genocide in Darfur and also recently recommended that Israeli Jews be resettled in Alaska. Iran and Cuba are deputy chairs. The drafts for Durban II reaffirm the call to delegitimize Israel, the only country singled out for human rights violations. The Jewish state is defined as a "foreign occupation founded on settlements, and operated by laws based on racist discrimination a contemporary form of apartheid and a security threat to international peace".

The Canadians last year announced that they would boycott Durban. The US may have done likewise had our confused Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni not prevaricated and naively hinted that Israel might yet participate if the organizers changed course.

It was thus disgraceful that after seven years of the US treating this vile body as a pariah, aware that global anti-Semitism was at an all time high, the Obama administration dispatched a delegation to the preparatory committee. They did so under no illusions that the organizers could be persuaded to alter their disgusting program.

Anne Bayefsky, a senior fellow of the Hudson Institute, detailed on her Web site (www.EyeontheUN.org) the utterly demeaning and groveling manner in which the US delegation did raise concerns about efforts to muzzle freedom of speech (such as the use of allegations of Islamophobia to block all criticism of Islam), about demands to criminalize profiling, and about discrimination based on sexual orientation. But inexplicably, they remained absolutely silent concerning the vile references to Israel in the drafts and even failed to respond when invited to comment about Iranian objections against a European proposal to condemn Holocaust denial.

The passive participation of the United States at a gathering dominated by anti-Semites whose objective is to "reaffirm the Durban Declaration" was shameful and legitimized the resurrection of the hate fest by this wretched group. Bayefsky was justified in accusing the Obama administration of abandoning and betraying Israel as well as sacrificing basic American values in order to conform to the new policy of reaching out to Iranians and other extremist bodies.

Confronted by an eruption of public indignation, the administration subsequently withdrew from this despicable forum. But enormous damage has already been incurred, and some European countries who initially intended absenting themselves may still participate.

Although the jury is still out, we face difficult times. If in order to obtain accolades from the Arab world, the Obama Administration is planning to distance itself from Israel or pressure her into making concessions which undermine her basic security needs, we must maintain a united front and stand firm.

Our American Jewish allies and friends of Israel must gird themselves for new challenges. In contrast to the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush eras when support of Israel was synonymous with US policy, they may now find themselves conflicting with a powerful administration intent on distancing itself from Israel. They are also being undermined by a minority of noisy renegade Jews who shamelessly lobby the administration to employ what they describe as "tough love," a code message for threatening Israel with sanctions if it does not obey their demands for further unilateral concessions. American Jewish leaders now face the challenge of convincing a hopefully pragmatic President Obama - whom they overwhelmingly supported in the election - that appeasing an Iranian terrorist proxy and prematurely creating a Palestinian state controlled by Jihadists can only undermine prospects for peace and harm US interests.

ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Can Obama save Israel from itself?</title>
<date>11/6/2009</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is beginning to sweat.

Notwithstanding the agreement between US President Barack Obama and Netanyahu on issues such as the recognition of Israel as a Jewish state and the insistence that the Palestinians renounce violence, there are points of serious contention between the two leaders.

These include Obama's position that the two-state solution is the only way to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, his demand that Israel stop building settlements and his intimation that all the settlements are illegal.

Other points of strife include Obama's call for regional nuclear nonproliferation (which, in effect, assumes that Israel's nuclear capacity will be part of the negotiations with Iran), his recognition of the plight of Palestinians, including the refugees, and his claim that Hamas is a legitimate rather than a terrorist organization.

So far Obama's challenges to Israel have been theoretical, and the only substantive demand that Washington has made involves the 100 or so Jewish outposts in the West Bank. Reiterating President Bush's directive, Obama recently asked Netanyahu to begin dismantling the outposts.

Legally the outposts are just like the 121 settlements (namely, they are all illegal). Only the outposts were built following the 1993 Oslo Accords, and, as opposed to the settlements, which are now home to close to half a million Jews - or about 7 percent of Israel's citizenry - almost all the outposts are extremely sparsely populated with less than a dozen people in each.

Netanyahu did not refuse, but instead of carrying out the job, he decided to put on a show.

Last week, the government sent troops to dismantle two outposts. The television networks were invited to cover the event, and that evening viewers watched how a group of settlers struggled against the most powerful military in the Middle East. Within hours of the news broadcasts, the settlers had already rebuilt the outposts, and thus today we are, once again, back to square one.

The perceptive viewer understands that the government and the settlers are staging the events, using the media to broadcast them to the world. The images of lawless fundamentalists fighting the military convey a clear message to the audience at home: If Netanyahu dares to dismantle the outposts, the settlers will not only topple his government, but there will be blood. More specifically, the not-so-latent inference is that if Netanyahu goes ahead with Washington's directive, he will be responsible for a civil war.

While all of the major news networks provided a similar narrative, Channel 2, the most popular news provider, dedicated 14 minutes of prime time to the issue. In the segment, a reporter is shown interviewing a settler from Karnei Shomron in the West Bank about the dismantlement of Jewish outposts. The two men are standing on a mountain ridge overlooking Palestinian fields that had been set on fire.

The settler asserts that "this is the price tag...  People need to know that if they dismantle anything in Judea and Samaria, there is a price." He then looks at the horizon and asks, "Do you see all these mountains?" and immediately responds, "They are all ours."

When the reporter inquires what the settlers will do if a nearby outpost is dismantled, he exclaims that the government will not destroy it, and then adds, "They might destroy a little shack in the outpost to send pictures to the n***** in the United States."

The crux of the matter is that this pathetic, racist settler is right: The images of troops dismantling a few outposts and the forceful resistance are all part of a well choreographed spectacle that is being produced specifically for Washington. Otherwise, why remove only two outposts at a time instead of 40 at once and getting the job done? And why invite the networks to cover the events and not dismantle the outposts by surprise in the early morning hours when the settlers are not ready?

The answer is straightforward: Netanyahu wants Obama to think that Israel will end up in a civil war if the White House stands firm.

The question now is whether Obama will back off or whether he will he have the courage to make Netanyahu dismantle both the outposts and the settlements. If Obama hesitates, Israel will become a full blown apartheid regime, while if he remains bold he will probably be remembered as the president who helped save Israel from itself. To do so he will have to make Netanyahu sweat much more.

Neve Gordon teaches politics at Ben-Gurion University and is the author of Israel's Occupation (University of California Press, 2008).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: Parliamentarians pledge to fight</title>
<date>21/2/2009</date>
<content>
I have considered myself a "Daniel Pearl Jew." Like that Wall Street Journal reporter Islamist terrorists kidnapped then beheaded in Pakistan - whom I never met - I was born in the early 1960s into the post-Auschwitz covenant. The world had sinned against our people, but now condemned anti-Semitism. We felt especially protected as Americans. Welcomed by America's meritocratic openness, we were lucky enough to attend elite schools, I went to Harvard; he went to Stanford. Our final layer of protection came from working as professionals for world class institutions, me at McGill University, him at the Wall Street Journal. Pearl interviewed Islamic fundamentalists unafraid - he was a Wall Street Journal reporter in a post-Holocaust world, after all.

Pearl's brutal beheading after being forced to say "I am a Jew," symbolized the new surge of anti-Semitism from Islamist barbarians. This resurgence, fueled by genteel enablers on campuses and in the media, violated the post-Auschwitz covenant. Few of us have paid the price Daniel Pearl and his family did. Nevertheless, too many of us have experienced an unhappy step back toward our grandparents' world, a world populated and marred by too many anti-Semites.

FOR THAT REASON, the London Conference on Combating Anti-Semitism held February 16 through 18, was so significant - and potentially healing. Watching 125 parliamentarians from 42 different countries devote two and a half days to discussing this curse, was sobering yet inspiring. The magnificent setting in the House of Parliament and historic palaces generated a mystical sense of historical tikun, repairing, as so many non-Jewish politicians denounced this old-new malady in halls of power that once helped perpetuate it. Cocktails at Lambeth Palace, the Archbishop of Canterbury's majestic home adorned with severe portraits of pinched predecessors who detested Jews, felt particularly redemptive.

The words spoken were even more splendid than the buildings, evoking a collective power repudiating this hateful prejudice. John Mann, the member of Parliament who hosted the gathering, is an altruist with no Jewish connection, few Jewish constituents, but an aversion to injustice. "We have drawn a line," he thundered in closing the conference, "and those who cross it - we will re-educate or we will knock down."

Earlier, the Canadian MP Irwin Cotler, co-founder with Mann of the Inter-Parliamentary Coalition for Combating Anti-Semitism, explained the need for such a conference. He described the new anti-Semitism's "globality and toxicity," generated by a pathological Islamist ideology, fueling genocidal threats against Israel from Iran, spread by the Internet, echoed by useful idiots who overlook Islamist's fascist tendencies in their zeal to tag Israel with the sins of Nazism and Apartheid. This demonization transforms the traditional hatred of the individual Jew into an unreasoning prejudice and unremitting campaign against Israel, the collective expression of the Jewish people.

Amid all these eloquent ministers and righteous legislators, a highlight was the appearance of that hero who showed that sometimes good men can triumph over evil systems, Natan Sharansky.

BEYOND THE RHETORIC and the ringing tones of the London Declaration the parliamentarians ratified, a parallel conference of experts analyzed strategies for combating anti-Semitism. The conference showed that:

It is possible to criticize Israel without degenerating into anti-Semitism; it becomes anti-Semitic when Israel is treated as individual Jews have been treated over the centuries, singled-out, disproportionately criticized, demonized.

Islamism is the enemy. Dennis MacShane, Labour MP, writes in his important new book, "Globalising Hatred": "Islamism the ideology ... has unleashed new twenty-first century anti-Semitism and it is impossible to discuss the problem without dealing with Islamism."

There are many ways to criticize Israel but those who call Israelis Nazis or invoke the historically inaccurate analogy of apartheid racism malevolently link Israel with the 20th century's two great national sinners to justify Israel's ostracism and destruction.

Thanks to the Internet, anti-Semitic material that marginal characters once peddled wrapped in brown paper can now be cited unwittingly by students who stumble onto information manipulated to appear at the top of the Google search engine.

In April the review of the infamous Durban conference will probably give modern anti-Semitism renewed respectability. Inviting other countries to join Canada in boycotting this farce, the Canadian Minister Jason Kenney challenged Europeans for waiting for the Americans or worrying about the UN's sensibilities, saying: "I always thought Europe prided itself as having its own independent foreign policy aligned with its own values and interests."

THE FIGHT against anti-Semitism must be proactive not just reactive. Smart coordinating strategies between Jewish institutions and local police forces in both England and Canada have improved community intelligence, increased police effectiveness, while empowering individuals. On the Internet, defensive strategies are insufficient. Educators must envision Citizenship 2.0, teaching students to avoid polluting on line-discourse themselves, to combat on-line hate, to be critical of sources on-line, and to use the net's grassroots power to defend democratic values against purveyors of hate.

At the opening breakfast, England's Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks praised the gathering's cross-party and international nature. "I want to bless you for being here," he said. "One of the worst things about being hated is the fear that you are alone. We are not alone."

We are blessed. In the name of Daniel Pearl and other victims, in the name of the Holocaust martyrs who had no such conference to try saving them, in the name of Jewish students harassed on campuses, in the name of French Jews beaten by fresh converts to Islam forced by their new co-religionists to prove their loyalty, the 125 honorable parliamentarians proved this is not the 1930s. We cannot let the Islamists and their enablers Left and Right win. We should follow leaders like John Mann and Irwin Cotler, spearheading this army of righteous people to repair the post-Auschwitz covenant, and combat Jew hatred as part of the broader fight against bigotry worldwide.

The writer, a professor of history at McGill University, is the author of Why I Am a Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the Challenges of Today. His latest book Leading from the Center: Why Moderates Make the Best Presidents, was recently published by Basic Books.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Do Arabs and Jews realize how much they look alike?</title>
<date>10/6/2009</date>
<content>
A new coexistence project entitled Enemies by Swiss artist Olivier Suter seeks to show how people define the "other." Suter noticed that in many conflicts people come to hate and stereotype an "other" and ascribe all sorts of differences, particularly ethnic ones, to their enemy. He believes that if he can show that most people locked in deadly conflict look alike they will have no reason to be enemies.

Towards that end he received backing from Charlatan, a Swiss-based artists collective, to publish an advertisement in March 2008 showing eight unidentified people and asking readers to submit photos of anyone who looked like them.  He had chosen eight Palestinians and by publishing his "wanted" ad in Haaretz he was hoping to get pictures of Israeli Jews. Sure enough he received many of them. His final selection included a picture of an Israeli girl who remarkably resembles, almost identically, a Palestinian boy from Beit Hanina. The project is not limited to Israel. He intends to embark on a similar stunt in Belgium, showing that Flemish and French speakers look alike. Next he is going to Africa and will prove that Hutus and Tutsis, the latter the victim of the Rwandan genocide, look alike.

The implication is clear: Israelis and Palestinians, Jews and Arabs, look alike.  Since we look alike there is no reason for a conflict. Suter asks, "Can two people who look so similar that they could be mistaken for identical twins really be enemies?" The project also seeks to show that by hating the other we are in affect hating ourselves since we are all the same. Those campaigning for a color-blind world have long championed this tune in their statement "one race: human." But while this project theoretically should make us think twice about the way we view the Palestinian "other," it also has a lot to say about accusations of Israeli racism and apartheid.

ANTI-ISRAEL ACTIVISTS and extremists who write about Israel in the West tend to portray its Jews as white and European, and Arabs as dark and "indigenous." This is part of the rhetoric that wants to connect Israel to the policies of apartheid South Africa. The overtones of this racial lens of the conflict can often be found in anti-Israel material, such as Caryl Churchill's play Seven Jewish Children. It is perpetuated in more obscure ways by media outlets that often include pictures of headscarf-clad Palestinian women and very light skinned, even blond, Israelis. It is more blatant among fringe extremist groups such as the Palestine Solidarity Review, where Lauren Ray wrote in the fall of 2003 that they were "organizing and educating about the nature of Israel's white supremacy and colonialism."

Tal Nitzan, a Hebrew University M.A. student, authored a 2008 thesis, supported by sociology professor Eyal Ben-Arie, in which she claimed that IDF soldiers don't rape Arab women because they are racist.

Olivier Suter's project deserves attention for this reason. It shows the degree to which the "racist" and "apartheid" slur aimed at Israel is a myth. There are great differences between Jews and Arabs and Palestinians and Israelis, just as there are great differences within the two groups: between Yemenite and Persian Jews, between Hebronite and Jerusalemite Arabs, between Beduin and Druse. There are certainly elements of racism within Israel's multicultured society, such as that which sometimes is felt between Ashkenazim and Sephardim, or even between Beduin with African ancestry and Beduin with Arab ancestry in the town of Rahat. But it is very far from a racial conflict.

In a 2003 article in the Gotham Gazette, an on-line magazine focusing on New York, J.E. Safa noted that "Arabs come in all shapes and sizes and colors; they are not all dark haired and dark eyed." The same might be said of Jews. Surely Suter's project reminds us of this. If only the Israel- and Jew-hating activists who recently assaulted Israel's ambassadors to Spain and Argentina, barricaded Jews in Hillel at York University and rioted over tennis star Andy Ram in Sweden, all in the name of "anti-racism," could see behind their own myths of Israel and the Jewish other.

The writer is a PhD student in geography at the Hebrew University and runs the Terra Incognita Journal blog. sfrantzman@hotmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editor's Notes: Defamed and deaf to it</title>
<date>26/3/2009</date>
<content>
In a few days' time, Prime Minister Gordon Brown is scheduled to convene a meeting dedicated to the issue of exports to Britain from the West Bank.

Specifically, it is understood, British supermarkets are being pressed by critics of Israeli settlement policy to initiate a new labelling practice, whereby goods from Palestinian and Israeli producers are respectively marked as such, so that British consumers will know whether they are buying Israeli or Palestinian products.

Pro-Israel activists in the UK believe they stand a good chance of heading off this initiative. As of this writing, it does not appear likely that a representative from or supporting Israel will be present at the meeting, but lines of communication are open, and a strong argument has been formulated that such a practice as regards exports from disputed territories would be uniquely unfair and discriminatory.

If, however, the argument fails to prevail, this seemingly marginal initiative could yield far wider, indeed critical, repercussions.

For a start, pro-Israel activists in the UK and Europe believe that supermarket chains, with their attention firmly focused on profit margins, would likely be disinclined to enter the complex and costly minefield of separating "Palestinian" exports from "settler" exports, and might well decide just to purchase their goods somewhere else altogether.

Furthermore, the activists worry, the assiduous Israel-bashers who relentlessly press for academic and journalistic boycotts, who recently sought (and failed) to prevent seven Israeli university lecturers from giving talks to high school students at two British science museums, and who are now targeting settlement exports, will not stop at the Green Line. They will, rather, move on to seek a South African-style ban on all Israeli exports.

What begins in the UK, the activists with whom I spoke this week further noted, could quickly spread to Europe - where, incidentally, there have already been some extremist-organized consumer protests against the sale of Israeli products, and where Sweden will soon be succeeding the notably more sympathetic-to-Israel Czech Republic as president of the European Union.

The notion that the tried and true methods of anti-apartheid trade protest could be widely adopted against Israel in Britain and then Europe may seem unthinkable to some. But it is not unthinkable to those who are internalizing the degree to which Israel is being demonized and delegitimized post-Operation Cast Lead, and the extent to which this process makes defending Israel uncomfortable even for those on that continent who do have the rare capacity to distinguish between legitimate criticism and distortion, manipulation and outright falsehood.

Put simply, Israel has rarely looked this bad in European eyes.

CLAIMS FROM august-sounding UN bodies that Israel was guilty of war crimes in Gaza have been reported with immense resonance overseas. New allegations that Israel deliberately killed civilians (as detailed by Israel itself, in the shape of the head of a pre-army military academy), that it targeted medical personnel and that it illegally used children as human shields are making the front pages of many influential newspapers and feature high on TV news lists too.

Reports that Israeli soldiers designed "humorous" T-shirts, featuring slogans such as "The smaller they are, the harder it is" (accompanying a drawing of a Palestinian child in IDF gun sights) and "1 shot, 2 kills" (under a similarly framed sketch of a pregnant Palestinian woman), have been widely circulated, and set tellingly against Chief of General Staff Gabi Ashkenazi's insistence that ours is "a moral and ideological army."

And all such claims are detailed in the wider context of the massive civilian death toll in Gaza - "an estimated 1,400 Palestinians dead, most of them believed to be civilians," as the relatively pro-Israel London Times put it in its atrocities and T-shirts story this week, basing itself on Gaza's Hamas government figures.

Good faith consumers of news take such reports at face value. Why wouldn't they?

They don't know that Israel fiercely disputes the Hamas-fuelled assertion that most of the Gaza dead were civilians, with the IDF formally stating on Thursday that the "vast majority" of Palestinians killed in Operation Cast Lead had been found to be "terror operatives" - a total of 1,166 dead, of whom 709 had firm terrorist identifications, 295 were noncombatants and 162  men who had yet to be classified.

They don't know that Israel credibly argues that several key UN bodies and personnel highlighting Israeli atrocity allegations have a dismal track record of anti-Israel bias.

They don't know that even the patchy information released by the IDF makes plain that many of those "medical personnel" mourned as victims by the Gaza authorities and the disseminators of their narrative were actually Hamas gunmen.

They don't know that the reprehensible "humorous" T-shirts are not a widespread phenomenon.

They don't know that the head of the pre-IDF academy who compiled the targeting-the-innocent allegations went to jail for refusing to serve in the West Bank, that key soldiers involved now say they were discussing "rumors" and have no direct evidence of any such crimes, and that the central terrible charges of "cold-blooded" killing have been refuted after investigation by the relevant unit's brigade commander.

(As The Jerusalem Post was told by the IDF on Thursday, "In the [central] incident of the alleged shooting of the mother and her children, what really happened was that a marksman fired a warning shot to let them know that they were entering a no-entry zone. The shot was not even fired in their general direction... The marksman's commander ran up the stairs of a Palestinian home, got up on the roof, and asked the marksman why he shot at the civilians. The marksman said he did not fire on the civilians. But the soldiers on the first floor of that house heard the commander's question being shouted. And from that point, the rumor began to spread. We can say with absolute certainty that the marksman did not fire on the woman and her children... We know with certainty that this incident never took place.")

Many Diaspora Jews don't know much of this either. I was approached on several occasions in recent days by friends and acquaintances, anxiety etched into their features, asking me to help them distinguish between legitimate concerns that merit serious investigation and outrageous misrepresentations about what had happened in Gaza. "Why were so many Gaza civilians killed?" I've been asked a few times. "And what about those reports of deliberate attacks on civilians? It's Israelis themselves who are saying it."

I'm only glad that these people asked me.

Others, I'm sure, have peeled off in one of four directions: to join the chorus of under-informed or ill-motivated criticism, to silent noninvolvement, to a perceptive if uncertain sense that Israel is being defamed, or to a misguided I-don't-want-to-know because Israel-can-do-no-wrong mindset that precludes necessary discussion.

IN THE current toxic climate, there is little likelihood of Israeli generals being enabled to travel to parts of Europe in the near future safe from the risk of arrest and indictment for war crimes. There is every prospect of new and intensified boycott efforts.

And as our new, Right-led government takes office, the campaign of demonization will only gather force.

The confused results of the Israeli election showed a nation that, on the one hand, has long since internalized the need for an accommodation with the Palestinians but, on the other, saw scant possibility of achieving it on terms that don't threaten our ability to live here in elementary safety.

Outgoing Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's acknowledgement, with the cameras running, at the March 15 cabinet meeting that the failure to reach an agreement was "first and foremost the result of the Palestinian leaders' weakness, lack of will and lack of courage," merely confirmed what a consensus of his countryfolk had already sadly concluded.

But the fact that the most flexible Israeli government to date, insistently dedicated to seeking an accommodation, failed to prod its Palestinian interlocutors into accepting viable terms for coexistence has not resonated with remotely comparable impact to the various atrocity allegations. The argument that Israel tried, again, under Olmert, to build a sustainable two-state partnership, and that it failed, again, because even the relatively moderate Mahmoud Abbas would not meet him halfway, is all but inaudible outside resolutely pro-Israel frameworks.

Thus the electoral swing to the right is incomprehensible to some, and for others is ostensible proof of Israel's implacable, despicable refusal to liberate the Palestinians - proof, that is, of our obdurate opposition to peace.

The daily drip-feed of war crime claims reinforces this train of thought. The demolition of Palestinian homes and the disinclination to respect Supreme Court demands for the demolition of Jewish homes on private Palestinian land in parts of the West Bank adds further fuel to the fire. So, too, film of the far-Right marching in Umm el-Fahm. Loyalty oathman Avigdor Lieberman, getting ready to succeed gentle Tzipi Livni at the Foreign Ministry, is emblematic of our ostensible irredeemability.

Staunching the tide of delegitimization is a strategic imperative - an arduous battle that, first and foremost, requires the internalization here at home of what is happening to our standing abroad. Abysmally, while our political leadership is preoccupied with coalition-building (or more accurately with reconciling the conflicting narrow interests of egotistical would-be ministers) and a sensationalist, sometimes politically motivated media often exacerbates the problem, there is no sign at all that any such realization has dawned.

LABOR'S DISPUTED, Ehud Barak-led decision to bring stability and political width to the Netanyahu coalition will easily be dismissed by some of Israel's continental critics as meaningless. Labor, it will be claimed - indeed, as the party's own defeated minority does claim - is nothing but a fig-leaf, its leaders clinging desperately to power, betraying their voters, empowering the political enemy.

Netanyahu's genuine and desperate pursuit of some kind of "unity" partnership belies this. So, too, does the deliberately more dovish tone that the Likud leader set both during the election campaign and after its cloudy conclusion.

Where the Netanyahu-Barak partnership can emphatically stage a rhetorical defense against the swelling depiction of apartheid Israel, however, is in a reiteration of the vision of Israel contained in our Declaration of Independence and fundamental to our very establishment here as a Jewish state.

The international community brought Israel back to life 62 years ago as one of the two entities into which it was partitioning the former British mandate territory of Palestine. Israel's nascent leadership, though deeply unhappy with the contours of that proposed division, chose to accept it. Those who spoke for the Palestinians did not, and set about what they fondly and incorrectly imagined would be the rapid destruction of the new Israel.

"We extend out our hand to all neighboring states and their peoples in an offer of peace," we declared in our founding statement. Our new government should make this plain again today. Netanyahu has said he seeks peace with the Palestinians. He has said he has no desire to rule over a single Palestinian. He has also said that Israel cannot countenance statehood for the Palestinians so long as there is every danger that their leadership would abuse the freedoms of their sovereignty to bring an end to ours.

But there is no contradiction between those positions and a ringing reendorsement of the principle of a two-state solution. Israel needs to separate from the Palestinians if we are to remain at once a majority Jewish state and a democratic one. That goal should be advanced by any and every government, and restated at any and every opportunity.

It will not persuade those who are resolutely deaf to the fundamentals of our reality. It will constitute nothing revolutionary for those who truly know and understand us. But it will have an impact on those many good-faith consumers of information from our region who currently don't know who or what to believe and who are being encouraged, day after day, by those whose real interest is not to "end the occupation" but to end Israel, to believe the very worst.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editor's Notes: The oldest hatred</title>
<date>19/2/2009</date>
<content>
Israel is the only sovereign state whose destruction international society will excuse

"If you take a trip overseas
Tuck your Star of David into your shirt
It's dangerous if they know you're from here.
If they ask you, say you're from Greece
Say you're from Sudan
So they don't make trouble for you."
- translated from the Tea Packs song "Neshika Le'Dod"

A few years ago, on a family holiday in London, we spent an afternoon watching the street performers at Covent Garden - fire-eaters, trick-cyclists, jugglers. One of the better acts, a young man with a mop of dirty blond hair and an Edwardian tweed jacket, combined the three skills for his raucously applauded finale, juggling fire-torches and dousing them in his mouth while mounted atop a particularly precarious unicycle.

Earlier in his routine, already sky-high on the bike, he had called out for a volunteer to throw three sticks up to him - fat-bodied juggling clubs, I believe they're called - and my young sweet son had been the first in the sizable crowd to raise his hand and been selected.

The juggler called down and asked him his name, he obliged, and then the juggler asked where he was from. I felt my heart skip a beat. I'd seen Israel demonized on the pages of some of the heavyweight newspapers during the trip, noticed nasty anti-Israel books prominently displayed in central London bookstores, and heard from Jewish friends about the steadily rising tide of anti-Semitic incidents. When my son said "Israel," I truly feared the crowd would boo him.

They didn't. Some of them appeared puzzled and the juggler nearly fell off his unicycle, but that was because the information didn't compute. My son looks more Scandinavian than Semitic. "Israel?" the juggler queried. "Israel," the boy repeated confidently. The juggler shrugged his shoulders (as much as one can atop a unicycle), the act continued, and I heaved a silent sigh of relief.

I wonder whether a London crowd would react serenely today. I wonder because the anti-Semitic tide has risen far higher in the last few years, and especially in the last few months, since Israel entered Gaza to try to stop the Hamas rocket attacks on our citizens. I wonder because I've watched TV footage of the venomous anti-Israel demonstrations, heard the vicious accusations against Israel broadcast on radio and TV, read politicians' denunciations of our purported war crimes, seen the boycott campaigns winding up again on university campuses and in the unions.

Those oldster warnings in the Tea Packs lyrics I quoted above seemed amusingly paranoid when that album first came out in 1997; the song was a gentle satire on the over-fussy protectiveness of the out-of-touch older generation. But today? Diaspora Jews, Israelis abroad, how prominently do you display your Stars of David?

I WONDER especially because of an article I was forwarded this week from the Jewish Chronicle, titled "Hatred is turning me into a Jew," by a journalist named Nick Cohen.

I don't know Cohen personally, though he was working at the Independent many years ago when I was doing some reporting from Israel for that newspaper. He was a compelling writer, and a firm man of the Left, and I was fascinated to read a book he wrote two years ago that critiqued the camp in which he had been brought up: What's Left? How Liberals Lost Their Way.

"In the early seventies," that book begins deliciously, "my mother searched the supermarkets for politically reputable citrus fruit."

Seville oranges were out (she couldn't be subsidizing General Franco). So, too, Algarve oranges (Portugal's Antonio Salazar), Outspan (apartheid South Africa), Florida (the loathsome Nixon) and of course our own Jaffas (occupation). "My sisters and I didn't know it, but when Franco fell ill in 1975, we were in a race to the death," writes Cohen. "Either he died of Parkinson's disease or we died of scurvy. Luckily for us and the peoples of Spain, the dictator went first..."

Cohen's Jewish Chronicle piece is as deftly constructed, but with little of the light humor. Despite the name, he's not halachicly Jewish, he makes clear, but "the more the British Left indulges anti-Semitism, the more kosher I feel."

His only interest in Judaism when he was growing up, he recalls, was as a left-wing adversary of the neo-fascists. Back then, "You did not have to be a Jew to oppose fascism; everyone I knew did that regardless of color or creed."

Nowadays, though, while the modern Left still opposes the white neo-Nazi parties, Cohen claims, it "succors and indulges... the clerical fascists of radical Islam." Britain's so-called liberals may not applaud the Islamists, but they won't condemn them either. "From the broadcasters, through the liberal press, the Civil Service, the Metropolitan Police, the bench of bishops and the judiciary, anti-Semitism is no longer an unthinkable mental deformation. As long as the conspiracy theories of the counter-enlightenment come from ideologues with dark rather than white skins, nominally liberal men and women will not speak out."

Cohen, who might have added the unions, teachers and academics to his list, steers his agonized polemic toward the consequent dangers facing his local Jewish community. In a stunning indictment of the current mindset, he asserts that Britain's Jews are "the only ethnic minority whose slaughter official society will excuse. If a mass murderer bombed a mosque or black Pentecostal church, no respectable person would say that the 'root cause' of the crime was an understandable repulsion at the deeds of al-Qaida or a legitimate opposition to mass immigration. Rightly, they would blame the criminal for the crime."

But if a synagogue were attacked, "I guarantee that within minutes the airwaves will be filled with insinuating voices insisting that the 'root cause' of the crime was a rational anger at the behavior of Israel or the Jewish Diaspora. Put like this, the position of British Jewry sounds grim."

I have no doubt that Cohen is correct.

At a conference in London this week, 125 members of parliament from 40 countries solemnly put their signatures to a document that commendably acknowledges the morphing of anti-Zionism into anti-Semitism, and expresses alarm "at the resurgence of the old language of prejudice and its modern manifestations - in rhetoric and political action - against Jews, Jewish belief and practice and the State of Israel."

The venue was appropriate, indeed. As Natan Sharansky told The Jerusalem Post from the conference, "If you look at the new anti-Semitism, the leading force is the UK."

The same UK where, just days before the Conference on Combating Anti-Semitism convened, that bible of the modern Left, the Guardian, allowed the Islamists to further skew and poison its readers' minds by publishing an op-ed by Hamas's Health Minister Bassam Naim that bewails the "demonization" of Hamas and duplicitously claims "Our struggle is not against the Jewish people, but against oppression and occupation. This is not a religious war. We have no quarrel with the Jewish people." (His movement's guiding charter, Article Seven, proclaims the sorry truth: "The Prophet, Allah bless him and grant him salvation, has said: 'The Day of Judgement will not come about until Muslims fight the Jews (killing the Jews), when the Jew will hide behind stones and trees. The stones and trees will say O Muslims, O Abdulla, there is a Jew behind me, come and kill him.")

Naim, incidentally, is the uncle of Anas Naim, who was described as a medic from the Palestinian Red Crescent in the Palestinian media when he was killed during Operation Cast Lead in Gaza City on January 4, but who, as the Post reported this week, is shown in numerous pictures on Hamas Web sites posing with an RPG and a Kalashnikov assault rifle.

COHEN IS correct, but I don't believe for a moment that the malaise is limited to Britain and its Jews. Indeed, I know directly from Jewish leaders in France, Scandinavia, South Africa and Latin America how acutely threatened some members of their community feel. The wails of concern flood into my e-mail box every day from the Netherlands, Ireland, Spain, Venezuela and beyond, from country after country where newspapers place distorted dispatches from Israel's battle for survival on their front pages - misrepresenting our policies, our actions and the motivations of our enemy - while their home news pages carry features disingenuously bemoaning an upsurge of domestic anti-Jewish sentiment.

And as Israel's Ambassador to the UK Ron Prosor cautioned his audience at the Herzliya Conference earlier this month, in a talk on the delegitimization of Israel, "where Britain is today, America will be in a few years' time."

People of roughly my generation grew up, it now begins to seem, not, as we had fondly believed, in a post-World War II era in which the scourge of anti-Semitism had finally been eliminated, and a sobered international community was truly determined after the Nazi horrors to ensure "Never again."

That period of relative tranquility was, rather, merely a blip. A scandalized pause. And the interregnum is well and truly over now, with the oldest hatred propelled afresh by the benighted Islamists and seized upon by latent bigots everywhere.

While the very English and hardly Jewish (father's side) Cohen's concerns are understandably focused on his doorstep, his warning about the revived immoral readiness to let the fascists come for the Jews applies internationally. But most of all, it applies in the case of Israel itself.

Let's just slightly rework his key sentences: Israel is the only sovereign state whose destruction international society will excuse. If it came under existential attack, we can guarantee that within minutes the airwaves would be filled with insinuating voices insisting that the 'root cause' of the crime was a rational anger at its behavior. Put like this, the position of Israel sounds grim.

Do we doubt any of this? Terribly, we cannot.

Indulged by societies that have lost their moral compass, Iran and the Islamists are banking on nothing less.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Partner or pariah?</title>
<date>25/5/2009</date>
<content>
There is no solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict other than "two states for two peoples." Any other proposal guarantees the continuation of the conflict and the end of the Zionist enterprise, the State of Israel.

There are those on the Left who think that the two-state solution is no longer viable. They are suggesting that the Palestinian people be deprived of the stage of normal national development and denied the ability to take responsibility for their own future. These do-gooders and dreamers are ready to deny Palestinians the same rights that all other nation-states have (including Israel) to a territorial dimension on which they can express their culture, heritage, language and visions for their future as a people. For the most part, these people are anti-Israeli and are actively working for Israel's destruction.

Those on the Right who think Israel can continue to hold on to the West Bank under full occupation are damning it to become an apartheid state that will be rejected and boycotted by the international community. It will cease to be the place where anyone with an appreciation for human rights and dignity will be able to live. These people are working for Israel's destruction in the name of Zionism, but in reality they are much more like the Zealots of Masada who are leading the Jewish people and the country to collective national suicide.

Then there are the dreamers and fools who think that we can reinvent the Jordanian and Egyptian options. This option died when Yitzhak Shamir rejected Shimon Peres's London initiative. Even then, there was little chance that a real Jordanian option ever existed. These people are simply out of touch with reality, and if some of them were not in high positions they could simply be ignored.

WITH BARACK OBAMA in the White House new realities and new possibilities have the chance of emerging. The will of the international community is no longer in the grip of an American veto. The US is no longer hostage to domestic Israeli politics. Obama is interested in working in concert with the international community to resolve the conflict through the only possible solution - the two states for two peoples formula.

Likud MK Tzipi Hotovely, who is organizing a conference against the two-state solution, may think that there are alternatives, but she too will have to recognize that the issue has already been decided. The entire international community has decided that there must be a Palestinian state established next to Israel. It is no longer possible to prevent this development. The international community has also accepted that the size of the state must be 22 percent of the land between the river and the sea. This is no longer a negotiable issue. The exact borders need to be determined, either through negotiations or by international decisions.

It is also a given that Jerusalem will be the capital of the State of Israel and the state of Palestine, with Israeli Jerusalem under Israeli sovereignty and Palestinian Jerusalem under Palestinian sovereignty (including the Old City respectively). The international community has also accepted the principle that the Palestinian refugees should return to the state of Palestine, not to Israel.

On November 15, 1988 Yasser Arafat declared independence for the state of Palestine. "The Palestine National Council, in the name of God, and in the name of the Palestinian Arab people, hereby proclaims the establishment of the state of Palestine on our Palestinian territory with its capital Jerusalem." One hundred and four countries immediately recognized the state of Palestine (more than recognized Israel at that time). The important countries of Europe, the United States and other world powers did not, but times have changed and today those countries, led by the US, believe that the state of Palestine must be created next to Israel and it must be done in the coming years.

ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL law, the recognition of a new state is an act that only states and governments may grant or withhold. The UN does not have authority to recognize a state. It may, however; admit a new state to its membership. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the UN Charter states that it "is open to all other peace-loving states which accept the obligations contained in the present Charter and, in the judgment of the organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations."

Palestine holds observer status in the UN, but it could become a full member in the following way: President Mahmoud Abbas would submit an application to the secretary-general and a formal declaration stating that it accepts the obligations under the UN Charter. The application would be considered first by the Security Council. On May 11, 2009 the Security Council already issued the following statement: "The council reiterates its call for renewed and urgent efforts by the parties and the international community to achieve a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East, based on the vision of a region where two democratic states, Israel and Palestine, live side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders."

Any recommendation from the Security Council must receive the affirmative votes of nine of the 15 members of the council, provided that none of its five permanent members has voted against the application. If the Security Council recommends admission, the recommendation is then presented to the General Assembly. A two-thirds majority vote is necessary for admission of a new state, and membership becomes effective on the date the resolution for admission is adopted.

WHEN THE UN accepts the membership of the state of Palestine, Israel's occupation of the territories becomes the occupation of a sovereign state which is a member in the UN by another member state. At that point, Israel would be acting in direct violation to the UN Charter and the Security Council would be morally and legally justified to enact Chapter 7 of the charter, enabling the deployment of an international peacekeeping force to Palestine.

The state of Palestine will exist. It will be created next to Israel. The main question is in what context it will be established. Israel can cooperate with the international community and work as a partner in the creation, or it can continue to reject and refuse to recognize the inevitability of its creation. The decision is in the hands of the government and the people of Israel.

The writer is co-CEO of the Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information. www.ipcri.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Essay: The pope, the Holy Land and the truth</title>
<date>30/4/2009</date>
<content>
This month, Pope Benedict will visit the Holy Land, the third pope to do so, but only the second to make an official visit. Invited to Israel by President Shimon Peres, he will also set foot in Jordan and the West Bank, where it's expected he will go to Bethlehem. Given the sacredness of the Christian sites in Jerusalem, Bethlehem and Nazareth, it's astonishing that so few popes have gone there since the setting up of the British Mandate in 1920 or the establishment of Israel in 1948.

Benedict could not travel to Jerusalem at a more difficult time. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has entered a very dark phase since Israel's defensive assault on Gaza at the end of last year. That darkness has less to do with the region itself than with a swelling international hate-fest against Israel that is now growing into a frightening resurgence of anti-Semitism in many European countries. Everything the pope says and does throughout his visit will be watched and weighed against an array of what will often be incoherent and disturbing attitudes and policies, not least the global Islamist and left-wing call for Israel to be destroyed and, in more extreme versions, for the Jews there to be killed.

The pope will go there as a man of peace, and will take every opportunity to advocate peace in the region. But peace may not be the most important thing for him to urge. Nor will any exhortations he may make be enough to make the peace process go forward anyway. The 1988 Hamas Charter declares: "Initiatives, and so-called peaceful solutions and international conferences, are in contradiction to the principles of the Islamic Resistance Movement... There is no solution for the Palestinian question except through jihad. Initiatives, proposals and international conferences are all a waste of time and vain endeavors" (Article 13).

How do you, even if you are the pope, talk peace to men like that, or to mothers who dress their sons in suicide belts?

Whether Aeschylus or Hiram Johnson said it first, many agree that "the first casualty of war is truth." And that is nowhere truer than in the Middle East, where lies and outright fabrications have added greatly to an already rancorous debate. Worse than that, many have spread around the world along with any number of conspiracy theories, many of them echoes of Nazi propaganda during the 1930s and '40s. If the pope is limited in what he can do to further peace, perhaps he can use his visit to speak out about these lies. Is not, after all, one of the several sins against the Holy Spirit "resisting or impugning the known truth"?

Sadly, the pope need look no further than within his own church to see this sin repeated.

By now, everyone knows of Bishop Richard Williamson and his flagrant denial of the Holocaust, his claim that the Jews are the "enemies of Christ" and his belief that that obnoxious forgery, the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, really does describe an international conspiracy by the Jews to take control of the world. I hope the pope will visit the Holocaust memorial and museum at Yad Vashem in Jerusalem, and while there he must do two things. He must denounce Holocaust denial, not as an error in fact, but as a deadly sin against the human soul. And he must ask for something reciprocal from Israel: a recognition that Pope Pius XII has been much maligned but that in truth he helped save the lives of many Jews.

ISRAEL WOULD also be a perfect place for Benedict to denounce another churchman who has indulged in a similar distortion of the truth. Cardinal Renato Martino, head of the Vatican Council for Justice and Peace, recently bought in to a smaller but equally vicious lie, namely that the people of Gaza live in "a big concentration camp." This sits next to other popular lies, chiefly that Israelis/Jews are really Nazis who kill babies for sport, or that there has been genocide, even a holocaust in Gaza.

What concentration camp ever launched a single rocket at its guards, let alone over 8,000, as the Gazans have done? What Nazis ever provided oil, water, food and medicines to camp inmates, as the Israelis have done? What camps had shops stocked from floor to ceiling with goods, or are studded with expensive villas and apartment blocks? What camp inmates would ever have set about destroying 14 million worth of greenhouses provided for their well-being, as the Gazans did in 2005?

The "concentration camp" claim is a blatant lie and an insult to the millions who really did suffer and die in the camps, and the pope must denounce it and chasten the cardinal who has promoted it. Only transparency can bring eventual peace to the region.

To claim, as so many do, that there has been a genocide or a holocaust in Gaza is not merely wrong, it is indecent. According to the Palestinian Bureau of Statistics, the annual growth rate in Gaza is about three times the world average. The population there has grown by almost 40 percent between 1997 and 2007. What genocide has ever increased the numbers of a population? Yet that lie allows marchers round the world to call Israelis "Nazis" and "Zionazis," and cartoonists to draw hooked-nosed Jews in SS uniforms. We all know the consequences when similar lies were told about the Jews in the 1930s and '40s. There must be no question this time that a pope will denounce these fictions for their incitement to the oldest of evils.

THE POPE must also address the widespread claim that Israel is an "apartheid state." This also is both ludicrous and dangerous. There are no apartheid laws in Israel, Arabs are not excluded from restaurants, cinemas, concert halls or swimming pools, but serve in parliament and on the Supreme Court. The claim is another vicious lie and, given the Church's commitment to anti-racism, it is fitting for the pope to expose it.

Passing beyond the lies (of which there are dozens more), an urgent matter on the pope's agenda must surely be the plight of Christians in the West Bank and Gaza. Harassed by militant Islamic groups, the Christian population there has been dwindling. In 1990, Christians made up 60% of the population in Bethlehem; today, a mere 19 years later, they number just 20% and that figure is shrinking rapidly. Christians in the Palestinian territories have fallen in numbers from 15% of the population in 1950 to less than 1% today. Calls have been made for their extinction, and attacks are regularly made on institutions and individual Christians. More and more Christians pack their bags and flee. In Israel, their numbers have risen from 34,000 in 1948 to more than 140,000 today. If the pope does not speak out and make this an issue of international concern, the bombings, the beatings and the intimidation will continue, and before very long the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem will be left to the tender mercies of Islamic Jihad.

THERE IS ONE other thing Pope Benedict should consider doing before he leaves Israel. In Haifa, on the slopes of Mount Carmel, stands a UNESCO World Heritage Site made up of the gardens, shrines and international headquarters of the Baha'i religion. It is a beautiful place, one of the loveliest on the Mediterranean coast. Israel is the only country in the Middle East where these places would be safe. Iran, a country that threatens to wipe Israel off the map, is the original home of the Baha'is, who form its largest religious minority. There the holiest Baha'i shrines have been bulldozed into rubble. Since the revolution, Baha'is have been imprisoned and executed, and made the objects of severe persecution. If the pope could stand in the gardens in Haifa and proclaim his abhorrence of all religious persecution, it would send out a firm message to bullies like Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and those, like Hizbullah and Hamas, whom he controls.

There is a deeper message that the pope is well-situated to convey, which is that the truth is greater than the lie, and that there can be no peace while there is falsehood. Only when the Israelis and the Palestinians can engage in complete honesty with one another, and only when the deluded marchers walking on European streets chanting "Hamas! Hamas! Jews to the gas!" have their eyes opened to the enormous deceit that has been perpetrated on them will a real and lasting peace begin to grow in the Holy Land. It's a great opportunity. I pray it is not too late for Benedict to take it.

The writer is a former lecturer in Arabic and Islamic studies, the author of several reports on radical Islam and currently the editor-designate of an international journal, the Middle East Quarterly. This piece first appeared in the Catholic Herald.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>European funding for the narrative war</title>
<date>28/6/2009</date>
<content>
European efforts to play a major role in Arab-Israeli peace discussions have again been overshadowed, this time by US President Barack Obama's initiative. To raise Europe's visibility, the rate of official visits has increased, and a number of academic conferences on Europe's role are taking place. For example, yesterday the Hebrew University began a three-day conference with the ambitious headline "Strengthening the Forces of Moderation in the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: The Role of the European Union After the Gaza War."

For diplomats and policy-makers, a "frank and honest exchange of views" on the problematic European track record in academic settings could be very helpful in correcting decades of misjudgments. For example, during the Oslo process, the European Union and its member states were convinced that Yasser Arafat was a "force of moderation," providing him and his corrupt Fatah cronies with suitcases of money, justified as necessary to "grease the wheels" of the peace process and Palestinian state building. Instead, the cash went to foreign bank accounts and terror.

In Europe, there have been very few independent analyses of these and other diplomatic and policy failures. Fearing embarrassment and worse, officials rejected calls for an independent investigation, until the European Parliament forced the European Commission to hold an inquiry (known as the OLAF report). But years later, this report remains top secret, meaning that few if any lessons were apparently learned.

Given this record and the difficulties that Europe has in analyzing itself, serious academic research and conferences can play a very positive role. Unfortunately, many of these discussions of European policy feature speakers and officials who prefer to preach to Israelis rather than investigating their contribution to failure. In parallel, important issues related to policy failures are conspicuously absent from such conferences.

ONE SUBJECT consistently avoided in the quasi-official research and conference framework is the massive European funding for radical nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) whose activities fuel the conflict instead of "strengthening the forces of moderation," as proclaimed in the title of this conference. Through the "Barcelona program" and aid schemes, the European Commission and member governments provide tens of millions of euros every year to Palestinian, Israeli and other NGOs. The ostensible objectives include promoting democracy, peace, development and human rights, but the results are often counterproductive and fuel the conflict.

These NGOs lead the demonization and delegitimization of Israel, through labels such as "apartheid" and "war crimes," based on the strategy adopted at the 2001 Durban Conference NGO Forum. For example, European NGO funding is the primary engine behind the "lawfare" assaults against Israeli military and civilian officials - a form of soft-war aggression through the courts which accompanies the "hard war" of terrorism. The current case in Spain (chosen for its lenient universal jurisdiction policies) is led by the Palestinian Center for Human Rights, which is funded by the European Commission, Norway, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland and other governments. Indeed, PCHR is a central force in the NGO demonization and political warfare against Israel.

These European-funded "lawfare" cases are part of the much wider process, conducted through highly political NGOs in Israel that seek to overturn the government's policies - groups like B'Tselem, Yesh Din, Machsom Watch, Bimkom, Ir Amim, Adalah, Mossawa, etc. (The EU claims to fund these NGOs under the guise of limited projects, but the amounts often constitute the bulk of the total operating budget.)

AN EXAMINATION of the activities of European funded NGOs demonstrates that they do not contribute to "strengthening the forces of moderation." Many are active in promoting anti-Israel boycott campaigns, one-state proposals (meaning the elimination of Israel as a Jewish state) and submitting tendentious claims to UN "investigatory" committees.

A serious discussion of these issues would ask questions like: How does this happen? Who guides these decisions? Why are European government funds for NGOs used to undermine compromise, mutual acceptance and the two-state solution that Europe claims to support?

The chaos in EU funding for NGOs and frequent overlaps add to these problems - there is no coordinator or central data source. European transparency regulations are ignored in this area, and no records or protocols are available for NGO allocations under European Commission programs. The names and possible conflicts of interests of the policy-makers are hidden from public scrutiny. Evaluation processes, if any, are secret, making it difficult to explore constructive changes.

When NGO Monitor was unable to obtain the most basic documents and threatened a lawsuit under the EU's own transparency rules, European officials sent a CD containing about 50 documents, most of which had all the relevant information deleted including the names of NGO partner organizations and the evaluation criteria. It was impossible to decipher the few meaningless statements and figures that remained, making constructive evaluation impossible.

These issues should be high on the agendas of discussions and conferences, such as the one taking place at Hebrew University. Unfortunately, these "difficult" subjects and conflicts are largely avoided. Comfortable but misleading headlines, such as "Strengthening the forces of moderation," take precedence over the open examination of European support for "lawfare," the "right of return" and Palestinian rejectionism.

The writer chairs the political science department at Bar-Ilan University and is executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Evian 1938 - Geneva 2009</title>
<date>19/4/2009</date>
<content>
It is less than three quarter of an hour by car from Geneva to its much smaller sister city Evian-les-Bains on the French side of Lake Geneva. What Evian lacks in size and political importance, it makes up in history and style. This rather sleepy, but healthy, town at the foot of the Alps can boast with one the grandest fin-de-sicle resort hotels of its kind as well as the bottled water which bears its name.

But Evian has a less friendly side which has left its mark in history. Simply Google "Evian" and you come up with a resort, a water and a conference which by some historians has been called "Hitler's green light for genocide." Last year marked the 70th anniversary of the Evian conference on the future of the Jewish refugees, but it was effectively forgotten as France at the time chaired the European Union.

As President Nicolas Sarkozy hosted the conference which was to launch a new era of cooperation around the Mediterranean Sea, the last thing France wanted to be reminded about was Evian 1938. You cannot blame it. Evian goes down as one of the darkest chapters of modern European history when appeasement was the mode of the day and anyone who did not believe in "peace in our time" was simply disregarded as a warmonger.

It is not only the proximity between the two cities which is striking but also the zeitgeist of Evian 1938 and this year's United Nations Conference against Racism. Whereas the original UN conference against racism in Durban in 2001 spiraled out of control with its obsession with the Judenfrage, there are no guarantees that this year will not be a repeat. Western governments have been paying lip service to their commitment to withdraw from anything that would resemble the hate fest in 2001, but words will be cheap when the commitment of the Western nations to stand true to our universal values is tested.

BACK TO EVIAN in 1938. As Hitler had annexed Austria and hundreds of thousands of Jewish refugees were seeking a safe haven outside of the Nazi-controlled areas, the free world knew that something had to be done. It was the US president Franklin Roosevelt who finally called together the conference with the objective of seeking a solution to the Jewish refugee problem. Thirty-two nations were invited to participate. It soon became clear that the conference was not going to solve anything, as one country after another explained that they all agreed that this was a major humanitarian problem which needed to be solved, but that their respective country could not do anything about it. Others were less diplomatically skilled.

"Our country is simply not big enough to receive any Jewish refugees," said the Canadian representative. When asked how many refugees Canada could receive the answer was, "One is too many." "Australia has no racial problem and we are not desirous of importing one," is a quote which today is on display in Yad Vashem in Jerusalem.

The list of obscenities does not stop there. A proposal to rescue the refugees by simply letting 10 countries receive 25,000 Jews each was flatly rejected. While these tragic decisions were made, which would ultimately have consequences for millions of Jews, some historians note that pleasure cruises on Lake Geneva were very popular among the delegates, as were tennis and golf in the fresh mountain air.

PERHAPS IT is again the allure of cosmopolitan Geneva and the same mountain climate which makes it so difficult for Western diplomats to simply say no to the UN conference which singles out only one country, Israel, as the racist state of the world and calls its policies "apartheid." What makes this conclusion even more surreal is the fact that the working group, which has been drafting the text, consists of human rights champions such as Libya, Iran and Cuba. The language in the draft resolution has been unacceptable for many, still the decision to withdraw seems difficult to make. At the moment only a few governments beside Israel has decided to boycott the conference, namely the US, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands and Italy.

One thing is clear. The UN conference in Geneva, which starts today and runs through Friday, will not be a friendly place for any of us who sympathize with the Jewish cause. But things could be worse. In 1938 the world was said to be divided up in two categories, those nations which Jews could not enter and those which wanted to expel them. The promised Jewish homeland was not even considered as an option for resettlement since it was believed to create more tension in then British Mandate Palestine. A few years later there would be six million Jews less to accommodate but then, finally, the urgency of creating a Jewish homeland was realized by the world community. But the prize to pay was far too high.

It is of course the irony of time that a conference dedicating itself to fighting racism, the very disease which lead to Hitler's Holocaust, is currently paving the way for a legitimizing of Jew hatred and Israel bashing around the world.

Let us hope that the world will have learned its lesson this time. When only one people's state is singled out as racist in the whole world, we are awfully near to Evian 1938. On the second day of the UN conference, Tuesday, April 21, which also happens to be Holocaust Remembrance Day, a commemoration event will be held in the small synagogue in the city that hosted the fateful 1938 conference.

The writer is the founding director of the European Coalition for Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 24: Unity is strength</title>
<date>23/2/2009</date>
<content>
Unity is strength

Sir, - "It is not the job of the center-left to save the Right from itself," Jeff Barak writes in "Tzipi, stay away!" (February 23). With ill-concealed glee he paints a picture of the disaster awaiting a Netanyahu government left to govern by itself - this despite his admission that "the election clearly gave the Right a mandate to govern."

The majority that chose the Right bloc has also clearly indicated, out of a sense of national responsibility, that it wants the coalition to be one of national unity. What divides Left and Right in Israel is no longer socialism vs capitalism but how to deal with the Israel-Palestine conflict, and the future of Jerusalem and the disputed territories.

Center-right voters know that on these issues there may be little common ground between Likud and Kadima. However, they also know that this is irrelevant as long as the Palestinians perceive the conflict as being not over "occupied" territories or Palestinian statehood, but the existence of Israel as a Jewish state.

What the Palestinians demand we cannot concede; thus a two-state solution now is not in the cards, no matter what Jeff Barak, Tzipi Livni, Barack Obama or the EU may think.

A national unity government cannot unilaterally solve the Palestinian problem. But it can agree on how to manage it, and address the real and present dangers facing Israel: the looming threat of a nuclear Iran, its allies on our borders, the world economic crisis, and the ongoing erosion of Israel's legitimacy in an increasingly hostile international arena.

A national unity government is imperative. Not to "save the Right," but to stand with the Right in order to save our country.

GILBERT HERBERT
Haifa

Eating macaroni vs sitting shiva

Sir, - Israel is long accustomed to foreign criticism of its actions. It is one thing, though, when the complaints come from the usual list of anti-Semites; but when they come from elected representatives of Israel's staunchest ally, it must hurt more than usual.

So on behalf of my fellow Americans, I wish to apologize for the silly remarks made by Congressmen Keith Ellison and Brian Baird, as reported in "Visiting US Congressmen say Israel has to change 'counterproductive' Gaza policies" (February 22), following their tour of Gaza. I am sorry these gentlemen do not understand the most basic of facts: that Israel is at war with Hamas.

It seems every American politician is now a maven when it comes to the security of Israel and its people. Until these folks know the difference between macaroni and sitting shiva, they ought to mind their own business and stop embarrassing the US.

STEPHEN FLATOW
West Orange, New Jersey

Assessing Durban...

Sir, - Caroline Glick's "Obama's Durban gambit" (February 20) presented AJC as working to ensure a repeat of the 2001 Durban hatefest.

She's right, of course. We just love hanging out with Holocaust deniers, watching Jews being vilified, and enlisting the American government's help in demonizing Israel. What else would you expect from an agency dedicated, since 1906, to advancing Jewish well-being?

Let's get real. Our position on Durban II is clear. We have publicly praised France and the Netherlands, among other countries, for insisting on clear red lines and threatening to withdraw if they are breached. We believe the US shouldn't attend the conference under the present circumstances.

This leaves two options: to throw up our hands, or work to change those circumstances. The US government has decided to send a delegation to Geneva to learn about the preparatory process firsthand and see if it is beyond repair.

Ms. Glick suspects nefarious motives. She has already made clear her ideological unwillingness to believe anything President Obama says: He's just a "radical... actively advancing the interests of Islamists."

We, however, choose to work with our government to assess whether Durban is beyond salvaging. Contrary to Ms. Glick's accusation, we received nothing "in return" for anything.

If Durban can be fixed, everybody wins - not least the global struggle against racism, to which AJC has been committed for more than a century. If it can't, we will absolutely seek to hold the administration to its promise to withdraw.

DAVID A. HARRIS
Executive Director
American Jewish Committee 
New York

...and its amen corner

Sir, - That Israel is boycotting Geneva's Durban II anti-racism conference because it condemns Israel for "occupation," "Palestinian suffering" and discrimination which amounts to neo-apartheid seems strange. Isn't this what Israeli and Jewish leftists have been claiming for years?

And when Israel's prime minister, Supreme Court justices, politicians, pundits, NGOs and media assert that the "occupation" is "a moral disaster" and "illegal," why blame Israel-bashers in Geneva?

An Israeli government that cannot defend the right of Jews to live in Judea and Samaria can hardly fault others for not doing so.

MOSHE DANN
Jerusalem

Let's be clear

Sir, - "IDF: 9 medics killed in Gaza op were Hamas operatives" (February 16) stated that Anas Naim, the Palestinian medic killed by the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip, was a Palestine Red Crescent Society medic. This is to affirm that he was not on staff or even a volunteer with the PRCS.

This incorrect information negatively affects the image of the PRCS, its humanitarian mission and its adherence to the fundamental principles of the Red Cross/Red Crescent Society, particularly neutrality.

MUTASEM AWAD
Palestine Red Crescent Society
Ramallah

Ethnic take

Sir, - In "Full score jazz" (Entertainment, February 19) Barry Davis referred to: "Israeli saxophonist Albert Beger and Nazareth-born guitarist Michel Sajrawy." Was this not the Freudian slip of the racist, who has decided that Israeli Arabs from Nazareth are not proper Israelis?

DAVID FULLMAN
London

Barry Davis responds:

There was no intention to differentiate between Beger and Sajrawy, certainly not on grounds of race or ethnicity. The point being made was that Sajrawy comes from a sector of the country not normally known for jazz endeavor, and offers an interesting ethnic take on the genre.

Dubai: I don't buy it

Sir, - I totally agree with the writer of "Tennis, anyone?" (Letters, February 23). But why are we more concerned when Jews don't get to play in an Arab country than we are when Jews play abroad on Shabbat as representatives of our Jewish country?

And with that in mind, who will stand up when an Orthodox Jew reaches the finals in a tournament in New York, let alone Dubai, that falls on Shabbat and wants it postponed until Sunday?

YECHIEL AARON
Hashmonaim
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 26: No Purim shpiel, this</title>
<date>25/2/2009</date>
<content>
No Purim shpiel, this

Sir, - We are living the dangers of Purim today and have not reached the happy conclusion yet. If we ever thought the Megilla exaggerated the threat to Jewish existence, today we have a whole world arrayed against us.

The Arabs, the Islamists, the liberal Christians, the UN, Amnesty International - which wants to embargo arms to Israel, but not to the Arab countries - are threatening us physically and morally, delegitimizing our very statehood.

South Africa was allowed to remain even after apartheid was defeated. Germany was allowed to flourish even after Nazism. But we Jews - who are neither racist, colonialist, militaristic nor fascist - are not allowed to have a state because we are accused of being all those things.

Instead of a wise Mordechai and a beautiful Esther, we have the likes of Avrum Burg and Noam Chomsky. And Tzipi and Bibi cannot unite in the face of the greatest danger to our existence since 1948 ("Kadima submits bills to embarrass Lieberman, complicate coalition talks," February 25).

JACOB CHINITZ
Jerusalem

Sir, - I am not anyone important, but I can see you are in real danger from a variety of places. Your past people in public office are just not those who will protect Israel. No doubt they are good folks, but Netanyahu is probably the only one who can deal with your country's enemies.

You don't have much time. We here know you can't negotiate with people who are intent on destroying you. For heaven's sake, unite your parties.

THOM MAINS
Lexington, Kentucky

Passive-aggressive?

Sir, - Reading the names listed within the various boards of benefactors and officials of Amnesty International and their contributors was illuminating ("No pardon for Amnesty," Editorial, February 24). Names like Hoffman, Klug, Waltz, Jacobson, Fuller, Abrams, Bachman, and so on - a veritable treasure trove of Jewish activists and intellectuals.

While many of them may not agree with AI's constant delegitimizing and rather unique treatment of Israel, they are at best passive in their organization's actions.

JOHN LALOR
Dublin

Win-win, not transfer

Sir, - Umm el-Fahm resident Nabil Sa'ad obviously does not understand the proposal to move the border in the area of Umm el-Fahm to compensate the Palestinians for land Israel would theoretically acquire in a final border arrangement ending the Arab-Israeli conflict ("Arab Israelis worry about Lieberman's ideas on loyalty, transfer becoming real," February 25).

He talks about the "frustration and anger" felt by the residents of Umm el-Fahm "that they are going to move them from place to place without anyone asking them."

The plan does not call for anyone, Arab or Jew, to be moved from where they live today. The only "thing" that would move is the invisible, somewhat arbitrary dividing line between the State of Israel and a future Palestinian state.

Mr. Sa'ad, his family and friends would finally be living as full equals in a state of all its citizens, a state whose national anthem would be one he could proudly sing. The flag flying over his local institutions would be one he felt was his own.

No longer would he be challenged by a condition in which the beliefs of his people are in conflict with the interests of his nation. He would no longer feel discriminated against because of his religious, national or historical loyalties. And with his new passport, written in Arabic, he would have no trouble visiting any Arab state in the region, or doing business in Muslim states further away.

It sounds like a win-win situation.

YORAM GETZLER 
Moshav Aminadav

Why the angst?

Sir, - I find it very difficult to understand the criticism of Achinoam Nini and Mira Awad appearing together as Israel's representatives in the Eurovision song contest ("Vision of peace?" Entertainment, February 25).

I should think this would be reason to rejoice: an Israeli Arab and a Jewess appearing together for Israel. Nini (Noa) has long been a peace activist, and Awad likely just wants to appear on worldwide TV - but both want to show that Jews and Arabs can live together in peace.

Could anything be better?

LEONARD ZURAKOV
Netanya

Yes, Ministers

Sir, - Re "Netanyahu: A minister for every three MKs" (February 25): How about a minister for every MK in the coalition? Then nobody would feel left out. Or, even better for national unity, a minister for every MK in the Knesset?

Sarcasm aside, I hope Bibi has the sense to choose his ministers based on expertise in their ministries' fields, and not on political considerations.

 ANNICE GRINBERG
Rehovot

The real problem...

Sir, - In "The roots of the water crisis" (February 25), Hillel Shuval blames our water shortage on overuse by the agricultural sector - when the problem is really the needless underproduction of desalinated water.

He ignores the natural asset that Israel's topography provides in the Dead Sea basin being over 400 meters below sea level. This difference in height makes it possible to channel water from the Mediterranean to produce not only 2,500 MW of clean hydroelectric power, but also an additional 1,333 million cubic meters of desalinated water per annum by reverse osmosis, (not to mention the revitalization of the Dead Sea).

The plans for this project, known as the Koder or KMDS project, have been ready for a number of years and only need the political will to move them forward. Were they implemented, in about five years the agricultural sector could get all the water it needed, and the water crisis would be a thing of the past.

ARIEL BROCH 
Shadmot Mehola

...isn't agriculture

Sir, -  I didn't find Prof. Shuval's post-Zionist commentary on the current water crisis helpful.

Agriculture, which he blames for the crisis, is largely responsible for the distribution of the population out of the center; without it, Israel would contract to the greater metropolitan area of Tel Aviv.

We have developed our water resources in order to maintain agriculture, and current planning of the future water budget rightfully includes an active agricultural sector.

The ability to cut back agricultural water use in drought years has enabled us to get by during the current four-year drought capped by the worst drought year in the history of modern Israel. If we didn't maintain a normal water budget that includes agriculture, I suspect we would suffer more severe shortages this year.

Agriculture has other benefits, and although its economic value to the GNP is low, we will certainly need food in the future. I am not sure for how long we will need newer and better products from the electronic hi-tech sector.

A state inquiry is important, and farmers will soon be paying the full price of the fresh and recycled water they use. But I don't think that agriculture is to blame for our water problems. In some ways, we have it to thank for our hi-tech, extensive water system.

SHEP COHEN
The Volcani Center
for Agricultural Research
Rehovot
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Free at last!</title>
<date>21/4/2009</date>
<content>
On Passover we are reminded that we came out of slavery to freedom. This past seder night I had the chance to witness the story of a modern-day exodus to freedom. And a few days into the week-long holiday, I happened upon an incident  that made me appreciate anew the liberation from racism that living in our own state affords.

I had the honor to sit at the Passover table of an extended Ethiopian Jewish family living in a small Jewish community in the West Bank. This was not an ordinary family. At the head of the table sat the elderly grandfather and grandmother surrounded by nine of their 12 children and two dozen grandchildren, in-laws and cousins. During the Seder the story of the family's coming out of Ethiopia is traditionally related alongside the story of the coming out of Egypt. This lends the story of Passover a very real meaning.

It is even more poignant because in front of each person is a copy of the Haggada specially published with Amharic alongside the Hebrew. For the older generation this is a way of preserving their language, but for the younger generation which was born here this is a way of preserving their heritage.

This was not an ordinary family. The grandfather received an award from former prime minister Yitzhak Shamir for having a large family. The great-uncle is one of the most respected Ethiopian religious leaders in arrived in 1984 with Operation Moses, having trekked through the hot Sudanese desert and having lived in refugee camps where contaminated medicine supplied by the Red Cross and Sudanese government led to the deaths of many.

The great-grandfather died in those camps, as a result of the medicine, never able to see the promised land. But after arriving here, with all the tragedies and hardships, there were still several family members left behind. One of the sons-in-law had been forcibly drafted by the Ethiopian army in 1978 and was not allowed to leave because of the communist Ethiopian government's longtime war in Eritrea. His wife had to return to Ethiopia by way of Djibuti to bring him, and he didn't arrive until after the completion of Operation Moses in 1991.

BUT THE STORY of this extraordinary family and its modern day exodus is not the only thing that made this Passover different than others. While walking on King George Avenue in Jerusalem on the Friday of the holiday, I came upon the protest of Women in Black, a small fringe group.

This weekly demonstration is usually staffed by elderly wealthy Jewish women wearing black with small signs that declare "end the occupation" in English, Hebrew and Arabic. But they too, like this Ethiopian grandmother and grandfather, evidently, have grandchildren, and for them too, just once a year the Jewish tradition can clearly trump the protest tradition, because most of the elderly women were not present this Friday. In their place were young blond men and women from Scandinavia, members of the World Council of Churches.

This group was oblivious to the fact that it was a Jewish holiday in the state for which they have such criticism. I asked one if he would protest during Ramadan in a Muslim country. He said he wouldn't because he did not speak Arabic. So I then asked, "In Israel, people speak Hebrew, and yet you protest here during one of the holiest weeks in its calendar?" He replied, "Most people here understand English."

Then out of the corner of my eye I noticed that one of the police officers tasked with protecting this foreign group of protesters was an Ethiopian woman. So I queried the protester, "Do you think her language is English?" He refused to look. I described her to him and asked, "Where were you to protest when this woman's family was starving and dying in the Sudan?" To this he replied that he did not want to continue the conversation.

These wealthy Europeans, who come on their protest tour as part of a church group - in substitution, perhaps, for the older European tradition on Passover of accusing Jews of stealing children for their blood for the matza - refuse to acknowledge the existence of Ethiopian Jews.

Why? Because it might change their neatly crafted image of Israel as a white, Nazi, apartheid, crusader occupier. Or is it because he knows that the Scandinavian countries themselves either collaborated openly or covertly with the Nazis?

Whatever the case, the sight of youthful Scandinavians smiling and laughing with their "end the occupation" signs in English on Passover may be infuriating, but it is also the miracle of Israel.

We no longer have to live under the tyranny and the racist arrogance of these people or those like them throughout the world, from the communists of Mengistu Haile Mariam to the "soft" haters like Britain's MP George Galloway or the pharaohs of old.

The writer, a PhD student in geography at the Hebrew University, is a contributor to Frontpage magazine and Middle East Quarterly and runs the Terra Incognita Journal blog.

sfrantzman@hotmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>From Santa to Sanballat</title>
<date>23/12/2009</date>
<content>
It comes as no surprise that the 'culture wars' over Christmas being waged in other lands have hit Jerusalem.

The city and the Jewish National Fund have teamed up once again to spread a little holiday cheer among Jerusalem's Christians by distributing free Christmas trees. However, a group called the "Lobby for Jewish Values" began handing out fliers in Jerusalem condemning the Christmas holiday and warning restaurants and hotels that their kosher certificates could come under challenge if they put up Christmas trees and other "foolish symbols of Christianity."

The group's pamphlet also urged that Jews should "not give in to the clownish atmosphere of the end of the civil year."

Now we are grateful and even amazed that the city of Jerusalem and JNF provide free trees for this revered Christian holiday, and cannot condone such an antagonistic response to this act of goodwill. Yet I would concede that the commercialization of Christmas in America and elsewhere has gone overboard in recent decades. Sure it's meant to create a joyous, upbeat atmosphere, but the 'spirit' of Christmas has been turned into one of 'Give! Give! Give!' so we can 'Get! Get! Get!'

The secularization of Christmas is also robbing the season of its true meaning. It has now become okay to sing songs about Santa and his reindeer in American public schools, but not carols about Jesus and the redemption story told in his lowly birth.

EVEN MORE disturbing to me is the politicalization of Christmas by certain Arab Christian clerics here in the Holy Land, who invariably use the media spotlight during this holiday season to make radical political statements about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

In the past, this has taken such forms as the former Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, Michel Sabbah, reserving a front-row seat for the late PLO chief Yasser Arafat at Midnight Mass, conducted in the Church of the Nativity on Christmas Eve, then leaving a symbolic keffiyah draped over Arafat's empty chair after his demise.

Thankfully, there is a new Latin Patriarch these days who is more balanced in his approach to the very complex conflict over the land, and less inclined to anti-Israel invective. But Sabbah and a small band of fellow Arab clerics are still seeking to grab the spotlight this year by releasing a provocative pro-Palestinian document just days before Christmas.

A year in the making, "Kairos Palestine 2009" is signed by Sabbah and several other local clerics such as Arab Orthodox priest Atallah Hanna, who has repeatedly upset the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate with his outrageous statements in support of Palestinian shahids (martyrs), as well as Lutheran Bishop of Jerusalem Munib Younan, who has made repeated calls for the excommunication of Christians who support Israel.

Modeled after a similar "Kairos" document released in the struggle against apartheid in South Africa, the current version is merely part of an ongoing campaign to brand Israel an apartheid state and to push for divestment, dismantlement of the "separation wall," and other pro-Palestinian positions.

So far, the statement is not drawing the media attention hoped for, and rightfully so. It contains little new, and most of its signers are known anti-Israel voices. Nonetheless, for those of us who care about the plight of Palestinian Christians, "Kairos 2009" cannot be ignored. It is written "from the heart of Palestinian suffering," and no doubt there has been suffering deserving of our compassion. But like the vast majority of Palestinian propaganda, there is no admission in its pages that a large part of that wound is self-inflicted.

Oddly, there is not one clear reference to the two-state solution - the preferred option of most of the international community. Rather, the document speaks vaguely about Palestinian Christians being oppressed because "our country" is subjected to the dreadful and despised "Israeli occupation," thus suggesting that "Palestine" includes the entire land. There is also the whitewashing of Palestinian terrorism, a troubling legitimacy given to Hamas, and many other flaws in "Kairos Palestine."

LEAVING ASIDE its distorted political and historic narrative, the declaration also does theological cartwheels regarding the Bible and God's unique calling on Israel - the land and people. It argues that "God sent the patriarchs, prophets and apostles to this land so that they might carry forth a universal mission to the world." Whatever particularity there was in the divine calling of Israel in God's redemptive purposes, it was all fulfilled in the life of Jesus and the emergence of the Church, which is now commissioned to spread the "Kingdom of God" and its "universal" message of love.

While much of this rings true, the authors bend that message of universality to then contend for their own particular nationalism - that justice and righteousness requires the whole Church to come help them liberate Palestine from the "evil" of "Israeli occupation."

The truth is that the Bible presents God as the unchanging Lord of the universal and of the particular, and even the New Testament affirms the irrevocable and unique calling of the nation of Israel. The Scriptures also reveal that in Israel's restoration to the land in our day is a message to all nations of God's enduring love, faithfulness and ultimate justice - no matter the passage of time.

The problem is that some have resisted that restoration, producing a territorial and religious conflict that has the small Palestinian Christian community squeezed in between.

Sadly, some Palestinian clerics have chosen to assume a role like that of Sanballat and Tobiah from the days of Israel's first return to the Land. They cannot stop the restoration of Israel to her ancient homeland, but they will do all they can to hinder it.

The writer is media director for the International Christian Embassy  Jerusalem; www.icej.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fundamentally Freund: 'No Jews Allowed'</title>
<date>17/2/2009</date>
<content>
The normally staid world of professional tennis became the latest battleground in the Arab-Israeli conflict this week after the United Arab Emirates decided to bar Israel's Shahar Pe'er from taking part in the Dubai Championships.

Peer, who is ranked 45th in the world, was scheduled to go up against Russian player Anna Chakvetadze on Monday in the first round of the prestigious $2 million tournament, which regularly attracts most of the sport's top-seeded players.

But much to the chagrin of sports fans everywhere, Peer was denied an entry visa by Dubai's ruling sheikhs, presumably because of her country of origin.

"I don't know exactly why, but I can assume that it is because she is Israeli and not because she has brown eyes," her brother and manager Shlomi Pe'er wryly noted.

Unfortunately, this unsportsmanlike decision prompted an equally unseemly reaction from the Women's Tennis Association (WTA), the governing body of women's professional tennis.

Instead of standing up to Dubai's apartheid-style restrictions, the WTA chose to surrender to them.

While acknowledging that association rules forbid a host country from denying a player the right to compete, WTA Chairman Larry Scott nonetheless consented to allow the games to go on.

Labeling Dubai's decision "regrettable", Scott issued a tepid statement to the media, whimpering that, "The Tour is reviewing appropriate remedies for Ms. Peer and also will review appropriate future actions with regard to the future of the Dubai tournament." We all know what that means: not very much.

Indeed, what is truly "regrettable" is that both the WTA and the players themselves did not put principle before prize money. Dubai essentially hung a large "No Jews Allowed" sign over center court, but that didn't seem to bother anyone enough to cancel the tournament.

As criticism mounted over the decision, Scott changed his tone somewhat, telling the Associated Press that the WTA will consider "what types of sanctions are going to be deemed to be appropriate in light of what has happened, including whether or not the tournament has a slot on the calendar next year." This, he added, could mean its future cancellation. But it's a shame he didn't take that step this time around, in order to send a clear-cut message to Dubai that their actions are unacceptable.

Not surprisingly, the contretemps over Peer's visa has triggered a lot of predictable public hand-wringing about the need to keep politics and sports apart. Said tennis superstar Venus Williams, "All the players support Shahar. We are all athletes, and we stand for tennis." That is a noble sentiment, but it misses the point.

Dubai's unsavory decision to block an Israeli tennis player is far more than just an issue of mixing politics with sports. The fact is that it is symptomatic of a larger problem, which is much of the Arab world's lingering hatred and rejection of Israel.

It underlines the extent to which numerous Arab states seek to undermine Israel's legitimacy and existence by negating any contact - even across a tennis net! - with the Jewish state.

WHILE MUCH has been written in recent years about the waning of the once-potent Arab economic and trade embargo against Israel, the Dubai debacle is a compelling reminder that the boycott is still very much a factor.

Just two months ago, as required by law, the US Treasury Department published its quarterly list of countries that actively enforce the Arab boycott against Israel. The inventory included eight Arab regimes: Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

A ninth country, Iraq, was said to be "under review by the Department of the Treasury" with regard to its anti-Israel practices.

While the situation is clearly better than it was, say, three decades ago, when virtually the entire Arab world was off-limits to Israelis, no one should fool themselves into thinking that the boycott is entirely a thing of the past.

Sure, countries such as Egypt and Jordan ceased applying it after signing peace treaties with Israel, while others, such as Mauritania, Morocco and Tunisia do not enforce it.

But the boycott might just be making a bit of a comeback. In November of last year, Bahrain's parliament began pressing the Gulf Arab emirate's government to reopen the country's Israel Boycott Office, which was closed two years ago under pressure from Washington.

And in October 2008, Damascus hosted representatives of 14 Arab states at a three-day conference aimed at reinvigorating the embargo on Israel. Speakers at the conference spoke of the boycott's importance as a means of pressuring the Jewish state and called on their fellow members of the Arab League to intensify its enforcement.

In the keynote address to the gathering, Muhammad al-Tayyeb Busala'a, who serves as commissioner general of the Arab League's Central Bureau for the Boycott of Israel, said the trade embargo is vital in order "to challenge the legitimacy of Israel's existence." These sentiments appear to have picked up steam in the wake of Israel's counter-terror operation in Gaza, which sparked renewed calls in various Arab countries to boycott the Jewish state.

IT IS therefore essential that the Obama Administration make this issue more of a diplomatic priority, and soon, particularly as it seeks to "reach out" to the Muslim world.

At the same time that Washington is looking to foster more engagement with Arab regimes, it cannot and should not countenance their ongoing disengagement from contact with Israel.

And yet, thus far, neither President Barack Obama nor Secretary of State Hillary Clinton have uttered a word about the Arab boycott, nor has special Middle East envoy George Mitchell. It is as if it doesn't exist on their radar screens.

In light of Shahar Pe'er's latest scrape with Dubai's outrageous policies, now would be a good time for them to break their silence.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fundamentally Freund: Staring down Israel's segregationists</title>
<date>5/8/2009</date>
<content>
The Left, once again, is in an uproar. Along with its international comrades, it is bristling at the recent court-approved move by Jewish families into homes in the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood of Jerusalem.

This is in addition to the fury it expressed previously over plans to build apartments for Jews at the site of the privately owned Shepherd Hotel in the eastern part of the capital.

Mustering all the righteous anger at its disposal, the Left has now launched into a heated round of pious pontification, hurling invective and frenzied rhetoric as if the world itself were coming to an end. The Ir Amim organization, for example, recently warned that if the Shepherd Hotel plan moves forward, it might "deal a fatal blow not only to [US President Barack] Obama's efforts but to the two-state solution."

No less hysterical was the reaction of Robert Serry, the UN's special envoy to the Middle East, who released a harshly worded statement saying: "I deplore the totally unacceptable actions by Israel in which Israeli security forces evicted Palestinian refugee families... to allow settlers to take possession of their properties." Calling the move "provocative," Serry asserted that it will "heighten tensions" and "undermine international efforts" to bring about peace.

Have these people fallen on their heads? The Left and its supporters repeatedly stress the need to end "settlement activity," as though it is Jewish housing construction rather than Arab intolerance which lies at the root of the Middle East conflict.

But even more perplexing is the fact that they are willing to embrace an openly discriminatory stance - prejudiced against Jews - to advance their political agenda.

You see, once upon a time not very long ago, it was considered unacceptable to tell people where to live because of their racial or religious identity. To suggest that Jews or blacks or any other ethnic group should not be allowed to live and build freely in a certain area because of who they are was seen as  a detestable form of bigotry and segregation.

Yet that is precisely what the Israeli Left and much of the international community now so ardently profess as they seek to bar Jews from living either in eastern Jerusalem or in Judea and Samaria. Ironically, they have in effect embraced the worldview of the Ku Klux Klan, insisting that peace can be based only upon the imposition of apartheid-style restrictions against Jews and their choice of domicile.

Yet here too the Left fails to maintain even a modicum of intellectual consistency, as it selectively applies its principles to just one side of the conflict. Take, for example, the issue of illegal construction in Judea and Samaria. The Left has vociferously called for uprooting the unlicensed outposts erected by Jewish residents of the territories. It sends teams of monitors to track the development of these budding communities and compiles and issues reports and press releases on the subject.

The reason? Ostensibly, it is all about law and order. Many of the Jewish outposts are said to have been built without the necessary permits from the government; hence, the Left demands that they be dismantled.

Now, I am all in favor of respecting the law, but a key element, in democracies at least, is the idea that all are equal before it. Yet when it comes to illegal building in Judea and Samaria, the Left seems to make noise only about Jewish structures, not Arab ones.

As anyone who has driven through the territories knows, untold thousands of illegal structures have gone up in Arab villages and towns and along roads overlooking Jewish communities. If the law is supreme as far as the Left is concerned, then it should not care whether the person erecting an illegal structure follows Moses or Muhammad. But, quite clearly, it does.

When was the last time you heard the Left take such a stance?

Obviously, something is very rotten in the land of liberalism if today's self-proclaimed progressives are willing to come out so openly in favor of religious discrimination.

Consider the absurdity of it all: To be liberal nowadays means to support imposing segregation in Jerusalem and prohibiting Jews from living in certain neighborhoods. And to be considered peace-loving, you must approve of restricting where Jews can purchase apartments. Go figure.

I say it's time to call the Left on this point and challenge it to address the issue head-on. Let's stare down Israel's segregationist Left and its supporters, and compel them to face up to the folly of their position.

We need to hammer home the fact that a peace based on injustice, which fails to respect the most basic of human rights for Jews, is no peace at all.

Civil rights for Jews, like any universal human right, cannot and must not be restricted in time or place. That kind of bigotry went out of fashion in the United States four decades ago.

There is no reason to begin applying it now in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Getting our house in order first</title>
<date>8/9/2009</date>
<content>
These days, while Norway and Sweden are fiercely attacked by Israeli ministers and Jewish leaders for being "anti-Semitic," I would like to set the record straight on these two countries' international human rights activity.

It was Norway and Sweden that launched the free world's battle against the South African apartheid regime. They were joined by the rest of the Western world only two decades later.

NORWAY STARTED the struggle against apartheid back in the early 1960s. In 1960, Chief Albert Luthuli, the African National Congress (ANC) president, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. His trip to Norway as a result, and his call during this visit to impose international sanctions against South Africa, received global attention.

From 1960 the Church of Norway, which is a "state church" funded by the government, took the lead in the fight against South Africa by directly supporting anti-apartheid grassroots organizations to the tune of about $40 million between 1974 and 1995. South Africa was the central focus of the Church of Norway's international human rights campaign.

Norwegian trade unions were the first to organize a consumer boycott of South African products and to start an anti-apartheid awareness campaign. Youth and student organizations all around Norway were among the first to join this campaign. The international solidarity committee of the Norwegian confederation of unions intensified the consumer boycott in the late 1960s, and became one of the key organizations supporting the struggle for liberation in South Africa.

THE SWEDISH anti-apartheid record is just as impressive. The first anti-apartheid activities there started in the early 1950s, and a strong anti-apartheid movement was built nationwide. The Swedish South Africa Committee (SSAC), formed in 1961, started a consumer boycott of South African products and pressured the Swedish government to impose sanctions. Another Swedish NGO, the Isolate South Africa Committee, organized a campaign to isolate South Africa internationally and support the black liberation movements and South African political prisoners. The Swedish government began supporting the ANC and the struggle against apartheid in 1973 - 13 years before the European Union institutions in Brussels followed suit.

Israel, on the other hand, was one of the last Western allies (if not the last) of the apartheid regime. In the 1970s, when Norway and Sweden were leading the international struggle against the apartheid regime, Israel was just getting into bed with the South African authorities, selling arms to the South African army while bypassing the UN arms embargo passed in 1977.

I would like to remind you of all this before we start shouting about the Scandinavian human rights record. We should look at our own first.

The writer was director-general of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2000-2001 and the first Israeli ambassador to democratic South Africa (1992-1994). He is the author of Black Justice, The South African Upheaval.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guest Columnist: Marching for Hamas</title>
<date>22/1/2009</date>
<content>
Hamas is a bully aided by a bigger bully, Iran. And, just as strident and threatening human bullies get away with their aggression so long as no one calls their bluff, so Hamas has been getting away with murder and torture because the UN and many states won't call its two-faced self-portrayal as the victim in the piece. In the struggle to take over Gaza from Fatah, it went on a rampage that killed hundreds of Palestinians. Even during this most recent assault, in early January, it executed Fatah members for violating their house arrest. A few weeks ago, Hamas determined to hurt yet more of its compatriots by introducing Islamic hudud punishments to the Strip, from amputations and stonings, to crucifixions and hangings.

Like all bullies, it likes to taunt its victims. It did just that for years after Israel left Gaza, firing rockets every day into towns like Sderot or Netivot. No one who has dismissed these rockets as harmless homemade toys has ever had the guts to spend a few weeks in Sderot, scurrying from shelter to shelter. And, oh yes, it also built up an arsenal (supplied by Iran) of Grad missiles that certainly aren't anybody's toys.

Like all bullies, Hamas likes to make boastful threats. Its 1988 Covenant is replete with them. It threatens to destroy the State of Israel by violence and violence alone. It says it will never accept the work of conferences or peacemakers, and only jihad will solve its problems. Meanwhile, the Palestinians see their lives drained away in a culture that embraces death and martyrdom, their children exposed to a steady diet of military training and preparation for violent death as suicide bombers.

Even if the Palestinians want peace, Hamas won't let them have it, because Hamas knows best, and jihad "is the only solution." Don't believe me, read the Covenant. It likes nothing better than killing Jews, and the bigger bully in Teheran thinks that's a damn fine thing too. No one says a word, because the UN is dominated by the Islamic states, and the Western governments know where the oil comes from, and nobody likes the Jews much anyway. The people calling for the end of Israel while they march on the streets of London and Dublin aren't all Muslims by any means.

There can be no greater indication of this boastfulness than what has happened in recent days. Having taken a heavy battering from Israel, Hamas now proclaims a "great victory," and its supporters dance in the ruined streets of Gaza, drunk on their own demagoguery. For all its bluster, Hamas, like all bullies, is a coward at heart. Watch those films of Hamas gunmen dragging screaming children along with them to act as human shields, watch how they fire from behind the little ones, knowing no Israeli soldier will fire back. And even as they put their own children's lives at risk, they shout to high heaven that the Israelis are Nazis and the Jews are child-killers. This blatant pornography spreads through the Western media, and people never once ask "what does this look like from the other side," because they are addicted to the comforting news that the Yids are baby-killers as they'd always known, that they do poison wells, that no Christian child is safe come Passover. Hamas has become proficient at resurrecting the blood libel, just as its fighters use the Nazi salute, just as their predecessor in the 1930s and '40s, Haj Amin al-Husseini, conferred with Hitler about building death camps in Palestine and raised a division of SS troops in Bosnia to fight for the Reich.

We watch The Diary of Anne Frank on television, and some of us attend Holocaust Remembrance Day events, and others pay lip service to Jewish victimhood; we like our Jews emaciated and helpless under the SS boot. But the moment real Jews stand up and show themselves the stronger for all their deaths, it awakens an atavistic fear, and people recoil from them. Jews in uniform, how unseemly. Jews beating the bully, how unheard of. Jews with their own state, what upstarts.

IN MY home country of Ireland, we glamorize the great nationalist heroes who rebelled against the bullying forces of imperial Britain in the uprising of Easter Sunday 1916. In France, they venerate the heroes of the Resistance against the occupying forces of Nazi Germany. In Spain, they have not ceased to heap praise on those who fought against the forces of fascist bullies and lost. To stand up against an enemy bent on your destruction is everywhere counted an act of bravery. But not when it comes to Israel. In 1948 and 1967 and 1973 and 2006, Israel fought off overwhelming forces who made no secret of their plans for an imminent massacre of the Jews. But nobody now seems to care, no one lauds the courage the Israelis displayed, and no one praises the extraordinary restraint they showed in victory.

In a bizarre reversal of all their commitment to human rights and the struggle of men and women for independence and self-determination, the  European Left has chosen again and again to side with the bullies and to condemn a small nation struggling to survive in a hostile neighborhood. It is all self-contradictory: The Left supports gay rights, yet attacks the only country in the Middle East where gay rights are enshrined in law. Hamas makes death the punishment for being gay, but "we are all Hamas now." Iran hangs gays, but it is praised as an agent of anti-imperialism, and allowed to get on with its job of stoning women and executing dissidents and members of religious minorities. If UK Premier Gordon Brown swore to wipe France from the face of the earth, he would become a pariah among nations. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad threatens to do that to Israel and is invited to speak to the UN General Assembly

Israel guarantees civil liberties to all its citizens, Jew or Arab alike, but it is dubbed "an apartheid state"; Hamas, ever the bully, kills its opponents and denies the rest the most basic rights, but we march on behalf of Hamas. The Left prefers the bully because the bully represents a finger in the face of the establishment? Almost no one on the Left has any understanding of militant Islam. Their politics is a politics of gesture, where wearing a keffiyeh is cool but understanding its symbolism is too much effort even for intellectuals.

I have personally had enough of it all. The whining double standards, the blatant lies, the way their leaders have forced Palestinians to suffer for 60 years because peace and compromise aren't in their vocabulary and because they won't settle for anything but total victory. Painful as it was, in the 1920s Ireland created a republic by compromising on the status of the North. Ireland subsequently became a prosperous country and, in due course, one of the hottest economies in the world. When the Israelis left Gaza in 2005, they left state-of-the-art greenhouses to form the basis for a thriving economy. Hamas destroyed them to the last pane of glass. Why? Because they had been Jewish greenhouses.

The writer is the incoming editor of the leading international journal Middle East Quarterly and the author of a blog entitled 'A Liberal Defence of Israel.'
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guest columnist: The stranger who dwells among us</title>
<date>24/9/2009</date>
<content>
'Do you mind if I break my fast while I drive?" asked the cabbie in a heavily accented English as he pulled away from London's Hampstead Hotel in the direction of Heathrow. Having just pulled myself away from the last session of a three-day conference of the Zionist Federation of Great Britain, it took me a moment to refocus and process the question.

Oh, right, Ramadan, I said to myself, feeling just the slightest bit uncomfortable and wondering if in the encroaching darkness my interlocutor had noticed the kippa I was wearing when I'd gotten into his taxi.

"No problem," I answered out loud, doing my best to offer an appeasing smile that he could catch in his rearview mirror.

I needn't have felt uneasy at all. During the hour it took us to reach the airport, not only had Yousef and I resolved the entire Middle East conflict, but I'd also learned more about Muslim tradition than I had during the entire 35 years I've lived in the Jewish state - and I use that nomenclature pointedly.

"There's too little opportunity for Arabs and Jews in Israel to talk like this," I mused at one point in our conversation.

"Really," he responded, seemingly surprised. "Why is that?"

GOOD QUESTION, I thought to myself, delving more than three decades deep into my personal history for an answer. I lived at Neveh Ilan at the time and was committed to making friends with my Arab neighbors in Abu Ghosh, but somehow that's something that never happened. I thought of my good friends in East Talpiot who two decades ago had succeeded in making friends with their Arab neighbors in Jebl Mukaber, only to have the relationships shattered by stones the size of grapefruits that were hurled through their living room windows.

I thought of an Arab-Jewish encounter I had violated Shabbat to participate in more than a decade ago, convinced that by putting a human face on the political process we would ultimately be saving lives. I had returned disappointed by the obstinacy of those who refused to accept the hand I had extended them in a supplication for acceptance.

I thought of my wife's office at Hebrew University that had been painted by an east Jerusalem Arab worker with whom she had shared friendly chatter who was later arrested for planting the bomb at the student cafeteria that took the lives of nine students. He might just as easily have left it in her desk drawer

"I don't know," I answered, taking the easy way out. "The terrorism certainly doesn't help things."

Yousef couldn't have agreed more, and launched into a diatribe against the evils of al-Qaida and Hamas that even our foreign minister might hesitate to voice publicly. I didn't interrupt, but knew fully well that I had unfairly fed him a mixture of apples and oranges, which in his hunger he eagerly swallowed undiscerningly. There is, or should be, a world of difference between those Arabs within our borders who are Israeli citizens and to whom our Declaration of Independence guarantees full equality and those who live beyond them, some of whom are committed to our annihilation.

Why have I not communicated with the former all these years? Why did I have no one to ask if the fast of Ramadan was obligatory for women as well as for men, from what age children were required to participate, if its observance involves other rituals and what the significance of the month is altogether.

"When does the fast end?" I asked."Seven forty-eight," he answered, munching on a carrot. Like Shabbat, I thought, smiling to myself."No, when does Ramadan end this year?" He told me.

"Oh, Rosh Hashana," I said. "You'll be ending your fast more or less at the time we begin preparing for ours."

AND IN the context of the conversation I immediately thought of the Torah portion we'd be reading that day. Not the binding of Isaac but the banishment of Ishmael. As I pondered the reasons for the lack of acquaintance between me and my neighbors, I wondered how they might explain it. Where would their narrative of the missed opportunity begin and what would it include? Was Genesis the genesis of the divide between us?

I recalled my army service manning roadblocks in 1978, long before any intifada, when I was chastised by my superiors for apologizing to the occupants of the cars I was searching for inconveniencing them, then thanking them for their cooperation. I thought of the findings of the Or Commission into the Arab riots in October 2000, which blamed the outbreak of violence in part on years of "government handling of the Arab sector [that] has been primarily neglectful and discriminatory" and, castigating the security forces for their overly brutal response, cautioned that "The police must learn to realize that the Arab sector in Israel is not the enemy and must not be treated as such."

Two sons. One father. And a God we both believed in who had twice tested this lonely man of faith by commanding him to part eternally from each of his children. As we approached the turnoff to the A4 I wondered if the relationship between Israel's Muslim and Jewish citizens today is better explained by the standard sociology of minority-majority relationships exacerbated by an external conflict, or by different readings of the Bible and Koran - the latter of which I plead guilty to being completely ignorant.

Was Ishmael mocking Isaac or merely playing with him? Was Sarah appropriately zealous in protecting her son's birthright, or shamefully jealous of the woman she had urged her husband to have a child with in the first place? In heeding God's word though it blatantly contradicted his own sense of morality, had Abraham passed his tests or failed them?

This was not the first time that our common progenitor had entered my thoughts today.

The conference I had been a part of featured Muhammad Darawshe, a 27th-generation Palestinian and co-executive director of the Abraham Fund, which "works to advance coexistence, equality and cooperation among Israel's Jewish and Arab citizens."

Listening to him speak, I was as discomfited in discovering how little I knew of Ishmael's descendants who carry Israeli passports and ID cards today as I was to learn of the mistreatment to which they have been subjected over the decades. Darawshe, however, was neither bitter nor belligerent. To the contrary, he was understanding and conciliatory, emphasizing that there was no need to change Israel's laws to resolve the problems (as had been necessary in South Africa to do away with apartheid), but only to uphold them.

"El Al?" Yousef asked with a smile. "Yes," I answered absently as he pulled up to the curb. I thanked him for the ride, wished him an easy month of fasting, tipped him more than is my custom, and wondered if I would have to come back to London to continue getting to know my neighbors, or if this year I might begin taking more seriously the commandments concerning the treatment of the stranger who dwells among us.

Rosh Hashana was still two weeks away, but it was already time to check in. As I took my place in the long line waiting for security clearance, I was reminded that it was not we who were responsible for the untold millions of hours wasted daily in airports around the world. But I resisted ingesting the same salad of apples and oranges I had fed Yousef. That we are not the root cause of the conflict in which we are embroiled does not absolve us of accountability for those transgressions of which we are guilty.

"For the sin we have sinned against You by rejecting responsibility...." The liturgy of the approaching Day of Atonement played on in my head as I waited to be asked if everything in my baggage belonged to me.

The writer is a member of the Executive of the Jewish Agency and World Zionist Organization where he heads the Department for Zionist Activity.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In Perspective: It's a new world, Bibi</title>
<date>2/7/2009</date>
<content>
I wouldn't be surprised if Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu were thinking of Tevye these days. Tevye was, after all, a quasi-pathetic character simply trying to make sense of a world changing far more quickly than he might have ever imagined possible. Having granted his daughter, Hodel, permission to marry Perchik the pauper, he wonders, "What am I going to tell your mother?" He didn't choose Perchik, and he doesn't really approve. But he is powerless. And when his wife expresses her dismay, the best explanation he can offer is "It's a new world, Golde."

"It's a new world, Golde" is not a claim that Perchik is the right man for Hodel. Or that he'll ever make a real living. It's simply a claim that the rules have changed. And in a world with new rules, people must learn to act and respond differently. Tevye never says that, of course. But he is simple, not stupid; and he intuitively understands that he is going to have to learn to navigate his world in an entirely different way.

Tevye is a not entirely inapt metaphor for Israel. We're living in world operating according to rules that we're just beginning to understand. Convinced of the legitimacy of at least much of our position, for years we ignored the warning signs that the world was turning on us, that it has grown tired of the conflict in the Middle East, and that it believes we are the reason the conflict will not subside.

The world didn't change overnight. We simply weren't watching.

NOW THERE is no more denying the new ground rules. Barack Obama is not really changing them. Perhaps he is shifting America's position, perhaps not. But more than anything, he is simply articulating infinitely more clearly than anyone else has what it is that the world has come to believe. And we are going to have to learn to operate not in the world we wish existed, but in the world that does exist. And in this new world, Israel is going to be held to standards that are infinitely less tolerant than the standards to which the rest of the world is accountable.

Consider, after all, events of just the past few weeks. In the aftermath of the Iranian election, much of the world watched with admiration and hope as Iranians took to the streets to insist on their (supposed) democratic rights. When the Iranian government resorted to intimidation, silencing of the press, force and then murder, the world was horrified - but it was also quiet. Where were the mass rallies across Europe and on those North American campuses where students were still to be found calling for Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei to back down? Where were the heads of state clamoring to get in front of television cameras calling for a new election? To be sure, the world was unhappy, but this was hardly an outpouring of support or of condemnation.

Compare that to the world's reaction to the Gaza operation half a year ago. To be sure, the circumstances were entirely different. Iran's election is an internal matter, while the Gaza op was not. And other differences abound. But Israel was responding to eight years of shelling of its citizens in what is undisputedly its territory (unless one disputes the notion that any territory is legitimately ours - which, in fact, is exactly Hamas' position); nonetheless, even before the urban warfare began, the world was unanimous and vocal that the operation had to end.

An almost deadening silence in one instance. And deafening outcries of excessive force in the other. Welcome to the new world.

OR SUPPOSE that some number of Israeli Arab women decided that they were going to wear the burka as a means of intensifying their personal religious odyssey. And that in response to their decision, Netanyahu said, "In our country, we cannot accept that women be prisoners behind a screen, cut off from all social life, deprived of all identity," or that "the burka is not a religious sign, it's a sign of subservience, a sign of debasement - I want to say it solemnly, it will not be welcome on the territory of the State of Israel." One can just imagine the world's outcry, the accusations of religious oppression, comparisons with apartheid South Africa or, yes, Nazi Germany. But substitute "the Republic of France" for State of Israel, and you have precisely French President Nicolas Sarkozy's words this week - again, to a relatively silent international community of listeners.

Or finally, recall Obama's twisting in the wind as he came to realize that his outstretched hand to Iran was not going to be shaken as warmly as he'd allowed himself to imagine. Eventually, he gave in to enormous pressure to criticize the Iranian regime's repressive measures. But his criticism was tepid - he couldn't get over his fundamental sense that the world ought not meddle in Iran's internal affairs. A few days later, however, the press reported that Sarkozy had told Netanyahu that it was time to dump Avigdor Lieberman and restore Tzipi Livni. Sarkozy's advice, apparently, is considered moving peace forward. Obama's suggesting that Iran recount the vote would be meddling.

THERE'S NO point railing against a double standard that no one is even inclined to deny. Right or wrong, for better or for worse, we need to adapt. Israel is going to have to learn to get ahead of the curve. Had Netanyahu's speech at Bar-Ilan University, by most accounts a very good speech, preceded Obama's Cairo address, Israel would have been throwing down the gauntlet, challenging the Palestinians to recognize the Jewish state and to live in peace beside it. But coming when they did, Netanyahu's remarks were essentially seen as caving in to Obama - too little, too late. That's what has to change.

In this new world, the spotlight will almost always be on Israel. Settlement building. Roadblocks. Lieberman. We're going to have to learn to alter that. Make some accommodations, but demand - clearly and unequivocally - that the Palestinians do the same. Netanyahu, or whoever follows him, is going to have to learn to keep the ball, and the world's attention, squarely in and on their court. Like it or not, Israel needs to take the initiative, time and time again - because nothing else will work.

"It's a new world, Bibi," Tevye would have said. We don't have to like it. And it may not be fair, or just. But as we are wont to say, "zeh mah yesh" - it is what it is. As Tevye understood, we can either adapt, exerting at least some control over our fates, or we can wistfully long for days when other rules prevailed, even as we get swept away by currents we've barely begun to comprehend.

The writer is senior vice president of the Shalem Center in Jerusalem. His latest book is Saving Israel: How the Jewish State Can Win a War That May Never End. He blogs at www.danielgordis.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In the Diaspora: Suspended agitation</title>
<date>19/3/2009</date>
<content>
Entering the fall semester of 2001, I expected that the dominant political cause on American college campuses was going to be divestment from Israel. Two weeks into the term, on September 11, the prediction became irrelevant.

But the effort to financially attack Israel, to single it out as a pariah state, never became obsolete. The divestment movement in the United States only went into a form of suspended animation, and now, after eight years, it has resumed agitation. In certain respects, the effort promises to be more forceful and more dangerous as a result of all that has happened in the intervening time.

Lest there be any confusion, I should say that I oppose divestment against Israel and have written so on a number of occasions. Still, the same old arguments against divestment may not work so well this time around, both because of what is similar to and what is different from the American political climate on September 10, 2001.

The template for the divestment campaign was established in the 1980s with the successful effort to have universities, pension funds, cities, even entire states sell off the stock of companies involved in South Africa. A growing and sophisticated population of Muslim-Americans supplied the passionate rank-and-file for the campaign against Israel. And the passive or active involvement of many American Jews in the anti-apartheid movement left them tongue-tied and embarrassed when it came to contending why Israel shouldn't taste the same harsh medicine.

The al-Qaeda attacks on Washington and New York instantly changed the equation. Even on campuses, redoubts of pacifism, the prevailing mood turned chilly toward anything resembling advocacy for the Islamic world. The following spring brought the spate of suicide attacks within sovereign Israel, most notably at the seder in a Netanya hotel, that at least temporarily created a surge of unified American Jewish outrage. Almost exactly one year later, in March 2003, President Bush ordered the invasion of Iraq, making the war and occupation there the focus of the activist Left.

DESPITE ALL those distractions, nobody should have entertained any illusions that the divestment campaign - and the related efforts to boycott Israeli academics and protest performances by Israeli cultural groups - would subside. In fact, it was during 2005 and 2006, when so much attention was going toward the seeming American failure in Iraq, that new elements were being added to the infrastructure of the divestment movement - the creation of Israel Apartheid Week and the formation of the Boycott, Divest, Sanction coalition.

Now the Iraq war, or at least the American piece of it, is winding down. George W. Bush, out of office, has stopped providing one-stop-shopping for left-wing and liberal protest. For all its mendacity, the 2008 book by John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt on the Israel lobby has succeeded in one of its goals - making it socially and politically permissible to trot out that conspiracy theory. The canard has permeated public discussion of the withdrawal of Charles Freeman, a caustic critic of Israel, as one of President Obama's top intelligence advisers.

Meanwhile, the facts on the Middle East ground have put Israel's advocates in a nearly untenable position. As Yossi Klein Halevi has often pointed out, both the settlement enterprise and the Oslo effort failed to achieve their fantastic goals. Now Hamas has succeeded in undermining the last realistic hope for partition: unilateral separation. In the wake of the recent Israeli elections, the formation of a right-wing coalition with the polarizing Avigdor Lieberman as foreign minister cannot help but frustrate many American Zionists in their desire to plead Israel's cause.

The two-state solution, to the degree it has any salience, now qualifies as the conservative position. The liberal stance is the vision of a unitary state. No longer the property of river-to-sea settlers, it has returned after 60 years to its leftist parentage, now intermingled with Islamists.

And when it comes to the rhetoric about a unitary state, American Zionists (and perhaps Israelis, as well) do not fully grasp the potency of the South African analogy. They spend a lot of energy and verbiage making the case that Israel does not practice apartheid, but they haven't come up with nearly as effective an answer for why the South African model of peaceful transformation, full enfranchisement and majority rule shouldn't be applied to Israel and the Palestinian territories as well. It is easier to answer to the cynicism of the apartheid analogy than the optimism of the Mandela-DeKlerk compromise.

So consider the current divestment activity at such colleges as Hampshire, Haverford, NYU, Macalaster, and Columbia as just the start of a new phase of struggle. Pay close attention when someone like the author Naomi Klein, a rock star to young activists, endorses divestment, because she matters a lot more on campus than alter kockers like Noam Chomsky. And don't assume, this time, that our side is destined to win.

www.samuelfreedman.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Is one Jewish state one too many?</title>
<date>6/6/2009</date>
<content>
This month a consortium of Canadian universities and institutions will be sponsoring a conference at York University in Toronto that will effectively conclude that one Jewish state in the world is one too many.

The conference, innocuously named "Israel/Palestine: Mapping Models of Statehood and Paths to Peace," will ostensibly debate whether a "one-state" or "two-state" solution is the best way to advance peace. But the conference's symbol is a map of Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, with a zipper sewing up the seam lines between them. And a close look at the speakers and the abstracts of their intended speeches show that the overwhelming consensus will be that Israel should cease being a Jewish state and morph instead into a binational one.

It is a rich irony indeed that the conference is ostensibly proposing that Israel annex the West Bank and the Gaza Strip - a position that once might have been considered solely in the domain of the most right-wing Israelis. But as the program speeches make clear, the proposed solution is not to simply allow Israel to annex territory. Rather, it is to strip the Jewish state of its Law of Return (allowing Jews to immigrate) and uproot the country from its Jewish foundations.

York University's program makes only a nominal attempt to stir genuine debate. The program is riddled with speakers who take as a given that Israel is an apartheid state that discriminates against Palestinians and that is fundamentally "unjust." A number of the speakers are recognizable as organizers and advocates of the movement to boycott Israel. Indeed, the handful of notable professors who do not believe that Israel should cease to exist as a Jewish state stand out like vegetarians at a slaughterhouse.

Belatedly realizing the nature of the conference, some have begun to pull out.

Conference defenders have been quick to point to the right of free speech and the value of academic debate to support the program. And it is clear that when discussing Israel and the Palestinians passions are likely to run high. But the issue is not freedom of expression or the value of hearing alternate viewpoints. The issue is not York University's right to hold such a conference, but rather its desire to do so.

A CONFERENCE is not held in a vacuum. Against a backdrop of the ascendency of Iran calling to destroy Israel, Hamas consolidating its hold over the Gaza Strip and continuing to rain rockets against southern Israeli cities and a global increase in anti-Semitism, is it possible that York University doesn't understand that a conference calling on Israel to cease being a Jewish Zionist state plays into the hands of those seeking to annihilate it completely?

Never mind that the proposed "one-state" solution is completely unrealistic. Never mind that there is not a single mainstream Israeli political party that would ever endorse it - and that it will therefore simply never materialize. Never mind that a conference held at the end of June, with few students on campus, is mostly an exercise of academics preaching to the converted. The pernicious nature of this conference is not measured by its efficacy at promoting its solution. It's measured by the legitimacy it confers on those who will build upon it to promote genocide.

This conference, if unopposed, will be copied. The notion that for the sake of peace and justice Israel must be denuded of its Jewish character will be lent the imprimatur of a respected university. In time, nongovernmental organizations, quasi-governmental bodies and international institutions may well quote the conclusions of such conferences, and the movement to boycott Israel will be immeasurably strengthened. Groups like Hamas and Hizbullah will seize on its conclusions immediately, using them to excuse their terrorist activities against the Jewish state.

One need not cut off debate, or the presentation of alternative viewpoints. But is it really too much to expect respected universities not to endorse the destruction of Israel as the world's only Jewish state?

The writer is author of 101+ Ways to Help Israel: A Guide to Doing Small Things That Can Make Big Differences.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 7: Those innocent little children</title>
<date>6/1/2009</date>
<content>
Those innocent...

Sir, - Please stop the killing of innocents, especially children, in this latest trouble in Gaza ("Red Cross seeks drugs, vaccines, blood and body bags for Gaza," January 6).

Look, I know you beautiful Israelis have had a sad history, and independence has meant so much to you. I acknowledge the right to defend yourself.

But, my God, how long does the Middle East conflict have to go on? People of Israel, aren't you tired of it all ?

Here we are, with a world financial crisis to remedy, and the world is focusing on Gaza. What about the children of your grandchildren and mine? Will we not give them a safe and peaceful future?

GEOFF HINDS
Merrylands, NSW, Australia

...little children

Sir, - As a Christian who believes in peaceful pursuits, I still can find no fault with what the State of Israel is currently doing to defend its people and its long-term survival.

I do have real tears for the Palestinian children; yet I must place all due responsibility for those losses on the adult sector of the Hamas community, for it is these people who are entirely responsible for the current Israeli actions, and the results of those actions.

PETER FOLGER
Biddeford, Maine

The obsession with collateral damage

Sir, - As a veteran of the Korean war who saw politics running military affairs, I see little has changed in 56 years, in Israel or the US. This obsession with limiting "civilian" casualties is causing military casualties and taking the lives of Israeli civilians.

While Hamas has no compunction about killing Israelis - adults, children and other noncombatants - the Israelis seem to obsess over collateral damage. Yet to successfully combat terrorism, you have to be as ruthless as the terrorists. Only then will the population rise up against Hamas for bringing this destruction on them ("How will it end?" Gershon Baskin, December 30).

For too long, young men have been sent out in the field to put their lives at risk by fat, self-centered politicians whose only risk is their daily cigar.

STEVE BERMAN
New York

On disproportion

Sir, - As Liat Collins stated in her superb "At home in war and peace" (January 4), the foreign press objects to the "disproportionality" between the number of Palestinians and the number of Israelis killed. If fair play is so important, why do the foreign press never object to the disproportionality between the hundreds of Palestinian prisoners Israel releases in return for only two or three Israeli captives?

PAULINE SHOMER
Jerusalem

Sir, - This incursion is not about the Palestinian people, but about Hamas firing rockets into Israel. Hamas is trying to make the world think it's about the Palestinians. The UN needs to stay out of this until Hamas calls for a cease-fire. Then the UN can intervene ("Arabs seek UN resolution to stop war," January 5).

MARK HAEFELE
Nebraska

Anti-Israel bias

Sir, - The bias against Israel is very clear, from the EU to the UN. The Israeli government has a moral right to protect its citizens, and it should get more support from the international community since the Israelis are not the aggressors in this war ("Diplomacy expected to buy IDF 'a few more days' in Gaza," January 5).

FRANCES CUFFIE
Arouca, Trinidad

Sir, - Sometimes I wonder: If alien starships were to attack Earth next week, would the UN and European socialists side with the extraterrestrials, declaring space probes launched from Earth in the past 30 years to have been American cosmic imperialism?

TUVIA FOGEL
Milan

What I'd like to say

Sir - To the left-wing demonstrators against the war, I would like to say: Take your small children and elderly parents and go to Sderot for a month, a week, or even a day, and perhaps you will change your opinions.

To the Israeli Arabs shouting "Death to the Jews," I would like to say: Next time you come to hospital and are treated by a Jewish doctor, will you still be shouting the same thing? ("Over 10,000 rally in Sakhnin against 'war crimes,'" January 4).

And to Yossi Klein Halevi, I would like to say: Thank you for one of the most moving articles I have ever read ("As my son goes to war, I am fully Israeli at last," January 5).

May his son and all the other sons come home safely.

SALLIE TANGIR
Tel Mond

Sir, - I thoroughly enjoyed Yossi Klein Halevi's op-ed. But how about those of us in our 80s and beyond who are seeing our grandsons and granddaughters caught up in this war? We feel it just as strongly, I'm sure, as do mommies and daddies - perhaps even more, since this is the third generation having to go through a bloody war or two.

At any rate, we are keeping our fingers crossed (may Jews do that?) for the safety of our soldiers and a quick end to the conflict.

LEONARD ZURAKOV
Netanya

Delusionary

Sir, - Is MJ Rosenberg delusional? "Weren't there other ways to induce Hamas to stop the shelling?" (January 6) was a series of libels against Israel and apologetics for Hamas. If I responded point by point, I'd need a full-length article. So I'll highlight just one of his more obvious fabrications:

"Israeli lunatics - settlers who attack children and burn down olive groves - have become significant political players. In Israel, it is impossible to form a government without the crazies."

Would Mr. Rosenberg care to point out exactly which party in the current government represents these crazies? Or the previous government, or the one before that? Or the one before that?

DANIEL STERMAN
Jerusalem

Reach out to Hamas, Iran

Sir, - Israel must negotiate with Hamas, they are the government of Gaza. You waited way too long to talk to Yasser Arafat, don't make the same mistake now. If an international mediator needs to be brought in, let one representative from both sides attend. Should the talk be counterproductive to peace, the meeting ends.

To Hamas: You cannot be taken seriously as a government by persistently attacking your neighbor and mistreating your citizens. Israel: You need to reach out to Iran and stop vilifying the whole of that nation and seek solutions with them.

Such an overture will go a long way down the road to peace. Take the high road.

EDITH GAGNON
Toronto

As a matter of interest

Sir, - Could you tell me, this French bloke who now wants everything to stop so he can talk you into yet another peace agreement, does he actually have a mandate from Hamas to negotiate on its behalf, or is he simply trying to say as much as possible in case there is some honor to be grabbed at a later stage? ("EU leaders arrive without concrete proposal to stop Gaza fighting," January 6)

FRANK WASSERMANN
Namibia

'Ima' Suzman, R.I.P.

Sir, - I am a Kenyan living in the US who has written in support of the Jews and Israel for three decades in the Kenyan media. I am saddened by the passing on of "Ima" Helen Suzman, an icon who gallantly fought against apartheid in her adopted land of South Africa ("Veteran apartheid foe Helen Suzman dies at 91," January 2).

I wrote often praising her contribution to the struggle to eradicate that scourge of mankind in the 80s. May God rest her soul.

PETER HEHO
Seattle
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jimmy Carter, we can have peace (without you) in the Holy Land</title>
<date>25/8/2009</date>
<content>
Former President Jimmy Carter has just released a new book, We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land: A Plan that Will Work in which he advocates a straightforward solution: Israel should embrace the Quartet [Russia, the UN, the EU and the US].

The plan is backed by a group known simply as The Elders, an NGO started by Nelson Mandela in 2007 to promote peace and assist in conflict resolution and funded partly by British entrepreneur Sir Richard Branson, who originally proposed the idea for the group, and musician Peter Gabriel. Jimmy Carter and the Carter Center are heavily involved with this endeavor; Carter is one of three appointed 'Elders' to the Middle East. The delegation currently in Israel accompanying Carter includes South African Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and former Irish president Mary Robinson (who recenty received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from US President Barack Obama despite strong objections by Jewish groups over her leadership role in the 2001 UN Durban Review).

The group's objectives were met with skepticism by Israelis, but according to Carter, were eagerly embraced by the "Palestinians, peace groups and human rights activists in the region."

How could he ask the Jewish people to embrace a group known as The Elders? The controversial Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion is the biggest best-selling book in a bigoted world, and is charged with fueling anti-Semitism.

CARTER'S PLAN is to allow the Quartet to solve the Middle East conflict, plain and simple. He calls for peace-loving organizations such as Hizbullah and Hamas and states like Iran and Syria to be involved in the negotiating process in order to bring peace to the Holy Land. The Quartet, Hizbullah, Hamas, Syria, Iran - according to Carter, everybody but Israel can bring peace.

For Israelis only, Carter reserves the word 'radicals' in his book. He also calls former prime minister Menachem Begin by the same abjective and then describes him as the "most notorious terrorist in the region." Of course, he said the British said that, not him. Carter goes on to describe Binyamin Netanyahu as a "key political associate and naysayer" who was strongly opposed to Israel relinquishing control over the Sinai.

It appears that Jimmy Carter is revising history. The Binyamin Netanyahu I know was attending college during the Camp David meetings in the late 1970s. In fact, when I recommended him to Begin for a government job, the prime minister did not even know who Netanyahu was. I have no idea how Carter was so aware of Binyamin Netanyahu's political ideology; he was selling furniture at the time to help fund his schooling.

The former president also writes that at the time, Begin agreed to divide Jerusalem. I found that to be astonishing, especially since Begin had given me a copy of the letter he penned to Jimmy Carter on September 17, 1978, in which he wrote, "Dear Mr. President, on the basis of this law, the government of Israel decreed in July 1967 that Jerusalem is one city indivisible, the capital of the State of Israel." According to Begin, Carter informed him that the US government did not recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.

Begin told me he responded, "Excuse me sir, but the State of Israel does not recognize your non-recognition."

Carter further charges that Begin agreed to a freeze on building Jewish settlements but Begin told me he had not agreed to a total freeze; he only agreed not to build new settlements for three months, during the negotiations.

Carter also gives the impression that he and Begin were close friends by saying that Begin and then Egyptian president Anwar Sadat visited him in Plains to reaffirm the personal commitments each had made to the other, which I found quite humorous.

Begin told me he had refused to meet with Carter when the president traveled to Jerusalem. At that time, he was no longer prime minister but was outraged that Carter had misrepresented the events during their meetings.

COULD IT be that Jimmy Carter's ideals are formulated by the number of zeros before the decimal on the contributions to the Carter Center by oil-rich Gulf States? These same states do not now, nor will they ever, allow Jews to worship freely within their borders no matter how much land Israel relinquishes. It is then surprising and hypocritical to call Israel an "apartheid state" and to infer that the region's only democratic country is an obstacle to peace - thus the only solution to the Middle East conflict is through intervention.

Carter's final plea is for President Barack Obama to "shape a comprehensive peace effort between Israel and the Palestinians...then use persuasion and enticements to reach these reasonable goals with the full backing of other members of the International Quartet and the Arab nations."

It is likely he would call on The Elders for their expertise. The best thing President Obama could do is completely ignore Jimmy Carter and his plan.

The writer is a New York Times bestselling author of Jimmy Carter: The Liberal Left and World Chaos. A television special based on the book is currently being produced (www.carterbooktv.com)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 15: New York, New York!</title>
<date>14/6/2009</date>
<content>
New York, New York!

Sir, - I'm thrilled that the residents of an important American city like New York will be treated to the high level of journalism offered by The Jerusalem Post ("Bloomberg, other leading New Yorkers welcome 'Jerusalem Post New York Edition,' which launches today," June 14).

As I read The Jerusalem Post I often think, "If only the Americans could read this." Now some of them can.

I wish you much success with this endeavor and hope the venture grows and extends to other American cities, where an honest assessment of the Israeli political scene may sway public opinion away from the ugly campaign of lies and toward a truer picture of Israel.

VARDA EPSTEIN
Efrat

Who's a bigot?

Sir, - Neve Gordon's "Can Obama save Israel from itself?" (July 12) was full of unproven and unprovable statements presented as facts.

Cases in point: "Legally the outposts are just like the 121 settlements" - read: They are all illegal, including Jerusalem. "Palestinian fields that had been set on fire" - in many cases by Arabs and leftists, as found by police.

And "If Obama hesitates, Israel will become a full-blown apartheid regime." Are we now a half-blown apartheid regime?

Prof. Gordon should take an honest look, for example, at the treatment accorded to Arabs in Israeli hospitals; at our universities, of which he is part; at the polls; and on the buses, where women are sometimes relegated to the back, but never Arabs.

The true bigot may be the professor himself, with his reference to the "pathetic, racist settler."

To paraphrase our sages, the hatred of many non-religious Jews for religious Jews is greater than that of the nations of the world for the Jews.

The settlers, despite being discriminated against by much of the media and academia, and sometimes government agencies, are dedicated heart and soul to preserving our right going back thousands of years to the land of Israel, after almost 2,000 years of occupation by others; unlike Prof. Gordon, who actively supported Yasser Arafat.

PROF. NATAN KOPEIKA
Ben-Gurion University
Beersheba

Sir, - Surely Neve Gordon was kidding with that sentence about Israel becoming a full-blown apartheid regime?

Isn't the Hamas-Palestinian (Jew-free) Gaza Strip an apartheid state? Isn't every Arab country around Israel virtually Jew-free - and now almost Christian-free? Wouldn't these countries be defined as apartheid?

Every day I see Arabs here in Israel enjoying the same opportunities and benefits as any other Israeli. I see Arab doctors, nurses, truck drivers, construction workers, cashiers, waiters, shopkeepers and Arab MKs living the same life as your everyday Israeli citizen.

The focus of our negotiations on the "two-state solution" with the Palestinians and President Obama should be on the status of Jewish people living in the "Palestinian state, created to live alongside the Jewish state in peace and security."

DAVID RACKNER
Hod Hasharon

Sir, - Neve Gordon is wrong in his unequivocal assertion that the settlements are all illegal; renowned international law experts have long maintained the contrary.

As for his assertion that government actions and protest demonstrations are simply for "show," this is as malicious as it is offensive, unproven and unwarranted.

He is wrong, too, in his insinuation that the government and the media are somehow working in tandem. When has Israel's left-leaning media aided right-wing policy or promoted right-wing agendas?

The settlers have a right to their opinions no less than Gordon does - including the right to express those opinions, and to promote them. There is nothing "racist" (or pathetic) about not wanting to give up one's home and patrimony to an enemy.

Gordon doesn't miss a trick, even daring to take the "civil war" genie out of the bottle in which wiser, more decent people work hard to keep it.

He also plays the apartheid card; it appears no cliche is beneath him.

I am surprised you saw fit to print this malicious, puerile piece.

NETTA KOHN
Jerusalem

All-round loser

Sir, - James von Brunn deplored that the "empty slander of the Holocaust" had turned the "supreme German race" into the world's pariah. But, ironically, all he did with his abominable attack was prove the Holocaust plausible.

If one man can, point-blank and in cold blood, out of sheer racial enmity, murder someone who only opened the door for him - having further bullets apparently ready to kill a dozen more innocent people - it becomes clear that a nation of 30 million can kill six million out of pure hatred.

Meanwhile, the Germans have become our best friends in Europe. Von Brunn lost every battle ("A history of anger," June 12).

M.M. VAN ZUIDEN
Jerusalem

Educational tours

Sir, - In "'Outpost tourism' draws hundreds of Israelis on day trips to West Bank" (June 12), Tomer Tzanani mentioned that "no visitors from outside of Israel have been on the tour."

From personal experience, I know that the One Israel Fund has also been conducting one-day educational tours and missions.

Led by outstanding English-speaking licensed tour guides, these educational experiences are directed toward foreign tourists and visit thriving communities as well as new outposts in Judea, Samaria and (until the disengagement) Gaza.

Over the past 14 years, thousands of Anglo tourists have availed themselves of this opportunity.

More information is available at www.oneisraelfund.org

HAROLD NEUSTADTER
Jerusalem

Torah... on condition

Sir, - On the issue of change in Halacha, Michael Hirsch turned the tables very nicely on Rabbi Avi Shafran by citing the many rulings that Jews should live in Eretz Yisrael ("Is Torah malleable?" Letters, June 14).

A prominent Orthodox authority, Eliezer Berkovits, in a book called Lo bashamayim hi (It is not in Heaven), has a chapter called Akirat mitzvot min hatorah (The uprooting of commandments of the Torah), in which he cites many examples where the Sages not only changed laws of the Torah in terms of addition, but also in total abrogation or, if you will, amendment.

One example: According to Torah law, a man may give a ring to a married woman and betroth her on condition that her husband die. The sages thought this would not make for family peace (shalom bayit), and ruled such betrothal illegal.

They also accepted the testimony of a widow to the death of her first husband and permitted her to marry a second husband, even though the Torah demands the testimony of two witnesses in marital matters.

RABBI JACOB CHINITZ
Jerusalem

On second thought

Sir, - Hannah Koenigsberg ("Second time around," Letters, June 7) reminded me of a joke told by one of our dayanim when I suggested that writing a get, or bill of divorce, was a  hechsher mitzva, making it possible to allow one to remarry one's divorcee.

He said that on one such occasion, he asked a man why he was remarrying his ex-wife after having complained at the time of the divorce that they were incompatible.

His reply: "For a second marriage, we are compatible!"

MARTIN D. STERN
Salford, UK
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Like it or not, the Temple Mount is key to Israeli-Palestinian peace</title>
<date>6/10/2009</date>
<content>
Here we go again. As Jews celebrate in their tens of thousands the festival of Booths, Succot, religious extremists like Sheikh Raed Salah incite Palestinian masses to recapture Jerusalem with "blood and fire." Not to be outdone, the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah rushed in to pour fuel on the fire as it protests a "plan by Jews to perform religious rituals" on the Temple Mount,' and called on the international community to "force Israel to put off its attempts to take over Jerusalem." 

So as Israel struggles to stop the stone throwers' verbal assaults, and the next spate of resolutions, it's worth reminding the world that ever since the Six Day War in 1967, when Israel captured the Old City of Jerusalem, millions of people have safely streamed to the Western Wall to offer their prayers and insert hand written supplications to the Almighty. While most visitors shedding their tears adjacent to Judaism's holiest site - the Temple Mount - are Jews, not all pilgrims are. Witness Pope John Paul II inserting his own kvittel (written prayer) within the Wall's cracks; pilgrims from Africa, tourists from Indonesia, Swamis from India, Evangelicals from the Americas, Buddhists from across Asia - all come and go to the Wall.

The only price of admission: donning a cardboard yarmulke or scarf. Presidents and prime ministers flock to the Western Wall as well, armed with the latest great hope for peace in the Holy Land. From the Oslo Accords to the Quartet Middle East road map for peace, every official, regardless of religious denomination, or lack of one, finds a welcome private moment of silent prayer or reflection at the Western Wall.

AND YET earlier this week, in the midst of the Jewish High Holy Days, French tourists on the Temple Mount were pelted by irate Palestinian worshipers who "mistook" them for Jews. And the stones, and orchestrated crescendo of violence have continued unabated. During this seemingly annual exercise, has any diplomat, foreign minister, religious icon, or political pundit asked himself, or better yet the Palestinians, one simple question - why? Why can we all pray in peace at the Western Wall, but the very notion of a Jew praying on the site of Solomon's Temple begets only violence, denial and threats?

The centrality of Jerusalem to the Jewish people was never lost on friend or foe.

Two thousand years ago the Romans, after destroying the Temple, plowed under its remains and banned Jews from returning. Emperor Hadrian tried to bury the very name of City of Peace, renaming Jerusalem, Aelia Capitolina. Later, Christians, for theological reasons, extended that painful ban and it was only conquering Muslim leaders who recognized the right of Jews to "return" to live in this small area of land.

Indeed, the Christian patriarchs unsuccessfully lobbied conquering Caliph Omar in the seventh century, and again when Saladin drove out the Crusaders in the twelfth, to prevent Jews from living in or returning to Jerusalem after the Christians had expelled them from the city. Such efforts by Christians were to be repeated and denied by various Muslim authorities for hundreds of years.

How to explain Muslim attitudes over the centuries? Because the Koran itself recognized Solomon's Temple as a "Great place of prayer," and Muslim leaders saw no theological problem with Jews praying adjacent to the Dome of the Rock and the nearby Al Aqsa Mosque. Indeed, in its 1924 guide to Al-Haram Al- Sharif (the Temple Mount) the Supreme Muslim Council wrote "It's identity with the site of Solomon's Temple is beyond dispute," adding this quote from the Book of Samuel: "This, too, is the spot according to the universal belief on which David built there an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings." That language would remain until the 1950s.

So why are things so dramatically different in 2009?

Simply put, generations of Palestinians, "educated" by Yasser Arafat and company, have been taught not believe there ever was a Solomon's Temple. Textbooks and Palestinian media all repeat the self-delusionary canard denying any historic Jewish continuity or legitimacy in the Holy Land. Indeed, president Bill Clinton was reportedly shocked when Arafat called the Western Wall - the Jewish people's holiest place - "a Muslim shrine" and the Palestinian leader's chief negotiator at the make-or-break Camp David peace talks denied the ruins of Solomon's temple lay beneath the Dome of the Rock.

TRAGICALLY, EVER since Israel magnanimously turned over religious control of the Temple Mount to the Muslim Wakf in June 1967, successive generations have been taught that Israelis are Nazi-like invaders, illegitimate neighbors and enemies.

And "friends of peace," far from urging Palestinians to deal with reality, help feed the delusion of denial. Witness the World Council of Churches, the largest umbrella group of Protestants, which recently launched the so-called Bern Initiative at its "Promised Land" conference in Switzerland. Its answer to Israel's alleged "apartheid situation" in the Holy Land is to reinterpret the Bible by differentiating between "biblical history and biblical stories . . . as well to distinguish between the Israel of the Bible and the modern State of Israel."

The current violence and rabble rousing by the Palestinians won't make it any easier for US President Barack Obama, but the first thing he must do is not stop illegal nursery and bathroom add-ons in east Jerusalem but  admonish the Palestinian leadership to stop denying the legitimacy of the Jewish people.

Simply put: There can be no peace in the Holy Land without the Arab and Muslim world acknowledging what their Holy Book and ancestors recognized as the historic link of the Jewish people to its land and its Holy sites. Unless and until that happens, there will be no peace in our time.

Marvin Hier is the founder and dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Abraham Cooper is the associate dean of the center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lion's Den: Obama and Netanyahu Meet - What's Next?</title>
<date>17/5/2009</date>
<content>
The meeting on May 18 of two newly elected leaders, Barack Obama and Binyamin Netanyahu, raise  a basic question about US-Israel relations: Will this long-standing alliance survive its 62nd year?

Here are three reasons to expect a break from business-as-usual:

(1) Many areas of difference exist  the Iranian nuclear build-up, relations with Syria, Israeli adherence to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and Jews living on the West Bank  but the "two-state solution" will likely set the meetings' tone, mood, and outcome. The two-state idea aims to end the Arab-Israeli conflict by establishing a Palestinian state alongside the Jewish state. The plan rests on two assumptions: (a) that the Palestinians can construct a centralized, viable state and (b) that attaining this state means the abandonment of their dreams to eliminate Israel.

The two-state model found acceptance among the Israeli public between the Oslo accords of 1993 and the new round of Palestinian violence in 2000. On the surface, to be sure, "two state" seems yet strong among Israelis: Ehud Olmert enthused over the Annapolis round, Avigdor Lieberman accepts the Performance-Based Roadmap to a Permanent Two-State Solution, and a recent Tel Aviv University poll finds two states still remains popular.

But many Israelis, including Netanyahu, disbelieve that Palestinians will either construct a state or abandon irredentism. Netanyahu prefers to shelve two states and focus instead on institution-building, economic development, and quality-of-life improvements for Palestinians. To this, the Arab states, Palestinians, European governments, and the Obama administration near-unanimously respond with vociferous hostility.

Question: Will differences over the two-state solution prompt a crisis in US-Israel relations?

(2) Larger strategic concerns consistently drive US attitudes to Israel: Republicans kept their distance when they perceived Israel as a liability in confronting the Soviet Union (1948-70) and only warmed to it when Israel proved its strategic utility (after 1970); Democrats cooled in the post-Cold War period (after 1991), when many came to see it as an "apartheid" state that destabilizes the Middle East and impedes US policies there.

By now, the political parties diverge greatly; polls find Republican support for Israel exceeds Democratic support by an average margin of 26 percentage points. Likewise, Republicans endorse the United States helping Israel attack Iran far more than Democrats. With Democrats now dominating Washington, this disparity implies a cooling from the George W. Bush years.

Gary Ackerman (Democrat of New York), chair of the House Foreign Affairs Middle East subcommittee, exemplifies this change. Known in years past to stand up for Israel, he now accuses it of perpetuating "settler pogroms" and thus taking part in a "destructive dynamic." Question: Will the Democrats' critical views translate into a policy shift at the forthcoming summit meeting?

(3) Obama himself comes out of the Democratic partys intensely anti-Zionist left wing. Just a few years back, he associated with voluble Israel-haters like Ali Abunimah, Rashid Khalidi, Edward Said, and Jeremiah Wright, not to speak of Saddam Hussein lackeys, the Council on American-Islamic Relations, and the Nation of Islam. As Obama rose in national politics, he distanced himself from this crew. On winning the presidency, he appointed mostly mainstream Democrats to deal with the Middle East. One can only speculate whether his change was tactical, designed to deny the Republicans a campaign issue, or strategic, representing a genuinely new approach.

QUESTION: HOW DEEP runs Obama's antipathy toward the Jewish state? Some predictions: (1) Iran being Netanyahu's top priority, he will avoid a crisis by mouthing the words "two-state solution" and agreeing to diplomacy with the Palestinian Authority. (2) Democrats too will be on their best behavior, checking their alienation through Netanyahus visit, momentarily averting a meltdown. (3) Obama, who has plenty of problems on his hands, does not need a fight with Israel and its supporters. His move to the center, however tactical, will last through the Netanyahu visit.

Short term prospects, then, hold out more continuity than change in US-Israel relations. Those concerned with Israel's security will prematurely breathe a sigh of relief - premature because the status quo is fragile and US relations with Israel could rapidly unravel.

Even a lack of progress toward a Palestinian state can prompt a crisis, while an Israeli strike against Irans nuclear infrastructure contrary to Obamas wishes might cause him to terminate the bond begun by Harry Truman, enhanced by John Kennedy, and solidified by Bill Clinton.

The writer is director of the Middle East Forum and Taube distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution of Stanford University.

DanielPipes.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Making freedom the top priority</title>
<date>7/4/2009</date>
<content>
For 4,000 years, the Passover celebration of freedom has been a central theme, both for the Jewish people, who retell the story of slavery in Egypt and the Exodus every year, and for other oppressed people who have found hope in these events. In America, the oppressed blacks identified themselves with the enslaved Hebrews, and leaders like Martin Luther King referred to their struggle in biblical terms. Similarly, the victims of South African apartheid often adopted the symbols of the Exodus, and Nelson Mandela became their Moses. But in the hate-filled ideological climate in which the Jewish state is portrayed as the world's worst human rights offender, Israel is often cast in the role of the Egyptian taskmasters, and the Palestinians have become the enslaved people.

This version of history is both patronizing and wrongheaded. Unlike the Jewish emphasis on freedom, which is reflected in the Zionist movement, most Palestinian officials and leaders give priority to preventing Jewish sovereignty and rolling back the recognition of Israel as the Jewish homeland.

Israel is not the reason for the lack of a Palestinian state - this is the responsibility of the Palestinians, and an accurate reflection of their agenda. For more than six decades, Arab leaders rejected every opportunity to create an independent state that would have also left Israel intact. In November 1947 - 20 years before "the occupation" following the 1967 war - Arab officials spurned the UN partition plan, which embodied the "two-state solution." In sharp contrast, the Zionist leadership grasped this opportunity, despite the minimal territory allocated to the nascent Jewish state.

After the terror campaign and Arab invasion in 1948 failed to dislodge the Jews or to destroy Israel, the Arab leaders continued to refuse compromise that would have meant accepting its existence and legitimacy. For them, freedom was and remains a secondary goal, at best.

MORE RECENTLY, PLO leader Yasser Arafat's behavior during the Oslo process in the 1990s showed that nothing had changed in the intervening decades. Optimistic Israel officials expected the Palestinians to follow the Zionist approach of the 1940s, and to use this process, beginning with the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, to develop the institutions that would lead to statehood. Arafat could easily have negotiated the terms of a two-state solution during this period, had he been interested in this outcome.

However, the Palestinian leadership continues to demonstrate that it was not interested in political independence, if this meant accepting a Jewish state. Arafat walked away from every attempt to negotiate a compromise, including the Camp David summit in 2000 and in the talks that followed. Instead, he and the PLO prepared for another round of warfare aimed, again, at destroying Israel, this time using suicide bombers as the main weapon.

After Arafat's death, the withdrawal from Gaza in 2005 provided yet another opportunity for the Palestinians to declare independence, but the results were the same as before. Rather than seeking to develop the institutions of a sovereign state, they used the freedom of action in Gaza to smuggle massive amounts of weapons from Iran, and to extend the rocket attacks against the Negev. Shortly afterward, Hamas took control from Fatah in a violent coup, and increased the range of the attacks. As a branch of the Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas openly declares that its primary objective is destroying Israel. An independent Palestinian state is secondary, at best, in this religious war.

IN REFERRING TO GAZA, the critics and apologists, who blame all the failures on Israel, argue that this "partial withdrawal" left it in control of the West Bank, making Palestinian independence impossible. But this is simply an excuse - if the Palestinians had chosen sovereignty as the primary goal, they would have grasped the opportunity, just as David Ben-Gurion and the Jewish leadership did in May 1948, with the departure of the British colonial regime. If independence was at the top of the list, a success in Gaza would have been followed by gradual extension, but the main objective continued to be war against Israel. Similarly, Palestinian literature, movies and songs highlight negative messages and the actions of martyrs in the struggle against the Jews and the Jewish state. For Palestinians, the concept of freedom is subsumed in the desire to destroy Israel.

In contrast, for the Jewish people in exile for 2,000 years, the goal of freedom was rekindled every year during the Passover Seder, which ended with a positive message - the hope for "next year in Jerusalem." For those who are serious about promoting peace based on the "two-state solution," placing the blame on Israel is counterproductive. Until the Palestinians adopt the positive rhetoric of freedom based on construction, to replace the negative language of destruction, there will be no change.

The writer chairs the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University and is executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Making the world 'Judenstaatrein'</title>
<date>22/2/2009</date>
<content>
Some 125 parliamentarians gathered together last week for the historic founding conference of the Interparliamentary Coalition for Combating Anti-Semitism (ICCA), brought together by a new sophisticated, globalizing, virulent and even lethal anti-Semitism reminiscent of the atmospherics of the 1930s, and without parallel or precedent since the end of World War II.

The new anti-Jewishness overlaps with classical anti-Semitism but is distinguishable from it. It found early juridical, and even institutional, expression in the UN's "Zionism is racism" resolution - which the late US senator Daniel Moynihan said "gave the abomination of anti-Semitism the appearance of international legal sanction" - but has gone dramatically beyond it. This new anti-Semitism almost needs a new vocabulary to define it; however, it can best be identified using a rights-based juridical perspective.

In a word, classical or traditional anti-Semitism is the discrimination against, denial of or assault upon the rights of Jews to live as equal members of whatever host society they inhabit. The new anti-Semitism involves the discrimination against the right of the Jewish people to live as an equal member of the family of nations - the denial of and assault upon the Jewish people's right even to live - with Israel as the "collective Jew among the nations."

As the closing "London Declaration" of the ICCA conference affirmed: "We are alarmed at the resurrection of the old language of prejudice and its modern manifestations - in rhetoric and political action - against Jews, Jewish belief and practice and the State of Israel."

Observing the complex intersections between the old and the new anti-Semitism, and the impact of the new on the old, Per Ahlmark, former leader of the Swedish Liberal Party and deputy prime minister of Sweden, pithily concluded: "Compared to most previous anti-Jewish outbreaks, this [new anti-Semitism] is often less directed against individual Jews. It attacks primarily the collective Jews, the State of Israel. And then such attacks start a chain reaction of assaults on individual Jews and Jewish institutions... In the past, the most dangerous anti-Semites were those who wanted to make the world Judenrein, 'free of Jews.' Today, the most dangerous anti-Semites might be those who want to make the world Judenstaatrein, 'free of a Jewish state.'"

Genocidal Anti-Semitism

The first modality of the new anti-Semitism - and the most lethal type - is what I would call genocidal anti-Semitism. This is not a term that I use lightly or easily. In particular, I am referring to the Genocide Convention's prohibition against the "direct and public incitement to genocide." If anti-Semitism is the most enduring of hatreds and genocide is the most horrific of crimes, then the convergence of this genocidal intent embedded in anti-Semitic ideology is the most toxic of combinations.

There are three manifestations of this genocidal anti-Semitism. The first is the state-sanctioned - indeed state-orchestrated - genocidal anti-Semitism of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Iran, dramatized by the parading in the streets of Teheran of a Shihab-3 missile draped in the emblem "wipe Israel off the Map," while demonizing both the State of Israel as a "cancerous tumor to be excised" and the Jewish people as "evil incarnate."

A second manifestation of this genocidal anti-Semitism is in the covenants and charters, platforms and policies of such terrorist movements and militias as Hamas, Islamic Jihad, Hizbullah and al-Qaida, which not only call for the destruction of Israel and the killing of Jews wherever they may be, but also for the perpetration of acts of terror in furtherance of that objective.

The third manifestation of this genocidal anti-Semitism is the religious fatwas or execution writs, where these genocidal calls in mosques and media are held out as religious obligations - where Jews and Judaism are characterized as the perfidious enemy of Islam, and Israel becomes the Salmon Rushdie of the nations.

In a word, Israel is the only state in the world - and the Jews the only people in the world - that are the object of a standing set of threats by governmental, religious and terrorist bodies seeking their destruction. The London Declaration - again in a significant clarion call - recognized that "where there is incitement to genocide signatories [to the Genocide Convention] automatically have an obligation to act." This promise must now be acted upon.

Ideological Anti-Semitism

Ideological anti-Semitism is a much more sophisticated and arguably a more pernicious expression of the new anti-Semitism. It finds expression not in any genocidal incitement against Jews and Israel, or overt racist denial of the Jewish people and Israel's right to be; rather, ideological anti-Semitism disguises itself as part of the struggle against racism.

The first manifestation of this ideological anti-Semitism was its institutional and juridical anchorage in the "Zionism is racism" resolution at the UN. Notwithstanding the fact that the there was a formal repeal of this resolution, Zionism as racism remains alive and well in the global arena, particularly in the campus cultures of North America and Europe, as confirmed by the recent British All-Party Parliamentary Inquiry into Anti-Semitism.

The second manifestation is the indictment of Israel as an apartheid state. This involves more than the simple indictment; it also involves the call for the dismantling of Israel as an apartheid state as evidenced by the events at the 2001 UN World Conference against Racism in Durban.

The third manifestation of ideological anti-Semitism involves the characterization of Israel not only as an apartheid state - and one that must be dismantled as part of the struggle against racism - but as a Nazi one.

And so it is then that Israel is delegitimized, if not demonized, by the ascription to it of the two most scurrilous indictments of 20th-century racism - Nazism and apartheid - the embodiment of all evil. These very labels of Zionism and Israel as "racist, apartheid and Nazi" supply the criminal indictment. No further debate is required. The conviction that this triple racism warrants the dismantling of Israel as a moral obligation has been secured. For who would deny that a "racist, apartheid, Nazi" state should not have any right to exist today? What is more, this characterization allows for terrorist "resistance" to be deemed justifiable - after all, such a situation is portrayed as nothing other than occupation et rsistance, where resistance against a racist, apartheid, Nazi occupying state is legitimate, if not mandatory.

Legalized Anti-Semitism

If ideological anti-Semitism seeks to mask itself under the banner of anti-racism, legalized anti-Semitism is even more sophisticated and insidious. Here, anti-Semitism simultaneously seeks to mask itself under the banner of human rights, to invoke the authority of international law and to operate under the protective cover of the UN. In a word - and in an inversion of human rights, language and law - the singling out of Israel and the Jewish people for differential and discriminatory treatment in the international arena is "legalized."

But one example of legalized anti-Semitism occurred annually for more than 35 years at the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. This influential body consistently began its annual session with Israel being the only country singled out for country-specific indictment - even before the deliberations started - the whole in breach of the UN's own procedures and principles. In this Alice in Wonderland situation, the conviction and sentence were pronounced even before the hearings commenced. Some 30 percent of all the resolutions passed at the commission were indictments of Israel.

After the commission was replaced in June 2006 by the UN Human Rights Council, the new body proceeded to condemn one member state - Israel - in 80% of its 25 country-specific resolutions, while the major human rights violators of our time enjoyed exculpatory immunity. Indeed, five special sessions, two fact-finding missions and a high level commission of inquiry have been devoted to a single purpose: the singling out of Israel.

This week's ICCA conference and London Declaration unequivocally condemned this "legalized" anti-Semitism, calling out that "governments and the UN should resolve that never again will the institutions of the international community and the dialogue of nations states be abused to try to establish any legitimacy for anti-Semitism, including the singling out of Israel for discriminatory treatment in the international arena, and we will never witness - or be party to - another gathering like Durban in 2001."

The Resurgence
of Global Anti-Semitism: Evidentiary Data

The data unsurprisingly confirm that anti-Semitic incidents are very much on the rise. Still, the available figures only show half the picture - they demonstrate an increase in this old/new anti-Semitism by concentrating on the traditional anti-Semitic paradigm targeting individual Jews and Jewish institutions, while failing to consider the new anti-Semitic paradigm targeting Israel as the Jew among nations and the fallout from it for traditional anti-Semitism. But the rise in traditional anti-Semitism is bound up with the rise in the new anti-Semitism, insidiously buoyed by a climate receptive to attacks on Jews because of the attacks on the Jewish state. Indeed, reports illustrate both an upsurge in violence and related anti-Semitic crimes corresponding with the 2006 Second Lebanon War and the recent Israel-Hamas war, which delegates to the ICCA conference characterized as a "pandemic."

Conclusion

It is this global escalation and intensification of anti-Semitism that underpins - indeed, necessitates - the establishment of the ICCA to confront and combat this oldest and most enduring of hatreds. Silence is not an option. The time has come not only to sound the alarm - but to act. For as history has taught us only too well: While it may begin with Jews, it does not end with Jews. Anti-Semitism is the canary in the mine shaft of evil, and it threatens us all.

The writer is a Canadian MP and former minister of justice and attorney-general. He is professor of law (on leave) at McGill University who has written extensively on matters of hate, racism and human rights. He is a co-founder of the Interparliamentary Coalition to Combat Anti-Semitism with UK MP John Mann.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 10: Drive deprived</title>
<date>9/3/2009</date>
<content>
Drive deprived

Sir, - I made aliya in August '07. I had been driving previously in New York City for 45 years with an excellent record. It took me 10 months, four driving tests and about NIS 3,000 to finally get my Israeli license. I was devastated by the whole ordeal since none of the test failures was justified - and am thrilled to see that this issue is being brought to the public's attention.

Many years of driving experience should negate an oleh's need to go through this horrific experience ("Driving us mad," Eric Scheier, March 9).

MICHAEL GOLDBERG
Beit Shemesh

Sir, - I'm sure everyone agrees that the wheels of our bureaucracy could stand some additional greasing. Eric Scheier's essay left me wondering what it's like for, say, an Israeli to try and obtain a New Jersey driver's license.

But is Dr. Scheier really upset that a medical problem invites a delay in the licensing procedure?

I hope his foray into creative writing proved therapeutic. On a practical level, getting involved in politics and effecting actual change might be a better plan.

STUART PILICHOWSKI 
Mevaseret Zion

Pro-Israel in Malm

Sir, - Re "Sweden's anti-Israel apartheid policy is about more than sport" (Abraham Cooper and Harold Brackman, March 9): I want you to know that the tennis protesters were a minority in Malm. There is also strong Israeli support in the city.

There were some pro-Israel posters around in Malm, saying Slpp biljetterna nu - "Put the tickets on sale." But it's the loud and aggressive Left that gets the media attention.

ANDERS SVENSSON
Malm, Sweden

Intelligent, admirable

Sir, - Herb Keinon's extremely intelligent "The significance of going to Damascus" (March 5) represents the intelligent viewpoint on what the Obama administration is doing. It was a fresh change of pace from the neo-con garbage on the talkbacks.

Nearly all the readers seem to view all Obama's foreign policy moves as weakness and surrender. They are still living in the age of WWII, where America ruled all. No longer are the battles fought in that manner: a dozen or so men were able to change the lives of every American in 9/11, and no military could've stopped it. It's time to reenter the globalized world and start reopening lines of communication.

What the Obama administration did on the Durban conference was phenomenal. "Let's hear what they have to say" instead of the closed-minded Bush years, "and if it doesn't sound right, we leave, but at least we are seen as willing to hear their side."

When the US truly shows it is ready to be a world power again, it will regain support from other powerful nations. Unfortunately, though, we are constantly looked at as stupid aggressors. It's time for the US to show it's back, regain international support, and drop the hammer when necessary (like Iran).

Liberal foreign policy is not weak, it's smart. It's about using diplomacy when you can, but not being afraid to use force.

Thank you for instilling some logic into the readership.

MICHAEL LEVINE
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida

How fair and how      balanced are you?

Sir, - It is quite true that Israel is often singled out and hyper-criticized in Britain's newspapers, and the examples given in David Horovitz's "Bats, balls, bullets and guns" (March 6) are good cases in point. But I'm afraid the interpretation itself is skewed.

For while terror is cruel wherever it is, it is not identical, as this column would have us believe. Pakistan is not occupying and colonializing any nation at the moment, like Israel, and hasn't been doing so for the past four decades.

So while Hamas is an extremist, Islamist, murderous group, it cannot be compared to the nihilistic brutality of the terrorists in Pakistan, who haven't even got the pretext of killing in the name of "a battle for national liberation."

And besides, is this call for balance not a bit rich coming from The Jerusalem Post, which virtually never utters a word of criticism against Israel's policy in the territories, whose line is so patently one-sided (as evinced by its editorials), and whose closest attempt in this column to acknowledging our wrongdoing is calling it "Israel's choices and challenges as regards territorial compromise?"

I will continue reading this newspaper as my longtime breakfast treat, but I do say - please remember your own duty to remain fair and balanced before pouncing on the The Independent and the Guardian and their like!

AHARON LEVY 
Tel Aviv

Sir, - I read The Jerusalem Post on-line daily to keep informed about what is happening in the Middle East. The Post always tells it like it is. It is more reliable than any US news outlet.

I see Israel more and more standing alone in the world. And now you are about to see even the US begin to start turning away from you, even though thousands of Americans still believe in Israel.

Remember, though, that it is better to have God on your side than 1,000 countries.

PAUL W. BUCHANAN
Harrisburg, North Carolina

Speaking up's the thing

Sir, - Our organization, Promoting Responsibility in Middle East Reporting, urges all supporters of Israel and the Jewish people to adopt the mantra "Silence is NOT Golden." We must respond vigorously to all biased, one-dimensional, inaccurate and incomplete media coverage regarding Israel and the Jewish people.

NORMAN N. GROSS
President, PRIMER
Palm Harbor, Florida

He ain't the tarnisher

Sir, - May I point out to Tova Landau ("The tarnish spreads," Letters, March 8) that the stain on the offices of the president and prime minister was caused by former president Moshe Katsav and soon-to-be-former prime minister Ehud Olmert, and not by Attorney-General Menachem Mazuz.

True, Mazuz can be admonished for procrastination, but the blame for these figures' despicable behavior can hardly be laid on him. Let's hope both these cases, finally, come up quickly for trial so that if guilt is determined, justice will be done and seen to be done.

TRUDY GEFEN 
Kiryat Ono

Forgettable show

Sir, - I am indebted to Nadia Beidas for "Unlock the subconscious" (Billboard, March 6-12) explaining Philippe Genty's Boliloc. Had I read it before I saw the show, I and my friends might not have walked out halfway through.

Surely we cannot be the only people who didn't comprehend the reasoning behind the "acts" and found the content childish and boring? No, two other women walked out with us, muttering. Perhaps those who stayed in their seats did so in the hope that things would improve.

The Herzliya Performing Arts auditorium was filled to capacity with people who had paid an extortionate price for an evening of "magic, surprise, illusion and unforgettably enchanting scenes set to wonderful music."

Granted, the illusions were clever - but if this is French humor, it's not for me. But then, I'm British!

LINDA SILVERSTONE
Herzliya Pituah
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 12: Yesh Din's Aims</title>
<date>11/3/2009</date>
<content>
Yesh Din's aims 

Sir, - Your representation of both Yesh Din and the Israeli mainstream is inaccurate ("Israel's latest crime," Editorial, March 11).

Yesh Din is not advocating a total Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank, nor does it express indifference to the security threats Israel faces. Mainstream Israeli opinion, which you claim Yesh Din works against, is in fact in favor of a two-state solution.

While it is perhaps easy to smirk at the notion that, bereft of rocks, Palestinians would be unable to build a state, it is hard to deny that stolen land, settler violence and a lack of due legal process (all issues with which Yesh Din deals) make state-building hard.

Why is a group which promotes the values on which our country was founded considered to pose such a threat to Israel? By working for a situation in which all people's rights are protected, we move a little closer to the possibility of two states and our only chance for peace and security.

LEORA GARTON
Tel Aviv

Sir, - The argument that the West Bank is "not occupied" but "disputed" territory, as your editorial  asserts, is hackneyed, obsolete and irrelevant.

Never mind that the editorial did not mention that Israel's Supreme Court, in addition to the international community and its legal establishments, views Israel's "presence" in the West Bank for most intents and purposes as belligerent occupation; or that the crucial point in this "dispute" is not that Jordan's sovereignty over the territory was not recognized, but that Israel itself had no previous sovereignty over the territory, thereby extending and establishing military rule to land beyond its own recognized boundaries.

What matters is the de-facto reality on the ground: The Palestinian people are an undeniable fact; the Israeli army has control ("occupation") over the Palestinian people and their land, and almost half a million Israeli civilians ("settlers") have been transferred to that land.

When Israel depletes that land's resources - like its rocks or its water or simply its living space - it follows in the footsteps of colonial powers of the past, which took away what naturally belonged to the natives and grew ever more economically dependent on those resources.

Israel, and The Jerusalem Post, can claim however much they like that we have "the right" to quarry in that land, and settle and rule there because of the "dispute," and fall ever more deeper into the trap that will end Zionism as we know it.

But the reality - outside the legal obscurity - is as clear as it gets: It's occupation and colonialism.

YITZHAK HALEVY 
Jerusalem

Sir, - Why worry about Hamas, Hizbullah, Fatah or Iran? The people bent on destroying us are right here at home.

KURT SIMON 
Jerusalem

Begin kept the faith

Sir, - In "Netanyahu as prime minister - deja vu?" (March 11) Daniel Pipes analyzed what he alleges were broken promises by previous Likud leaders. He stated that "Menachem Begin was elected... on a nationalist platform that included annexing parts of the West Bank" but "instead removed all troops and civilians from the Sinai Peninsula."

I would have credited Mr. Pipes with the intelligence to differentiate between the West Bank and the Sinai Peninsula.

Prime minister Begin never considered giving up any claim of the Jewish people to the West Bank (Judea and Samaria). His discussions at Camp David dealt with some form of administrative autonomous self-government for the Arab residents of those areas regarding their internal affairs, but not the ceding of sovereignty.

On the other hand, the Jewish people have never had a historical or legal claim to the Sinai desert. In return for a peace treaty with Israel's largest Arab foe in all wars until that time, Begin returned the Sinai to Egypt, giving up valuable strategic depth, some low-quality oil fields at Abu Rodeis, and agricultural settlements on the Mediterranean shore at Yamit.

HILLEL HURWITZ 
Ra'anana

Israel awaits

Sir, - Shmuley Boteach totally missed the point in making it "easier to be frum in America" ("Too expensive & lonely to be Jewish," March 10). Instead of bemoaning the cost of Jewish education in America, the expense of kosher food compared to non-kosher food and making these items an "urgent priority of the American Jewish community," I suggest Rabbi Boteach refocus his skills on encouraging the American kosher-eating Jewish community to join its brethren here.

While these same American Jews pray three times a day to settle in Israel, they apparently don't really mean what they pray, as aliya has not been an "urgent priority of the American Jewish community."

Jews in America are missing out on the opportunity to be part of the making of history every day in the Land of Israel. Plus in Israel we already have state-funded Jewish education and kosher restaurants nationwide. So what is he waiting for?

DAVID SCHAPIRO
Beit Shemesh

Entitled, and not

Sir, - Michael Levine is entitled to his liberal, pro-Obama views while complimenting Herb Keinon on his analysis of American-Syrian relations ("Intelligent, admirable," Letters, March 10). He is not, however, entitled to use the insulting "neo-con garbage" to describe talkbacks from the many Israelis less enamored than he of Barack Obama, who fear a change for the worse in America's policies toward Israel under this new president.

RHONA YEMINI 
Givatayim

Benefits all round

Sir, - "Fischer's NIS 4.4b. stimulus aims to create 15,000 jobs" (March 11) includes as part of the plan increased spending on roads and railways.

The new government should urgently start the high-speed Jerusalem-Tel Aviv railway link. Not only would it create employment and provide economic benefits by reducing travel time between the two cities, it would also take traffic off the roads and - most important - save lives.

RONNIE STEKEL 
Jerusalem

China and Tibet

Sir, - World condemnation of China's continuing domination of Tibet is unreasonable ("Tibet 'hell on earth' under China, Dalai Lama says," March 11). Like the Golan vis-a-vis Syria, the Tibetan plateau is an impregnable barrier to a possible invasion of China by India.

It may also be noted that the pacifist Buddhist religion of the Tibetans also threatens to undermine the military vigilance of that region fora possible war with India.

While India continues to train her nuclear weapons on China, it is essential that China continue to maintain her present nuclear as well as military defenses on the Tibetan plateau.

Thus neither the Golan Heights nor the Tibetan plateau should be relinquished by their present owners.

ROY RUNDS
Tel Aviv

Cheering you on

Sir, - To the Israeli tennis team who came to Malm:

In spite of the idiotic fuss around you nice people coming to our country just to play tennis, we want you to know that there are many friends of Israel here in Sweden (also non-Jewish ones) who'd like to bid you very welcome.

We were your "spiritual"audience, cheering you on while you played ("Sweden's anti-Israel apartheid policy is about more than sport," March 9).

EWA & YORAN EDN-MODN
Gteborg, Sweden
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 16: J'accuse</title>
<date>15/3/2009</date>
<content>
J'accuse

Sir, - I accuse myself for not getting out of my chair in Jerusalem and running to Kiryat Malachi to give Gila Katsav a hug. J'accuse the talking heads on TV and radio for not mentioning her suffering.

J'accuse all the women who went to Kiryat Malachi for not standing up for the most abused woman in that hall - Gila Katsav.

J'accuse the "insulted" titans of the press for not looping their arms through Gila's and helping her leave that room where the fire and brimstone rained over her, running dry rivulets, burning her tearless eyes ("Katsav's 2-hour rant yields no bombshell," March 13).

Last and most importantly: J'accuse this travesty of sound and light for taking even an infinitesimal amount of time and energy away from helping Gilad Schalit come home.

JUDITH GUEDALIA
Jerusalem

That nagging urge
to murder again

Sir, - In "Time to pay Hamas's price" (March 12) Larry Derfner asserted: "We have nothing more to lose." Yet "Half the cabinet ready for Gilad deal" (March 13) noted that "According to Almagor [Terror Victims Association] 180 Israelis have been killed by terrorists released in past prisoner exchanges."

More Israelis will almost certainly be murdered by some of the 1,450 terrorists Hamas wants released in exchange for Gilad Schalit. Is this "nothing more to lose"?

Like every Jewish Israeli, I want Gilad back with his family; and if I was in their position I would be doing exactly the same as they are doing. However, our government has an overriding duty to look after all Israelis. In my opinion, the price being asked is too high.

I am not against the release of so-called security prisoners to get Gilad back, but they must not include those serving life-terms for murdering our citizens. And that includes Marwan Barghouti.

DANNY LEVITT
Netanya

Out of touch

Sir, - "Should expats vote?" asked your March 15 editorial, and presented a few reservations.

But one problem it left unmentioned arises from the dynamic nature of Israeli politics.

A person who left the country a couple of years ago can find that the ballots now represent parties with new names; and even the old names may not stand for exactly what they used to politically.

How is a citizen off in Kansas City supposed to know the policy differences between Habayit Hayehudi and the National Union - from watching CNN?

Not only is it more difficult overseas to form an intelligent and sensitive opinion about the issues, it is also more difficult to turn that opinion into an intelligent vote.

MARK L. LEVINSON
Herzliya

Ignoring the
earthquake

Sir, - Re "Berlin conference didn't lump Islamophobia with anti-Semitism" (Right of Reply, Yehuda Bauer, March 5):

I am very grateful that Elie Wiesel took a position in The Jerusalem Post on the dispute about the Berlin Center for Anti-Semitism Research. He spoke carefully, in the conditional: "If indeed the Berlin Center downplays the Iranian anti-Semitic threat, it surely is deplorable."

The Berlin Center is an important public institution with an international reputation. It should, especially in Germany, be addressing Iran's anti-Semitic threat energetically, so that politicians and industry understand why the increase in German exports to Iran in 2008 is inexcusable.

In this area, the center has failed. To date, it has not published a single public statement on Iran's anti-Semitic threat. Whenever its director, Prof. Wolfgang Benz, distances himself from Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, he does so in general terms that do not address his anti-Semitism.

To this day, the Iranian threat has not appeared in the center's numerous projects and classes. The terms "Ahmadinejad," "Hizbullah" and "Hamas" are not mentioned on the center's home page - as if their policies had nothing to do with the educational work of a "Center for Anti-Semitism Research." This is comparable to a group of earthquake researchers purposely ignoring an impending earthquake.

Does the center intend to change any of this? The answer that Prof. Benz gave to this question when I asked him on December 8, 2008 was not very encouraging: He saw no need for justification nor change.

MATTHIAS KUENTZEL
Hamburg
The writer is author of 'Jihad and Jew-Hatred: Islamism, Nazism and the roots of 9/11' (also published in Hebrew last year by Koren) and on the board of directors of Scholars for Peace in the Middle East.

Unhelpfully shrill

Sir, - Rabbi Abraham Cooper and Dr. Harold Brackman may be correct and insightful in their analysis of Sweden's attitude toward Jews and Israel ("Sweden's anti-Israel apartheid policy is about more than sport," March 9), but neither the shrill tone of their article nor their interpretation of the circumstances surrounding the recent Davis Cup tennis match between the Israeli and Swedish teams helps their argument.

The match, after all, was not cancelled (as it happened, the Israeli team won); and by banning fans, the Malm City Council punished the Swedish sportsmen no less than it did the Israelis.

Calling the public safety rationale "nonsense" hardly makes sense - ironically, the writers themselves unintentionally offered proof for why the reasoning was sound: "The few dozen who attacked the police vans for the benefit of media coverage would have tossed the same projectiles had the stadium been packed with tennis fans."

Had these projectiles hit (our) players on the pitch, the consequences would have been disconcerting at best, traumatic or even tragic at worst.

EMANUEL KRASOVSKY
Tel Aviv

Sir, - I have little doubt that the anti-Israel fanatics would have been able to subject our sportsmen to great risk of significant physical harm - and the hurling of projectiles would have forced the abandonment of the match. The actions of the Malm authorities allowed our players to achieve a great and meritorious victory, and we should be thankful for this, whatever the underlying sentiments.

MONTY M. ZION
Tel Mond

Swedish support

Sir, - I'm a 53-year-old chef in the south of Sweden and I support you all the way in the war against Hamas.

The problem as I see it is that only a fraction of the Swedish population knows the history of Israel, which to the best of my knowledge started around 1896 or something when Jewish organizations started to buy land.

If people here in Sweden, and perhaps in all of Europe, learned a little bit of the history creating the State of Israel, maybe they would think twice times before they support terrorists.

LARS NILSSON
Baystad, Sweden

Sir, - I'm ashamed of the way you and your tennis players have been unjustly treated here in Sweden. I believe and hope that the majority of the Swedish population agree with me.

BO-INGE SVENSSON
Uppsala

Fly and bye

Sir, - As a retired nurse, no longer a taxpayer, my sympathies go to the country's workers, whose hard-earned money is being used to help finance multi-millionaire Rafi Eitan's eight-day "business" trip to London ("Costly farewell trip for outgoing minister," March 10).
I'm glad I'm not contributing to this outrage.

CLAIRE BEN-ALEXANDER
Kiryat Bialik
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 23: Let's free all...</title>
<date>22/3/2009</date>
<content>
Let's free all...

Sir, - What I propose will not be very popular with the vast majority of the public, and it obviously would involve a considerable risk for Israel.

On the other hand, there is a good chance it could open up a whole new avenue for peace with the Palestinians, with favorable repercussions throughout the Middle East and on world opinion.

My suggestion: Free all the Palestinian prisoners in our jails, simultaneously, as an unparalleled, enlightened gesture of a truly magnanimous people and in the spirit of Pessah, our festival of freedom. The impact of such a gesture, coming out of the blue, perhaps even from the soon to be formed government, would be greeted with incredulous joy by the Palestinians; bring about the immediate release of Gilad Schalit; open up new avenues for peace talks and a final settlement with the Palestinians; stop Palestinian terror; immeasurably raise Israel's stock throughout the world and turn this country from being the whipping boy of the world media into its darling.

Of course, such a step can only come from a farsighted and visionary leadership. Carefully prepared, it could generate unprecedented amounts of goodwill, first and foremost from the Palestinian prisoners and their families, whose opinion of Israel and their captors would be radically altered and radiate throughout the Palestinian and Arab world.

The exodus of these bloodstained Palestinian prisoners from our jails could signal a new era of peace, understanding and cooperation for our blood-drenched, tear-stained, hope-parched land.

It's a gamble, I know, but one which could, overnight, change the face of the Middle East for the better.

As we prepare to celebrate Pessah, let us reflect that freedom - whether it be for Israeli or Palestinian, for Jew or Muslim, or for any human being, is the greatest, most precious prize of all ("Held hostage," Ruthie Blum Leibowitz, March 20).

DAVID HERMAN 
Jerusalem

...those friendly, likable terrorists

Sir, - Last year I participated in an international course on the psychological aspects of terrorism. We were granted special permission to tour one of the maximum-security prisons in Israel and given the opportunity to interview a Palestinian terrorist.

"Our" terrorist spoke perfect English. He had attained his B.A. in Jordan, and a degree in engineering from an American university.

What I found most outstanding was his pleasant demeanor. He was a good looking, clean-cut man in his early forties. He made good eye contact and appeared quite friendly and likable. Had I sat next to him in a cafe, I wouldn't have given him a second glance.

While I couldn't help but notice the perspiration on his forehead, despite the cold room, he was articulate and his answers were smooth and spoken like a true psychopath. He knew exactly what he wanted to convey, and did so effortlessly.

I ended my interview with one question. Did he have any regrets about anything at all? His answer was a quick "No."

After the interview, we found out that this amiable, articulate fellow was the leader of Hamas in Tulkarm, Abbas a-Sayid, and the mastermind behind the bombing of the Park Hotel in Netanya on Pessah 2002. While in Israeli custody awaiting trial, he planned the 2005 terrorist attack in a nearby shopping mall which killed five and injured 86, and claimed responsibility for yet another bombing, which killed two. He is currently serving 35 life sentences, but is among those whose release Hamas demands in exchange for Gilad Schalit.

Having met him, I have no doubt that this man, given the opportunity, would repeat what he did in a minute. And lest you feel sorry for this poor "militant" suffering in jail, I should point out that he shares an air-conditioned room with two others, with a bathroom, television and DVD, has outside sports time twice a day and prayer time, and is allowed visitors on a biweekly basis. He is currently, while in prison, pursuing a degree in international relations from the Open University.

It doesn't get much better than that now, does it? Isn't it time we rethought our handling of the terrorists we hold?

DR. BATYA L. LUDMAN, PSY.D., FT
Licensed Clinical Psychologist 
Ra'anana

Sir, - Israel's present policy encourages the kidnapping of its citizens, to be used as pawns for the release of murderous terrorists. Israel needs a death penalty for acts of murder committed by Arab terrorists.

The release of such murderers must stop. Far too many have gone on to commit additional crimes. A dead terrorist cannot commit any more murders.

LEON ABRAMOWITZ 
Jerusalem

Why let Shoah denial measure Jew-hatred?

Sir, - In "Sweden's anti-Israel apartheid policy is about more than sport" (Abraham Cooper and Harold Brackman, March 9), which concluded with statistics on how much of Swedish youth denies the Holocaust, we were again treated to the assumption that Holocaust denial is the test of Jew-hatred.

How long are we going to use this litmus test for where we stand with people and nations? What other nation bases the legitimacy of its existence upon past suffering? What other group places its need for a state above the fact that it has a state?

Isn't it time we based ourselves on our victories instead of on our suffering? Our legitimacy was established by the United Nations granting us a birth certificate on Nov. 14, 1947, even before we were born. And we were born not because our mothers were suffering labor pains and our fathers were martyrs, but because we defeated seven Arab peoples who wanted to throw us into the sea as abortions of history.

We are a member of the UN, and another member has no right to demand our disappearance. We are legitimate because we are a nation occupying our space on earth, and because we can defend that space.

SAMUEL SAMUELSON
Jerusalem

Two views of the Poles

Sir, - A very peculiar people, those Poles ("Polish film shows glimpse of Jewish life before WWII," March 22).

First, for the most part, they collaborate with the Nazi murderers, who were their own tormentors, to exterminate millions of Polish Jews; then, a generation later, they're looking for traces of these "exotic" neighbors! Very strange indeed.

HAIM M. LERNER 
Ganei Tikva

Sir, - I have 1,000 reasons to love Poland and 3.5 million reasons to respect the Polish people.

Knowing that Poland also had its share of anti-Semitic incidents, mostly during foreign occupation under which all citizens suffered, it is worth remembering that it became the birthplace of some of the finest leaders and the founders of the modern State of Israel.

Today, Poland wants to be our staunchest friend in Europe. And we, too, want to confirm that Jews never forget good friendship, and certainly do not forget deeds of self-sacrificially saving Jewish lives during the Holocaust.

While many nations turn against Israel today, the Polish people support the vibrant development of Jewish life in their country. Likewise, their government promotes Poland-Israel relations, notably by having declared 2008/2009 Poland-Israel year - Poland's 90th anniversary (of regaining independence) and Israel's 60th.

Poland's Ambassador Agnieszka Magdziak-Miszewska has proven her country's good intentions by many actions, including dozens of Polishcultural events in Israel fostering personal friendship between the two nations.

Remarkably, too, last year Premier Donald Tusk as well as President Lech Kaczynski, in addition to two former presidents Lech Walensa and Aleksander Kwasniewski, visited Israel.

Which other country has sent four top statesmen to us in the space of a year?

HILLEL GOLDBERG 
Jerusalem

Rank and guile

Sir, - I agreed in general with Asher Meir's analysis of Admiral Eliezer Marom's behavior ("Wholesale and retail exploitation," Ethics@work, March 13), but am disturbed nevertheless by the implications of his reportedly lying to the chief of staff in claiming that his visit to a strip-club was a "one-off" occurrence. I also fear that his authority over subordinates - especially female ones - has suffered.

Incidentally, as an former naval officer, I can state with certainty that neither of the two senior woman ex-officers interviewed for the column were ever in the navy. They both served in their time as OC Women's Corps, with the rank of Brig.-Gen.

One more rather bizarre point concerning Adm. Marom (and, I believe, some of his predecessors): His proper rank is aluf, equivalent to Maj.-Gen. or, in the navy, rear-admiral (two-star rank). Yet in the accompanying photo he is seen wearing the stripes of a vice admiral (three-star rank). I understand this is also the rank he uses in English.

By doing so he places himself on a par with the chief of staff - i.e., Lt.-Gen. (Rav-Aluf) - which is a three-star rank, outranking all the other alufim in the IDF!

This situation probably causes misunderstanding and confuses military and protocol officials abroad.

REUVEN PORATH
Haifa

The IDF Spokesman responds:

Since the 1990s, with the consent of the then chief of staff, Israel's naval heads have been presented to their counterparts abroad with the rank of vice-admiral, an interim rank whose significance varies in foreign armies. The current chief of staff has decided to leave the situation as it is for the time being.

Sir, - Goodness me, a sailor went to a strip club - scandalous!
Imagine the English sacking Lord Nelson because of his affair with the married Lady Hamilton, or the Americans dumping Ike because of his liaison with his driver, Kay Summersby.

Adm. Marom's job is to give us the best navy our budget can afford, and to defend our sea frontier with all the skills and vigor he can command.

He is a war leader, not a teacher of propriety. He should not be judged by any other standard.

JOSEF GILBOA
Jaffa
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Neve Gordon is not the problem</title>
<date>2/9/2009</date>
<content>
Intentionally or not, Neve Gordon, senior lecturer and head of the Political Science Department at Ben-Gurion University, has unleashed a firestorm in Israeli academe. His recent op-ed in The Los Angeles Times declared that Israel is an apartheid state, and that it ought to be boycotted to "save Israel from itself."

Sensing a public relations debacle among their American supporters, the president and leadership of BGU distanced themselves from his comments and hinted that he ought to resign. Predictably, other Israeli academics leaped to Gordon's defense. Most interesting, however, was the outrage Gordon's column has evoked among many American Jews. Some are so beside themselves that they are now threatening to withhold their financial support from the university.

To be sure, Gordon's argument is deeply flawed. He writes as if Israel sought or enjoys controlling the Palestinians, making no mention of the fact that it captured the West Bank in a defensive war that it did not seek, or that more than once (most recently with Ehud Olmert's election in 2006) Israelis have chosen leaders whose campaigns called for relinquishing those territories. Add to that his failure to admit that the Palestinians still refuse to recognize Israel's right to exist and continue to call for its destruction, and one can appreciate the fury of Ben-Gurion University's American supporters.

The fury these American Jews are suddenly expressing illustrates how little these very supporters know about the system of higher education in Israel to which they are so deeply committed. Is this really their first glimpse into the widespread and long-standing hostility of Israeli academe to Jewish statehood? Gordon has been espousing this viewpoint for years. He regularly writes for anti-Israel publications, holed up with Yasser Arafat during the siege of Ramallah, and has on more than one occasion likened Israel to Nazi Germany. But he's always enjoyed the steadfast support of the university, to its very highest echelons. His views are widely held among his colleagues.

Nor is BGU unique here. Coming to Gordon's defense, Tel Aviv University professor Shlomo Sand stated outright that Israeli universities are not Zionist institutions and should not be. They are about scholarship, he insisted, not about the Jews or their state.

There are non-Jews and non-Zionists at these universities, he claimed, and the universities must serve them no less than anyone else. And at Hebrew University, the crown jewel of Israeli academe, the long-term influence of the binationalists involved in the university's founding has also been well documented.

Indeed, the only thing that is surprising about this latest turn of events is that American donors are surprised. For, to those who know even a bit about Israeli academe, the anti-Israel posture of many departments is really yesterday's news.

The important question in all this is what American philanthropists who are committed to Zionism and to Israel's higher education ought to do. Surely they can't really believe that universities will suddenly silence their professors or terminate tenure. What, then, are the options?

These philanthropists ought to look close to home for their answers. For many of America's great universities developed from an entirely different tradition. Woodrow Wilson, as president of Princeton, spoke unabashedly of "Princeton in the nation's service." Columbia College instituted its now-classic core curriculum as an explicit defense of Western civilization. Neither Princeton nor Columbia, like many other great American liberal arts colleges, saw any conflict between superb scholarship and inclusiveness on the one hand, and devotion to country and one's own civilization on the other.

Is it at all surprising that these colleges have produced an abundance of America's great leaders?

Israeli education needs more support from American Jews, not less. Rather than withholding their funds, a much more useful response would be to channel their support and their knowledge to create an Israeli version of the "college in the service of the nation."

How?

Those American philanthropists currently wringing their hands probably have no idea that Israel has not a single liberal arts college to its name. Typical Israeli undergraduates get none of the curricular breadth that an American education usually requires, and as a result, they know almost nothing about Western civilization, the majesty of Jewish intellectual history or even the competing philosophic currents inside Zionism.

In today's Israel, the People of the Book do not even read their own books. When they read or hear someone like Neve Gordon, nothing in their education has given them the tools to evaluate what he says, or to take him on. They are helpless.

TODAY'S NARROW model of education, in which students essentially study only one discipline, produces excellence, but excellence as technocrats. It does not produce the broadly read, intellectually nuanced people that the Jewish state so desperately needs.

Without dramatic change, Israeli universities will produce only more Neve Gordon's - scholars of varying quality, who feel no love for the very country that has saved their people. If it learned from American education, Israel might actually begin to cultivate a new wave of leadership, and with it, a generation of Israelis who actually love their nation.

Dr. Gordon is correct - Israel needs to be saved from itself. What Israel needs now is a reconceived notion of the educated Israeli.

It needs a liberal arts college, and the young people prepared to speak constructively about Jewish sovereignty, its challenges, its failures and its future that only that kind of college can produce.

A century ago, who could have imagined that the Jewish state would one day have a world-class army but a failing, collapsing educational system? Whether or not American Jews have the foresight to use their philanthropy to promote genuine change in Israeli academe still remains to be seen. But if they do, Neve Gordon's op-ed may ironically have goaded both Israel and the American Jewish community into taking the first steps needed to begin to save the Jewish state.

The writer is senior vice president of the Shalem Center in Jerusalem and the author of Saving Israel: How the Jewish People Can Win a War That May Never End (Wiley, 2009). He blogs at www.danielgordis.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>New era as British hostility reaches crescendo</title>
<date>20/7/2009</date>
<content>
It has been a terrible month for Israel's reputation in Great Britain. The government has announced a partial arms embargo in protest of Operation Cast Lead. The Charity War on Want has held a launch event for a new book entitled Israeli Apartheid: A Beginners Guide. The Guardian has featured commentaries promoting the apartheid analogy as well as accusing Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of using Nazi language to defend settlement policy. The BBC and other media outlets have given massive coverage to the recent Breaking the Silence report slamming the IDF for committing "war crimes." Barely a day goes by without a new front being opened against the Jewish state.

Those of us who follow such matters are always in danger of getting too close to our subject. But, given that the IDF is not involved in combat operations, I for one have never seen a period like it. On Friday, the Guardian ran two anti-Israel opinion pieces on one and the same day.

There's something in the air. The Israel-haters smell blood, and they're going in for the kill. It could be that we are on the threshold of a new era. But why now?

The simplest explanation is that the relentless, unremitting stream of anti-Israeli invective that has been pumped into the public mind in Britain over the last decade or so was always going to reach critical mass at some point. There is nothing particularly significant about the timing. The clock has been ticking for years. Israel's time has simply come.

ULTIMATELY, THE simple explanation may be the best explanation. But there are a number of other factors now at play which may have helped bring the situation to a head.

First, the election of Barack Obama is perceived by many British opinion formers as heralding a refreshing new approach to Israel from the United States. For linguistic and historical reasons, political change in America is keenly felt in Britain. Obama's comments calling for a freeze on the settlements have provided the pretext for a renewed assault on Israel in general using the American president's huge popularity as cover.

Second, the election of Netanyahu combined with the appointment of Avigdor Lieberman as foreign minister have offered new opportunities to make the attack personal. Even for Israel's most virulent detractors, it was not easy to mount a hate campaign against Ehud Olmert and Tzipi Livni. Netanyahu has been demonized in Britain for years. Lieberman is portrayed as little better than a skinhead. The wolves have been thrown fresh meat.

Third, Foreign Secretary David Miliband has recently recast the tone of British pronouncements on the Middle East and relations with the Islamic world in a way that serves the broader agenda of Israel's opponents. For example, in a speech in Oxford in May and reported in the Guardian, he spoke of abjuring distinctions between "moderates and extremists" - a line that, despite Foreign Office denials, was widely interpreted as potentially paving the way for talks with Hamas and other militant groups. He also referred to "ruined crusader castles," "lines drawn on maps by colonial powers" and to the failure "to establish two states in Palestine."

Miliband cannot be held entirely responsible for the way his words are interpreted. But it is precisely in such guilty, post-colonial terms that Israel's opponents in Britain have always talked. To hear their own kind of language echoing back at them from the leading figure in the UK foreign policy establishment is likely to embolden them further.

Fourth, in a country whose opinion formers still fulminate about the invasion of Iraq - sometimes portrayed as a venture inspired by Israel and Zionist neoconservatives in America - the Netanyahu government's hard line stance on Iran has got the alarm bells ringing again. Are we going to get sucked in to yet another war in the Middle East for the benefit of Israel, they ask.

Fifth, Netanyahu's new emphasis on insisting that the Palestinians recognize Israel as a specifically Jewish state is pushing Israel's opponents against the wall and forcing them to declare themselves with greater clarity. Of course, this does not just apply to Britain. But as a country whose opinion forming classes rank among the most hostile to Israel in the Western world, the move has provoked a particularly hysterical reaction. Since the Palestinians have made it clear that they have no intention of recognizing Israel as a Jewish state, British opponents of Israel have been forced to choose between accepting that Palestinian rejectionism forms the real root cause of the conflict or themselves rejecting the Jewish character of Israel and the whole Zionist enterprise to boot.

PUT ALL of these factors together and it becomes easier to understand why a situation which was awful to begin with has deteriorated so rapidly.

The obvious question now is where next. With the partial arms embargo in mind, we should obviously be watching for an extension of formal sanctions. Outside the governmental sphere, it is a racing certainty that unions will renew efforts for trade and academic boycotts. Media hysteria will grow as each new assault on Israel's integrity helps legitimize and validate the next. For the Jews of Britain, the prospect of increasing anti-Semitism against this backdrop is all too real.

The darkness is closing in.

The writer is director of international affairs at the Henry Jackson Society in London. His book, A State Beyond the Pale: Europe's Problem with Israel, will be published in September.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: Netanyahu must find mettle to resist Obama's pressure</title>
<date>18/5/2009</date>
<content>
On October 23, 1998 - a Friday - I sat in a London hotel with Prof. Benzion Netanyahu, a world authority on Jewish history, as his son Binyamin, the prime minister of Israel, signed the Wye River accords. The professor, the patriarch of a family of heroic sons who nobly serve the Jewish state, including Yoni who fell at Entebbe, had been my guest at Oxford, lecturing to students on the Spanish Inquisition.

It was clear that this famous Jabotinskean defender of Greater Israel was pained by his son's actions. He told me that, given the immense pressure from then-president Bill Clinton, his son had no choice but to capitulate and forfeit land to Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority.

Now, 11 years later, Binyamin Netanyahu is again prime minister, and he is no doubt about to face the same pressure from a new American president as he travels to Washington to meet Barack Obama. I first met the prime minister when as Israel's young deputy foreign minister he accepted my invitation and electrified audiences of thousands of Oxford, most of whom were hugely hostile to him.

Over that and subsequent visits, I discovered that Netanyahu is a Jew of immense pride and an orator of unequalled power. Contrary to the constant press billing of him as "a hardliner," at Oxford he went out of his way to court the Arab and Jewish students who came to heckle him and managed to befriend more than a few. His message was consistent.

The only hope for Middle East peace was Arab democratization. He repeatedly cited the unassailable fact that in the history of the world no two democracies had ever gone to war against one another. If there was to be Middle East peace it would have to come not from Israel, a liberal democracy, making territorial concessions when it was already the size of a postage stamp, but from the Arab world liberating their citizens from political tyranny and the Palestinians ceasing to teach their children that Israel is a cancer that must be eradicated.

SO WHAT changed at Wye? We all know the answer. With the sole exception of Yitzchak Shamir, every one of Israel's most recent prime ministers has caved to incalculable American and international pressure to exchange "land for peace." In every instant the surrender was catastrophic, providing Israel with neither peace nor respect. Menachem Begin allowed Jimmy Carter to bully him into the Camp David accords. Yet Carter today accuses Israel of apartheid and Egypt exports more anti-Semitism than almost any nation on earth.

The Oslo accords are the greatest self-inflicted wound by any nation over the last fifty years. Oslo gave us the suicide bomber which gave us Israel's fence which gave us the condemnation of Pope Benedict last week in Bethlehem.

And where is Israel after all these concessions? It is arguably the most hated and most vulnerable nation on earth. So hated is Israel that when the Iranian president broadcasts his intentions to destroy it, no other nation has the decency to break off diplomatic relations; Netanyahu himself is reduced to supplicating the pope, whose Vatican enjoys full diplomatic relations with Iran, to condemn Ahmedinejad's promise of another holocaust.

LAST JUNE I watched a compelling candidate Obama address AIPAC and say that he would get involved in the peace process "from the start of my Administration." But did that mean pressure on Israel from day one? This year I heard Rahm Immanuel say that the solution to Iran's bellicosity lies in progress in Israel's peace process with the Palestinians.

Come on, Rahm. Say it ain't so. Surely you realize that it's not Israeli intransigence which is responsible for the mess in the Middle East; the fault lies with Arab leaders who have oppressed their people and denied them democracy and human rights for more than half a century and have successfully scapegoated Israel as the source of Arab suffering. This week Netanyahu has the opportunity to marshal his stunning eloquence to set the record straight.

He can begin by responding to Pope Benedict's criticism of Israel's security fence and recent war in Gaza. Surely it's a little rich for a man who travels around in a bunker-on-wheels to condemn Israel for protecting its citizens. If Israel had Canada as a neighbor, it wouldn't need a fence - just as if the pope only spoke to nuns he would not need a traveling fortress. No doubt we Americans would prefer to forego the intrusive security at our airports. But we submit to the inconveniences because we don't take kindly to the sight of our citizens leaping from burning skyscrapers.

As for Gaza, the pope himself witnessed the ravished state of Germany after the Second World War. But he would presumably not blame the demolition in Berlin, Hamburg, and Dresden on the allies but on the German people themselves who democratically elected a genocidal maniac as their leader and then dragged the world into history's bloodiest war. He could have warned the residents of Gaza that in Hamas they similarly elected a terrorist organization, sworn to Israel's destruction, as their leaders and that there are consequences to using one's territory as a launching pad for murderous rockets.

In our age some religious leaders make the mistake of believing that morality always involve love but never hatred, an embrace of victims but never a revulsion of their oppressors. My Christian brothers especially quote Jesus as saying, "Love your enemies," as a teaching against hatred. Little do they focus on Jesus' precision in saying "your enemies," rather than "God's enemies." Your enemy is the man who steals your parking space. God's enemies are terrorists who murderer His children. Rather than perpetuating the myth of Arab victimhood, Western leaders, the pope included, should call on our Islamic brothers and sisters to restore Islam to its historical grandeur as a religion that once embraced the Jewish refugees of the Spanish Inquisition when they were expelled by Catholic princes who betrayed Christianity by preaching violence in God's name.

Rabbi Boteach is the founder of This World: The Values Network. He can be followed on Twitter at ORabbiShmuley.'
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: Spectator of the free world - Obama and Teheran</title>
<date>22/6/2009</date>
<content>
Of all the sins which a leader can be guilty, few are as egregious as the simple refusal to lead. Watching President Barack Obama's at first deafening silence and then weak and hyper-cautious words on Iran has been disappointing and painful.

Our president must decide if he will serve as leader, or spectator, of the free world. This time no one is asking an American president to send in troops; no one is suggesting the deployment of laser-guided bombs. All it takes is a forthright statement from the leader of the free world: "The people of the United States support the people of Iran in their legitimate quest for democracy and freedom and will hold accountable any and all parties responsible for the bloodshed of nonviolent demonstrators."

Pretty easy, right? Our president doesn't think so. As he put it, "It is not productive, given the history of US-Iranian relations, to be seen as meddling." Wait a minute. Was our president seriously comparing the 1953 CIA-inspired coup of the democratically-elected government of prime minister Muhammad Mosaddeq to an organic uprising of the Iranian people against a sham election and a supreme "religious" leader who threatened to kill them if they protest? And if the president is right and has no right to meddle, why is he pressuring Iran not to develop nuclear weapons?

OF COURSE we meddle. It's our job to meddle. That's what leadership of the world entails unless Obama seriously believes that place America occupies on the global stage is akin to Denmark or Madagascar. Meddling is only wrong when it serves a country's selfish, imperial purposes. But when its purpose is to save life and uphold liberty it is not only permitted but obligatory. Plenty of countries rightly "meddled" in the affairs of the United States when they saw black children being blown down by powerful water hoses and attacked by dogs at civil rights marches. Martin Luther King invited them to meddle, which is why he repeatedly said, "The world is watching," a phrase which Obama is now using against Iran.

The US ought to be meddling in Sudan to stop the Janjaweed militias from slaughtering innocent Africans. We ought to be meddling in Myanmar to free the courageous Aung San Suu Kyi. President Clinton has apologized numerous times that he did not meddle in Rwanda when 800,000 innocent people were hacked to death, and we call the generation that meddled in Europe during World War II "the greatest generation." For that matter, I am grateful to the France of the late 18th century for agreeing to meddle in Britain's internal affairs when it tried to brutally crush an uprising of colonists overseas. Without its meddling, the US might have been stillborn.

Obama's advisers justify his silence saying that if he were to speak out, it would be used by the mullahs as evidence that the uprising in Iran was Western-inspired. Come on. They're going to scapegoat the Great Satan anyway. But how does that absolve us from doing the right thing?

Indeed, it was King who passionately rejected this argument of "outside agitator" when it was used against him by eight white Alabama clergymen who accused him of fomenting hatred in their state when he lived in Georgia. In his memorable "Letter from Birmingham Jail," he said, "I am cognizant of the interrelatedness of all communities and states. I cannot sit idly by in Atlanta and not be concerned about what happens in Birmingham. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly. Never again can we afford to live with the narrow, provincial 'outside agitator' idea."

Forty-six years ago another young charismatic president went to the very symbol of Soviet oppression in Berlin and directly inserted himself into Soviet affairs by identifying himself with the people who were risking their lives for liberty. "All free men, wherever they may live, are citizens of Berlin, and, therefore, as a free man, I take pride in the words Ich bin ein Berliner."

WITH EVERY PASSING day I grow more concerned about what might be termed the Obama doctrine. What is it? As best as I can discern, it is a preservation of the status quo. As Obama himself put it, "America does not presume to know what is best for everyone."

Really? We don't presume to know that elections are better than dictatorships? We don't presume to know that women being beaten in the streets for showing an elbow is brutal and refusing to let them ride a bicycle is a form of gender apartheid? Rarely before has an American president spoken out so forcefully in favor of moral relativism. So much for the Declaration of Independence which was written by Thomas Jefferson as a universal proclamation of human liberty asserting that freedom is an "inalienable" right possessed by each of God's children.

Obama possesses the potential for greatness. He has the intelligence, charisma and, above all, oratorical gifts to be an outstanding leader. But it will all hinge on moral courage. He seems too cautious, too afraid of upsetting people, too much a believer in his own popularity to ever risk being unpopular.

Moses was just another spoiled Egyptian prince until the day he chanced upon an Israelite slave being beaten. The Bible relates, "And he looked this way and that way and saw there was no man. Then he smote the Egyptian." When Moses saw there was none but him to address this moral outrage, he sacrificed his cushy position in Egyptian society and acted to right a wrong. At that moment he became instantly unpopular in Egyptian society, but he also become an audacious leader. It should be noted that the great liberator and lawgiver could not give a public speech. He was a stutterer whose mouthpiece was his brother Aaron. But then, real leadership does not involve having the best mouth but rather the most courageous heart.

The writer's newest book, The Blessing of Enough: Rejecting Material Greed, Embracing Spiritual Hunger, will be out in July. He is the founder of This World: The Values Network.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Obama's high-risk engagement at 'Durban II'</title>
<date>16/2/2009</date>
<content>
The Obama Administration's decision to jump into the preparations for the UN's Durban Review Conference, scheduled for Geneva in April 2009, is a bold but also a risky move. Beyond the specific results in this case, the results will set the tone for relations with Iran, the challenge of radical Islam, chances for progress in George Mitchell's peace efforts, and the policy based on engagement and dialogue.

Iran, Cuba, Libya, the members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and other paragons of human rights have used this framework for antisemitism and to demonize Israel, advance Holocaust denial and make a mockery of human rights. They have also attempted to legislate against free speech, using allegations of "Islamophobia" to block criticism of extremism and violence. Canada and Israel have lost hope and pulled out, and some European officials have spoken about not participating, but are now waiting for the results of the US policy.

If the Americans succeed in reversing this agenda in the brief time that remains, it would mark a major success and set the stage for restoring US influence and values. Proponents of engagement argue that the Obama Administration can help steer this UN conference so that it actually focuses on discrimination against minorities around the world, and is not another platform for anti-Israel obsession.

Alternatively, if this strategy fails, and the text remains poisonous, an American-led walkout with the 27 members of the European Union and some others would delegitimize the Durban process.

HOWEVER, IF Washington hesitates and compromises, allowing the OIC and like-minded NGOs to control the agenda, the participation of the world's democracies will do immense damage. It will amplify the impact of the 2001 UN World Conference Against Racism, including the NGO Forum which used terms like "apartheid" and "racism" to isolate Israel.

Using the Durban strategy, Palestinians launched terror attacks with the knowledge that the Israeli responses would be condemned as "war crimes", which, in turn, would justify boycotts on the South African model. Instead of negotiations based on acceptance of Israel, the goal of annihilation was reinforced. In parallel, Durban has advanced the radical Islamist agenda, justifying violent attacks against critics, and further narrowing free speech, including in Europe. The preparations for the April 2009 conference all point to the same agenda.

In parallel, the obstacles to hopes of reversing the course of the Review Conference were highlighted by the exploitation of human rights rhetoric, double standards, and legal processes initiated against Israeli officials in Spain and elsewhere, stemming from the IDF's Gaza operation. NGO superpowers such as Human Rights, Amnesty International, Paris-based FIDH, and Oxfam, along with Palestinian NGOs (such as PCHR, which is funded by European governments), Libyan-backed groups, and many others are central in this form of deadly warfare, and will be active in Geneva.

With such high stakes, the failure to defeat the Durban strategy will intensify hatred, and carry a major cost for the Obama Administration's policy of dialogue and engagement with opponents. In 2001, the American and Israeli delegations went to Durban expecting that reason and decency would prevail; but when this proved futile, their walkout came too late. To avoid a repetition, the US needs to show moral leadership and, if necessary, readiness to admit that dialogue has failed.

The writer chairs the Political Science department at Bar Ilan University, and is Executive Director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Opinion: Why we should be at Durban II</title>
<date>16/4/2009</date>
<content>
On Monday, April 20 - perhaps appropriately coinciding with both Hitler's birthday and the eve of Holocaust Remembrance Day - the 2001 Durban UN World Conference Against Racism will resume in Geneva.

Led by Iran, Libya and their allies, the gathering - despite Western blandishments - will again compulsively focus upon denigrating Israel.

Jewish organizations have long been debating the pros and cons of participation. Most agreed that governments - wherever possible - be encouraged to demonstrate their disdain for the human rights violators and patrons of terror that have pulled the Durban strings.

There is, however, another battle to be fought in Geneva: the "Durban behind Durban" arena of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Several of these players control budgets greater than many UN member states and boast celebrity-bedecked boards. Their paramount agenda is Palestine, with a vested interest in perpetuation of the Middle East conflict.

These organizations had funded the 2001 radicalized NGO Forum held alongside the UN intergovernmental conference. Though somewhat embarrassed by the violent anti-Semitic expression they had patronized, these NGOs have since then continued to endorse implementation of an eight-point plan conceived in Durban.

AS THE only Jewish member elected to the forum steering committee, I was present at discussions of this blueprint for sustained assault on Israel. Modelled on the campaigns against apartheid South Africa, a series of legal, educational, commercial, cultural, academic and diplomatic measures were to demonize and isolate the Jewish state.

Thus was launched the "Durban module," with mantras extolling the Nakba as the only Holocaust, promoting BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) and attacking the "apartheid wall." The module was to be disseminated via the media (especially the Internet), universities, trade unions, churches, NGOs and all UN agencies. It took off in 2003 through the Brazilian-based World Social Forum anti-globalization movement and its satellites, especially in Europe.

"Durban behind Durban" persisted through the inter-Durban period, as the module has effectively blurred distinctions between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism:

 2001 Durban - marchers against racism carried banners revering Hitler

 2003 Porto Allegre - they proclaimed "Nazis, Yankees, Jews - No More Chosen Peoples"

 2006 Athens - neo-Nazis and Hizbullah acolytes distributed tracts calling for the rebirth of the Hitler-mufti alliance.

Each of these forums correlated with spikes in anti-Semitic violence. Likewise, the spread of Gaza war demonstrations was neither spontaneous nor copycat. The strategy was rehearsed in September 2008 at the Malmo European Social Forum.

Orchestrated on each continent by national Palestine support committees which were put in place to drive the Durban module, the same obsessively anti-Israel groups have hijacked the road to Durban II. At the Brasilia Preparatory Committee (PrepCom) last June, Afro-Latin groups claimed that "a Jewish campaign had stopped the funding that would have brought them to Geneva." At the same time, they acknowledged that their own grievances had been eclipsed by the Palestine issue. At an NGO Forum planning session last October in Geneva, the chair's response to my concern over a possible repeat of the 2001 violence was candid: "The Wiesenthal Center asks me to guarantee that there will be no anti-Semitism in Geneva. There may be anti-Semitism or even Semitism, but we will hold the NGO Forum."

To stress the point, threats from a Libyan-backed activist intimidated further intervention.

THOUGH THE UN has refused meeting halls to such agitators, "Durban behind Durban" is set to continue off-site in Geneva, with an even more focused NGO Forum than that of 2001, albeit smaller. "United against Apartheid, Colonialism and Occupation" will immediately precede Durban II, with all the usual suspects.

Holocaust Remembrance Day will be marked as "From Warsaw to Gaza: Memory and Responsibility" led by the International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network.

"United Against Racism" is for a coalition of Palestinians, African-Americans, indigenous, migrants and renegade Jews to campaign for "an end to US aid to Israel, support for 'BDS,' a fight against Islamophobia and against anti-Arab racism."

While the intergovernmental conference debates hostile resolutions, the "Durban behind Durban" NGO war will be no less unrelenting. It is there that the campaigns, vectors, calendars and militants will further develop the Durban module even after the Geneva conference concludes. Their aim is to wreak maximum harm on Israel and the Jewish people.

Being in Geneva, we are part of the process of political mortgaging within the NGO community: endorsing other victims of racism whose agendas are hijacked by our enemies; championing freedom of expression and seeking common denominators for a true caucus against discrimination and intolerance.

Yes, we must be at Durban II on the NGO front, demonstrating the defiant battle cry of the ghetto fighters: "Mir seinen do/We are here!"

The writer is director for international relations of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, based in Paris, and was head of the Jewish Caucus at Durban I.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Are you proud to be a leftist?</title>
<date>9/3/2009</date>
<content>
In an interview with Teheran Times two weeks ago, Norman Finklestein, the notorious Hizbullah and Hamas supporter and all-purpose anti-Semite, called Israel a "vandal state," and "insane state," a "terrorist state," and a "satanic state."

Last week Finklestein was the keynote speaker at both Emory University and Fordham University during their weeklong annual anti-Israel hate festivals. Speaking to a cheering crowd at a packed auditorium on Emory's Atlanta campus, Finklestein claimed that Israel conducted its recent Operation Cast Lead in Gaza for two reasons. These did not include Hamas's deliberate targeting of Israeli civilians, Hamas's alliance with Iran, its charter that calls for the physical eradication of the Jewish people, its illegal imprisonment of Israeli hostage Gilad Schalit, or its decision to renew its attacks against Israel after a six month period of relative restraint.

In Finklestein's view, the first reason Israel launched Operation Cast Lead was because Hamas had begun expressing interest in peace. In his words, "Hamas were being too moderate, too reasonable. They wanted a diplomatic settlement to the conflict. To Israel, this is a recurring nightmare."

The second reason that Finklestein alleged that Israel launched its offensive was because, well, Israel is just plain mean. As he put it, the operation was Israel's way of "reminding the Arabs who were [sic.] in charge." It was an attempt to "restore the Arab world's fear of Israel." Finklestein cited an unnamed "chief military analyst" to support his claim that Israel conducted a "massacre" in Gaza and did so with malice of forethought.

According to Emory's student paper, for his libelous, wholly fallacious remarks, Finklestein received a prolonged standing ovation.

In 40 university campuses throughout the US and Canada as well as in Europe and South America, last week students marked what Palestinian terror apologists have dubbed "Israel Apartheid Week." This was the seventh such week in the US, and the fifth in Canada.

In the lead up to this annual Israel vilification week, pro-Israel students were physically assaulted at San Francisco State University and at York University in Canada by their anti-Israel counterparts. In both cases, university officials opened disciplinary proceedings against the pro-Israel students.

At SFSU, two students were arrested by police for assaulting college Republicans who held an anti-Hamas rally. The two - from the campus's Palestinian student club and its Socialist union - now insist not only that the charges against them be dropped, but that the university re-educate its students to ensure that they understand that criticizing Hamas and other genocidal terror groups is a form of prohibited hate-speech.

THE LIBELOUS assertion that Israel - the only free, pluralistic, liberal democracy in the Middle East - is analogous to apartheid South Africa first took hold at the 2001 UN-sponsored anti-Jewish diplomatic pogrom at Durban, South Africa. In the action plan approved by the various non-governmental organizations that participated in the conference, activists were called on to bring about the international demonization of Israel as a racist state, and of Zionism - the Jewish national liberation movement - as a form of racism.

When Israel Apartheid Week was launched the next year, many local Jewish student and community activists in the US and Canada demanded that university authorities ban the clearly bigoted event from their campuses. To their chagrin, university presidents and administrators would do no such thing. Claiming that doing so would restrict academic freedom, the propaganda war against the Jewish state went forward and grew. And, in its wake, the freedom of pro-Israel students on college campuses throughout the West has become increasingly constricted and threatened.

Both through formal speech codes barring criticism of anti-Israel propaganda and violence, and through academic and physical intimidation of pro-Israel students by an increasingly vocal and aggressive coalition of pro-Palestinian professors, Muslim and leftist students, Israel's supporters on university campuses find themselves under assault. Today, seven years after the Durban Conference, Israel Apartheid Week has become a mainstay on the academic calendar, nearly as taken for granted as Homecoming Week and mid-terms.

The use of the term "apartheid" to describe Israel was a deliberate move on the part of Israel's enemies. It was aimed at neutralizing the capacity of Israel's supporters to defend the Jewish state and attack its enemies. Case in point is the campus debate which preceded Israel Apartheid Week at the University of Toronto. The student paper published two topical opinion pieces on the upcoming events. One asserted that Israel is an apartheid regime. The other argued that Israel isn't an apartheid regime.

On the surface, this seems fair enough. But it is nothing of the sort. Israel is the only free country and free society in the region. Pinning its defenders down by confining discussion of the region to the pros and cons of a complete lie serves to only  obfuscate the depravity of Israel's enemies, not to enlighten the public about Israel.

While Israel provides the full rights of citizenship to its Arab minority, Jews are denied the rights of citizenship in every Arab League member state, and the Palestinians' fundamental demand is that no Jew be permitted to live in a future Palestinian state.

Then too, while Israeli women enjoy full equality under the law, women and girls in the Arab and Muslim world are systematically subjugated and enslaved. Muslim men who wantonly murder their wives, sisters, mothers and daughters can expect to receive little to no punishment for their crimes. The same holds for men who abuse their female relations. For their part, women in the Muslim world have either no legal rights to citizenship and civil rights or those rights are severely limited.

Gays, blacks, migrant workers, Christians, Hindus and Buddhists are systematically persecuted for their sexual preferences, their skin color and their religious beliefs. Even dogs feel the wrath of these societies where, since they are considered "unclean," children and adults alike routinely engage in their torture and killing.

But under the full protection of self-described liberal university professors, administrators and presidents, and due to the indifference of groups like the World Council of Churches, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Organization of Women, Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, anti-Israel propagandists have been allowed to co-opt the language of liberty to advance the political fortunes of terrorists who aim to destroy liberty.

THE ACTIVE and passive support conferred on anti-Israel leftists and Muslims by these officials and groups has provided them with the ideological cover to take their activism to the next level: anti-Jewish violence aimed at intimidating states, universities, businesses and private organizations into cutting off all ties to Israel. Evidence of the success of this campaign is rife throughout Europe today.

In just one notable instance, for the past week Israeli tennis players, Amir Haddad and Andy Ram suffered the consequences of the Left's collusion with these anti-Jewish groups in Sweden. Haddad and Ram competed in the Davis Cup tennis championships in Malmo, Sweden.

In an article in Yediot Ahronot on Sunday, Ram wrote, "In my entire athletic career, I have never before experienced such hatred and such a mixing of sports with politics."

In spite of repeated entreaties by Israel, Swedish authorities refused to move the games from Malmo to Stockholm. With its enormous Muslim population, in recent years Malmo has been the site of some of the worst Islamic violence against non-Muslims - and particularly Jews, women and girls - in the Western world.

Due to threats of violence against Ram and Haddad, Swedish authorities barred fans from attending their tennis matches. As they played their opening match in an empty stadium on Saturday, thousands of violent Muslims and leftists rioted against police and attempted to break down the barriers protecting the stadium with the stated aim of killing Ram and Haddad.

The protesters claim that their desire to murder Israeli tennis players is due to Operation Cast Lead. But this is pure propaganda. Their desire to murder Ram and Haddad stems not from Israel's military actions to defend its citizens from murder, but from the protesters' hatred of the Jewish state. And that hatred stems from the same source as their misogyny, their hatred of the US and their support for the likes of Osama bin Laden and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

A 2005 Swedish government report indicated that in 2004, incidents of rape had increased 50 percent throughout the country. A Malmo police report noted that 68 percent of the rapists were minorities. As Islamic scholar Robert Spencer has noted, Islamic teaching views rape as a legitimate act against women and girls who behave in "non-Islamic" ways. In much of Scandinavia as well as in Muslim neighborhoods in France, women have begun wearing veils in order to protect themselves against roving gangs of Muslim young men.

The defilement of women and girls, like gay bashing, has nothing to do with IDF operations in Gaza. It has to do with the pathological nature of the cultures that condone and encourage the violence, and the Western governments and intellectuals who make excuses for it.

ALL OF THIS is hidden away from the public thanks to Western liberals' willingness to accept the legitimacy of events like Israel Apartheid Week. Due to the complicity of leftist authorities, the international discourse about the Arab and Islamic world and the cultures they have produced is diverted to false allegations against Israel.

Any attempt to point out that Hamas is genocidal; that Iran stones women to death, and systematically executes homosexuals; that Saudi Arabia is the most repressive society on the planet; that Egypt permits and indeed encourages female genital mutilation; that Jordan does not prosecute fathers, sons, husbands and uncles who murder their female relatives; is attacked and delegitimized. Those who raise these issues are accused of hating Muslims and of being secret Zionist agents.

So too, Islamic violence in the West is swept under the rug. For example, to date, no mainstream US media organ has reported that in Buffalo, New York Muzzamil Hassan decapitated his wife Aasiya on February 12 after he stabbed her to death. Just a few years earlier that same mainstream media had embraced this murderer as a paragon of Islamic moderation after he established Bridges TV network, which was supposed to show the American public how moderate Islam is.

For some reason, the same media don't consider it noteworthy that their moderate Muslim poster boy chopped off his wife's head a week after she filed for divorce. Certainly, no connection can be drawn between her ritual slaughter and Islam.

Sunday was International Women's Day. Throughout the West, feminists spent the day congratulating themselves for their great sacrifices for women's rights.

Last Wednesday Saudi authorities arrested a woman for driving. Her arrest drew no protest from her Western sisters. Obviously, they were too busy defending Finklestein's freedom to disseminate lies about Israeli women to ignorant college kids to care.

caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Out There: Discoveries in America</title>
<date>5/12/2009</date>
<content>
A recent trip to some 10 cities in North America left me with two distinct impressions: Israel has much more support than we generally think, and folks in the New World are obsessed with cleaning their hands.

Regarding the wider support, there is a mistaken tendency here to think that because US President Barack Obama is not exactly George W. Bush on all our issues, all is lost and the Americans are about to sell us down the Monongahela River.

False. A trip across America reminds one of the degree of support Israel enjoys both among Jews and non-Jews.

I felt the non-Jewish support most acutely on a Wednesday night in northwestern Alabama. There, in the town of Florence just north of Muscle Shoals, a congressman I never heard of named Parker Griffith spoke of Israel in a way that could bring tears to the eyes.

Here is Israel, getting slammed by the world and pressured by the Obama administration, and up stands Griffith - a first-term Democrat - and says to an interdenominational crowd of some 150 people gathered in the town's Reform synagogue: "I went to Israel as a tourist, and came back as a Zionist."

Some in the crowd, not the Jews, said "amen" or the equivalent thereof, giving the whole scene the feeling of a town-hall-meeting staged for the movies.

Griffith, a retired oncologist, talked about Israel's energy and ingenuity, and about the need for the US to stand by Israel and not be taken in by Iranian deception. He spoke of a recent trip to Israel, and how struck he was that places he heard about as a kid in Sunday school were actually real.

When Israeli supporters look out at Congress in search of sympathetic faces, it is natural to look to areas with substantial Jewish populations: New York, Florida and California. You don't generally look toward northern Alabama. But you should.

I asked Griffith the source of his support, and two of his answers should give us some buoyancy. The first relates to his remarks about seeing in Israel places he read about in the Bible. Griffith, an Episcopalian, grew up on the Old Testament and is familiar with it - it means something to him.

Secondly, he went to medical school at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, where he had a number of Jewish friends. Those friends, he said, cared greatly about Israel, and it rubbed off.

THERE ARE myriad reasons why the American public continues to back Israel, as polls indicate year after year. Two of those reasons came together in this congressman: a deep-rooted faith in and familiarity with the Bible, and friendship with American Jews who often have an abiding passion for Israel, and who convey that commitment to their friends and coworkers.

But, say the gloom and doomers, Griffith came across the old-time Jews in Baton Rouge, not the new generation that lacks that same visceral connection to Israel. The younger generation, according to this argument, was born after the Holocaust, doesn't remember a world without Israel, and is embarrassed by some of the country's actions.

And, indeed, that element exists; it is there. But it is not all there is. It is all we hear about, but it is not all there is. Alongside the disconnected Jews and the radical anti-Israeli left-wing Jewish fringe is a core group of enthusiasts who devote considerable time, energy and money to supporting Israel.

Meeting them is uplifting.

Take, for instance, Zach Garber, a sophomore at the University of Texas in Austin, one of the heads of a campus group called Texans for Israel. On the day I visited Austin, the pro-Palestinian group at the school had erected an "apartheid wall" on campus, and Garber and his group were busy strategizing: drafting letters and press releases and planning counter moves.

True, Garber's is a small group, but it is a devoted and vocal one. And these groups are not limited to Texas. Small, active pro-Israeli groups exist on campuses across the country.

That the masses of Jewish kids on campus aren't knocking down the doors to join these organizations should not be a reason for disillusionment. Rather, that groups like Garber's exist should be a source of encouragement. Revolutions are led by a vanguard, not the masses. Indeed, Garber's hand, and the hands of those like him, should be shaken in appreciation.

But when you do shake their hands, bring along some disinfection gel with you, or you will feel out of place. The America I visited in November was a vastly changed place from the one I visited in April - and it had nothing to do with Obama. Rather, it had to do with swine flu.

HOWARD HUGHES, the 20th-century billionaire who was famously obsessed with germs, would revel in the new North America. Everywhere you look someone is washing or disinfecting his hands.

And it gets downright confusing. For instance, some soap dispensers in public places are automatic, lest you touch the other guy's germs when you get your soap, and some dispensers you still have to push. It's not always clear which is which, and in one airport rest room I found myself waving my hands furiously below a soap dispenser, thinking it the automatic type, only to be told by a bemused onlooker that this particular machine dispensed soap the old-fashioned way.

The heights to which the clean-hands concern has reached was best illustrated at a vibrant synagogue in the lovely Jewish community of Hamilton, Ontario, where - as in Austin and Florence - there is a strong and heartwarming core of pro-Israel activists and support.

At the exit to the synagogue, sitting on what looks like a pedestal, sits a jug of hand disinfection gel. Familiar with the dangers of the H1N1 virus, I understand where all this hand-cleaning frenzy is coming from. But still, there is something a bit off-putting about shaking someone's hand with a "Shabbat shalom" greeting, only to then watch the guy go sanitize his paws.

That quaint Sephardi tradition here of kissing one's hand after shaking hands as a sign of esteem wouldn't fly these days in Hamilton. But, come to think of it, maybe it shouldn't fly here either - unless alongside the hand disinfection gel, one makes readily available some mouthwash spray as well.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Petah Tikva's 'shanda'</title>
<date>1/9/2009</date>
<content>
The recent frenzy over the refusal of three Petah Tikva private schools to admit Ethiopian students has generated much outrage across the political and religious spectrum. Former education minister and seasoned news commentator Yossi Sarid wrote in Haaretz, "Publish it not in the streets of Oslo, lest the newspapers of the uncircumcised rejoice" and claimed that the gates of "apartheid" were being slammed in the faces of Ethiopian children. He accused the religious school system of discrimination and claimed "there is no value in education for values if one black boy remains shunned and shamed," calling the parents' associations of the schools "wicked" for not wanting the students admitted. MK Ahmed Tibi (United Arab List-Ta'al) claimed it was an example of the "plague of racism," while President Shimon Peres called the whole fiasco a "disgrace."

Despite the outcry, the response to the three schools' decision to bar Ethiopians has shown that Israeli society rejects racism. Among the 200 protesters who arrived in Petah Tikva on Monday were activists from the religious-Zionist youth group Bnei Akiva and from the No'ar Ha'oved  Vehalomed youth movement. The knee-jerk reaction of some to use this as yet another reason to bash Israel and try to inform the European press about it to scream "apartheid," shows that some don't actually care about the Ethiopian children - they are only looking to embarrass the state. The actual story of what occurred is more nuanced.

THE SCHOOLS in question are private religious schools, and the Ethiopians in question are children of new immigrants, who were only recently reconnected to Judaism. Private schools here can choose what to teach, but the majority of their budget is derived from the government. There are many groups associated with what has happened in Petah Tikva, and each has a different interest. The private schools want to safeguard their status as elite institutions while the parents' organizations don't want a big portion of Ethiopian pupils admitted to just one or two schools since it would cause the schools' overall level to decrease.

And since these children are relatively new to Judaism, the only way for them to strengthen their faith is to study in a religious environment. The Sephardi religious leadership, under whose auspices these families were brought back into the Jewish fold and which has consistently campaigned on behalf of their aliya, demands that these children go to religious schools to continue to be considered Jewish. The government support for these schools means the schools must provide equal opportunities.

Another issue is that every school that accepts new immigrants receives a government bonus. Private schools, because they have additional private funding, do not have the budgetary constraints of normal schools, meaning they don't actually need to take in these immigrant children.

IT IS a tragedy to reject students based on ethnic, economic or other criteria. There should be no flexibility on this issue. One cannot take the government's money while rejecting Israeli citizens.

The real problem is not just these schools, but the general lack of consensus on this issue as a whole; numerous schools manipulate the situation regarding Ethiopian children, and only because this was a big group did the media become aware of the scandal.

In fact the problem is widespread where poverty-stricken Ethiopians are concentrated, such as in Kiryat Malachi. The students already face major hurdles; they are learning Hebrew, face economic problems and feel they do not belong in society. For them, religious schools are seen as a way to provide a deeper connection to Israel and Judaism.

The only way for them to succeed is to give them motivation, rather than leaving them behind and rejecting them. Society as a whole and the government in particular have performed admirably on behalf of these children.

Rather than trying to make political fodder of the disgusting acts of a few parents' associations and the less-than-admirable behavior of school principals and municipalities, it's essential to draw a line in the sand and send the message once and for all that no discrimination will be accepted.

The writer arrived in Israel in 1984 with Operation Moses and is involved in numerous social change organizations on behalf of the Ethiopian community.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: The Zionist Left's red lines</title>
<date>26/8/2009</date>
<content>
There's a lot I agree with, a lot I identify with, in Neve Gordon's recent Los Angeles Times op-ed "Boycott Israel." Like the Ben-Gurion University professor, I realize that Israel has become so right-wing that it's not going to end the occupation on its own. While I haven't lost all hope, as he has, that the Obama administration will force Israel's hand, I can't help seeing that Barack Obama and his team are wilting by the day.

Like Gordon, I look at my two sons and dread the future that's waiting for them in this country unless there's a radical change, which is seeming more and more unlikely.

But while I pretty much go along with his reading of where things stand, I want nothing to do with the solution he's chosen - throwing in with the Palestinian/international campaign for boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) against Israel. By doing so, he's joining a movement that is not out to "save Israel from itself," as he writes, but one that simply hates Israel's guts, that sees it as 100 percent guilty and the Palestinians as 100% innocent.

He's standing up for a cause that's rotten and destructive.

SUPPORTING THE BDS campaign is a very, very far cry from what the Zionist Left, myself included, have been doing: urging the Obama administration to pressure Israel into trading land for peace. The difference is that the Obama administration, like all of its predecessors and like the Zionist Left, is anti-occupation but pro-Israel. There may never have been a country that was as good a friend to another country as the US has been to this one. When we call on Washington to pressure Israel into ending the occupation, we do so knowing that Washington is not going to take any step that would damage this country's security.

We do it knowing that Obama and his team, even if they wouldn't put it in these terms, really do want to save Israel from itself.

But the BDS campaign? The 2008 "Bilbao initiative" that Gordon endorses, has as its stated goal the pressuring of Israel in a "gradual, sustainable manner that is sensitive to context and capacity," whatever the hell that means.

Reading the Bilbao initiative, I don't see anything "gradual" or "sensitive" about the punishments its authors would visit on Israel, though I think I understand what they mean by "sustainable."

I think they mean "permanent."

The folks at Bilbao didn't just denounce the Israeli occupation. No, their initiative "exposes Israel as a state which is built on the massive ethnic cleansing of 1948." Since then, the indictment goes on, Israel has been "promoting exclusively Jewish immigration while barring the Palestinians' right to return."

The offense goes way, way beyond the West Bank settlements and the siege of Gaza - it's Israel's "regime," it's Israel's whole "system." On both sides of the Green Line. "Israel's regime is a system that uniquely combines apartheid, settler-colonialism and belligerent occupation."

The folks at Bilbao, by the way, included not only "Spanish solidarity groups" and "Palestinian civil society networks." "Also," the authors point out, "the International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network (IJAN) was strongly present and endorsed this document."

Thank you so much. Somehow I have a feeling that if these people heard that they were out to "save Israel from itself," they'd be awfully insulted.

No, unlike the Obama team's approach, the BDS campaign isn't about tough love for Israel. It's about abuse.

Neve Gordon, like others in the movement, cites the campaign against apartheid South Africa as a model, a precedent for using strong, unpleasant medicine to heal a very sick, obstinate patient. Without going into all the differences - as well as the similarities - between apartheid and the occupation, I want to show briefly why the BDS campaign against apartheid South Africa was just, and why the one against Israel is just wrong.

The anti-apartheid movement's goal was absolutely fair to all South Africans: one person, one vote. When that goal was achieved, the country was cured.

But what is the goal of the BDS movement, aside from the "right of return" to Israel for 4.5 million Palestinian refugees? It's definitely not the two-state solution, not if one of those states is Zionist. So is the goal a binational state on the basis of one person, one vote? Under which government - a coalition of Likud, Kadima, Hamas and Fatah? Somehow I can't see it.

IT WAS one thing to expect South African whites to live in a country led by Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress. It's another thing to expect Israeli Jews to live in a country led, or even jointly led, by Hamas and Fatah.

The logic of the BDS movement leads to this end. From his op-ed, I don't think this is what Neve Gordon wants, but this is what he's ended up supporting.

Like him, I think "Israel has reached a historic crossroads, and times of crisis call for dramatic measures." There are possibilities. For instance, I like the one just proposed by Salam Fayad, prime minister of the Palestinian Authority - to unilaterally begin building a state in the West Bank right now, with an eye to declaring independence in two years.

I can support that. I can support anything that furthers the goal of a Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza and Arab east Jerusalem, alongside a Jewish, democratic Israel.

I won't support anything else because there is no other just goal.

I don't have much hope left that it will be achieved, but if I ever become completely hopeless, utterly despairing, then the right thing for me to do, politically, would be to leave this country. That would be the honorable decision.

Joining a movement that advertises its thoroughgoing malice for Israel, and that means to wreck it, not save it, is dishonorable.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Right of Reply: 'Jubelperser' for Israel</title>
<date>4/3/2009</date>
<content>
Jubelperser (cheering Persians) is a well-known expression in Germany. It originated  during the shah's visit in West Berlin in 1967, when a group of Iranians were hired to cheer in the crowd. The Jubelperser escalated the situation by clubbing protesters under the eyes of the police. The same evening, the police killed a student, which led to massive student protests in West Berlin and West Germany. Today Jubelperser describes people who indiscriminatingly copy phrases and statements from other important persons, especially governments.

In the article "Let the Left go forward" (December 10) by Benjamin-Christopher Krger and Sebastian Voigt, the federal spokesmen of the so-called BAK Shalom, Krger and the sympathizer Voigt discuss the attitude of the German Left toward the State of Israel from their point of view and then advertise for their working group which carries the friendly name "peace." They say that this group within the Left Party's youth section (solid) "aims to fight anti-Semitism, anti-Zionism, anti-Americanism and regressive anti-capitalism." These are noble motives. But the two do not mention how they themselves behave in this fight.

This group often refuses discussion. An interview proposed by the leftist newspaper Junge Welt (Young World) was rejected - officially due to the paper's attitude toward the situation in Zimbabwe. The absurdity of this argument is evident. The only "policy" of solid's working group BAK Shalom is to defame politicians who have different political positions. The BAK Shalom sees anti-Semitism on every street corner. This is the perfect way of preventing every discussion and defaming political opponents. Benjamin-Christopher Krger once avoided a serious discussion by saying to me: "I could try to enlighten you - but I think this would not help you!"

EVEN LYING does not seem to be off limits if their trustworthiness is at stake, as Kruger and Voigt proved recently by first accusing Norman Paech of anti-Semitism and later denying the calumniation.

The Left Party does not have a single position toward the conflict in the Middle East. It is nonetheless common sense that violence is not a way of solving problems. While the Trotskyist platform marx21 still discusses its position regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, a first contribution to the discussion proposed that the Palestinians and the Israelis should live in a unified democratic state. The Left Party's spokesman for international affairs, Wolfgang Gehrcke, tends to the solution of the Geneva Accord. The more reformist party leader Gregor Gysi is in favor of solidarity with Israel but also warned of apartheid in the Holy Land. The BAK Shalom does not present any solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The executive committee of solid already tried to punish the BAK Shalom because its political actions are excessive by common standards. This reflects best the status of this group within the Left Party. Also, the above-mentioned article doesn't say how many members this group has. The party has about 76,600 members (solid has about 8,300), while the working group has about 30 members. It is common sense within the Left that the BAK Shalom is not leftist.

BAK Shalom is a group of Jubelperser - but not cheering the Islamic Republic of Iran but the State of Israel, whatever policy is made by the Israeli government.

The writer, a student of politics and history, is spokesman of the SDS Greifswald, member of the  state board of the Left Party in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and has published several articles in different media.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Right of Reply: Protecting human rights is never 'interference'</title>
<date>12/8/2009</date>
<content>
The article entitled Spain funds 'summer camp' for foreign volunteers to rebuild demolished illegal Palestinian homes, which merited the front page of The Jerusalem Post (August 10), would seem somewhat of a non-story. After all, Israel and the US funded NGOs assisting Jews in the Soviet Union.

Israel went so far as to argue that the human rights provisions of the UN Charter granted it the right to speak and act on behalf of persecuted Jews even if they were not Israeli nationals. Anyone approaching Jerusalem encounters the "Sakharov Gardens," named for Andrei Sakharov, a Soviet human rights figure who could not have survived without the political support of outside governments - a close friend, by the way, of Natan Sharansky, whose own release from the Gulag was made possible by the intervention of foreign governments.

Israel has long and openly justified its interventions in countries like apartheid South Africa and Argentina under the military dictatorship as a way of defending the local Jewish communities. So-called pro-Israel organizations in the US are well known for advocating support for pro-democracy groups in Iran and Egypt. And doesn't Israel intervene deeply in American internal politics when, through AIPAC, its lobby in Washington, it attempts to get "friends of Israel" elected to Congress and de-elect more critical members?

HERE I will say something that may surprise: Israel should intervene in situations when human rights are threatened, be they of Jews or of any other people. Indeed, Israel was one of the first countries to urge the governments of the world to employ universal jurisdiction in prosecuting Nazi war criminals. In doing so it recognized the essence of human rights - the notion that they are universal. "Universal jurisdiction" means, as Israel pointed out in the wake of the Holocaust, that safeguarding the rights of individuals and peoples is not the exclusive domain of the government involved, but is the business of the entire international community.

In urging universal jurisdiction on the international community, Israel rejected categorically the contention that the treatment of one's own citizens or people under one's control is a "domestic, internal matter." This was the argument used by the most nefarious of regimes: Hitler's claim that Germany's "Jewish problem" was an internal issue and that foreign governments should "butt out" is the most notorious, but it's been repeated by Russia in regard to Chechnya, China in regard to Tibet and the Serbs in their campaign of "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia to mention just a few. Human rights organizations are the favorite targets of oppressive regimes.

One of the major instruments in enforcing universal human rights is the Fourth Geneva Convention, approved by the UN in 1949 and ratified by Israel. It provides a double layer of protection for people living under occupation: The occupying power is held responsible for the well-being of the people under its control, but so is the entire international community. While Israel refuses to apply the Fourth Geneva Convention to the occupied territories, denying that it even has an occupation (a position rejected by every country in the world, including its American patron), in fact all governments and court systems are required under universal jurisdiction to prosecute violations of human rights and to intervene on behalf of the peoples being oppressed.

This is no mere academic issue. Had the Fourth Geneva Convention been adopted and enforced by the international community in 1939 instead of 1949, the worst of the Holocaust could have been averted.

SO WHAT'S wrong with Spain supporting human rights organizations such as the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions (ICAHD), Breaking the Silence, Rabbis for Human Rights, the Coalition of Women for Peace and ACRI, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel? Just as it is absolutely appropriate for Israel to intervene when Jewish human rights are threatened abroad, so too is it absolutely appropriate for the Spanish government to intervene to strengthen human rights in Israel while offering protection to the Palestinians whose homes are being demolished.

But it isn't enough.

While I'm grateful that countries like Spain pursue their international responsibilities as guarantors of human rights, the occupation is robbing Israel of its soul. The fact that government officials and the media criticize "foreign intervention" yet ignore the reasons for it - in this case Israel's demolition of more than 24,000 Palestinian homes in the occupied territories since 1967 with no "security" justification at all - puts our country in the company of disreputable regimes under which Jews have traditionally suffered or against which they have struggled. If we cannot end this occupation on our own, I would ask Spain and the rest of the international community to intervene even more forcefully. Forget the pointless negotiations.

Merely enforcing the Fourth Geneva Convention would cause the occupation to collapse of its own illegality and immorality.

As for all those Israeli officials who nevertheless complain about foreign intervention in Israel's "internal affairs," I would simply point out a geographical and political fact: Neither the occupied territories nor their Palestinian residents are "internal" to Israel. Both are external. Our oppression of the Palestinians has nothing to do with the State of Israel. It is rather disingenuous, therefore, to argue that Spain, by supporting ICAHD's rebuilding of Palestinian homes illegally demolished in violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention is somehow "interfering."

Finally, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's spokesman Mark Regev crosses a line of libel when he accuses me in the article of "justifying terror." My views are well known and readers can view many of my presentations on YouTube. I always condemn terrorism, the killing or harming of innocent civilians. But, again, I take the human rights approach which condemns all forms of terrorism, whether that of non-state actors like Hamas or that of states, certainly including Israel.

Let's start taking responsibility for our policies and actions so that other countries - who are not our enemies - will not find it necessary to "intervene."

The writer is director of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions (ICAHD).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Right of Reply: War, human rights and democracy</title>
<date>22/1/2009</date>
<content>
Dear Naomi Chazan,

We have known each other for many years, as both academic colleagues and debating partners, but I was surprised at the virulence and deeply personal nature of your attack on me and on NGO Monitor's reports and analysis (UpFront, January 9). Instead of a factual defense of the powerful New Israel Fund (of which you are now the president - a point you neglected to mention in your article [though Chazan did point it out to the editors]), your diatribe included numerous inventions and blatantly false claims.

I can understand your intense desire to protect the NIF from an open analysis and debate that will show donors how the $200 million it has provided over the years was actually spent. But this does not justify you putting thoughts into my head or words into my mouth which I have never said or written. Nor does this excuse the hysteria used to portray NGO Monitor's detailed and fully referenced research as part of a dangerous right-wing conspiracy. The language that you use ("Steinberg and others of his ilk") is a symptom of the attempt to prevent discussion through ad hominem attacks and senseless hatred which are inconsistent with the image NIF aspires to project.

On the substance, while some NIF funds go to nonpolitical organizations that provide important services, and other recipients have names and mission statements that sound perfectly reasonable, their actual activities often go in an entirely different direction. NIF provides millions of dollars to the leaders of anti-Israel campaigns in the media, the United Nations and other venues. As shown in detail by NGO Monitor, and summarized in the following paragraphs, these organizations frame the conflict through the Palestinian narrative of victimization - one of the main weapons in the "soft power war" which justifies terror and condemns Israeli self-defense.

During the war in Gaza, NIF-funded organizations listed under the category of "civil rights" were again at the forefront of these campaigns. For example, Adalah, which is listed in NIF's annual report under the entirely legitimate heading of a "legal center for Arab minority rights in Israel" (receiving $105,396 in 2007), joined militant Palestinian NGOs such as Badil, Al-Haq, and Al-Mezan in referring to the Israeli military operation as "collective punishment," "war crimes" and "willful killing... not justified by military necessity and... carried out unlawfully and wantonly." In this statement, there is no call for Hamas to stop its deadly rocket fire. If this is NIF's concept of "Arab minority rights," which precludes the existence of the State of Israel, your organization has totally lost its moral compass.

Similarly, a group calling itself the "Coalition of Women for Peace" (awarded $200,000 by NIF in the past two years), published an article asking: "How is it that our consolation is that we hurt, we demolished, we killed?... The truth is that we really do like wars, that's our language, that's our culture... we will find all the explanations in the world to justify any war. Even this one, the spare one, in Gaza."

Like the other NGOs in this group, CWP refuses to recognize Israeli self-defense, preferring to demonize us as a bloodthirsty nation. Gilad Schalit and all of the victims of Hamas attacks are simply forgotten. I doubt that this is what most NIF donors expect - particularly those who give through their local Jewish federations.

IN ADDITION to reconsidering these substantive issues, I suggest that you withdraw allegations of "innuendo and factual errors." For example, you confidently state that contrary to NGO Monitor's analysis, "the EC gives no money to NIF in the US and never has." But the NIF's Form 990 for 2006, filed with the US Internal Revenue Service, lists the transfer of $716,316 from the European Commission office in Washington to the New Israel Fund.

This is only one example of a deeply intertwined relationship between the NIF and European governments that, to put it mildly, do not have Israel's best interests in mind. Many of the political organizations funded by the EC and its member governments also receive support from the NIF. Your organization's support is used to justify European grants to Adalah, B'Tselem, Coalition of Women for Peace, Mossawa, Machsom Watch, Physicians for Human Rights-Israel, Yesh Din and others. As a result, damage done by NIF funding is amplified and compounded. Were NIF donors told outright that they were supporting organizations which demonize Israel using terms such as "apartheid" and "racism," that campaign for and not against anti-Israel boycotts, they would surely demand an end to such funding, making it immeasurably more difficult for European officials to support the same NGOs.

ANOTHER PROBLEM that you sidestepped is the intense political role of NIF-funded NGOs outside Israel - which contradicts the claim to promote "self-critical democracy" and "democratic change within Israel." Many of these groups are active in UN processes which single out Israel for denunciation. For example, a few weeks ago, Yesh Din, Adalah and PHR-I submitted statements to the Universal Periodic Review of Israel held by the one-sided UN Human Rights Council. NGO Monitor examined their submissions in detail. Adalah presented its draft constitution which calls for the end of Israel as a democratic society with a Jewish character, and in which Jewish immigration would be prohibited except for "humanitarian reasons." Adalah also invited reporters to a press conference headlined "Israel's non-compliance with international human rights law" at the UN building in Geneva. And the same groups have announced plans to use legal mechanisms in different countries to bring Israeli officials to trial for alleged "war crimes," furthering the demonization process. Obsessive anti-Israel campaigning is protected by free speech, but do NIF's donors know they are paying for these attacks?

Similarly, B'Tselem has opened an office in Washington to lobby the US government and journalists, going far beyond the initial line of making Israel a more just society. To promote this agenda, they hired Mitchell Plitnick, who was active in the radical group known as Jewish Voice for Peace, which also promotes anti-Israel demonization, using terms such as "apartheid," adopting the narrative of Israel's enemies referring to the 1948 Arab invasion and the creation of Israel as the nakba (catastrophe). The NIF donors who think that they are changing and improving Israel surely do not want to destroy it.

These are some of the main differences between us, and they should be discussed openly and with tolerance, and not squelched by false claims and rancorous personal attacks. You might follow the example of Rabbi David Forman, from Rabbis for Human Rights, whose thoughts on the slogan of "collective punishment" in Gaza were published on January 2 in these pages. Forman is a liberal and a progressive, but he acknowledges the reality of the evil Israel faces. "We had no choice but to react. Are we engaged in collective punishment? Absolutely."

As president of the NIF, you surely recognize the power and influence of the organization. NGO Monitor has the responsibility of speaking truth to this power. In the democratic spirit of NIF, well-meaning donors in the Diaspora deserve the opportunity of hearing different viewpoints and deciding for themselves.

Gerald Steinberg is the chairman of the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University and executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sept. 1: It's called 'the family'...</title>
<date>31/8/2009</date>
<content>
It's called 'the family'...

Sir - Sorry, Shalom Hammer, you are only half-right when you hold schools and educators responsible for the bad manners and lack of consideration of many Israelis ("Back to school - back to basics," August 31). These same teachers and education officials you blame for their ineptitude, egoism and lack of courtesy, and their students, come from somewhere before they attend our school system. It's called the family.

You would not be "surrounded by a sea of garbage and debris" at Nahal Kibbutzim, Rabbi, if parents set an example during their nature hikes and cleaned up after themselves.

There would be a little more tranquility in Israeli society if we were not accosted on a daily basis by individuals - all family members, let us realize - who honk loudly and continuously early in the morning when they pick up their friends' kids for school; disturb others with their noisy cell phone conversations in restaurants, doctors' offices and public transportation, and blow their cigarette smoke at you in whatever tiny temporary refuge you manage to find from the hurly-burly of life in this high-pressure society.

As a newcomer to Israel, I am often told that this behavior is due to the different "cultural" backgrounds of many Israelis. Rubbish. Every culture has its code of derech eretz and consideration for others.

The fact that so many are so obviously flouting these principles in our homeland is a function of bad parenting, a failure to transmit good behavior to their children.

AHARON MAYNE
Jerusalem

...and people can learn to make a clean sweep

Sir, - I was grateful to see Shalom Hammer publicize the litter he found on a hike with his family. My husband and I are now hiking the Israel Trail in segments, and although I am happy to say the majority of the trail is free of litter, there are areas that are trashed - usually where day hikers are abundant.

The land of Israel is stunningly beautiful: a diverse, surprisingly empty wonderland for anyone interested in nature, wildlife, geology or archeology. It is incumbent on us to care for this treasure, to keep it clean from litter and pollution.

Israel has designated 10.5 percent of its total area as protected natural enclaves - almost twice the average of Western countries, and more than four times the average of the countries around us - so please don't think Israel can do no right! However, we aren't always as good at enforcing the regulations that protect these areas.

A question: Did Shalom Hammer and his family make an effort to clean up the litter they saw, and encourage the other (dismissive) family to help?

For years now, my family and I have taken the time to leave every area where we hike cleaner than it was before we came. We take out everything we brought into the trail, including tissues, and more. With some simple publicity, we can convince people to take a few minutes to clean up our land.

DIANA BARSHAW
Haifa

The writer is author of the monthly Wild Israel column in the UpFront magazine.

'No injuries, nor damage'

Sir, - Whenever the IBA News in English reports a (failed) rocket attack from Gaza, it invariably ends by saying "No injuries nor damage was caused."

I realize this is to allay the worries of those with family or friends living in the area. However, it can have other, unwanted results.

I listened to the BBC radio news this week when it reported that Israel bombed a weapons smuggling tunnel in Gaza in retaliation for a rocket attack from Gaza. The report ended with a repeat, word for word, of that "no injuries nor damage was caused" - clearly implying that this had been just a teeny-weeny little rocket which didn't harm anyone nor do any damage, so why on earth did Israel have to start dropping bombs?

We Israelis are not idiots - we don't need to be told that nothing has happened. We are confident that if something does happen, we will be informed about it (""Kassam hits South," August 30).

JACKIE ALTMAN
Netanya

Those gov't subsidies

Sir, - "Save our scientists" (Editorial, August 27) raised the problem of subsidizing the pay of Israeli scientists in order to keep them working and producing in Israel. A laudable goal - but why should it be necessary to subsidize their pay at all?

Their pay is subsidized because their normal wages, like most Israeli wages, are too low to provide a living. This is because our economy and most of its capital are tightly controlled by the two major banks, the 10 large monopolies, the 12 ultra-wealthy Israeli families which largely control those banks and monopolies and, of course, our-debt ridden and employee-bloated government.

Teachers, doctors, nurses, scientists, small business owners and their employees are all badly underpaid and heavily taxed because of this situation. If the government didn't borrow so heavily to pay off its deficits, there would be more money in the system to be paid out to workers as wages, or as loans for expanding small businesses.

If the banks and the monopolies were forced to compete among themselves and with other businesses, prices would fall, spending-power would increase, and the competing businesses would then be able to pay living wages to their employees; as would hospitals, universities and other institutions. There would be no more need for government subsidies.

But so long as the Israeli government continues to step in and make up the shortfall, there will be no incentive to liberalize our closed economy, and the situation will worsen. More and more of our ambitious and hard-working scientists and young people will travel to countries where they can live, work and actually enjoy the fruits of their labors.

KENNETH BESIG
Kiryat Arba

Judge Goldstone's human rights record

Sir, - Unlike Louis Garb's somewhat limited association, I was privileged to have been continuously and closely associated with Richard Goldstone for many years when we both practiced as junior and senior counsel at the Johannesburg Bar. This association continued after Goldstone's appointment to the Transvaal Bench during the "apartheid era," where he served as a trial judge with distinction and fairness for many years. In recognition of both his legal and human rights record, he was later elevated to the Appelate Division and - after  the election of Nelson Mandela and the end of the apartheid era - to the Constitutional Court.

During his period as a trial judge, he was chosen to conduct a commission of enquiry into the alleged malpractices and acts of brutality by the South African Police during the apartheid era (the historic Goldstone Commission). His findings and courageous, scathing condemnation of police brutality and malpractices had a significant influence on later events that led to the ending of apartheid.

It is not my intention here to deal with the propriety or wisdom of Goldstone's acceptance as chairman of the commission appointed by UNHRC to investigate the Gaza conflict.

But what is unjustified is the attack Garb launches against Goldstone ad personam, concluding: "Surely it is not the mission which is tainted, but the man himself" - Goldstone as a judge "implemented apartheid law" and thus, having acted as such a judge, he "cannot afterwards claim the high moral ground where human rights are concerned" ("Pliable vis-a-vis the powers that be," Letters, August 23).

Both as counsel and later as an acting judge in the High Court, I had need to become acquainted with Goldstone's judgments, which reflect a strong concern for human rights.

It was precisely his human rights record as a judge that was acknowledged by the Mandela government in promoting him to the highest legal offices in the country and to his appointment as prosecutor in the International Criminal Court at the Hague for violations of human rights.

I challenge Louis Garb to refer me to any Goldstone judgment that shows him to be a "tainted" man.

HENRY SHAKENOVSKY
Ramat Hasharon

Sir, - I have known both Louis Garb and Richard Goldstone for over 50 years, and although I hold Garb in high esteem, I am of the view that Judge Shakenovsky's opinion of Goldstone, as set out in his letter, more correctly reflects the true position.

I wish to state, however, that I consider that Goldstone was sadly mistaken in accepting appointment to this tainted UN Human Rights Council commission.

M L ROSTOWSKY
Tel Aviv

Lack of defenders

Sir, - Ruthie Blum Leibowitz's interview with Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis contained some interesting observations ("Choosing life," August 27).

Rebbetzin Jungreis talked about the Holocaust and religion and "Torah roots," and about what questions to ask. She said we shouldn't ask where was God, but rather "Where was man? Where was education? Where was enlightenment? Where was Western culture?"

To all these questions I, and many survivors, including my parents and relatives, counter: "Where were the rabbis? Where were the soldiers and defenders?"

The Hungarian Jews had the example of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising. "Torah roots" include the stories of Joshua and Rabbi Akiva and Bar Kochba and Deborah and Barak.

There was no call to arms by the majority of Jews, and the "Torah" leadership discouraged an exodus to either the West or to Israel, when such action was possible.

We've had  our state for over 60 years. Rebbetzin Jungreis lives in Brooklyn. Why isn't her main address in Israel?

AHARON GOLDBERG 
Hatzor Haglilit

Reasons to linger?

Sir, - Israelis, especially we immigrants, highly value our lifeblood of aliya. Ricki Lieberman correctly stresses that we must implement it quickly and well ("Marranos of our generation," Letters, August 31). But I worry that she may have 8,700 reasons for lingering in New York. Her concern, energy and experience would be an asset to us here.

E. ZEITLIN
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 13: Right this, now</title>
<date>12/9/2009</date>
<content>
Right this, now

Sir, - The plight of Aregash Gudina Terfassa is truly disgraceful ("Ethiopian woman, here 16 years, is being denied any formal status," September 10).

We're talking about a woman brought to Israel as an orphan by a priest, who abused her in the worst sense and was then deported, while she was allowed to remain. She worked for years even though she was legally required to attend school. Now well past school age, she has no right to work and lives in fear.

In the name of justice, her case should be heard immediately. She has been here long enough to qualify for naturalized citizenship under the law, and this is what the judge should grant her, with the ministry's recommendation.

It is an embarrassment that something like this could happen here. The authorities must right this injustice immediately, if only to save a little face.

MATTHEW BERMAN
Jerusalem

Boost for crime

Sir, - Stopping the scourge of crime in the country really got a "boost" when a policeman was given a prison sentence for trying to arrest a car thief in action. After the thief attacked him with a screwdriver and then tried to escape, the cop opened fire and fatally wounded him.

Why should any sensible police officer try to do his duty, thereby exposing himself to the possibility of a prison sentence? ("Cop gets 15-month sentence for killing car thief suspect," September 4).

DOV EDELMAN
Petah Tikva

Ideology trumps all

Sir, - Carried away by his gushing praise of the Swedish and Norwegian leadership in the fight against apartheid in South Africa and eager to point out how slow Israel was to climb on the bandwagon, Alon Liel conveniently overlooked context ("Getting our house in order first," September 10).

During the oil crisis of the early 1970s, Israel was forced to import the oil to operate our power stations - at exorbitant cost for both oil and freight - from the other side of the world. To alleviate this problem, the Hadera power station, then in its final stages, was designed to operate off coal and not oil.

The logical thought was that an extended contract to purchase coal from the embattled collieries of the UK would save them from closure and solve an economic crisis in the UK. But the UK, fearful of the Arab oil embargo, preferred to close the mines and add thousands of redundant miners to its unemployment statistics.

The only country prepared to buck the Arab oil embargo was S. Africa, and to boycott it then would have meant a critical shortage of electricity throughout Israel.

Incidentally, the South Africans who gained the most from the contract to sell coal to Israel were the underprivileged Africans who mined the coal.

But from the socialism of Lenin to the liberal philosophy of today, ideology is more important than the man in the street. Let the people suffer today for the greater cause tomorrow (maybe).

BERYL RATZER 
Netanya

Sir, - Just because Norway and Sweden fought one injustice elsewhere, are we to excuse them for their disgustingly unjust behavior toward Israel?

MARTHA LEV-ZION
Omer

Sir, - If anything, Sweden's leadership in the anti-apartheid struggle makes current criticism of the Swedish government that much more valid. Sweden proved that it was capable of identifying policies that delegitimized an entire people and that it was willing to act strongly against an immoral regime even when much of the rest of the world maintained ties with South Africa.

The classic definition of anti-Semitism includes application of a double standard (treating Jews differently than others) to delegitimize or demonize the Jewish people.

Sweden's recent failure to denounce a modern-day blood libel, when compared to its principled opposition to apartheid, clearly meets this definition.

EFRAIM A. COHEN
Netanya

Flowers, no fruit

Sir, - While we are assured by Karen Berg, co-founder of the popular Kabbalah movement, that after 13 years of study Madonna has become more humble, the same unfortunately cannot be said about it having the slightest influence upon her modesty.

The Spanish Jewish poet and philosopher Yehuda Halevy cautioned about the study of Greek philosophy by characterizing it as "having flowers, but bearing no fruit." If the Bergs' program succeeds in making some people feel happier about themselves, this might be a worthy thing; however, Judaism is much more concerned about making us into better people.

The Bergs' program has no relationship to the commitment required in order to effectuate the Torah's challenge to "love your neighbor as yourself," or to the prophet's call to "do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with your God."

The best thing that can be said about their endeavor is they have realized the ancient alchemists' dream of being able to transform Kabbalah into gold ("Popular mysticism," David Brinn, September 10).

ZEV CHAMUDOT 
Petah Tikva

Armenian allegations lack legal basis

Sir, - Marilyn Henry's comparison between the tragic events of 1915 and the Holocaust is baseless and unacceptable ("Denying the other Holocaust," August 30). History can be construed only on the basis of indisputable evidence, not through distortion or manipulation of the facts. Comparing the events of 1915 to the Shoah also dishonors the victims of the Holocaust.

The Holocaust is a reality that was established by international law, while the Armenian allegations lack such a legal basis. Moreover, these unfounded claims are gravely distorted and challenged by several eminent scholars.

The common history of the Turkish and Armenian peoples should be analyzed on the basis of objective, independent and scientific evidence. Turkey stands ready to work in this direction, and its proposal to Armenia in 2005 to deal with the issue by setting up a Joint History Commission remains unanswered.

NAMIK TAN
Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey
Tel Aviv

Marilyn Henry responds:

Many would welcome the ambassador's call for a truly objective, independent and scientific evaluation of history. There are numerous scholars who have publicly denounced Turkey's denial of the Armenian genocide, including Yehuda Bauer of Yad Vashem, as well as the American historians Deborah E. Lipstadt, Robert Jay Lifton and the late Raul Hilberg. The US Holocaust Memorial Museum itself uses a famous quote of Hitler's, made shortly before the invasion of Poland, 70 years ago this month: "Who, after all, speaks today of the annihilation of the Armenians?"

Faith and pride

Sir, - Thank you for highlighting the efforts to memorialize brave soldiers Eldad Regev and Ehud Goldwasser in such a meaningful manner ("Nahariya yeshiva and families of soldiers commission Torah scroll," September 10).

The Nehar Deyah Yeshiva, under the leadership of Nahariya's chief rabbi, Yeshayahu Meitlis, and yeshiva head Rabbi Eliyahu Blum, does much to unify the community through its many educational and charitable activities, including a relief center that distributes food to thousands of residents for the holidays.

The students, excellently trained combat soldiers, enhance the atmosphere of our city with their faith, national pride and passion for Torah study.

NANCY MILGRAM
Nahariya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 3: 'Forcing' peace</title>
<date>2/9/2009</date>
<content>
'Forcing' peace

Sir, - Gershon Baskin, it seems, forgets nothing and learns nothing ("President Obama: Pro-Israel, pro-Palestinian, pro-peace," September 1). He asserts, without proof, that both sides want peace but cannot achieve it alone. Even if true, that is meaningless; we all want nice things, but when some are mutually exclusive, it's the priorities that matter.

Peace is very low on the Arabs' priority list. If they want peace a little bit but have a more fervent desire to destroy Israel, the former desire is of no great significance. If, in fact, they wanted peace as much as Israelis do, we would have achieved it decades ago.

To suggest we need an outside arbitrator to force peace upon us is demeaning to all parties, and impractical into the bargain. As long as the Arabs believe Obama will force a settlement that will in effect destroy the Jewish state, there is no incentive for them to search seriously for a compromise.

Our only option is to make it absolutely clear that we will not be pushed into committing suicide. Fortunately Israel's so-called peace camp is diminishing by the hour.

The vast majority of Israelis see no benefit in talking to the likes of Hamas, or the Palestinian Authority, which, though sometimes clad in sheep's clothing, seem to have the same philosophy as Hamas.

STEPHEN COHEN
Ma'aleh Adumim

Europe's obsession

Sir, - The international attitude to Israel is exemplified by Carolyn Glick in "Your standard European newspaper demonstrate[s] the depths of Europe's obsession with hating Israel" ("The rigged game," August 28).

The prime minister's attempt to convince the rest of the world that "Palestinian acknowledgement that Israel is the homeland of the Jews" is the "'pivot' of peace" - Herb Keinon in the same issue ("Reframing the conflict") - appears an impossible task.

Will the international community consider any concept that would not weaken Israel?

SIMCHA RUDMAN
Jerusalem

Sharing in the guilt

Sir, - My association with Richard Goldstone was not "somewhat limited" ("Goldstone's human rights record," Letters, September 1). I frequently used his legal services until I left South Africa in 1973, and 10 years ago he was kind enough to write the introduction to a book of mine. I regarded him as a friend and there was certainly no animus on my part in writing a letter which I would have preferred not to write had I not thought the matter sufficiently serious.

My simple point, which Henry Shakenovsky's letter does not address, is that anybody who took part in carrying out the unjust and immoral laws which were an inherent part of the apartheid system shares in the guilt. A person who acted as a judge when 80 percent of the population were, by law, prevented from sitting with him on the bench - or, indeed, on any bench - cannot hold himself up post facto to be a paragon of human rights when the going becomes easy.

All who lived and worked in S. Africa are guilty to some degree. Only those who devoted themselves to African rights or actively opposed the system and put their careers and, indeed, their liberty at risk, can claim the right to preach. Significantly, Nelson Mandela's autobiography mentions the names of lawyers who truly stood up. Goldstone's name does not appear.

The fact that Mandela chose him for the Constitutional Court is not surprising. Mandela had to make use, as much as possible, of the existing judicial system, or chaos would have ensued. Goldstone's record may certainly have been better than most of his colleagues' - but one cannot be only somewhat pregnant.

On a personal note, I was a member of the Liberal Party until it was banned, did some African pro bono work and was one of the handful of white lawyers in the '60s to employ a black articled clerk. Yet I do not exempt myself from the guilt of moral compromise. I would not now claim to be a paragon of human rights.

The only way to make reparation for one's previous compromise would be not to allow oneself to be compromised now on human rights issues. In this context, one cannot ignore Judge Goldstone's "sad mistake," as conceded by M.L. Rostowsky (Letters, same date): not only his acceptance of the UNHRC appointment, considering his seat on the board of Human Rights Watch, but also his failing to insist on proper parameters for the investigation, and his allowing the participation of Christine Chinkin, who had made her animus known in advance.

In someone as brilliant as Goldstone, does this not indicate the very pliability about which I wrote?

LOUIS GARB 
Jerusalem

Begin's influence

Sir, - In "Back to school" (Shalom Hammer, August 31), the author states: Israeli education is predicated upon quantitative education as opposed to qualitative education... They program our children to amass volume as opposed to embracing values, and this breeds a society of ego-centricity."

This insight into the pedagogic problems that exist in Israel is at the heart of the educational workshops offered by the Begin Center, including one  on "Value-Driven Leadership."

Much of the thrust of the Begin Center's projects, in formal and informal education as well as the rationale behind the museum, is to suggest to participants and visitors that beyond the historical facts, Menachem Begin sought to influence the Jewish people on the basis not only of benefits for the individual, but, more importantly, in values such as joint responsibility, Jewish heritage, concern for the life of the nation and the need to assist Jews in difficulty.

HERZL MAKOV, Chairman Menachem Begin Heritage Center
Jerusalem

The Swedish allegations

Sir, - Ma'an News Agency never claimed to "confirm" the allegations printed in the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet, contrary to what "Palestinian news agency 'confirms' organ snatching story" (August 23) stated. Instead, as a responsible, independent and professional news organization, Ma'an published articles stating that Aftonbladet's reporter, citing Palestinian sources, had made allegations concerning "organ harvesting," as did many Israeli and Western media outlets. All our Arabic and English articles on this issue have simply reported the comments and claims of other parties and sources.

The specific article mentioned in the Post's report was in Arabic, and it reported the comments of one researcher, Abed An-Nasser Farwana, who said he believed the allegations in the Swedish newspaper.

In addition, the Post was mistaken in citing the title of the original Ma'an article. The actual title was: "Farwana: Disappearances, Holding Bodies, Organ Theft - Intertwined Crimes." Both the title and body of the article made it clear that this was Farwana's interpretation of events, not Ma'an's. A variety of other Arabic and English websites also reported on Farwana's claims in the context of the ongoing media interest in the controversy.

Finally, Ma'an no longer receives funds from Denmark or The Netherlands, as stated in the Post's report.

 JARED MALSIN
Ma'an News Agency
Bethlehem/Gaza City

Proud Aussies

Sir, - I don't think I ever met Meir Ronnen personally, but I was a fan of his writing. His achievements in Israel mirror the successes of many other Australian olim. Indeed, the Australian contribution to Israel is one of the unsung stories of Zionist history.

London's Piccadilly Circus in the postwar period had a huge neon sign reading "Australia sends its best to Britain." Israel could everywhere emblazon the message "Australia does its best for Zionism." We Australians can be proud of ourselves ("Mike Ronnen" Letters, September 2).

RABBI RAYMOND APPLE
Emeritus Rabbi
Great Synagogue, Sydney
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Strategy needed to preserve Durban 2 victory</title>
<date>21/3/2009</date>
<content>
With only one month to go before the opening of the UN's very controversial Durban Review Conference, the battle over the terms of the final declaration to be adopted by the participating governments has intensified. Faced with a growing number of countries which have declared that they would not participate in another anti-Semitic and anti-democratic conference, the organizers suddenly changed the text. The hate language, attacks on Israel, and attempts to restrict free speech and give Islam a preferred status - all using the faade of human rights - were removed.

For the governments that had already declared that they would not go to this conference, scheduled for April 21 in Geneva, and for others considering a similar move, this poses a policy dilemma. Canada (the first to denounce the anti-Semitism of the Durban process), Israel, the US, and most recently, Italy confronted UN human rights officials with public embarrassment. Following Rome's lead, a number of other democratic governments - Holland, Britain, Denmark, Australia, and the Czech Republic - were also on the verge of pulling out. This would have triggered a cascade of additional dropouts, leaving the room half-empty.

Now that this text has been changed, should these governments, including Israel, acknowledge this important diplomatic victory that forced a change in text - over the heads of the Libyan and Iranian officials - and agree to participate on the basis of the new document? Or is this a diplomatic sleight of hand - a temporary change in language used to bring an end to the revolt of the democratic delegations? This victory, while incomplete, is nevertheless substantial and almost unique - it may represent a tipping point in the wider "soft war," including anti-Israel boycotts and lawfare cases that abuse human rights as a weapon. The efforts of Iran, Libya, Syria and Egypt to extend the Durban strategy of demonization have been repudiated within the UN - the same body that has led this process since the 2001 original Durban conference.

In parallel, the powerful NGOs, such as Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, and their Palestinian allies, have also lost prestige and perhaps some influence in this battle. Not only have their campaigns failed to force Canada, the US, and Italy to change their policies, but the vitriolic NGO Forum from the 2001 Durban conference will not be repeated. If these successes can be "locked in," to insure that the text and frameworks will not be changed at the last minute, this would be a strategic change.

HOWEVER, THE CASE against re-engagement appears stronger. From this perspective, the entire Durban process and the UN human rights framework is corrupt beyond repair. In this scenario, the war led by the members of the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) will resume as soon as the Obama administration and other democratic governments announce a return. When the conference begins, Libya and Iran, with the support of Egypt, Syria, Cuba, and the rest, will use their majority to restore terms like "apartheid" and Israeli "genocide."

Critics, including the Israeli government, also note that the current text, which was prepared by Russian "facilitator" Yuri Boychenko, remains problematic, particularly in adopting the final declaration from the 2001 Durban Conference. The Israeli and the American delegations withdrew from that conference over the demonizing language ("apartheid," "war crimes," etc. in the draft declaration), and the "compromise text," negotiated by Canada and the Europeans, still singled out Israel. It emphasized "the plight of the Palestinian people under foreign occupation," recognized "the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination," and promoted the claim to a "right of return." An endorsement of this discriminatory language by the 2009 Review Conference would reinforce the damage done eight years ago in Durban.

While the debate on strategy will continue in the next month before the opening of the conference, the record clearly shows that the only means of defeating the OIC in this venue is through a credible threat of a mass withdrawal. A conference limited to Arab and Islamic regimes - among the worst violators of human rights in the world - would delegitimize the entire process.

Without unity among the democracies on the critical issues, the OIC will succeed in creating the appearance of legitimacy, and in restoring the hate-filled sections of the declaration. Instead, leaders who are inclined to declare victory and participate in the review conference must first insure that, at the first sign of this tactic, they will all walk out together, including every member of the European Union. And if this is impossible, particularly regarding the Europeans, they should stay away.

The writer is the Executive Director of NGO Monitor and chairs the Political Science department at Bar Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Suffocating the Baha'i</title>
<date>24/3/2009</date>
<content>
As Baha'is around the world celebrated their new year last weekend, thoughts and prayers turned to Iran where the community has been shaken by the arrest and impending trial on trumped-up charges of seven members of the Yaran, the ad hoc group formed to administer its affairs at a national level after the banning of the governing National Spiritual Assembly in 1983. Coming in the wake of an 18-month long anti-Baha'i media campaign led by the semi-official Kayhan newspaper, the reported collection by state security services of "identifying particulars" on community members and a general increase in arrests and detentions, it raises fears that Iran's 300,000 Baha'is may be facing an intensification of the state-sponsored persecution to which they have there been subjected since the mid 19th century.

Then tensions between the followers of Babism, the embryonic religion out of which the Baha'i faith developed, and Persia's clerical and civil establishment led to violent confrontations in which as many as 20,000 Babis were killed including their leader, Sayyid Ali Muhammad (the Bab), who was executed in July 1850. Although their situation had improved by the 1860s, when Mirza Husayn Ali Nuri (Baha'u'llah) emerged as the Bab's generally recognized successor and began refining his teachings as Baha'ism, the community remained under threat, suffering sporadic attacks directed or incited by the Shi'a authorities which resulted in hundreds of deaths.

Baha'is fared better in the early years of the secular Pahlavi dynasty. However, in the mid-1930s they became targets of a government crackdown on independent social groupings which resulted in the censorship of Baha'i literature and school closures, the prohibition of meetings and the illegalization of Baha'i marriage contracts. Their position considerably worsened during the 1950s when, for cynical political reasons, Muhammad Reza Shah oversaw a campaign of repression by the civil, military and clerical leadership, while the dissemination of anti-Baha'i propaganda by the official media helped provoke public passions against them.

This culminated in the 1955 pogrom during which the army partly destroyed the National Baha'i Center in Teheran while, all over the country, private homes and businesses were looted and burned. Baha'i men were dismissed from state employment, children expelled from schools and Baha'i women abducted and forced into Muslim marriages. There were also a number of murders, including the hacking to death of seven men by a mob in a village near Yazd. The situation was calmed only when public order was threatened and international pressure increased. However, state suppression of Baha'i activity continued intermittently through the 1960s and 1970s and independent religious organizations such as the Hojjatiyeh worked indefatigably to destroy the Baha'i faith.

ASKED SHORTLY BEFORE to his return to Iran in February 1979 whether there would "be either religious or political freedom for the Baha'is under an Islamic government," Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini simply said, "They will not be accepted. No." Baha'is were therefore formally excluded from the protections afforded to religious minorities under the 1979 constitution, paving the way for what the UN Human Rights Committee described as their "systematic persecution" by the state "including summary arrests, torture, executions, murders, abductions and many other harassments."

More than 200 Iranian Baha'is have been executed since the revolution, most notoriously the entire nine-member National Spiritual Assembly in 1980 (eight of their nine replacements were also executed in 1981, seven of their respective replacements in 1983) and 17-year-old Mona Mahmudizhad, hanged with nine other women in 1983, for the crime of teaching religion to children. Thousands more have been unlawfully arrested and arbitrarily imprisoned.

Although judicial murders have largely been halted on account of the international outcry, Teheran has continued what the Iranian Human Rights Documentation Center (IHRDC) describes as its "deliberate and coordinated campaign to suffocate and ultimately destroy the Baha'i community" through a process of social, cultural and economic strangulation. In 1991 the supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, signed the Golpaygani Memorandum, a secret government order still in force which stipulates that all official "dealings with [Baha'is] must be in such a way that their progress and development are blocked"; civil employment, higher education and "any position of influence" are to be denied them once their religious affiliation is established and their "cultural roots... confronted and destroyed."

To date, tens of thousands of Baha'is have been stripped of their jobs, business licenses and pensions or deprived of an education solely on account of their faith. They cannot legally inherit property and their marriages are not recognized, meaning Baha'i wives are treated as prostitutes; all marriages contracted prior to 1979 have been annulled. Private and public property has been sequestered, vandalized or destroyed, including religious shrines such as the houses of the Bab and Baha'u'llah's father, demolished in 1979 and 2004 respectively. Cemeteries are also routinely desecrated, most recently that at Kharavan, bulldozed by the government last January.

According to the IHRDC, "The cumulative and intended effect of these widespread attacks has been to terrorize an already vulnerable minority group into submission."

TEHERAN DEFENDS its actions on the basis that Baha'ism is not a religion but "an organized establishment linked to foreigners, particularly the Zionists" which aims to subvert the Iranian state. But this is self-evident nonsense. The claim that Baha'is are Israeli agents (the seven Yaran officials are charged with "espionage for Israel") is based solely on the fact that the Baha'i World Center is located in Haifa. But Baha'is have had links to this region since 1868 when Baha'u'llah was exiled to Acre and he himself chose Mount Carmel as the World Center's site (and that of the tomb of the Bab) some 70 years before Israel was founded.

Indeed, Teheran has a long history of demonizing Baha'is through allegations of associations with its enemy du jour, including the Russians whom it claimed created Babism in an attempt to undermine Shi'a Islam; the British, whose conferral of a knighthood on Baha'u'llah's son Abdul-Baha in 1920, was presented as proof that Baha'is were "imperial spies"; and, more recently, Americans and Wahhabis (although just last week Britain was accused of using Baha'is to "cause disturbance in Iran"). The citing in this context of their supposed links to the Pahlavi regime ignores the fact that Baha'is are faith-bound to be loyal to their governments.

Iran's treatment of its Baha'is is, in the final analysis, nothing less than a medievalist religious persecution. The Bab's self-identification with Imam Mahdi and Baha'u'llah's declaration of prophethood both present, in Bernard Lewis's words, "a challenge to the Islamic doctrine of the perfection and finality of Muhammad's revelation" and, consequently, their followers are considered, by definition, to be "heretics," "apostates" and "enemies of God."

Furthermore, as Douglas Martin points out, "There is hardly a tenet of [Baha'i] credo that is not in conflict with some dogma promulgated by the clerics of Shi'a Islam" in Iran, such as the rejection of priesthood, community decision-making, independent scientific investigation and, particularly, the equality of women.

Teheran's treatment of its Baha'i community has long been denounced by the international community; the UN, the EU, several national legislatures and numerous NGOs have, since the early 1980s, passed rafts of resolutions of condemnation and concern. But more concerted action is required in the face of what the IHRDC now categorizes as "crimes against humanity." Security Council sanctions are surely warranted against the world's real apartheid regime.

The writer is a freelance journalist, writing mainly on Irish and Middle Eastern affairs. He is preparing a book on the history of Irish-Israeli relations.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sweden's anti-Israel apartheid policy is about more than sport</title>
<date>9/3/2009</date>
<content>
Neutral Sweden's mixed World War II legacy is still debated by historians. On the one hand it supplied Nazi Germany with iron ore and ball bearings and allowed the Wehrmacht to use the Swedish railway system to transport soldiers. On the other hand, spurred on by the Danes, it accepted Danish Jews marked for mass murder by the Nazis. Ultimately, the good name of Sweden was redeemed by the unparalleled heroics of one of its own - Raoul Wallenberg, who, using the cover of a Swedish diplomat, helped save tens of thousands of Hungarian Jews destined for Auschwitz, only to disappear into the Soviet Gulag. For decades, no Swedish government had the courage to demand his return from the jaws of the neighboring Russian bear.

While this Swede will forever be revered by the Jewish nation, it is brutally clear in 2009 that Jews and especially those uppity ones from Israel are of little concern to Swedish authorities, as their policies become more reminiscent of apartheid South Africa or Berlin in the 1930s than a 21st-century Scandinavian democracy.

INTERNATIONAL SPORTS strive to be free of politics and prejudice. But here they provide real-time proof of the poisoning of Swedish public life by biases that have echoes in Nazi Europe's anti-Semitism. In Sweden's third largest city, Malmo, where a virulently anti-Israel Muslim community makes up a significant percentage of the 250,000 population, the City Council voted five to four to hold the scheduled Davis Cup match between Israel and Sweden in an empty stadium, behind closed doors.

The losers are tennis players and fans of every nationality. The winners are the "Stop the Match" campaign which prevailed on the council's Socialist-Left majority to quarantine Israelis and Jews behind an apartheid police cordon to protest Israel's actions in the recent Gaza war.

The Malmo travesty comes on the heels of a huge international outcry after Dubai barred Shahar Pe'er from the Barclay Dubai Tennis Tournament in the UAE. Dubbed the apartheid tennis tournament, and threatened with having the games withdrawn from it, Dubai was forced to issue a visa for Andy Ram.

That controversy has had zero impact in Sweden however, as authorities announced that an Israeli tae kwondo delegation, consisting of 45 athletes and five coaches, en route to Trelleborg for the Swedish championship, was told to stay home due to Muslim threats. Not even tae kwondo - Korean for "the art of kicking and punching" - can provide protection from Sweden's supine complicity in leading today's anti-Israel bullies.

Spare us the alleged "public safety" nonsense. The same 7,000 anti-Israel demonstrators in downtown Malmo would have chanted the same slogans and the few dozen who attacked the police vans for the benefit of media coverage would have tossed the same projectiles had the stadium been packed with tennis fans on Saturday.

No the security card was invoked not to protect but to stigmatize Israeli athletes as pariahs.

None of this is about sports. It's about Jews.

FOR DECADES, Sweden has allowed demagogues like Ahmed Rami , whose Radio Islam is a 22-language flagship of Holocaust denial, Jew-hatred and demonization of the State of Israel, to poison the well among the nation's Muslim minority.

Over-the-top vilification anti-Israel rhetoric is a hallmark of a large swathe of the Swedish political establishment.

"Israel is an apartheid state. I think Gaza is comparable to the Warsaw Ghetto... I'm surprised that Israel... can do the exact same things the Nazis did," charged Ingalill Bjartn, the vice-chair for the Social Democratic Women in southern Sweden. "I don't think Israel is a democracy worthy of the name. It's a racist apartheid state," said the Left Party's Hans Linde, calling for a boycott of Israel. A leading Social-Democrat, Urban Ahlin, deputy chair of the Committee of Foreign Affairs, implored Stockholm to encourage the EU to suspend its cooperation agreement with Israel.

On the right, Carl Bildt, Sweden's foreign minister, after visiting Gaza charged Israel with intentionally targeting economic infrastructure and called its policies "neither morally nor politically defensible." In 2004, when a Europewide poll revealed that 59 percent of respondents identified Israel as "the greatest threat to world peace," a Swedish government conference on preventing genocide was coordinated with a Stockholm museum exhibit, entitled "Snow White and the Madness of Truth," that glorified an Islamic Jihad homicide bomber who mass murdered 22 Israeli Jews and Arabs at a Haifa caf.

IN 2005, a US State Department report documented that anti-Semitic incidents against Sweden's tiny Jewish community spiked to over 100 a year after 2000, with attacks on Jewish shopkeepers and members of the Jewish Burial Society in Malmo, arson and vandalism of a Jewish cemetery, a swastika painted near the Jewish community building in Gothenburg, three Arab men disrupted the Rosh Hashana service shouting "I'll kill you, Zionists!" at the Great Synagogue in Stockholm where a pro-Israel street demonstration was violently disrupted by counterdemonstrators and members of Hizb ut-Tahrir handed out leaflets near a mosque that urged the liquidation of Jews in Palestine.

A 2006 poll showed 30 percent of all Swedes harbored moderate to strong anti-Semitic attitudes.

In 2008-2009 since the Gaza war broke out, slogans including "murderers... You broke the cease-fire" and "don't subject Palestine to ethnic cleansing" have defaced the Israeli embassy in Stockholm, while in Helsingborg synagogue windows were broken while an arson fire blazed outside.

Sweden is among the European countries with laws against Holocaust denial and defamation of minorities. Yet to judge from recent events, such laws are a dead letter regarding offenses against Jews. Though Swedish schools teach Holocaust education, according to polls one-third of Swedish young people doubt that the Holocaust occurred. One can only imagine what Swedish Holocaust hero Raoul Wallenberg, who saved thousands of Hungarian Jews, would think. It's time for Sweden to change sides and come out against, not for, the new war against Israel and the Jews.

Rabbi Abraham Cooper is associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center and Museum of Tolerance. He has been involved in efforts on behalf of Raoul Wallenberg from the 1980s. Dr. Harold Brackman, a historian, is a consultant for the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Swedish government funds anti-Semitic NGOs</title>
<date>19/8/2009</date>
<content>
The article in Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet  accusing Israeli soldiers of stealing and selling the organs of Palestinians is not a surprise or isolated aberration, but rather the result of a long campaign of anti-Israeli demonization, based on manufactured "evidence" repeated by Palestinian "eyewitnesses".

Applying the strategy adopted at the NGO forum of the 2001 UN Durban conference, the well-financed network of radical non-governmental organizations (NGOs) plays a major role in this demonization, and the Swedish government is a major source of funding. Expressions of modern anti-Semitism and blood libels are the logical results of this activity.

An NGO Monitor research report on Swedish government funding, published on June 29 2009, documented this pattern in detail, and warned of the incitement and anti-Semitic language being used routinely by these organizations. This systematic study examined over 20 major NGOs funded through the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), Diakonia, the multi-national NGO Development Center (NDC), and the Swedish Mission Council (SMR).

Many of these NGOs routinely accuse Israel of "genocide," "ethnic cleansing," and "apartheid," and some compare Israeli military and political officials to Nazis. This propaganda warfare is waged through the faade of "research" reports which routinely quote Palestinian "testimonies," taken and repeated without question. The path from this demonization to the blood libels of Aftonbladet is short and direct.

The Palestinian Medical Relief Society (PMRS), run by Dr. Mustafa Barghouthi, and receiving funds from the SMR framework, is a prominent example. Barghouthi referred to the Gaza conflict as a "horrendous massacre," and used terms like "ghetto," and "apartheid" on a radio program.  PMRS refers to the security barrier as the "apartheid wall," and claimed that Israel employs a "racist ideology" and inflicts "collective punishment" on the Palestinians.

Similar language is found in the publications and statements of the radical Israel-based Alternative Information Center (AIC), which received 300,000 Krona ($42,000) in 2008, Palestinian-based Al Haq (SEK 3 million, as part of Diakonia's IHL program), and Physicians for Human Rights-Israel (SEK 900,000). The central role of PHR-I officials in the campaigns accusing Israeli doctors of torture and other forms of heinous immorality, resulted in a decision by the Israel Medical Association to sever relations.

SIDA money also goes to the Women's Affairs Technical Committee (WATC), Palestinian Medical Relief Society (PMRS), and Jerusalem Center for Women (JWC), which demonize Israel with the rhetoric of "apartheid," "ethnic cleansing," and "massacres." This language is repeated in NGO reports and and press statements, which are then reprinted in the media and amplified in the United Nations Human Rights Council.

NGOs supported by Sweden are also among the leaders in the effort to rewrite the history of the conflict in order to portray Israel as an "evil empire" and the world's worst violator of human rights. The Palme Center, run by the Social Democratic Party and leading trade unions, accuses Israel of "provok[ing] the al-Aqsa rising and the 'Second Intifada,'" and "disproportionate violence against civilians, unlawful executions and torture." The fighting in Gaza is also blamed solely on "the provocative Israeli occupation," rather than on the over 8,000 rockets launched by Hamas, or other forms of terror. The history of Arab rejectionism, the wars designed to "wipe Israel off the map", and the decades of massive Palestinian terror, are erased as part of this demonization.

Similarly, a Sabeel project, "The Nakba Memory, Reality and Beyond," used SIDA funding (SEK 540,000) "to commemorate the Nakba of 1948". Sabeel is a leader of the church divestment campaign, and its director, Naim Ateek, employs anti-Semitic themes and imagery in sermons promoting "Palestinian Liberation Theology."

Diakonia's "International Humanitarian Law" project and other Swedish government funding are behind the abuse of legal frameworks to demonize Israel. The "lawfare" movement uses courts in Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand to accuse Israelis of war crimes and similar charges. While all of the cases heard to date have been dismissed, the main purpose of this effort is to reinforce the incitement and hatred directed against Israelis through the rhetoric of morality and human rights. Using Swedish funding, lawfare cases are promoted by Al Haq and the Gaza-based Palestinian Center for Human Rights (PCHR), which, like other such groups, accuses Israelis of "war crimes" and "crimes against humanity."

When NGO Monitor sent the draft report to the Swedish embassy in Tel Aviv and government officials in Stockholm, they refused to comment or to engage in a discussion of the implications of these reprehensible activities. Perhaps now, after the Aftonbladet report has highlighted the results of this demonization, they will reconsider and stop this destructive misuse of public funds.

Gerald M. Steinberg heads NGO Monitor and is a professor of political science at Bar Ilan University
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Taking back the narrative</title>
<date>30/5/2009</date>
<content>
If the proposed law to prohibit commemorations of the Palestinian "Nakba" or catastrophe on Yom Ha'atzmaut is adopted by the Knesset, the High Court is likely to knock it down as a violation of free speech. But the point of this exercise is far more important than the specific mechanism - many Israeli Jews now realize that the narrative war threatens national survival. In response, a full-scale counterattack is necessary to reclaim our history and rights to sovereign equality among the nations.

The narrative war is as old as the attacks by Arab armies and terror attacks. Following the failure of the 1948 invasion to destroy the nascent Jewish state, Arab leaders began a massive effort to rewrite these events. The process was repeated in 1967, when Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser's moves to wipe Israel off the map were turned into a "war of occupation." By repeating the myths and slogans enough times, and aided by the use of oil wealth, intimidation and terror, this strategy has gradually succeeded.

The narrative war, which has conquered Europe and is moving to North America, begins with the false history covering the Mandate period, from the Balfour Declaration through the 1947 UN partition plan. This version portrays Israel as a Jewish "colonization project" forced on the Arabs by European anti-Semitism and guilt after the Holocaust, as well as Jewish power and manipulation (as reflected in the Protocols of the Elders of Zion). The violent Arab rejection of the original "two states for two peoples" proposal, and the continued refusal to accept a Jewish state, regardless of borders, has been removed from these histories.

In the narrative, the Palestinians are always innocent victims - by definition - and Israel is painted as the powerful and manipulative aggressor. Refugees from wars initiated by the Arabs became the object of international sympathy, provided by an international support system with massive budgets that reinforce the narrative. The United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which is "commemorating 60 years" of existence, insures that the hatred is perpetuated.

In contrast, the almost equal number of Jewish refugees who fled Arab attacks has disappeared from the history books - Jewish refugees are inconsistent with the narrative.

THIS SIMPLEMINDED DICHOTOMY - Palestinian victims and Jewish aggressors - works well with Western (particularly but not only European) academics, intellectuals, journalists, diplomats, NGO human rights campaigners and political leaders - particularly from the liberal end of the spectrum. And European governments, including the carefully hidden mechanisms of the European Commission, fund the narrative wars through anti-Israel NGOs that receive money under the misleading headlines of "human rights" and "peace partnerships." On the basis of these images, whenever Israel responds to attacks, the flood of condemnations follow - including false claims of "war crimes," "collective punishment" and "humanitarian crisis."

In Jerusalem, the narrative war has adopted the Arab version, which eliminates 3,000 years of Jewish history as well as the occupation and systematic desecration of the 1948-1967 period. The EU gives large sums to organizations like Ir Amim and B'Tselem that produce their tendentious reports which are copied and published by the European Commission in order to further demonize Israel. This is the political equivalent of a Ponzi scheme - money is provided to generate anti-Israel reports that justify providing more money, without any external checks or accountability.

The narrative war is also behind the boycott campaigns directed at Israeli universities, Amnesty International's immoral campaign to prevent Israel from obtaining weapons for self-defense and the "lawfare" cases which exploit the legal systems in Spain, Britain and elsewhere to reinforce the images of Palestinian victimization and Israeli war crimes.

ISRAELI ARAB LEADERS (or Israeli Palestinians, as many prefer to be called) are an essential part of the narrative wars aimed at destroying the legitimacy of Jewish national sovereignty. On this front, the main weapons include civil rights rhetoric and images of Afro-Americans, as well as black South Africans who were subjected to the cruelties of apartheid. But the analogies to these situations are completely backward - in reality, it is the Palestinians who deny and seek to destroy Jewish self determination. NGOs funded by Europe as well as well-intentioned but poorly informed donors to the New Israel Fund are particularly active in this front of the demonization against Israel.

After years of ignoring or downplaying the impact of the attacks in the narrative war, the Jewish majority has finally recognized the dangers. While Israelis are also aware of mistakes made on our side, the demonization has also reduced the willingness to sympathize with the Arab victims.

The proposed "Nakba" law is one aspect of the counterattack, and is likely to be followed by additional legislation, as well as confrontations with the European government funders, and the UN officials and others that lead the assault. This will be a long struggle, and a carefully constructed and realistic strategy will be necessary. Like the battles with Arab armies and Palestinian terrorists, victory in the narrative war is as important for the survival of Jewish sovereign equality.

The writer chairs the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University and is executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Canadian boycott that wasn't</title>
<date>17/8/2009</date>
<content>
The United Church of Canada, at its General Council this past Thursday, voted to "take no action" on four proposals that had called for a "comprehensive boycott" of Israel. The vote, which effectively rejects the proposals, came after the church underwent embarassing public scrutiny over the proposed resolutions, which ended up overshadowing the entire Council.

Originally proposed by a Toronto committee of the church, the four resolutions had not only called for a boycott of the Jewish State, but also included background material that was outright offensive to most Canadian Jews and many church members as well. Many Canadian Zionists noted that it was deeply troubling that Canada's largest Protestant denomination was debating these resolutions at all. Particularly after the Church's moderator fell short of advocating that the proposals be rejected outright.

BUT ALTHOUGH these specific resolutions ultimately failed, they are but a symptom of a reservoir of anti-Zionism whose power is so alluring that even some Jews fall prey to it.

In trying to defend itself from charges of anti-Semitism, the Toronto committee noted that they have "a Jewish member in our group" as well as the support of the "Canadian Jewish Women Against the Occupation." Similarly, the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel proudly heralds the support of Jewish groups such as the "Independent Jewish Voices Canada," and the Israeli Apartheid Week website notes the support of "Not In Our Name: Jewish Voices Opposing Zionism."

WHILE MANY of these Jewish groups purport to merely criticize Israeli policies, in reality they lend their names to outright anti-Semitism. Boycott proposals, such as those that were debated by the UCC, are inevitably one-sided, singling out Israel for punishment and ignoring human rights violators such as China, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Sudan, and others. Citing the history of apartheid in South Africa, they blithely ignore the legal and political gulf between Israel's policies and those of the apartheid South Africa. Using words as weapons, the UCC proposals had accused Israel of "ethnically cleansing" Palestinian villages, conjuring up false images of genocide.

Further upping the ante of Jews who express their support for enemies of the Jewish State, no one can compete with the Neturei Karta, who sent a delegation of about a dozen Rabbis to Iran's Ahmadinijad and conferred upon him kisses, a silver memento, and the hope that he would "peacefully dismantle the Zionist State." How any grey-haired Jew could be so blind to Jewish history and suffering is staggering and the fact that the Neturei Karta is but a marginal Jewish group is of only small comfort.

What all these Jews and the Christians from the Toronto committee of the UCC have in common is a terrible blindness - or indifference - to the very principles they wish to uphold. In the name of compassion, they ignore the suffering they would cause ordinary Israeli citizens if their anti-Zionist agendas would actually materialize.

In the name of defending human rights, they would punish the citizens of the only Middle East country with a Supreme Court that defends those rights. In the name of attempting to humanize the policies of the Jewish State, they would usurp the human rights of citizens to choose those policies in free elections. And, in the case of the Neturei Karta, in the name of Judaism, they would harm one of the world's largest Jewish communities.

Ultimately, it is a failure of our education, both secular and Jewish, that so many Jews and Christians believe that it is permissible or even mandatory to boycott Israel. And it is a failure of profound proportions that a church committee representing the largest Canadian Protestant community, in a city with Canada's largest Jewish community, could be so unaware of that community's normative values that it could believe that it was acting morally, and with Jewish support, by targeting the world's only Jewish State.

The writer is author of 101+ Ways to Help Israel: A Guide to Doing Small Things That Can Make Big Differences.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The cost of Netanyahu</title>
<date>23/6/2009</date>
<content>
Israel has very real reasons to be afraid. But the Binyamin Netanyahu-Avigdor Lieberman politics of fear that is supposed to justify occupation of the West Bank has catastrophic consequences, and the world no longer wants to listen to the cries, "The wolf, the wolf."

Here is how the dynamics work: Israel's critics often say that it is making manipulative use of exaggerated fears. They argue that, after all it has one of the world's strongest armies, that it is generally known to be a nuclear power. Hence its constant harping on being under existential threat is just a way of coaxing the US not to apply too much pressure against settlement activities and to keep the world on its toes regarding the Iranian threat.

The country's defenders argue that the dangers are all too real. Hasn't the constant barrage of Kassams on Sderot proven that if Israel leaves the West Bank, it will just be a matter of time until some terrorist shoots down a plane headed for Ben-Gurion Airport? What if Hamas takes over the West Bank and becomes another Hizbullah? The whole country would be within reach of its rockets.

In addition, Israel would become the target of vicious criticism if it were to defend itself against such attacks because, of course, there would be casualties.

And then there is the threat of a nuclear Iran. Why should we not take it seriously if Iran's president keeps saying Israel should be erased, particularly now, when it is clear that he has the clerical rulers' full support?

The critics who simply disqualify these fears are making a big mistake, assuming that they want to be politically constructive and not just ventilate anger. There is no clear-cut argument that invalidates the claim that Israel would indeed be within the range of rockets if a Palestinian state were founded.

Nor can anybody feel very comfortable with a nuclear Iran that continues the rhetoric of Holocaust denial and threats to wipe us out.

The dreams of Peace Now unfortunately belong to the past; peace offers will not be met by all our neighbors with roses. The level of hatred in our area is such that saying that we are under no security risk requires a fair amount of bad faith.

MOVING AHEAD toward peace indeed requires taking risks. The point is that none of these risks entails the continuation of the occupation of most of the West Bank and the Right's use of fear is indeed manipulative. There are several questions on which you can never get an answer from the right wing: How on earth are settlements scattered in the West Bank supposed to increase security?

And how exactly is holding on to the West Bank supposed to protect us from a nuclear Iran? And most of all, how exactly do they envisage a future in which we continue to occupy the West Bank without establishing an apartheid regime de facto?

Nobody has ever received coherent answers to these questions. The Right's latest rhetorical ploy is that since the conflict cannot be solved, it needs to be "managed" until further notice, presumably sometime in the 22nd century.

The Right's unforgivable sin is a ploy the George W. Bush administration made use of for years. By fanning fears, it made use of its citizens' ignorance of the Middle East to create imaginary connections like those between Iraq and al-Qaida; by fabricating evidence for weapons of mass destruction where none existed, as Ron Suskind has shown in detail, it galvanized public opinion to support its policies. The result was catastrophic: According to most estimates, the US is less safe now than it was eight years ago, and its standing in the world has been greatly harmed.

The Right's policies are leading to the same result. The refusal to engage Fatah led to the rise of Hamas, and the refusal to engage with Hamas will open the door to al-Qaida, and security will decrease in the long run. Furthermore, Israel's standing is plummeting. As Netanyahu has found out during his visit in the US, his fiery speeches on the possibility that 4,000 years of Jewish history will come to an end because of Iran do not impress anybody anymore.

Netanyahu's and Lieberman's rhetoric will lead to the point where the world will no longer want to listen to our justified fears, because they make unjustifiable use of them. Both keep harping on the theme that Israel is the West's outpost in a Middle East threatened by radical Islam. I am not optimistic about their changing their rhetoric, because their political identity is built upon it.

But if they were to realize how counterproductive their line is, they might generate more understanding rather than distrust for our legitimate fears.

The writer, a philosopher and psychoanalyst, teaches at the psychology department of Tel Aviv University and is a member of the Permanent Monitoring Panel on Terrorism of the World Federation of Scientists.

This article was written for the Common Ground News Service.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Goldstone Mission - Tainted to the core (II)</title>
<date>18/8/2009</date>
<content>
In Monday's article, Prof. Cotler explained how the Goldstone Commission was tainted by the UN Human Rights Council resolution creating its mandate, as well as the predisposed views of some of its personnel. In the second part of his piece, he elaborates the systemic and systematic bias of the UN council itself, and the implications this bias has on the fact-finding mission and on the integrity of international law generally.

Disturbing as it may be, the failure to include a thorough review of Hamas's continuous rocket attacks in the resolution establishing the Goldstone Commission - and to then staff the mission with a member who has already decided that such attacks do not alter Israel's guilt - can be seen as evidence of the reductionist narrative that the UN Human Rights Council seeks to promulgate.

None of this is intended to suggest, nor would I wish to have it inferred, that Israel is somehow above the law, or that Israel is not to be held accountable for any violations of law. On the contrary, Israel is accountable for any violations of international law or human rights like any other state. The Jewish people are not entitled to any privileged protection or preference because of the particularity of Jewish suffering.

But the problem is not that Israel seeks to be above the law; it is that Israel has been systematically denied equality before the law in the international arena. The issue is not whether Israel must respect human rights, but that the human rights of Israel and its people have not been respected. The discrimination emerges not from suggesting that human rights standards should be applied to Israel - which they must be - but from the fact that these standards have not been applied equally to anyone else.

IT IS on this basis that the Goldstone Commission should be opposed: not because it represents an objective inquiry into Israel - because independent and impartial inquiries should be welcomed by democracies - but precisely because it does not represent such an objective inquiry.

Consistently applying discriminatory standards has the effect not only of demonizing Israel, but of undermining the integrity of the UN and the edifice of international law. Decades from now, historians looking back at the meetings of the council will be led to believe that more Palestinians died at the hands of Israelis than Darfurians at the hands of Sudan; that discrimination was institutionalized in Israel to a larger extent than in apartheid South Africa; and that Israel - the lone democracy in the Middle East - was a greater threat to international peace and security than any other state since its inception.

But yet it was Hamas that fired deliberately on Israeli civilians. It was Hamas that boasted - only days before the conflict exploded in December - that Israel was "hopeless and desperate" when faced with its attacks. It was Hamas that promised to continue firing rockets, that painted Israel and Jews as the sons of apes and pigs and that called for their murder in its charter and publicly incited to their genocide.

Once the war began, it was Hamas that continued to target Israeli civilians - not infrequently but as part of a systematic, widespread attack. It was Hamas that chose to position its fighters in Palestinian civilian areas. It was Hamas that decided to misuse humanitarian symbols - such as using an ambulance to transport fighters - to launch attacks. It was Hamas that recruited children into armed conflict. These are all indisputable war crimes. Yet they do not find their way, at any point, into the resolution establishing the Goldstone Commission.

The mission's mandate is tainted through more subtle ways of prejudging its conclusions as well. For instance, the council's enabling resolution refers to the Gaza as being "occupied Palestinian territory." Such a description is loaded, and ignores the reality on the ground - that Israel fully withdrew from Gaza years ago. Indeed, the territory's status under international law remains unclear. By adopting this vernacular, the council - and Goldstone himself, who uses a similar characterization - implicitly predetermines an essential part of its analysis. For under international law, what constitutes a legitimate response will be very different depending on whether rocket attacks are coming from territory a state "controls," or whether they are coming from territory that is controlled by the attacking terrorist government, as in the case of Hamas.

In the end, whatever bargain Goldstone personally struck about his mandate, and whatever intentions he has of examining both sides of the conflict, his work will nonetheless be regrettably tarnished by its connection to the UN Human Rights Council, and may well be manipulated to satisfy the council's ends.

AND THUS we are left with the reality that Judge Richard Goldstone, previously shocked to the core, has become the leader of a mission that is tainted to the core.

Goldstone has, to his credit, opened his commission - and listened - to the witness testimony of both Israelis and Palestinians. They heard eloquent words from, among others, Noam Schalit, whose son Gilad remains in Hamas captivity under conditions that plainly violate international law. Moreover, while many may welcome an ultimate finding from the inquiry that Hamas was guilty of human rights violations as well, such an outcome should not be considered enough.

The commission's report is not yet written, and I would not wish to prejudge its findings. Suffice it to note, however, that the legitimacy of the report cannot be determined solely based on whether Hamas's heinous and significant crimes are revealed; the legitimacy of the report also rests - perhaps primarily - on the fairness of its findings with respect to Israel. And this fairness, in turn, is compromised not only by the tarnished mandate, but by the witness testimony and documentary evidence controlled by the Hamas terrorist government - while there is an absence of evidence from the Israeli government, which refused to cooperate with the mission to begin with.

Moreover, there is also a clear international legal asymmetry in the conflict between Israel and the terrorist group. This asymmetry exists not only in what lawyers call jus ad bellum - or the legal context of aggression and self-defense - but also in jus in bellum - the application of international human rights law to the combatants. With respect to Hamas, any attempt at "evenhandedness" will not do justice to this reality. Indeed, no analysis of the principle of proportionality can be undertaken without a keen understanding of intentionality. Accordingly, the commission should thus be singling out Hamas's deliberate and unprovoked acts of war, as well as its avowed and publicly-declared intention to destroy Israel and kill as many of its citizens as possible. Such intentions on the part of Hamas need to be contrasted with Israel's objective - to prevent and deter such armed attacks in order to better protect its innocent citizens.

THE PARADIGM of false moral equivalence not only wrongly puts Israel and Hamas on the same level, but it also undermines the importance of intentionality in international law.

For this reason, we should be looking for the Goldstone report not merely to observe that Hamas fired rockets at Israeli civilians while imperilling Palestinian civilians - a double war crime - but to look at this practice as the reason behind innocent Palestinian deaths. We should be looking for the Goldstone report not merely to mention Gilad Schalit in passing, but to look at his situation as a case study in Hamas terror and impunity.

In brief: We should be looking for the Goldstone report not just to mention Hamas's violations of international law, but to identify them as the root cause of the Gaza conflict. Simply put, if there had been no Hamas war crimes, there would have been no need for an Israeli response.

As the Goldstone inquiry is currently set up, however, expecting such an analysis to emerge clearly from its final report is likely unduly optimistic. The tarnish of the UN Human Rights Council, the enabling resolution it drafted, the personnel it grouped together, and the legal asymmetry cannot be so easily redressed. Indeed, between Goldstone - a renowned Jewish jurist who played right into the hands of a partial process - and Christine Chinkin - a law professor willing to sign off on an indictment before the evidence is in - the UN Human Rights Council no doubt found its ideal inquisitors.

And the council will no doubt be looking for their final report to be a final stamp of confirmation on the verdict it already determined.

The writer is the former minister of justice and attorney general of Canada. He is a member of the Canadian Parliament, special counsel on human rights and international justice to the Liberal Party, and a law professor (on leave) at McGill University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The greatest haters</title>
<date>17/3/2009</date>
<content>
The world has become used to seeing scenes of terrorist carnage. From Bali to Mumbai and by way of Madrid and London, few terrorist attacks truly shock people. Most pale in comparison to that of 9/11. Whereas once they spoke of "Black Friday" in Mumbai in regard to the 1993 bombings, they can hardly have so many black days for all the terrorism.

Similarly in this country people became "used to" terrorism and rockets in Sderot. Now Israel and its supporters and enemies have gotten used to the violent outburst of protesters in Europe. Few people more than winced at the "Stop the Holocaust in Gaza" placards churned out during Operation Cast Lead. It was expected. Israel apartheid week? Durban II? Its been done before. The riots in Malmo, Sweden, over the appearance of something as innocent as an Israeli tennis team came and went.

The hatred and vitriol and extreme violence has become routine. While organizations still monitor anti-Semitic incidents such as synagogue bombings and assaults on Jewish institutions and persons, there is a great deal of normalcy to the entire spectrum of extremism that issues forth from Western protesters and their allies. But there is a need to challenge the hatred and to be surprised by it. Getting used to terrorism and allowing it to be part of "life as usual" may seem like not letting it affect us. But it also excuses it through silence and allows it to creep into everyday life until people cannot recall a time when it was not there. It is like so many ills in society, such as domestic abuse or public displays of racism. A few too many and it is just "normal." This is the way the extreme outbursts against Israel have become.

A RECENT COMMENT I received from an American after posting photos from Wadi Kelt on Facebook: "By your look I see your people were European peasants that converted to Judaism during the time of Genghis Khan - not part of any mass exodus out of 'biblical' Israel. The Europeans didn't know what to do with all the Jews from the camps coming back into Europe, so they loaded them onto ships and gave them Palestine, a country that was never theirs... They [the Jews] learned very well from the Nazis."

The poster described herself as a "good human being" who was "standing up" for "grievous wrongs wherever Israel is a terrorist state." She claimed "we will never be silent." But the last statement struck home: "Free Palestine from the river to the sea."

Consider the numerous claims being sandwiched together by this critic of Israel. First there is a little racism about "your looks" and then there is a claim about Jews not being the same as the biblical Jews. Then there is some false history of the Holocaust about Jews "coming back to Europe." The Jews are then compared to Nazis. But it supposedly all comes in the spirit of doing good and "standing up" for the oppressed. But standing up for the weak doesn't end with calls for self-determination, it ends with calls for the destruction of Israel.

THIS WAS ONE of a number of recent incidents I have witnessed. Another one involved a British keffiyeh-clad student studying in Cairo who asked a local Palestinian, "Why do you speak Hebrew, the language of your enemy?" I'll never forget another student who lectured a secular Palestinian about the Koran and the connection of Arabs to the Temple Mount. In one experience after another  I witnessed Western tourists in the Holy Land encouraging Palestinians to adhere to extreme interpretations of history and shaming Palestinians that they were not patriotic enough.

The extremism that grows year by year on college campuses in the West, among Western volunteers in the Middle East and among Western "activists" in Europe is not something that should be accepted and ignored. It is a dangerous development because the extremism of the protests today exceeds the extremism of the Palestinians themselves. The support for "Palestine free from the river to the sea" is more expansionist than the feelings of the Palestinian public.

This means that in the near future, barring an attempt to stop the anger and hatred, the main engine of Palestinian irredentism and intransigency may well be foreign voices, not local ones. Many Palestinians have grown tired of the fight and the cycles of violence. Prominent voices and moderates are prepared for some form of coexistence, not peace, but acceptance of the situation and the existence of the other. Foreign voices, who do not experience the terror and do not have to live in the area, have not tired. They grow more angry by the day, funneling their paucity of causes at home into adherence and conversion to support of causes abroad.

The writer, a PhD student in geography at the Hebrew University, runs the Terra Incognita blog. sfrantzman@hotmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The legal assault on Israel is gathering speed</title>
<date>17/7/2009</date>
<content>
Although talk of peace, "two states for two peoples" and the "Arab League initiative" fill the lofty speeches of American and European leaders, the political war to delegitimize Israel is accelerating.

Officials of the Arab League and the Palestinian Authority, working with powerful groups such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and Oxfam, exploit the rhetoric of international law to brand Israeli defense against terror as "war crimes" and "collective punishment." As a result, talk of peace process continues to be a faade, demonstrating that the core ideology and objectives - the elimination of Jewish sovereignty and statehood - remain unchanged since 1947.

The Gaza war that took place six months ago, like the 2006 Second Lebanon War, provided major platforms for accelerating political warfare against Israel. Erasing the context of Hamas rocket attacks, this coalition uses international frameworks to pursue a campaign of delegitimization. The UN Human Rights Council's Goldstone Commission, with a mandate that found Israel guilty before any "evidence" was gathered, is one example, and there are many more.

These objectives unite the "moderates" and "radicals" who, on other issues, are bitter enemies. In theory, the PA, dominated by Yasser Arafat's old Fatah organization, is supposed to be the moderate wing and Israel's peace partner, while Hamas, which controls Gaza, is the militant Islamic terror group. But in campaigns to label Israel as an "apartheid state," Mahmoud Abbas' PA and Amr Mousa's Arab League are on the front lines.

A PROMINENT example of this division of labor, and the faade of the peace process, is seen in the efforts to use the International Criminal Court as another front in which to attack Israel over Gaza. While standing in the ICC is supposedly limited to state parties, and the PA does not qualify, its leadership manipulated the system in filing a declaration aimed at opening a case against Israel.

The ICC was created in 1998 ostensibly to deal with cases of genocide and crimes against humanity in instances where the national courts do not function, such as in Rwanda or in brutal military dictatorships. But like the NGOs and the UN's human rights frameworks, moral principles have been hijacked for ideological campaigns, particularly targeting Israel, which resisted calls to join the ICC precisely for this reason.

On February 13, ICC prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo met with PA Foreign Minister Riad Malki and Justice Minister Ali Khashan. The ICC's press release noted that "326 communications under Article 15" had been already submitted "by individuals and NGOs, related to the situation context of Israel and the Palestinian territories." In the months that followed, many more such "communications," primarily from NGOs that lead the anti-Israel campaigning, have been added to the file.

The Arab League and Amnesty International have presented the ICC with unsubstantiated claims of Israeli war crimes. Such "research reports" consist of lengthy compilations from Palestinian "eyewitnesses," accompanied by pseudo-technical analysis with no methodology and no credibility. John Dugard, a virulent anti-Israel campaigner and recipient of the "Gaddafi Human Rights Prize," was its chairman. But Moreno-Ocampo has ignored such details, and on July 1, he published an article in The New York Times ("Impunity no more") which highlighted this bogus "first-ever fact-finding report on crimes committed in Gaza." Inadvertently exposing the moral absurdity, Moreno-Ocampo listed the Gaza campaign with instances of mass murder in Africa and similar examples.

The role of the Arab League in delegitimizing Israel is central, and provides another reason that Israelis do not take the talk of peace and the various "initiatives" seriously. While exploiting the ICC to purse attacks against Israel, the Arab League rejected the court's decision to open proceedings against Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir over the mass murder in Darfur.

IN ADDITION, European governments, including the leaders of the European Union, such as foreign policy head Javier Solana (who wants the UN Security Council to impose a Palestinian state), have a major role in anti-peace campaigning. They provide the tens of millions of tax euros every year to radical NGOs that lead this process, under the faade of "partnerships for peace" and the "European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights."

For example, the EU, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, and other governments fund the Palestinian Center for Human Rights (to its credit, the Ford Foundation has ceased support), which prepared the agenda and coordinated the "field visits" for the 254-page Arab League report.

PCHR is a leader of anti-Israel lawfare in Spain and elsewhere, referring to the murder of Israeli civilians as acts of "resistance." Its reports list terrorists as civilians, including Nizar Rayan, a major Hamas terror leader who sent his own son to commit mass murder in a 2001 suicide bombing. By funding PCHR and dozens of similar groups that are responsible for this political warfare, European governments ensure the failure of their own policies.

If the claims of seeking peace are to be taken seriously, the leaders of this assault against Israel's legitimacy through exploiting international law and human rights need to reverse course. This group includes the Arab League, the PA and European governments that facilitate this warfare in the media, the ICC and elsewhere.

The writer is the executive director of www.ngo-monitor.org and chairs the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University.

Caroline B. Glick is away.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The new deniers</title>
<date>20/4/2009</date>
<content>
It is Holocaust Martyrs' and Heroes' Remembrance Day - Yom Hashoah. Here in Israel, the sirens will sound at 10 a.m. and for two minutes work will come to a halt, vehicles will idle, and Israelis will stand in silent memory of the six million victims of Hitler's war against the Jews.

The opening ceremony of Holocaust Remembrance Day was broadcast live from Yad Vashem in Jerusalem last night on television and radio. In the presence of President Shimon Peres, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and Rabbi Meir Lau, chairman of the Yad Vashem Council and himself a child survivor, six torches were lit by six men and women who lived through the war as children. About 1.5 million of the murdered were children.

Today, therefore, is a time to reflect on the greatest tragedy to befall the Jewish people in modern times and to think about how anti-Semitism has morphed into anti-Zionism. It is also a day for soul-searching about the state of Holocaust remembrance.

Sixty-four years after the defeat of the Nazis, the memory and the meaning of the catastrophe they wrought is being chipped away, sometimes unintentionally, but mostly in a cynical, premeditated manner.

Holocaust denial dates back to the late 1960s and takes various forms. Some try to denigrate the Shoah by claiming that Hiroshima and Dresden prove that the allies were as heartless at the Nazis. Denial is propagated on the radical right, the radical left and by many in the Muslim and Arab world.

ON THE eve of Holocaust Remembrance Day, the world's preeminent Holocaust-denier and leading anti-Zionist, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, was granted a platform at Durban II, the UN's so-called anti-racism conference in Geneva yesterday. He promptly called for the destruction of Israel: "Governments must be encouraged and supported in their fights at eradicating this barbaric racism. Efforts must be made to put an end to Zionism," he said.

We watched in distress as many in the audience and galleries applauded. Such barefaced anti-Zionism is, however, offensive to Western governments and we were gratified that dozens of EU delegates - including those from France, Finland and the UK - walked out as Ahmadinejad spewed forth his venom. Of course, the real heartbreak was that these countries were represented in the hall in the first place.

Yesterday's farce in Geneva proved again how the charge of "racism" has been cheapened to the point of having lost much of its meaning. The same holds true for the words "genocide," "war crimes," "apartheid" and "ghetto." Those who distort - willfully or through ignorance - the meanings of the dreadful vocabulary of hate for tawdry political purposes commit an unpardonable injustice.

EQUALLY pernicious are those who are too slick to deny the Holocaust outright but instead claim that Israel inoculates itself with the memory of the six million in order to kill or oppress innocent Palestinians with impunity.

A variation on the theme that Israel uses the Holocaust as a battering ram against the Palestinians is the disingenuous argument that it's time for us Israelis to move on: We need "closure," runs this line of more subtle attack, because Zionism's guiding principle of "Never Again" supposedly deludes us into thinking that we face existential threats (from Iran, Hamas, Hizbullah) or demographic threats (posed by the Palestinian demand for the "right of return"). None of these factors, these manipulators would have the world believe, really threatens our existence.

Our bogus fears, goes the claim, are as "corrosive" as they are delusionary. They make us think we are vulnerable when we - a nuclear power - are stronger than all our enemies combined. Moreover, say the anti-Zionists proponents of "closure" - Israelis have "walled, fenced, blockaded and road-blocked" millions of Palestinians "into a pitiful archipelago of helplessness" all because of our exaggerated sense of fear. We've taken our unfounded fears of annihilation and used them to inflate the nature of the threats against us. And this "retreat into the victimhood" has made us think that our violent ways are nothing more than "self-defense."

It's hard to decide which is worse - outright Holocaust-denial of the Ahmadinejad variety, or insidious assertions by Euro-leftists and anti-Zionists that would lull Israelis into letting down our guard and robbing us of the will to fight for our survival.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Palestinian revolution of rising expectations</title>
<date>2/2/2009</date>
<content>
Israelis will head to the voting booths on February 10, and polls indicate that Likud will have a strong showing. Such a scenario will see Binyamin Netanyahu ushered back into the position of prime minister. Immediately, the issue of the West Bank settlements will come to the forefront as he deals with the Obama administration's special envoy to the Middle East, George Mitchell.

Netanyahu keeps a rather ambivalent position with regard to West Bank settlements - one that can appeal to elements of the Likud base, but not one that frightens centrists. He will neither promote new settlements nor pull back current ones. Instead, he intends to allow "natural growth" for the settlements, although what that means in actual numbers remains unclear. The Palestinian negotiating team will undoubtedly bring the issue of settlement growth, and the security elements around the settlements, to the attention of Mitchell.

Have no fear, however, for Netanyahu has the answer. "Economic peace" he tells us - the Palestinians will ignore the massive security apparatus that the settlements require in exchange for a few extra shekels. One wonders how the Palestinians can build a functional, autonomous economy amid the maelstrom of bypass roads, settlements and checkpoints. Disconnected from other Palestinian localities, the Palestinians will find work where they can - building housing and infrastructure for the "naturally growing" settlements.

With Palestinians increasingly reliant on settlements for their livelihood, they may prosper, but they will become incapable of developing their own economy - an ingredient necessary for statehood.

Netanyahu has no plan in the foreseeable future for confronting any of the settlers, and his economic peace plan will give him an excuse to not do so. As a result, a dire state of affairs will ensue. Israeli control of the West Bank will deepen, the Palestinian population will grow and apartheid will loom ever closer.

MOSHE DAYAN had a similar notion shortly after the Six Day War. As the cabinet and he debated what to do with the newly conquered West Bank, Dayan offered his own economic peace plan. Israel would integrate the territories economically, Palestinians would work in Israel and the material benefits for the Palestinians would make them grateful and happy. As evidence, he cited the colonial efforts of the Germans in Togo before World War I; the people of Togo, he added, became appreciative for the orchards and culture the Germans left behind.

Dayan's ideas were adopted and the standard of living for the Palestinians rose. What Dayan did not foresee was  a revolution of rising expectations. When the material and educational standards of a population rise, the people come to expect greater civil rights and privileges. The first intifada became the Palestinian revolution of rising expectations.

Dayan's scheme harkened back to some of the most troubling aspects of 19th-century colonialism. The British in India believed they were lifting the people out of  barbarism and abject poverty, and for that reason the British colonial administrators employed the Indians as servants and laborers. The Indians, in their view, lacked any political and ideological positions of their own; the servants of the British Raj bureaucrats were at best part of the Oriental scenery.

Netanyahu would like to continue this shameful legacy. To quote the Book of Joshua, he will retain the Palestinians as "the hewers of wood and the drawers of water." Palestinians will leave home each morning to work amid the splendor of the settlers' red-tile-roofed houses, and return each night to the squalor of their refugee camps - for this, they will be grateful. Netanyahu would have Palestinians pave settlement roads and build settlement schools, but otherwise remain part of the Oriental landscape.

IN THE BOOK OF JOSHUA, Joshua made the people of the city of Gibeon the hewers of wood and the drawers of water for the Israelites after Gibeon's conquest. Where Gibeon once stood, now stands the Palestinian village of al-Jib to the northwest of Jerusalem. The settlements of Givat Ze'ev, Givon Hadasha, and Givon now surround it, obstructing the village's access to Palestinian villages located northwest of Jerusalem and villages located on the other eastern side of the settlements.

In such a situation, the people of al-Jib cannot build an economy. The people of al-Jib, like all Palestinians, will remain ever reliant upon Israel for their livelihood. Netanyahu thinks he has the best interests of Palestinians at heart with his plans to resuscitate Dayan's economic peace plan. While the plan might accrue material benefits for the Palestinians, it will keep them as a permanent underclass of menial laborers.

To build a state, the Palestinians must have a sustainable and indigenous economy. Netanyahu's economic peace plan, combined with natural growth for the settlements, will prevent that from happening. His proposal comes across as less of a genuine concern for the Palestinians, and more as a patronizing "white man's burden." His economic peace plan could cause a blowback like the first intifada. Even if a revolution does not come, the plan will further entwine the economies of Palestinians and Israelis, making nearly impossible the prospect of a two-state solution. Without the creation of a Palestinian state, in the future, the Palestinians will continue to serve as the hewers of wood and the drawers of water, but in the apartheid state of Israel.

The writer is pursuing a master's degree in Middle East studies at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The PM at Bar-Ilan: A damage assessment</title>
<date>16/6/2009</date>
<content>
In his speech at Bar-Ilan University, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu acquiesced to precisely what he was elected to repudiate. US pressure is no excuse for this. Leaders are elected to resist pressure, not to submit to it; to sidestep it, not succumb to it; to divert it, not to yield to it. A myriad of allegedly "pragmatic" arguments can be raised to justify the tone and the substance of his admirably crafted speech. But none of these carries any durable strategic substance. They reflect a clear preference for the fleeting benefits of short-term cunning rather than the enduring fruits of long-term wisdom.

Some might protest at this unbenevolent assessment, claiming that in fact it was a brilliant political maneuver, placing the onus on the Palestinians, exposing their "true face" and cutting the ground away from political rivals such as Kadima. But all this is chaff in the wind. Indeed, if the true face of the Palestinians has not been revealed by the brutal post-Oslo surge in terror, by the murderous response to the far-reaching 2000 Ehud Barak initiative, by vicious fury of their post-disengagement violence, what hope is there that Netanyahu's rehashed version of failed past proposals will drive home this reality?

And as for stymieing Kadima and co-opting some or all of its disgruntled MKs, does Netanyahu really want to make his government - already the largest in the nation's history - even larger? Is adopting his adversaries' proposed policy to neutralize their criticism really a sign of inspired and assertive leadership?

One can only wonder why Netanyahu would agree to accept an approach he has always refused to accept - just when that approach has been utterly discredited and disproved, and when more and more informed pundits - including among the Palestinians - are realizing that it is unworkable. Indeed, perhaps one of the most astonishing aspects of the ongoing phenomenon of ostensibly "hawkish" politicians adopting, once in power, "dovish" policies they previously repudiated is the fact that these policies have consistently and continuously proved a disastrous failure, thus not only totally vindicating those who rejected them, but making further adherence to them completely incomprehensible.

INSTEAD OF SEIZING on these indisputable failures of the land-for-peace/two-states-for two-peoples approach to repudiate it, Netanyahu embraced it - however reluctantly. Instead of enlisting the events of last 15 years to delegitimize the Palestinian narrative, he endorsed it - however unenthusiastically. Instead of confronting today's two-state advocates with their yesteryear rejection of the idea, instead of compelling them to explain their dramatic volte-face, he came to them for counsel and co-optation - however grudgingly (or not). Instead of challenging the US administration to explain its demands that Israel accept a policy the US military itself deemed would gravely undermine its security, he chose to accommodate those demands.

For example Netanyahu could have publicly declared that he agreed with Shimon Peres who warned against the notion of a "demilitarized Palestinian state," cautioning that "demilitarization of the West Bank seems a doubtful remedy. The principal problem is not an agreement on demilitarization, but ensuring the actual implementation of the agreement in practice. The number of agreements which the Arabs have violated is no less than number which they have kept" (Tomorrow Is Now, p. 255).

He could have publicly echoed Peres's concern when, in his (briefly) feted book, The New Middle East, he asked: "Even if the Palestinians agree that their state have no army or weapons, who can guarantee that a Palestinian army would not be mustered later to encamp at the gates of Jerusalem and the approaches to the lowlands? And if the Palestinian state would be unarmed, how would it block terrorist acts perpetrated by extremists, fundamentalists or irredentists?"

Similarly he could have endorsed the caustic comments by the Israel Prize laureate for law and former education minister Amnon Rubinstein regarding Palestinian statehood: "Not since the time of Dr. Goebbels  has there ever been a case in which the continual repetition of a lie has born such great fruits... Of all the Palestinian lies, there is no lie greater or more crushing than that which calls for the establishment of a separate Palestinian state in the West Bank."

He could have adopted Rubinstein's vehement rejection of demilitarization as a solution, in which he pointed out it would lead to an untenable situation where of all the member-states in the UN, the Palestinian state would be the only one with such limitations on its sovereignty. It would be the only one without an army and an air force. It would be the only one designated a "second-class state" and in essence would resemble the black protectorates once envisaged during the apartheid era in South Africa.

Indeed, he could have invoked the former senior Meretz minister's warning that demilitarization was both hazardous and futile: "This kind of [national] inferiority - which will never be accepted, neither by foes nor friends - will bring only a deepening of the Palestinian 'humiliation' and with it the perpetuation of the Jewish-Arab conflict. This is the real pitfall involved in the establishment of a separate Palestinian state between us and the desert."

HE COULD HAVE engaged the US public opinion and produced the document drawn up by the US Joint Chiefs of Staff under Gen. Earle Wheeler to advise the US president on Israel's security needs, which stated categorically that most of the territory designated for a Palestinian state was "essential to Israel's defense."

He could have cited Eugene Rostow, the senior US diplomat involved in the formulating UN Security Council Resolution 242 who declared that this (Wheeler's) document "is useful in interpreting Resolution 242 because it reveals part of what the US government had in mind in pushing the resolution through" regarding secure and recognized borders for Israel. For according to Rostow: "All the studies of the Israeli security problem reached the same conclusion - from the security point of view, Israel must hold the high points in the West Bank and areas along the Jordan River."

He could have driven home the point that the Obama administration cannot profess to be committed to Israel's security and then impose on it a policy that even his own military admits grievously endangers that security. He could have mobilized the leaders of tens of millions of evangelicals, who have a very clear-eyed vision of what the significance of a "two-state solution" would have for their access to places holy to their faith - as events in Bethlehem clearly testify.

In the final analysis Netanyahu chose surrender over resistance, and in so doing he put in grave danger not only his country and his people but the very rationale of Zionism itself.

SOME MAY OBJECT to this harsh assessment but consider the following: Even if the Palestinians reject his conditions, they still will have attained a huge accomplishment. They have extricated from one of greatest opponents of Palestinian statehood acknowledgment of their right to such statehood. Now the arguments will be only as to the parameters of that state and for further international pressure (and from "enlightened" Israelis) for Israel to forgo its insistence on demilitarization and its recognition as the nation-state of Jewish people.

But it would be even worse if the Palestinians agree, and some transient regime accepts Netanyahu's conditions, for, as both Peres and Rubinstein warned, how could Israel guarantee they would be adhered to? There is clearly no way to assure that future regime would honor the commitments of its predecessors, especially it the latter were overthrown precisely because of their "perfidious" accord with hated Zionist entity. There is no way to ascertain that menacing military alliances with Israel's foes will not be made, especially if these are informal. And if they were made, what would Israel do? Attack the Palestinians? Their allies? Both?

Moreover, there are likely to a plethora of excuses for vacating the agreement on the grounds of real or imagined violations by Israel which would allegedly free the Palestinians of their restrictive obligations. And should there arise threats (genuine of otherwise) to the security of the Palestinian state that did not exist at the time of the signature, who would be responsible for dealing with those threats? Would it be remotely reasonable to expect it to remain demilitarized, shorn of any means of self-defense? Or would it then be allowed to forge military alliances with other states? Or would Israeli youth be called on to shed blood to defend Palestinians in some internecine intra-Islamic dispute.

But perhaps the most damaging aspect of Netanyahu's vision of "two free peoples living side by side in this small land" is the devastating effect it must have on the very foundations of the Zionist rationale. For what is to be the fate of the Jewish settlements in the areas under Palestinian administration. Clearly there can only be two possibilities: they will either be dismantled or not.

The precedent of the disengagement - with its enormous social and economic cost - seems to suggest that large-scale dismantling of the settlements will be prohibitively disruptive, divisive and expensive. Accordingly, as some well-meaning and some malevolent voices suggest, they may well be left to exist under the Palestinian regime.

Should the latter come about, it will reflect the total and dramatic abandonment of the most fundamental tenets of the Zionist ideal. For the quintessence of Zionism has always been an enduring effort to bring Jews, residing under alien, and certainly hostile, sovereignty to live under Jewish sovereignty. This proposal that Jewish communities be handed over to sovereignty that is not only alien, but also very probably inimical to Jews, constitutes a grotesque reversal of the Zionist ethos.

But whether the settlements are to be abandoned or dismantled, the message to the Palestinians is clarion clear: No product of Zionist endeavor is permanent.

The clash between the Palestinians and us is a clash of wills. Its outcome will be decided by whose will breaks first. Netanyahu's Bar-Ilan speech went a long way to convincing the Palestinians it will not be them.

The writer is academic director of the Jerusalem Summit and lectures in security studies at Tel Aviv University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think Again: Aiding the destroyers among us</title>
<date>3/9/2009</date>
<content>
The Swedish government refused to condemn a totally unsupported article in the country's largest-circulation newspaper alleging that Israel routinely kidnaps and murders Palestinians to harvest their organs. To comment, said Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt, would be a violation of the country's principles of free speech.

Those who called for donors to withhold giving to Ben-Gurion University after BGU Professor Neve Gordon penned an op-ed in the Los Angeles Times, in which he advocated an international boycott of Israel, were accused of violating academic freedom.

Those responses share a fundamental misunderstanding of the meaning of freedom of speech and academic freedom. Just because the content of speech is legal does not make it proper or immunize it from criticism. I have the right to express my thoughts. But I do not have a right to have The Jerusalem Post publish them, or to demand that it not publish letters ridiculing its "haredi apologist."

Freedom of the press and speech protect Aftonbladet from sanctions by the Swedish government. But the Swedish government has its own interests - or so one would have hoped - in disassociating Sweden from ancient anti-Semitic stereotypes, as the Swedish ambassador to Israel rightly recognized. Had a major Swedish paper printed anything offensive to Muslims of a violent bent, the government would have fallen over itself to express its regrets. And while an academic has the right to his opinions, private donors who find his views or research repugnant are equally entitled not to support that research. Given the fungibility of money, that might mean withholding support from the university that employs them.

Nor do professors' statements become immune to criticism because they are uttered in a classroom. Professors, like everyone else, should expect to have their work evaluated. Just as parents and students have an interest in knowing which professors have a tendency to get too friendly with female students, so do they have a right to form judgments about which professors are using their classrooms for political indoctrination, not education.

GROUPS LIKE Campus Watch and Israel Campus foster such informed judgments by publicizing both the published utterances and classroom statements of university lecturers.

In general, it would be foolish to refrain from contributing to a university based on the views of one faculty member. Doing so would eliminate every potential recipient.

But Neve Gordon is not a solitary rogue professor on the BGU campus. The BGU Department of Politics and Government, which he chairs, fits the description of former Minister of Education Amnon Rubinstein of academic departments in Israel in which no traditional Zionist could be appointed. Before he published his Los Angeles Times piece, Gordon shared his message with his department colleagues. According to Professor Fred Lazin, there was a "unanimous decision not to let him step down [as chairman]."

BGU President Rikva Carmi professed to be "shocked" by Gordon's boycott call. But she has in the past defended him as a "serious and distinguished researcher into human rights," and lashed out at academic monitors of his output, which appears regularly on anti-Semitic and Holocaust denial sites and Aljazeera.com, as "Kahanists."

Nor did Gordon's boycott call come out of the blue. For years he has described Israel as an "apartheid state." He once joined 250 International Solidarity Movement members serving as a human shield in Yasser Arafat's Ramallah compound, where he was photographed holding hands aloft with Arafat and quoted expressing doubts about the latter's involvement in terrorism.
Gordon is the last person entitled to hide behind the cover of free speech and academic freedom. He once labeled his former army commander Aviv Kochavi a "war criminal," forcing Kochavi to forgo graduate studies in England for fear of prosecution. Gordon filed a libel suit against Haifa University Professor Steven Plaut over the latter's sharp criticism of his ISM escapades and of Ha'aretz's choice of Gordon to write an effusive review of Norman Finkelstein's The Holocaust Industry, which alleges, inter alia, that the number of those murdered in the Holocaust is greatly exaggerated. Before filing, Gordon then went forum-shopping to Nazareth, where neither he nor Plaut live, in search of a suitably sympathetic Arab judge.

ISRAELI AND Jewish Israel-bashers constitute a major, perhaps insuperable, obstacle to any attempt to defend Israel in the court of world opinion. Anyone attempting to defend Israel abroad will inevitably be confronted with some statement characterizing Israel as a racist, apartheid state, perpetrating war crimes against the Palestinians, from the mouth of an Israeli academic or journalist. The fact that the source is Jewish or Israeli is assumed to provide credibility.

Sadly, many Jews who care deeply about Israel's existence help fund its delegitimization. The New Israel Fund raises millions of dollars annually from American Jews. Donors are told that New Israel Fund supports Israel as a Jewish state and opposes the "right of return" for Palestinian refugees, and that the NIF does not fund organizations that engage in propaganda or support boycotts of Israel.

None of these claims are true, as two recent studies of NIF grantees prepared by the Center for Near East Policy Research demonstrate. The Coalition of Women for Peace recently sponsored a speech by Naomi Klein in support of the movement for boycott, divestment and sanctions (BSD) against Israel. Six NIF grant recipients - including CPW, Mossawa, and Machsom Watch - petitioned the Norwegian government for sanctions against Israel.

Ittijah, an umbrella group of Israel Arab NGO's, issued a statement prior to its attendance at Durban II in Geneva in which it charged that "the Jewish character of the state of Israel contradicts international law" and referred to the "racist character" of the State. The draft constitution prepared for Israel by Adalah, the Legal Center for Minority Arab Rights in Israel, another NIF grantee, calls for Israel to recognize responsibility for the Nakba of its creation and to recognize "the right of return." Adalah participated actively in the preparations for the UN sponsored Israel-bashing fest in Durban and in the drafting of the conference resolutions.

The director until recently of I'lam - the Media Center for Arab Palestinians in Israel, Balad MK Hanin Zoabi was one of the signatories of the Haifa Declaration calling for the negation of Israel's Jewish character. She supports Iran's quest for nuclear weapons and has participated in Israel Apartheid week activities in the United States. The organization's Empowerment Coordinator calls for the return of the Palestinian refugees to their homes, and its director of International Relations describes Hamas as "a genuinely emancipatory liberation and resistance movement."

Perhaps the best indicator of the NIF's real agenda was unwittingly supplied by a 2001 letter to The Jerusalem Post. Evalyn Segal recounted how she was a "devout Zionist" until she made the "haj" to Israel on a 1989 NIF study tour and had her eyes opened to the "racist contempt of the Israel government . . . towards the Palestinians [and] how the founders of Zionism schemed from the start to take over, by any means necessary, the whole of Palestine and to cleanse it of Palestinians."

The prophet Isaiah (49:17) long ago foresaw that "your ruiners and destroyers will come from amongst you." But generous American Jews, committed to Israel's existence, should not be supporting the destroyers' efforts.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Washington Watch: Jack Kemp leaves pro-Israel legacy</title>
<date>13/5/2009</date>
<content>
As chairman of the platform committee at the 1988 Republican Convention, Jack Kemp quarterbacked what Tom Dine, then executive director of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, called "the most pro-Israel platform ever by either party." Unfortunately, the party's presidential candidate, George H.W. Bush, and his campaign manager, James A. Baker III, did not share Kemp's view of Israel.

Kemp was an outspoken advocate for closer US-Israel relations, and that led to conflicts with two Republican administrations in which the elder Bush and Baker played prominent roles. As Bush's secretary of housing and urban development in 1992, he set up a meeting at HUD with his Israeli counterpart, housing minister Ariel Sharon, who had clashed repeatedly with secretary of state Baker over settlement policy.When Baker learned of the meeting, he summoned Kemp to the White House Cabinet Room when the president was away, and bluntly ordered him to cancel the meeting, Kemp later told friends.

Kemp protested that he had a good relationship with the Israeli government and the Jewish community and that would be valuable in 1992 when Bush ran for reelection. Baker reportedly replied, "F*** the Jews; they didn't vote for us." The meeting ultimately took place at the Israeli Embassy.

IN THE EARLY 1980S, when Bush was vice president and Baker was president Ronald Reagan's White House chief of staff, it was "a period of confrontation over Israel's attack on the Iraqi reactor, the AWACS to Saudi Arabia, the Golan Heights Law, the first Lebanon War and the Reagan Plan," recalled Oded Eran, the embassy's congressional liaison at the time. "It was very difficult to find Republican friends on the Hill. Kemp was clearly one and a strong one. I think Kemp interceded with the administration and helped to launch the relations on a more stable path and to help build the strategic partnership between the US and Israel."

Today, aid to Israel is on autopilot and Israel enjoys wall-to-wall support on Capitol Hill. But it wasn't always that way. Kemp deserves great credit for the change. Stressing Israel's strategic value to the United States, he lobbied fellow Republican to vote for foreign aid, something many had opposed the 1970s and 1980s.

As legislative director of AIPAC during the 1980s, I got to work closely with Kemp on foreign aid and many other initiatives. He was a hard working, effective, well-informed and bipartisan leader. His enthusiasm was infectious, and once he started talking about Israel, it was hard to stop him.

He was the senior Republican on the critical Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, which had jurisdiction over military and economic aid, and he consistently demonstrated his commitment to strong US-Israel relations. His name was attached to many key pro-Israel and human right initiatives, often with the late congressman Tom Lantos (D-CA).

That alliance paid off in an unexpected and unrelated way in 1989 when Kemp took over HUD, which his predecessor left steeped in scandal, and Lantos became chairman of the House Committee on Government Operations, which was investigating the mess.

The two friends and former colleagues met privately in Kemp's spacious office at HUD headquarters. Kemp told Lantos his goal was to clean up the mess he inherited. "Jack said, 'Let's cooperate,' and they did, and it worked," said an aide who attended the meeting.

SEVERAL YEARS EARLIER, when Lantos was going for his second term, the opposition was running a thinly veiled anti-Semitic campaign against the only Holocaust survivor to serve in the Congress. Lantos asked vice president Bush and Kemp to cancel scheduled campaign appearances in the district with the GOP candidate whose literature stressed "He's one of us." Bush refused; Kemp cancelled. Kemp and his wife, Joanne, were leaders in the Soviet Jewry cause among members of Congress and their spouses.

"My proudest memory of Jack is marching alongside him on the Mall on behalf of Soviet Jewry," said Neville Lamdan, Israel's congressional liaison in the late 1980s. "He was indeed an extraordinary friend of Israel and the Jewish people."

Kemp, the charismatic former football superstar who represented the Buffalo, NY, suburbs in Congress from 1971 to 1989, grew up in West LA's heavily Jewish Wilshire district and attended Fairfax High School, where most of his classmates were Jewish.

Kemp called himself a "bleeding heart conservative" and was a social moderate on many issues - affirmative action, rights for illegal immigrants, enterprise zones for minorities, expanded public housing, sanctions against apartheid South Africa. But when it came to fiscal issues, he was very conservative. His views on supply side economics and massive tax cuts to stimulate the economy were said to have greatly influenced Ronald Reagan and his friend Binyamin Netanyahu. That brand of conservatism wouldn't pass the ideological purity test in today's shrinking Republican Party and helps explain why so many Jews cannot find a home in the GOP.

Jack Kemp died on May 2 at 73, leaving a legacy that includes the wall-to-wall support for Israel that is now routine on Capitol Hill and a willingness to reach out across party lines on critical foreign policy and domestic issues that is in such short supply in Washington.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>When an MK's Palestinian narrative drops for a moment</title>
<date>2/6/2009</date>
<content>
Last week I had the pleasure of hearing a member of the Knesset speak at my university in Australia. The talk was titled "Is Israel a racist country?" The poster introduced MK Haneen Zuabi as the "first woman elected to [the] Israeli Knesset from an Arab party."

The poster itself raises questions about the issue of racism and indeed sexism in Israeli society. It demonstrated Israel's democracy and showed how the barriers to participation that exist in other democracies are being challenged and overcome in Israel.

In a small lecture hall packed with 100 students - about half of them Jewish, the other half Palestinian activists - Zuabi began by telling us she was there to give us facts. Facts and statistics, she said, triggering a quick laugh from the political science students there, who know these two words seldom belong together.

We were told that there was no such thing as an Israeli Arab, there were only Palestinians. We were told that the Jewish people had no claim to Israel. We were told all of Israel was stolen from the Palestinians. We were told that "Jews and Zionists" have no interest in the truth, but "we Palestinians" are interested in the truth. The audience, half of them young Zionist Jewish students, listened politely.

THE TALK was, of course, being run by Students for Palestine. I had heard an almost identical opening by an officer of the General Union of Palestinian Students in the UK four years earlier. Hearing such propaganda from GUPS, an organization founded by Yasser Arafat and tied to the PLO, is unsurprising; hearing it from an elected member of the Knesset, an Israeli who claimed (like so many Israelis) to have all the facts, was more than slightly comical.

She told us, as a Palestinian, that she didn't want a massacre of Jewish Israelis, or to push them into the sea, or to send them "back to Europe." She stated these ideas were ridiculous (over objections from a local Palestinian activist), then went on to say that Palestinians should not behave like Israelis, and just because, she said, Israelis do these things to Palestinians does not mean Palestinians should do the same. She received a round of applause - was it for charging Israel with genocide (something she would do more explicitly later in the talk) or for claiming the "moral high ground" as a Palestinian?

HALFWAY THROUGH the talk, the Palestinian narrative fell by the wayside. Suddenly she was talking not of Palestinian culture but of Arab culture. She spoke of Israel's support for Arab culture and her desire for the country to go further - for example, by establishing a university that would operate in Arabic.

She spoke of the stages in Palestinian activism, the rise of collective political will in the 1960s, the start of a collective push for equal rights for Israel's Arab minority.

She spoke of the current strategy by Israeli Arabs to undermine "the Zionist project" by pushing for Israel to be a country for all its citizens, a country that by her definition could not then have a Jewish character. She told us how she could, as a politician, say what she liked, but then went on to say Israel only allowed this because there was no chance her democratic participation could effect change. Less than a minute later, she boasted about the changes her party, Balad, and her participation were having on Israeli Arab society.

THE TALK provided a fascinating window into the identity crisis faced by Israel's Arabs. It showed the universal nature of the anti-Israel propaganda, complete with the required accusations of colonialism, apartheid and genocide. And while it ended with the usual call to support boycotts, divestment and sanctions, MK Haneen Zuabi's talk - propaganda aside - touched on the real debate about the nature of the State of Israel. This is a debate that no doubt goes on in some Israeli coffee shops on a daily basis.

The very fact that she was speaking to us as an MK spoke louder than all her attacks on Israel. She walked out of the room with her head held high, one of 120 parliamentarians representing the diversity of Israeli society.

The writer is a former Legacy Heritage fellow who currently teaches at Monash University in Australia.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>When people criticize Zionism, they mean Jews, said Martin Luther King</title>
<date>15/2/2009</date>
<content>
Is criticism of Israel anti-Semitic? The Six Day War sparked a wave of anti-Zionistic reactions, triggering the Left's denial of solidarity with Israel, a stance that holds until today. In August 1967, Martin Luther King wrote in  Letters to an Anti-Zionistic Friend:

"You declare, my friend, that you do not hate the Jews, you are merely 'anti-Zionist'... When people criticize Zionism, they mean Jews - this is God's own truth. Anti-Semitism, the hatred of the Jewish people, has been and remains a blot on the soul of mankind."

Jean Amry criticized the elitist anti-Zionism of the Left as being nothing more than run-of-the-mill anti-Semitism. In a speech in 1969, Amry stated, "Anti-Semitism was once the socialism of the stupid guys. Today it is about to become an integrating ingredient of socialism as such, and thereby every socialist turns himself, by his free will, into a stupid guy. Anti-Semitism has become respectable again, but there is no such thing as respectable anti-Semitism!"

In 1975, well-known literary scholar and dedicated leftist Hans Mayer wrote, "Whoever attacks Zionism, but by no means wishes to say anything against the Jews, is fooling himself and others. The State of Israel is a Jewish state. Whoever wants to destroy it, openly or through policies that can effect nothing else but such destruction, is practicing the Jew hatred of yesterday and time immemorial."

Unfortunately, these 30-year-old texts still hold true today.

THE ENTIRE Middle East would have become a Jew-free German protectorate called "Greater Arabia" had Rommel's Afrikakorps not been defeated at el-Alamein 66 years ago on November 4, 1942. The "Einsatzkommando gypten" (SS Task Force Egypt), a subgroup of the Afrikakorps, was under the command of SS Obersturmbannfhrer Walter Rauff, infamous for his large trucks converted into mobile gas chambers which murdered hundreds of thousands in an excruciatingly painful manner in Russia and Serbia the previous year. Rauff was given the authority to carry out "executive measures on the civilian population," which was the Nazi euphemism for the mass murder of the Palestinian Jews. The move was agreed upon with Grand Mufti Haj Amin el-Husseini, a friend of Hitler and Himmler, and the Arab population was supposed to actively participate.

Rauff's extermination unit followed Rommel's army to Tunisia, but the allied Italian army prevented the mass murder of the country's 80,000 Jews.

To this day, the war criminal Husseini remains the ardently cherished idol of the Arab people. During the war, he was the supreme field chaplain of all the Muslim SS divisions and a relentless enemy of the Jews, not just in Palestine. He is also the ideologue behind the genocidal hatred of the Jews of all Islamists today, including Hamas and Hizbullah.

IN LIGHT of this Arab collaboration with the mass murderers of the Shoah, the comparison of the lives of Palestinians in the occupied areas with the starvation and murder of Jews in the ghettos of Europe living under a death sentence is impudent and the product of possible deliberate ignorance. These claims pain and insult us, the survivors of the Shoah, in particular. The war in the Middle East will end when the Palestinians lay down their weapons. If the Israelis were to do the same thing, Israel would no longer exist. This is something that Norbert Blm, the bishops Gregor Maria Hanke and Walter Mixa, and the others who compare the lives of the Palestinians with the Jewish ghettos should ponder. They should worry about the insidious de-Christianization of the Holy Land from their fellow Christians fleeing the Middle East instead.

They might also examine more closely the accusation of Islamophobia.

Arab propaganda invented this term, designed to create an association with the persecution of the Jews. The millions of Muslims living in Europe are in no way subjected to persecution. Quite the opposite, they enjoy the Western freedoms denied the Christians, Baha'i and Jews living in their countries of origin.

Media outlets contribute to disinformation with their exaggerated criticism of Israel. Unfathomable genocidal hatred of the West and the Jews streams from the antennas of the Arabic TV stations Al-Jazeera, Al-Arabiya and Al-Manar, even into homes in Germany. Its effect can be seen in the attacks on those in Germany who are recognizable as Jews.

Islamic anti-Semitism should not be a worry solely for the Jews, because there are forces at work in Europe that want to bomb our civilization back into the Middle Ages. Islamic scientist Bassam Tibi explained, "Not until the German people have fought against this threat in an appropriate manner will we be able to say that they have really understood the lessons of the German past."

Anti-Semitism in Germany gives us reason to worry even today. There appears to be an increased acceptance of right-wing populist propaganda that argues anti-Semitic beliefs.

The hate, the violence against Jews and their institutions, fill me with pain and anger. In this year alone there have already been more than 800 violent and other criminal acts, but not a single arrest. I myself am a witness to the permissiveness of our judicial and constitutional bodies. On November 1, 2007, Vanity Fair reprinted a 10-page interview with Nazi ideologue Horst Mahler and also published the entire text of over 20 pages on its Web site. Much of what Mahler said there, such as his denial of the existence of Auschwitz, was a punishable crime. I filed a request for his prosecution, but the public prosecutor's office refused.

ALLOW ME to make a personal reflection here. When I co-founded the Jewish community in Frankfurt over 50 years ago, I never would have dreamed that today, many years later, our kindergartens, schools, synagogues and meeting halls would have to be guarded by the police. Thank God, Jesus and Muhammad that mosques and churches do not need this protection. Isn't it time that the German Constitutional Court judges started playing hardball when dealing with enemies of our constitution and democracy? I don't just mean the neo-Nazi National Democratic Party (NPD), but also the Islamofascist centers, such as the one in the city of Neu-Ulm, which disseminates anti-Semitic and anti-constitutional propaganda under the cloak of multiculturalism.

What will happen next? The UN's third World Conference against Racism was held in Durban, South Africa, in September 2001. It turned into a festival of anti-Western extremism and hatred of the Jews. Zionism was condemned there as a contemporary form of Nazism and apartheid. The next conference will be held in Geneva, Switzerland, on April 20-24 of this year. The scandal in Durban will be aggravated there even more, as anti-racism degenerates into the ideology of the totalitarian movements.

The dictators and despots of countries such as Libya, Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Cuba and Venezuela, with their automatic majority, have taken over UN institutions. They have started a new inquisition, called "the denigration of religion," which of course only applies to Islam. They are misusing anti-racism for obscurantism and Islamism that will only result in the further suppression of religious minorities and women. Several countries, such as Canada and Israel, will not be attending the planned betrayal of human values in Geneva. How will the German government respond? We can hardly wait.

The writer, born in 1924 and a survivor of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, is a leading historian (The Red Book: Stalin and the Jews) who lives in Frankfurt.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Where Lieberman and Obama meet</title>
<date>9/2/2009</date>
<content>
There is something counterintuitively similar in the rhetoric used by US President Barack Obama and Israel Beiteinu" chairman Avigdor Lieberman.

Whereas the two figures' political agendas could not be more different, both have focused their recent political efforts on igniting a public discourse that revolves around values rather than policies.

Whereas Obama has revived discussion of equality and freedom, Lieberman has delved deep into the (arguably inconsistent) nature of the Jewish state. To be sure, both have done so at the expense of discussing ad hoc, expedient policy recommendations. (This was true for Obama's campaign up until his inaugural address). While addressing the American people on January 20, Obama made it clear he had every intention to continue the mission put forth by the Founding Fathers and adhere to the American value system established some 233 years before him.

"The time has come... to carry forward the noble idea... that all are equal, all are free and all deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness," he said in his inaugural speech. In thus referring to the three pillars underlying the American Declaration of Independence, Obama committed himself to making politics the continuation of ideals, to rephrase Clausewitz's observation.

After a decade in which the pendulum of US ideology and interests swung in favor of interests, Obama took upon himself a challenging set of priorities: Values first, politics after.

Ten thousand miles away in Israel, Moldovan-born MK Lieberman did something stunningly similar.

While running his campaign for the February 2009 general election, Lieberman brought to the forefront of his political campaign a value-oriented discussion, pertaining to the nature of the Jewish state.

Consciously or not, Lieberman's campaign slogan "There's no citizenship without loyalty" took on the task of addressing perhaps the most fundamental question emerging from Israel's Declaration of Independence: Can Israel be both a democratic and a Jewish state? Lieberman is quite bluntly suggesting that the answer is a simple no.

'THERE'S NO CITIZENSHIP without loyalty" alludes to the disturbing attempts of Arab-Israeli MKs to defame the State of Israel, while posing a real threat its security in the name of democracy.

Arab-initiated, anti-Israel statements and sentiments have become a daily matter at the Knesset, spearheaded by Arab-Israeli MKs such as Ahmed Tibi and Taleb a-Sanaa. Calls have been repeatedly made at the Knesset to condemn Israel as a "Nazi" and "apartheid" state, while Arab MKs justify the continuation of the armed struggle.

Such expressions were dwarfed by actions taken to proactively sabotage Israel's security. MK Azmi Bishara, for example, was accused by the Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) in 2007 of advising Hizbullah where to aim the Katyusha rockets during the Second Lebanon War. In exchange, Bishara was offered hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Now imagine what would be the fate of a congressman who called for the death of America from his congressional seat, or told Osama bin Laden where to carry out the next 9/11.

LIEBERMAN'S CAMPAIGN is bold to the extent that it fearlessly confronts the toughest philosophical questions posed by Israel's founding fathers, much like Obama did in the States.

While Israel's Declaration of Independence does not straightforwardly address the question of Arab-Israeli loyalty to the state, it does leave clouded the precise nature it should adopt - a true democracy or a plain state of the Jews.

The declaration essentially suggests that a mlange of both identities - Jewish and democratic - is reasonably attainable. It suggests no recipe, however, as to what to do if the combination turns out to be incongruent.

Lieberman's campaign is brilliant to the extent that it pioneers a notion that no one else had dared to address. That is, there's something fundamentally problematic in running both a Jewish and a democratic state.

Lieberman implies that perhaps there is something essentially oxymoronic, or self-contradictory, in such a vision.

Recognizing that Israel is a Jewish state places the Jews by definition before anyone else on the ladder of civil and religious rights, despite any attempts to claim otherwise. This, to me, seems like a rather undemocratic thing to do. It's much like suggesting that America should be both Christian and democratic.

Lieberman's campaign may be alarming to Jewish liberals (let alone to Israel's Arab neighbors), to the extent that he has managed to rally around him masses of Israeli (and not just Russian-born) youths calling "Death to the Arabs." Lieberman admittedly boasts of opinions that are racist, and some would say even fascist.

Yet there's something tragically energizing, and desperately long-sought, in the discussion he has managed to stir.

While the big three - Ehud Barak, Tzipi Livni and Binyamin Netanyahu - are proposing ad hoc solutions to temporary problems (economic stimuli, better security, wider coalitions), someone has finally taken on the Obama approach, unearthing the decaying corpse of national values from its long-forgotten tombstone.

It is barely surprising that youths are so excited about Lieberman's campaign. They too realize that someone has finally started asking the right questions.

The writer is a graduate of the Government Department at Harvard College. She is a Milken Institute Fellow at the Israel Securities Authority, and the founder of www.ExigoGroup.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Where were the protesters when missiles were hitting Israel?</title>
<date>12/1/2009</date>
<content>
The deaths and maimings of civilians in Gaza is terrible and wrenching. Seen on television and in newspapers, they are driving innumerable people in many parts of the world to go into the streets to protest against Israel's attack on Hamas. The protests are fierce and angry, fuelled by tragedies like the killing of 46 people when the Israeli army shelled a school building in Jabalya refugee camp, and in the death of a family of seven.

But where were the protestors when missiles were falling on southern Israel? Had they come into the streets then and demanded that Hamas stop firing we wouldn't have the gory mess in Gaza today.

The rockets and mortars first struck on April 16, 2001. Since then, there have been more than 6,300. Last year's toll was more than 3,000.

For much of the time the rockets were primitive Qassams with small warheads. However small, they kill as effectively as any high-tech grenade launcher. The missiles have been getting deadlier: Katyushas and, more recently, Grad missiles have been reaching further into Israel, striking towns 25 miles from Gaza.

Casualties from the rockets have mercifully been light, with about 20 deaths. That is not due to any lack of trying by Hamas. Instead, it's because of air raid sirens which give people less than a minute to get into shelter. And luck: Last week a missile hit a school; catastrophe was avoided because the children had been sent home. A kindergarten was badly damaged this week; again, the children were at home.

A million people now live under threat of terror attack. Life is strained and uncertain.

THE GOVERNMENT has never been able to resolve the quandary of commanding one of the world's most modern armies and yet being powerless to halt low-tech rockets and bombs. It still hunts for a solution.

Public demands mounted for harsh action. For every rocket that lands, fire back a shell, said some; or for one rocket, one shell, for the next rocket, two shells, and so on. Obliterate Gaza, said others. Some, a minority, called for ending the siege of Gaza and greater efforts to talk to Hamas.

The government urged restraint. That became more difficult with a general election due on February 10. Defense Minister Ehud Barak, his Labour party sliding in opinion polls, put his political career on the line by refusing to let the army go in. His view was all the stronger because he was previously chief of staff and is the country's most decorated soldier for bravery. Those pressing for war did not understand what it meant, he said. He was backed by army chief General Gabi Ashkenazi and Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.

They feared that a massive attack would cause heavy civilian casualties and loss of soldiers' lives.

The turning point was November 4. Israel says Hamas was digging a tunnel to kidnap soldiers; it foiled the plot by killing seven militants. Hamas says this was a provocation; it started firing rockets en masse, ending the unwritten ceasefire in effect since June. Missiles had still landed during that time: only 38, but enough for Israel to say it was reason for it to interrupt the flow of food and goods into Gaza.

In the third week of December, more than 200 missiles struck. They were 200 too many. Barak and Olmert accepted they could no longer hold back. The army was ordered to put into effect plans which had already been prepared.

WHY DID the world keep silent for so many years? Could anyone really expect Israel to do nothing for evermore?

That there is much anguish and anger about Palestinian suffering while there was so little response to what Israelis were enduring raises worrying questions. Are protestors giving vent to genuine compassion for Palestinian victims, or is there something dark and ugly under the surface in singling out Israel as though there has never before been a war in which innocent civilians are tragically caught in the fire?

How else to explain the extreme condemnation of Israel? The outpouring of so much hatred and the wild abuse of language and history in accusations of "genocide," "Holocaust" and the "Warsaw Ghetto"?

An official of Unrwa, the United Nations relief agency, was on television this week with a long and passionate call to end the Israeli attack. But not a word about what led to it. Why do he and others speak as though the Israeli onslaught came out of nothing, without reason or cause? Why, too, is there silence about Hamas' firing of missiles from the heart of civilian areas?

DIPLOMATIC MOVES are underway and will, hopefully, quickly lead to a ceasefire. But Israel has made very clear that it insists that there be no more missiles whether by Hamas or its cronies and that Hamas not be allowed to smuggle in new weaponry. The ceasefire will be of little account unless the world ensures that this is done and that an effective mechanism is put in place to maintain it.

The story, of course, is much more complicated. It has to do with Israel's blockade of Gaza and its attempt, unsuccessfully, to use this to turn the people there against Hamas. It has to do with Hamas' rejection of Israel's existence and refusal to forswear violence, and its power struggle with Fatah. It has to do with Israel's occupation of the West Bank and the slow moves towards creation of an independent Palestinian state.

The future for both Israelis and Palestinians depends on resolving these issues. Ending the onslaught on Gaza and halting missiles raining on Israel are the immediate crucial steps.

The writer is director of Yakar's Center for Social Concern in Jerusalem. South African-born, he was deputy editor of the Rand Daily Mail when the newspaper was closed down. He has written books about Robert Sobukwe; Nelson Mandela; and the press under apartheid. He is co-editor of Shared Histories: A Palestinian-Israeli Dialogue.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yellow and blue stars</title>
<date>3/3/2009</date>
<content>
Two urban legends about the yellow star are commonly told. In one, French Vichy officials during World War II gave Moroccan authorities yellow stars for the Jews of Morocco to wear. King Mohammad V asked for a dozen more, explaining that he wanted them so that he and his family could wear them.

In another, the Nazi German occupying forces in Denmark issued a decree that all Danish Jews must wear a yellow armband with the star of David. King Christian in response answered that he would wear the first star of David and expected every other Dane to do the same.

Both leaders did support their Jewish communities, but not necessarily in the way the stories depict. The first story is contested. The second story is false. But both are constantly retold because they state a fundamental truth, the importance of leadership in combating prejudice.

If only global leaders in World War II everywhere had protected their Jewish citizens like the stories portray the kings of Denmark and Morocco doing, the Holocaust would not have happened. Many would like to think, knowing what we know now, that state leaders would act today the way these stories portray the Kings of Denmark and Morocco as acting.

Yet would they? Where is that heroism here and now? Who in reality acts in that way?

TODAY THE JEWISH star is blue, not yellow. Israel has become the Jew amongst nations, demonized, delegitimized, scorned. Yesterday, the world took aim at Jews as individuals. Today, the world takes aim at Jews as a people.

Terrorists target Israel merely because it exists, and Israel defends itself. The defense is decontextualized and made to seem like arbitrary cruelty. Israeli self-defence becomes an excuse for unending indictments, spurred by anti-Zionists with an avowed agenda of destruction of the State of Israel. These indictments criminalize the Jewish state and the Jewish people as presumed supporters of this criminal Jewish state.

Hate crime statistics in one country after another show Jews to be the number one victims by far. Antisemitic hate crime fests under the title "Israel anti-apartheid week" are springing up on university campuses globally. Graffiti equating the Jewish star with the Nazi swastika are everywhere. Iran at one and the same time threatens Israel with genocide and develops a nuclear capacity to realize the threat. In the international arena, resolution after resolution, session after session, conference after conference, focuses on the Jewish state alone.

In the face of this obsession, who today stands with the Jewish people? Who amongst the leaders of today is prepared to wear the Jewish star? At the UN Human Rights Council, there is one state which votes consistently against the anti-Zionists - Canada. To take an example, the Human Rights Council in January 2009, at one of its many special sessions directed against Israel, passed a typical Israel bashing resolution, this time about Gaza. The vote was 33 in favour, 13 abstentions, and only one opposed. That one was Canada.

The World Conference against Racism held in Durban South Africa in September 2001 in a concluding document which was supposed to be about racism instead criticised one country alone, Israel. The Durban review conference, scheduled for April this year in Geneva, bears all the hallmarks of repeating that travesty. There are only two states besides Israel which have pulled out of the Review conference to avoid participating in and legitimizing that echo of Durban 2001, Canada and the United States. Canada left first, in February 2008, even before Israel did. The United States just announced it was pulling out a few days ago.

THIS CANADIAN record has drawn the attention of the world's anti-Zionist states. When the Canadian human rights record came up for consideration at a Human Rights Council working group in February under the Universal Periodic Review, Algeria, Syria and Iran tore into Canada for its refusal to kowtow to the anti-Zionist agenda.

The Canadian behaviour is exemplary, the heroism of today when heroism is needed. But it is not sufficient. It is as isolated as was the leadership of Denmark and Morocco during World War II which the yellow star stories reflect, if not report.

As a result, in the lifetime of survivors of the Holocaust, the Jewish people again drift towards grave danger, as friendless as before. To stop the drift, more than just Canada must wear the blue star, must stand with Israel, must vote against anti-Zionism in the international arena.

And the danger is not just in the international arena. Here in Canada, the anti-Israel forces are gathering, on campuses, in the union movement, and on the street. Now is the time for friends of the Jewish State and of freedom and democracy to come forward and let their voice be heard.

The writer is a lawyer in Winnipeg and senior legal counsel to B'nai Brith Canada.
</content>
</article>
