<article>
<title>60 years on the map</title>
<date>4/5/2008</date>
<content>
Israel's major accomplishment in 60 years of independence is surviving - staying on the map as a sovereign state, with equal status among the nations of the world. The many economic and cultural achievements have helped to contribute to this survival, while the desire for peace with our neighbors remains unfulfilled, but the triumph is that we are here.

The primary goal of Zionism was and remains the re-establishment of sovereignty and self-determination for the Jewish people in our homeland. In addition to fulfilling the 2,000-year-old desire to return to Eretz Yisrael, the history of persecution (particularly in Christian Europe), expulsions, and pogroms culminating in the Holocaust demonstrated the dangers of dependence on others. In the modern world, the Jewish people could only survive, both physically and culturally, by regaining and maintaining national independence, equal to the Christian nations of Europe, the Moslem nations of the Middle East, and the others across the globe. The alternative was to disappear from the stage, along with the richness of the Hebrew language, and the heritage of 4000 years of Jewish history and tradition.

Sixty years ago, as the British prepared to leave and the Arab armies planned their invasion, most observers and policy makers predicted disaster for the nascent Jewish state. Arab leaders, such as Azzam Pasha, who was Secretary-General of the Arab League, boasted: "This will be a war of extermination and a momentous massacre which will be spoken of like the Mongolian massacres and the Crusades." American and European military officials and diplomats looked at the apparently overwhelming Arab advantages in weapons, population size and territory, and urged the Jews not to declare independence.

AGAINST THESE predictions, the tenacity and motivation of Israelis, aided by the intense identification and support from the Diaspora, have ensured the independence of the Jewish state.

For the Arab and Moslem "rejectionists" (including the Iranians, who are claiming leadership of this group), the idea of Jewish sovereignty in the "Moslem Middle East" was and remains unacceptable. This fundamental conflict, and not differences over borders, post-1967 settlements and occupation, is the core of the conflict and has led to the wars of aggression and mass terror attacks against Israel. This rejectionism is often expressed through proposals for the "one-state solution," the nullification of the Jewish symbols of the Israeli state (including the calendar and flag), and the demand that millions of Arabs who claim refugee status from 1948 have a "right of return," and thereby create an Arab majority. Similarly, the attempt to deny the 4,000-year-history of Jewish Jerusalem, as expressed in Palestinian textbooks, and by Yasir Arafat at the Camp David summit with President Clinton in 2000, also reflects this effort reverse Israel's status as an independent Jewish state.

The campaigns in Western Europe and elsewhere that use labels such as "apartheid" and "racist" in reference to Israel and Zionism, and the strategy of boycotts, divestment and sanctions (BDS) are part of the efforts to deny the legitimacy of Jewish sovereignty. The same is true for the blanket condemnations of Israeli responses to terror attacks and the attempt to deny Israel the right to self-defense enjoyed by all other sovereign and independent nations. Similarly, the false claims of "war crimes" and "collective punishment" are used constantly to demonize Israel in the United Nations and by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that exploit the rhetoric of morality to demonize Israel. This was also the main objective of the infamous 2001 Durban Conference, and the planned 2009 Review Conference, to be led by Iran, Libya and Cuba.

THE DELEGITIMATION and demonization of Zionism, and the singling out of Israel for special treatment, while erasing the context of Palestinian terrorism and other violent attacks, have become the modern form of anti-Semitism. In many examples, particularly among some of the leaders of the boycotts in British churches and universities, the themes of classical Christian anti-Semitism, including blood libels, have been revived as part of the intense anti-Israel propaganda. The few outspoken Jewish academics who confront this form of racism are themselves subject to anti-Semitic attacks.

In the face of this intense and ongoing hostility, Israel's ability not only to survive, but to thrive, is the main story marking 60 years of independence. With 6 million Jewish citizens of Israel, ten times the population in 1948, the Hebrew language has been reinvigorated, and the Jewish culture has been preserved.

At the same time, progress towards the acceptance of Jewish sovereignty equality among the nations of the world is painfully slow, and the struggle has been and will continue to be exhausting. But there are no better choices - there are no alternatives for Israel and the Jewish people.

The writer is the Executive Director of NGO Monitor and chairman of the Political Studies Department of Bar Ilan University, Israel
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A 'birthright' for non-Jews?</title>
<date>6/4/2008</date>
<content>
We're now just a few weeks away from Israel turning 60 and the silence, outside anywhere but the Jewish community, is deafening. There was a lot more buildup for the opening of Heathrow's Terminal 5 than Israel's upcoming commemoration.

Israel's monumental achievement, the fact that this tiny country with neighbors hell-bent on eliminating it, has somehow managed to survive, does not seem to be much of a story outside the Jewish world. Some would say that this is appropriate. Israel is, after all, a Jewish state. Why should anyone else care?

But on another level, the fact that no one seems to be celebrating along with the Jews speaks volumes of our failure. Israel, it seems, has lost its ability to inspire all but Jews and evangelical Christians. These two groups see Israel's creation and survival as possessing world-historical meaning. But for the rest of the world, Israel is a country that is in the headlines because of bombs and battles. So, the world is saying, no offence to you Jews, but what does your anniversary have to do with us?

But wait a second. The anniversary of the death of the great Martin Luther King, Jr. was commemorated this past Friday not just by African-Americans and not just in the United States but around the world, including Israel. The movement that King created, although focused primarily on the plight of blacks in the South, is seen as a global cry for freedom and justice. The civil rights movement portended an end to racism and irrational prejudice in every corner of the globe. Thus, it has significance for people everywhere.

But was Zionism not once viewed in the same light? Was it not also a  movement by an oppressed people, persecuted in every land in which they resided, to find a home where they could live in peace and freedom? Has it now become a movement that speaks to none but Jews alone?

We Jews have unwittingly contributed to the insular and exclusivist mind-set that has made Israel a Jewish-only project.

Sixty years into the project, we must start thinking differently.

TWO GREAT mistakes have been made by the global Jewish community with regards to Israel. The first is to portray Israel as a modern entity with insufficient historical roots. The second is to portray Israel as a Jewish-only entity with little relevance to the rest of the world.

Mistake number one is captured by a conversation that I had with a businessman who told me a few months back that he was concerned that Israel's emphasis on its 60th birthday might feed Arab propaganda that Israel is a modern entity, created by European-Jewish colonialists who usurped Arab land. Instead of calling this Israel's 60th birthday party, he argued, why not have a different motto along the lines of "Three Thousand Plus Sixty" that captures the uninterrupted nature of the Jewish people's attachment to its ancestral homeland?

He has a point.

Every few years, I travel to South Africa for book tours. Black South Africans, while incredibly loving and receptive to Jews, can be ambivalent about Israel. To them, Israelis seem like white people who colonized the darker-skinned inhabitants of a land not their own. The parallel to apartheid South Africa creates immediate sympathy for the Palestinian side.

I respond by telling my African hosts that the parallel between the two stories is really the reverse. Like black Africans in their land, the Jews were the original people who inhabited ancient Israel. But then the Romans came, colonized the land, decimated the Jewish population, and exiled them to Europe and other parts of the Empire. But the Jews never lost a connection to their ancestral home, prayed every day to return, and a sizable Jewish minority remained even after the exile. Then, 2000 years later, when the opportunity and resources presented themselves, we began to reconstitute ourselves as a sovereign entity. Emphasizing Israel as being only 60 reinforces the view that the Jewish people's relationship with the land, rather than ancient in origin, is a modern phenomenon.

THE SECOND mistake, of making Israel something of only Jewish concern, is captured in the most successful and visionary Jewish program of our time, Birthright Israel. Birthright is nothing short of a miracle, and one of the reasons that I so revere my dear friend Michael Steinhardt and his counterpart Charles Bronfman is their foresight in seeing just how inspirational the modern Jewish state could be to disaffected Jewish youth. But why stop there? Israel has the power to inspire non-Jewish youth as well.

The Jews are history's most influential people, having given the modern world its three foundations: God (universal brotherhood), the Ten Commandments (law), and the Messiah (progress aimed at perfecting the world). Those ideas were all born in the very soil of Israel, the world epicenter of faith and spiritual transcendence. But that's not how the modern world sees it. India and Tibet have become the place of pilgrimage for Westerners seeking enlightenment. Just look at the level of sympathy the world rightly has for Tibet's struggle against China versus the seeming lack of sympathy for Israel's struggle against terrorism. That's because the world feels it has a stake in Tibet's welfare. The heroic Dalai Lama has successfully portrayed his homeland as a place from which light shines to the entire earth and not just Buddhists. Should we not portray Israel in the same authentic light?

Of all the presents we can give Israel on its illustrious "3000 + 60 birthday," none would be more helpful than to inaugurate a Birthright for Non-Jewish Youth program that would seek to bring 50,000 non-Jewish students from around the world to Israel every year. Campuses are the places where Israel is most attacked in the West today. Why not expose non-Jewish students to how stirring Israel is and give them a stake in its future?

I'm scheduled to be leading a press and media Birthright Trip to Israel for Mayanot this summer. So many of my non-Jewish colleagues in the media have practically begged me to attend. Birthright alumni from all over globe will tell you the same. Their non-Jewish friends are envious of the transformative trip to Israel which right now is the preserve of Jewish youth alone.

As for the cost, churches all over the US would contribute, as would non-Jewish philanthropists and foundations sympathetic to Israel. And it would be the best PR Israel ever had.

The author hosts a daily radio show in the United States.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A double identity</title>
<date>21/4/2008</date>
<content>
It was a mistake. So says Deputy Knesset Speaker Ahmed Tibi, explaining how he came to be listed as a Palestinian representative at the Qatari Forum for Democracy in the Gulf state. You can understand how it happened.

Tibi, a Knesset member on behalf of Ta'al - the United Arab List, clearly feels equally at home in the House in Jerusalem and at international events in the Arab world and elsewhere.

The last time I met him he was at a UN-sponsored peace dialogue in Moscow in June 2006. I think he was representing Israel, at least officially, but I couldn't be sure. The comment that most stuck in my mind was his accusation that Israeli bomber planes were deliberately targeting schools in Gaza. The monstrous charge was, of course, not backed up by any facts but went down well among the Palestinian representatives at the forum and was probably quoted by members of the press attending the session.

The first time I remember meeting him was in the Knesset in 1999, not long after he had been sworn in. The parliamentarians had a chance to study the maps accompanying the Sharm e-Sheikh Memorandum - the plans looked like sketches at which eggs had been thrown, the yellow markings signifying areas of Palestinian civilian control. Tibi joked that one of the advantages of being an MK was that he got to see the maps earlier than he would have done had he remained the adviser to Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat. MKs and journalists laughed at the quip but it was the sort of snicker that occurs when you can't help being amused while feeling intensely uncomfortable. Everybody in the room knew Tibi, but no one was quite sure who he really was.

Tibi's double identity seems built in. I have seen the former gynecologist being witty and charming, an excellent raconteur of tales over a good meal. I have also read the reports of charges against him. Several times Tibi has claimed the police single him out. But he has been accused of attacking cops at least four times. His hutzpa, charm and political immunity have served him well.

EVEN BEFORE his political career, Tibi was a controversial figure, once reportedly injuring a security guard at Hadassah Hospital where he worked because the guard insisted on searching his briefcase. He was apparently dismissed for the attack but only for a few hours. He was reinstated after claiming he was being victimized as an Arab and should have been shown more respect as a doctor.

When he first entered the Knesset he was No. 2 on the Balad (National Democratic Union) list. No. 1 was Azmi Bishara, who left the country a year ago after the police and Shin Bet (Israel's Security Agency) started investigating allegations that he had spied for Hizbullah during the Second Lebanon War.

The political partnership between the two was short-lived but is hard to live down. Tibi has lately had confrontations in the Knesset with MKs from the Right trying to pass what has become known as the Bishara Bill, which would invalidate the candidacy of any MK or would-be MK who traveled to an enemy state without permission.

After Passover, the Knesset is expected to convene to discuss a proposal by Israel Beiteinu chairman Avigdor Lieberman to take action against Tibi for the Qatari incident and reportedly comparing Israeli policies to apartheid. Lieberman, a wholehearted supporter of the Bishara Bill, is seeking a special majority of MKs to at least remove Tibi from his post as deputy Knesset Speaker.

It will not be the Knesset's finest hour either way. Lieberman says "even Hitler and Arafat were elected democratically" and was quoted last week as saying: "Tibi exploits his role as a Knesset member in order to harm and destroy the State of Israel, and therefore, his place is in the parliament in Ramallah and not in Israel."

Tibi, predictably, responded by calling Lieberman a "fascist immigrant" who seeks to "get rid of me every time he doesn't agree with my calls for democracy."

With an exchange of slurs like this coming in the week marking the 65th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising, one wonders how low the rhetoric will sink closer to Holocaust Remembrance Day and Israel's 60th Independence Day celebrations next month.

IN QATAR's capital, Doha, Tibi held a debate with Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni during which Tibi trotted out his standard claim that Israeli Arabs were discriminated against, alleging there are three different modes of government in Israel: democratic for Jews, discriminatory for Arabs and apartheid for Palestinians.

Livni in response pointed out the very fact that Tibi served in the Knesset showed that Israel was a democracy that respected minorities. The foreign minister said Israel had an affirmative action policy and, as quoted by the Post's diplomatic reporter Herb Keinon, said: "If there is an open position for an ambassador, and there is an Arab candidate and a Jewish one, I would choose the Arab one, though it's clear that I would not choose Ahmed Tibi for explaining Israel's positions abroad."

The 49-year-old Tibi knows how to play both the downtrodden Palestinian and the sophisticated Arab doctor. His father was a bank manager in the Arab town of Taibe in northern Israel. His wife is a dentist originally from the Palestinian town of Tulkarm. His family is a local success story but their situation is not easy.

Ahead of Independence Day, it is clear that the Israeli Arabs exist in an awkward period of heightened sensitivity. Many - probably the silent majority - have thrown their lot in with the country's fate, aware that for all its faults, it could be worse, especially in the Middle East. Others agitate and align themselves with the Palestinians, hoping that even now, after 60 years of growth which has not passed them entirely by, Israel will finally disappear. There are some who use the Knesset and the country's legal system to improve their lot; some who exploit those same establishments; a minority who have turned to violence and a majority who just get on with their lives, marking neither Israel's Yom Ha'atzmaut nor the Palestinian "Nakba," the catastrophe of Israel's independence.

Perhaps the saddest comment on the situation came last week from the family of a Beduin soldier who fell when IDF troops tackled Palestinian terrorists in Gaza. Relatives of the soldier initially requested that his name not be published. It wasn't out of modesty. It was for fear that the grave might be desecrated and the family accosted by other Arabs for having a son who served in the Israeli army.

While Tibi was free to speak his mind, safe in the knowledge that his political immunity stretches far, a newly bereaved family did not feel free to mourn properly. Not because of Israel's actions, but because of those in their own community.

And here lies the true tragedy. This is an issue that should be high on the list of anyone professing to hold life and democracy dear.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An NGO black hole in the Foreign Ministry</title>
<date>8/7/2008</date>
<content>
For many years, the rhetoric of human rights has been one of the most effective weapons used against Israel. The strategy is simple - Israel is attacked, responds, and is instantly condemned for "war crimes," "apartheid" and "collective punishment." As a result, one would have thought that the Israeli government would have long ago launched a counter-offensive to expose and defeat such campaigns, led by powerful non-governmental organizations and amplified in the UN and the press.

But despite repeated defeats on this propaganda battlefield, the government, and the Foreign Ministry in particular, have failed to understand the danger or invest significantly in effective responses. For many years, the Foreign Ministry declared: "We only deal with governments, and not with non-government organizations (NGOs)." This may have been logical, but in practice, it meant that the intense bombardment from powerful organizations such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and local NGOs such as B'Tselem, Adalah, Machsom Watch, and many more went unanswered. The officials of these groups used their resources to set the media agenda, invent (or distort) the terms of international law, falsify facts, and violate the universality of human rights.

Israeli silence changed briefly following the notorious NGO Forum of the UN's 2001 Durban Conference on Racism. Four thousand officials from 2,000 NGOs declared Zionism to be apartheid, and adopted an anti-Israel strategy of boycotts, divestment and sanctions (BDS), propelled by human rights rhetoric, and in parallel to the Palestinian campaign of mass terror. The racist goal of this ostensibly anti-racist gathering was to delegitimize Israel as the home of the Jewish people. In response, the Foreign Ministry finally set up a desk to monitor and respond to the NGO attack. This was a small and grossly inadequate step, but at least it was moving in the right direction.

NOW, AS the UN and the anti-Israel NGO network prepare for the Durban Review Conference to be held in Geneva in April 2009, the Foreign Ministry has left the minimalist NGO desk empty. Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni has denounced the anti-Semitism of the UN's Durban process, and announced that Israel will not participate if this continues. But the Israeli diplomatic corps was surprised when the Preparatory Committee for this review conference accredited the Palestinian Grassroots Anti-Apartheid Wall Campaign. European members of the committee simply waved them through, and no Israeli official was aware of the process.

The damage from this black hole in the Israeli diplomatic universe goes far beyond the Durban process. Some of the NGOs promoting the demonization campaigns get more then half their annual budgets from European governments, under the misleading headlines of "partnerships for peace" or projects claiming to promote democracy and Palestinian development. Additional funds come from the Ford Foundation and from often well-intentioned Jewish donors to the New Israeli Fund based in the US, Britain and Canada. In every discussion with the ambassadors, heads of state and foreign ministers, as well as NIF members, Israeli officials should make the case for a halt in this funding of demonization.

Officials from the United States government, while generally less prone to repeat the mantras of human rights rhetoric and the false factual claims directed against Israel, are not immune. As NGO Monitor's detailed analysis show, the State Department's annual human rights reports often copy NGO claims without bothering to check their accuracy or the underlying bias. And recently, Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice condemned Israel for barring candidates for a Fulbright fellowship from traveling from Gaza to Jerusalem for interviews. (Rice failed to mention the attack on the Fulbright convoy that killed three Americans 2003, after which video interviews were initiated.)

The false charge was linked to press reports of the activities of a political NGO known as Gisha, which receives funds from the Dutch and Norwegian governments. Gisha published a typically one-sided report condemning Israeli responses to rocket attacks in Gaza, including the closure to prevent movement in and out, as "collective punishment." (Gisha's concern for students does not extend to Israelis in Ashkelon and Sapir Colleges.)

MK Rabbi Michael Melchior, who heads the Knesset Education Committee and is a member of the governing coalition, gave Gisha a public platform, and he repeated the false claim of "collective punishment." Gisha translated his words in a press release, and they were quoted in The New York Times and other major newspapers. Then, without consulting Israel, the State Department announced that as a result, it was canceling the scholarships for Gazans. By the time the facts were checked and corrections were published, the considerable damage based on Gisha's human rights warfare was done. Had the Foreign Ministry been prepared to refute and repel this NGO attack, the harm could have been avoided.

If Israel is to defeat this kind of attack, the government must first find the battlefield.

The writer is executive director of NGO Monitor and chairs the Political Science Department at Bar Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>April 10: Freedom olympics</title>
<date>9/4/2008</date>
<content>
Freedom Olympics

Sir, - The Olympics would never have been be held in apartheid-era South Africa. Think about the true horrors of Tibet: perhaps a million innocent Tibetans murdered, their people denied any rights at all for almost 60 years. They now face being overwhelmed by Chinese immigrants and the destruction of their whole culture and religion. They are denied their wonderful spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who only dreams of a Tibet free from foreign oppression.

And what about the peaceful Chinese members of Falun Gong - beaten, imprisoned and tortured for simply meditating?

Hundreds of Chinese missiles are pointed at Taiwan, without Taiwan being any threat to China. Taiwan, with its own ethnic population, was only conquered a few hundred years ago by the Chinese, just as Spain once conquered Mexico.

Supporters of the Olympic Flame Relay, and of this Olympics, are being traitorous to the cause of humanity. These games should be cancelled, or shifted to a country which respects basic human rights. A number of democracies could each host certain events - the first Freedom Olympics, true to the real Olympic Ideal.

This Olympics stands only for brutality and oppression ("Paris protesters douse Olympic torch," April 8).

MIKE LANKUTS
Canberra, Australia

Free access

Sir, - Have we lost our minds? Three of our finest are being held totally incommunicado, with not the tiniest scrap of knowledge as to their condition. Yet here we have a convicted, bloody-handed multiple killer sitting in our prison, communicating with all and sundry to his heart's content. Why is he not locked away, out of contact with all, and kept there until and unless we, or at least the Red Cross, are granted access to our precious young people? ("Barghouti sends message to Peace Now on group's 30th anniversary" April 8.)

MARCHAL KAPLAN
Jerusalem

Sir, - Peace Now has weakened our united resolve by dividing the people with the delusion of peace with a sworn enemy which has never once demonstrated for peace with us.

To sum up the group's three decades: Instead of rock throwers, we now have missiles and homicide bombers.

Great job, Peace Now.

FRED CROWN-TAMIR
Mevaseret Zion

Overheated imagination

Sir, - In "Iran training Hizbullah fighters for 'next' conflict with Israel, UK paper says" (April 9) you reported Robert Fisk's article in Tuesday's Independent without comment.

Readers should recall that The Independent was the newspaper that published Fisk's account of "the smell of hundreds of bodies buried beneath the rubble" in Jenin during Operation Defensive Shield in 2002; also that the final death toll claimed by the Palestinian Authority after that operation was 56 Palestinian dead. Israel's figure was 53.

Neither Fisk nor The Independent ever withdrew his report, issued a correction or apologized.
Once a journalist is proved to have departed from the truth, later reports by him on related subjects should always be suspect.

LESLIE PORTNOY
Netanya

Heart of Israel

Sir, - David Wilder is correct. Israel needs Hebron, the heart of Israel. Hebron's founder, the biblical Caleb, is one of two reconnoiterers who had the courage to insist that the Jews enter into the Land of Israel. Not incidentally, his name means "as a heart."

Caleb's courage is what is needed to hold onto Israel. Caleb's Hebron emboldens the Jewish heart to persist even when the odds seem against Israel ("Why can't Jews buy homes in Hebron?" April 9).

ALICE EIGNER
Ma'aleh Adumim

Facts don't lie

Sir, - As a volunteer for Machsom Watch, an organization which monitors checkpoints and roadblocks, Nomi Lalo is apparently doing a very poor job. "Terrorists do not pass through the roadblocks," Lalo reportedly stated while arguing that these obstacles serve no security purpose ("Diskin: Removing roadblocks harms us," April 6).

Clearly Lalo missed the countless cases in which terrorists were stopped by roadblocks and checkpoints. A sampling of such incidents, culled from The Jerusalem Postarchives:

• On March 9, 2008, the Post reported that on March 6, "A third member (of a terror group planning an attack on Midgal Oz) was arrested in a checkpoint set up by the IDF in nearby El-Aroub."

• On April 20, 2006, the Post reported: "A 19-year-old Palestinian was caught with five pipe-bombs at a checkpoint west of Nablus."

• "In the afternoon (of April 2, 2006), a 17-year-old was caught at the Hawara checkpoint south of Nablus in possession of a two-kilogram pipe-bomb" (reported April 3, 2006).

• On March 13, 2006, "At the Kalandiya checkpoint north of Jerusalem, security forces arrested two Palestinians after they were caught carrying a 50-centimeter sword and a number of bullets" (reported March 14, 2006).

• On Feb. 3, 2006, two teens were caught at Beit Iba (checkpoint) attempting to smuggle explosive belts, each containing seven kilograms of explosives, intended for populated areas in the center of Israel. The Post reported: "Their arrest prevented a double suicide bombing."

• On Feb. 2, 2006, "a military policewoman manning the Hawara checkpoint south of Nablus caught two Palestinian teenagers attempting to smuggle 12 pipe-bombs through the checkpoints" (reported Feb. 5, 2006).

• On Dec. 29, 2005, a Palestinian suicide bomber en route to carry out an attack in Israel was stopped at a roadblock near Tulkarm and detonated himself, killing an Israeli soldier, his accomplice and Palestinian bystanders (reported Dec. 30, 2005).

• Naim Hable of Kalkilya "was caught along with two others with 102 M-16 assault rifle bullets, a knife and stolen property at a checkpoint outside Kalkilya," the Post reported March 15, 2005.

Ms. Lalo would like us to believe that terrorists "skirt around" checkpoints - but it is she who is skirting around the facts.

TAMAR STERNTHAL, Director
Israel Office CAMERA
Modi'in

Helter-shelter

Sir, - It is good to know that schools responded well to the preparedness drill ("Security drill goes off without a hitch at prepared Jerusalem school," April 9). But what about the adults?

When the siren sounded in Jerusalem I was on a very busy corner, and virtually no one reacted. But that's no surprise. What were we supposed to do? Where were the instructions, the signs indicating the location of shelters, the people from the Home Front Command? Later, televised reports showed the terrible conditions still existing in many public shelters.

Wasn't the unpreparedness of the Home Front one of the major findings of the Winograd Report? And didn't the government promise it would correct the worst mistakes? When they came around and collected our gas masks (which they are apparently now going to redistribute), that was a perfect opportunity to check local shelters and put up signs.

Please inform us when all shelters will be repaired, properly equipped and clearly marked by signs. I hope it will be before the next drill.

JAN SOKOLOVSKY
Jerusalem

Simply said

Sir, - To enlighten Haim Lerner, who wrote about the court decision regarding the sale of hametz during Pessah (Letters, April 9): "Public" means owned by the government. "Private" means owned by individuals or businesses. Sidewalks are public spaces, while stores are private businesses. "Coercive" is demanding that other people do as you want them to.

Secular Jews want a choice, and don't demand the haredim act secular. The haredim demand that everyone act as they do.

DAVID TEICH
Rehovot
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Arab peace or Durban war?</title>
<date>25/11/2008</date>
<content>
As the Annapolis negotiations end without apparent progress, hopes for peace are refocusing around the revived 2002 Arab Peace Initiative. But while the promoters of this effort highlight the breakthrough in accepting the legitimacy of Israel and an end of conflict, many of our potential Arab partners are promoting demonization through another round of the Durban process. The use of terms like "apartheid," anti-Semitism both new and old, and efforts to promote academic and other boycotts are the exact opposite of the peace arrangements proclaimed in the Arab initiative.

This blatant contradiction was highlighted in Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni's recent speech calling for continued peace efforts, while denouncing the "process of delegitimization of the State of Israel as a Jewish state... especially in Europe," as exemplified in the 2001 Durban conference.

This UN forum, ostensibly called to combat racism and discrimination, was abused by Arab states, Iran and the radical NGO network to promote anti-Israel incitement and a revival of the "Zionism is racism" slogan. While Israelis were being murdered by suicide bombers, Israel was assailed for "genocidal policies." The goal of this deadly political warfare is the same as its military equivalent - to wipe Israel off the map through soft power and the highly distorted rhetoric of human rights.

A few months after the Durban debacle, the Saudis presented a peace package to the Arab League, which adopted the plan, but following the demonization of Durban, it lacked any credibility.

NOW, THE process is being repeated, in the form of the Durban Review Conference, scheduled for Geneva in April 2009. Livni declared that "Israel would not participate and would not legitimize the conference," noting that the documents which were prepared "indicate that it is turning, once again, into an anti-Israeli campaign, singling out and delegitimizing the State of Israel - which has nothing to do with fighting racism." She also called on "the international community not to participate in this conference, which seeks to legitimize hatred and extremism and anti-Semitism under the banner of a fight against racism." Canada was the first to pull out on these grounds, the US is likely to follow, and perhaps also a few European states.

If the Durban-based political warfare against Israel is to end, the Arab states must also reverse course. The crude anti-Israel rhetoric in the documents under discussion for the Durban Review Conference were presented by the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) and adopted in the UN's Asian regional preparatory meeting. Major Arab countries, including Egypt and Saudi Arabia are active members of the OIC, and Libya chairs the committee meetings that are negotiating the texts and the ground rules for the conference. If the Arab peace program were serious, the Saudis, who originated the initiative, Egypt, and the Arab League, which formally adopted the document, would reverse course in the Durban Review Conference, but there is no sign that this is even being considered.

The same hypocrisy is found in the Palestinian Authority, whose representatives in Geneva are among the most vocal in the demonization, at the same time as leaders such as Mahmoud Abbas and Ahmed Qurei are participating in the US-sponsored peace talks in Jerusalem. The "Palestinian Grassroots Anti-Apartheid Wall Campaign," which hides information on its funding sources and leaders from public view, is active in setting the stage for another poisonous conference. And pro-Palestinian NGOs based in the Israeli Arab sector, such as Ittijah, (funded by the European Union, the New Israel Fund, Christian Aid in the UK, and other generous donors), publish screeds encouraging participants in the Durban Review Conference to replicate the political attacks based on boycotts and "lawfare" highlighted in the first conference.

This disease has also infected many European leaders who press Israel to embrace the Arab peace initiative, while failing to demand an end to the demonization. There was some hope for change when French President Nicolas Sarkozy declared: "France will not allow a repetition of the excesses and abuses of 2001... if ever our legitimate demands are not taken into account, we will disengage from the process." But since this declaration almost a year ago, France, which holds the presidency of the EU, has failed to take any action to oppose these "excesses and abuses." In addition, the EU, as well as Switzerland and Norway, continue to fund many NGOs that use the UN and Durban as platforms to preach rejectionism and anti-Israel racism.

In declaring the failure of efforts to prevent the second Durban conference from emulating the first, the Israeli government has set down a clear marker. If the Arab states and the Europeans are seriously committed to a peace initiative based on mutual acceptance and an end to conflict, they will need to actively disassociate themselves from such virulent anti-Israel campaigning.

The writer is the Executive Director of www.ngo-monitor.org, and chair of the Political Science department at Bar Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 14: Old libels & new</title>
<date>14/8/2008</date>
<content>
Old libels & new

Sir - The South African Sunday Times wasn't the only paper in the world that provoked a discussion on "apartheid in Israel." In the Netherlands, the left-wing de Volkskrant had two pieces in one week on its opinion page - one defending Israel against the the claim of apartheid; the other, from the chairman of A Different Jewish Voice, upholding it. The result was a heated discussion in the talkback section of the paper, which recorded an all-time record of 441 reactions, most supporting the apartheid claim.

The most worrying part of the debate was the number of anti-Semitic remarks posted, the most outrageous of them from a man who presented a new, dangerous claim: The Jews were never expelled from Israel by the Romans - they choose to leave voluntarily! The meaning is clear: If the Jews left voluntarily, they lost any claim to the land.

Nothing will stop these people if we do not confront these modern libels.

The chief rabbi of South Africa did what he had to do, but it would be much more powerful if Nelson Mandela himself came forward to refute these claims ("This is apartheid?" Warren Goldstein, August 12).

In the Netherlands, the country from where the white South Africans mostly immigrated, the claim of apartheid in Israel seems already commonly accepted.

YOCHANAN VISSER
Efrat

This bias is rare

Sir, - Re "You want that degree? Sleep with the professor" (August 13): Elana Maryles Sztokman's impression of Israeli academia as a domain of backstabbing intriguers, womanizers and chauvinists is extreme and distorted. At least in the life sciences, where I work, these things are extremely rare. Ninety-nine percent of the researchers behave professionally, and I have felt little back-stabbing, nor heard of such from my friends.

Finally, more new positions in the life sciences are being filled by women scientists than men at Tel Aviv University! I have sat in professional committees and know firsthand that there is no bias for or against women. We simply look for the candidate with the best potential to succeed as the head of an independent research group.

Go into the TAU life sciences/medicine Web site and count the number of women accepted for tenure track positions from 2000, or the 1990s, until now. It's all transparent.

Sorry, but I couldn't let this go without responding in a clear fashion with these, my personal views.

DR. NIR OSHEROV
Tel Aviv University
Tel Aviv

Of human worth

Sir, - I credit my parents for believing in all people and their worth, and try to teach my children that all are made in God's image. What Judy Montagu conveyed in "Scales of worth" (August 13) is the heart of the Jewish soul.

I once experienced a situation that left me speechless. A woman I know, a mother of not a few children, whose job was in child education, stated to me that she didn't understand why anyone would devote time to non-functioning children who would never contribute to their surroundings, nor to their own lives. Caught flat-footed, I submitted no answer. Simultaneously, I thought: What would she say if, God forbid, a tragedy befell one of her own?

Do people really see the non-functioning as human detritus? I've learned so much about Jewish values in the presence of "those who seem to have little obvious value."

Compassion for others is its own, internal reward.

DOV EPSTEIN
Efrat

A third option

Sir, - "A powerful, nuclear-armed Israel is the ultimate deterrent," writes MJ Rosenberg in "Those obscene Holocaust analogies" (August 11). He does not understand that to Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mutual Assured Destruction is an incentive. This is the opinion of none other than Bernard Lewis, the renowned scholar of Islam.

Last year, Prof. Lewis told The Jerusalem Post: "Mutual assured destruction, the deterrent that worked so well during the Cold War, would have no meaning... for people with this mindset, MAD is not a constraint; it is an inducement."

This does not mean that historian Benny Morris is right, either. He has apparently never considered using low-yield 1kt tactical nuclear weapons against the Iranian nuclear sites only - quite different from Morris's scenario of an all-out nuclear attack on Iran, something Israel could never realistically initiate.

Iran is looking for a nuclear exchange and the destruction of Israel in order to trigger the return of the "hidden imam." But if Iran does not yet have the bomb, its non-nuclear retaliation for the destroyed nuclear sites would not destroy Israel and would open the door to an Israeli nuclear retaliation.

Not quite the plan the mullahs had in mind.

The use of tactical nuclear weapons to destroy Iranian nuclear sites is an option that should not be completely discarded if a country's existence is at stake.

M. KNEZEVIC
Split, Croatia

Dismantle the Quartet

Sir, - The de-facto annexation by Russia of sovereign Georgian territory in South Ossetia and Abkhazia clearly rules out Russia as a principal of the Quartet, composed of the UN, Russia, the US and the EU.

It is no longer acceptable for the Quartet itself to be recognized as a legitimate body for setting guidelines and dictating and implementing policy as to what we in this region should do - given that one of its principals does not recognize either international law or borders, and that the other principals have failed to prevent this military annexation and took their time in condemning it.

Indeed, we can now expect more of the now independent former Soviet Union states to be at risk of similar action by Russia ("Putin's pique," Editorial, August 12).

COLIN L LECI
Jerusalem

Sir, - Let's call a spade a spade. The former Soviet Union, more specifically Russia, was hijacked by gangsters. As simple as that, and with all the consequences it brings.

MITCHELL BARNETT
Tel Aviv

Why raise hopes?

Sir, - Israel is a very small, mediocre sporting nation unable to fund the necessary infrastructure and facilities to make us a great sporting nation. We are competing in the world sports arena against major powers that do have such funds and much less expensive and pressing national and security needs.

Why, then, do our sports writers and commentators build up the expectations of the Israeli public regarding our Olympic medal chase? By so doing they are putting excessive pressure on our gallant athletes, the majority of whom are simply not up to world championship levels.

I am proud to see our athletes performing under the Israeli flag to the best of their ability, but have no illusions about their sporting prowess against the world's best.

Our commentators should adopt the same attitude and encourage them; and not, in so many cases, criticize them for not performing well ("Israelis crash out of Olympic tennis," August 13).

MICHAEL MOHNBLATT
Tel Mond

Sir, - We should all be proud of a fine young man - swimmer Alon Mandel, who carried on in the face of unspeakable tragedy so as not to let his country and teammates down. May he enjoy a bright future in his chosen sport ("Mandel breaks national record four days after his father's tragic death, but fails to reach semis," August 12).

LYNETTE LEVIUS
Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 24: High and Mighty</title>
<date>23/8/2008</date>
<content>
High and mighty

Sir, - Your August 21 editorial "Greed you can bank on" did an excellent job in outlining the ridiculous fees charged by Israeli banks for "services" rendered, even after the recent reforms. However, you failed to mention the fear-and-loathing experience some staff at local branches impose on their customers.

I opened an account at a downtown Jerusalem bank branch about a year ago. I literally have to psych myself up for days before going to the bank for a transaction or inquiry. That's because no matter how polite I am, trying to explain what I need, I never know when I will be greeted by one of their employees with disdain and rudeness. Nearly every friend I speak to has some story or other about being treated in this way.

And for this we are paying such high fees?

AHARON MAYNE
Jerusalem

Enmeshed...

Sir, - If a newspaper interview is intended to clarify someone's ideas for its readers, Ruthie Blum's with Avraham Burg left me wondering if he is aware of the many serious historical and social contradictions in his remarks ("'Let's move slowly but surely from trauma to trust,'" August 21).

His saying that living in "Jerusalem or Babylon" can be characterized as a "state of mind" defies all known human understanding: Geography is destiny, and it has been demonstrated throughout human history, whatever Burg might think. In his mind, there is no aliya, and no Jewish society - just existence - because the nation-state is in actuality non-existent.

A statement to the effect that the countries of Europe engaged in killing each other and so cannot be described as being against Israel is grossly absurd. Are readers to understand that Holland, Belgium, France and Germany (or, in short, people like De Gaulle and Hitler) did not hate Jews, Palestine/Israel because they fought each other?

Whatever is of value in Burg's statements to the Post is not new, and whatever is new has no value. He is hopelessly enmeshed in his mental labyrinth.

SHLOMO SHARAN
Professor Emeritus
Tel Aviv University
Tel Aviv

...in fantasy

Sir, - Leftists who are both utopian and contrarian hate Israel because adherents to that philosophy harbor, even into their dotage, adolescent fantasies of a perfect world that could be achieved if only the stupid others would put them in charge. These plaster saints look down from their plinths in judgment on a people whose very survival is in question; which sometimes necessitates actions these moral puritans find odious.

Some leftists, like Benny Morris, emerge and discover the real world, while others, snug in their pink comforters, continue to accuse Israel of apartheid, and, even more absurdly, genocide.

Avrum Burg's grievances with Israel stem mainly from having had his grandiose political ambitions thwarted by a people who came to despise him.

LEO SOLOMON
Nahariya

'Jewish life,' you said?...

Sir, - Haim M. Lerner is absolutely correct in his condemnation of the hypocritical "Northeastern American liberals'" opposition to the erection of an eruv in the Hamptons on the grounds that it "would cause the ghettoization" of their community, and in his consequent call on his affected "brothers and sisters" to "come home" to Israel as the only location where "Jewish life can... be fully appreciated" (Letters, August 21).

But to which country should the families who desire to send their young children to a kindergarten of their choice in Jerusalem flee in order to enjoy their "Jewish life"? ("Proposed haredi kindergarten causes stir in J'lem neighborhood," same date.)

HILLEL SCHWARTZ
Jerusalem

...but let's see both sides

Sir, - In the United States community of Westhampton Beach, residents are objecting to the eruv for fear that it will transform the neighborhood into an Orthodox enclave. As a consequence, these residents are being accused of anti-Semitism.

In Israel, residents are objecting to the new haredi kindergarten slated to be constructed in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Kiryat Hayovel, and they give the same reason for their objection.

No anti-Semitism there, right? - just people who don't want to be forced into a way of life not of their own choosing.

There are no easy solutions, but it would be useful to see both sides.

MARCELLA WACHTEL
Jerusalem

From Gush Katif to the Golan

Sir, - I was pleased to see Larry Derfner's "Painting the Golan orange" (Cover story, August 15) about former residents of Gush Katif living in the Golan. As the executive director of JobKatif, the only organization helping former residents of Gush Katif and Northern Samaria return to the workforce, I am intimately familiar with the situation of these people. JobKatif provided much of the financial support and business mentoring necessary to help the individuals mentioned in the article return to the workforce.

While Mr. Derfner's article alluded to this fact, I believe it is important to point out that the employment and economic situation of those former residents in the Golan is far better than in other areas of the country.

JobKatif has helped in the establishment of over 130 businesses and assisted over 900 people in reentering the workforce; but as of today there are still more than 1,000 families who are affected by unemployment or under-employment and therefore still strongly feeling the aftershocks of the disengagement.

I thank you for highlighting this issue and pray that we will find solutions for those still suffering more than three years after the disengagement.

JUDY LOWY
Executive Director, JobKatif
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Brand Israel</title>
<date>27/8/2008</date>
<content>
After 60 years of Diaspora Jews complaining that Israel's hasbara efforts fall flat, there is finally reason for Jews worldwide to believe that the Foreign Ministry is beginning to get it. September marks the beginning of an ambitious new pilot program, being run by the consul-general in Toronto, Amir Gissin, to "rebrand" Israel.

Starting with print ads that will be featured prominently in bus shelters and billboards across the city, and continuing with radio and editorial content, Torontonians can expect to see Israel being portrayed as an innovative leader in technology that brings real benefits to their own lives. One ad, for example, depicts an Indian mother and daughter smiling under the words "Coronary stent. Lifesaver." At the bottom is a new iconic logo, "Innovation Israel," and the tag line "Touching lives." The message to the growing Indian community in Toronto couldn't be clearer.

Notably, one type of message that will be conspicuous by its absence is any type of explanation or defense of Israel's actions in regard to its politics. "Explaining why we are right is not enough," says Gissin. "Our goal is to make Israel relevant and attractive to Canadians and to refocus attention away from the conflict."

IN THIS Gissin is entirely correct. There is plenty of attention given to the Israeli-Arab conflict in the media already, and plenty of opportunities for pundits and diplomats to debate Israeli policies in front of audiences who listen. The conflict, after all, is not going away soon. The real challenge lies with the growing population of the Diaspora for whom Israel is not relevant and who tune out much of the news regarding the conflict as being hopelessly confusing and morally muddled.

These are people whose very indifference or inattentiveness make them susceptible to being swayed by charged anti-Israel labels that are thrown around by our adversaries, such as the word "apartheid." With campuses around the world hosting "Israel Apartheid Week" on an annual basis and ex-presidents of the United States using the word in a book title, the need to have an ongoing campaign that will implant positive emotional associations to Israel has become crucial.

But will the Israeli pilot program in Toronto work? And will it be relevant to the rest of the Diaspora? Toronto is one of the most multicultural cities in the world, with more than 200 languages spoken and with almost half the population belonging to a minority. There are, for example, 470,000 Chinese living there, many of them having little or no preconceptions about Israel. There are, as well, more than half a million Italians. That makes Toronto a very attractive laboratory to experiment in.

AND IT will be a real experiment, with a local company measuring the effects of the campaign with ongoing surveys to measure any progress. (These surveys will be carefully constructed so that respondents are unaware of who has sponsored them and will strenuously avoid politics.) Ads and editorials that are deemed successful by the consulate will, in later years, find their way to other cities around the globe.

There are good reasons for optimism. Gissin and the other people and companies involved in running the campaign are well versed in the local nuances and are aware of the difficulties involved in running a branding campaign that is short on budget. (Most of the advertising budget for the pilot program is being provided by local Jewish philanthropists). The ads are professional and appealing.

But the overwhelming consensus of marketing professionals is that no rebranding campaign can work without grass-roots involvement. Without buzz being generated by word of mouth, without the target audience discussing Israel among themselves, the campaign is likely to fail and the experiment will then not be repeated globally.

It is far too early to tell if the Foreign Ministry's campaign will generate such buzz on its own. But one lesson from the pilot program can already be taken by all supporters of Israel in the Diaspora and that is that even when the ministry does everything right, it can't really do it without local support. Diaspora Zionists must get involved. We must help create the buzz that others will perpetuate.

Even without a formal "rebranding Israel" program, we all have a role to play to help Israel's image. It can be as simple as e-mailing a news story about a recent Israeli invention to a colleague, hanging a picture of beautiful Israeli art on our walls or helping our cities and towns twin with an Israeli town. The government is, belatedly, doing its part. We must lend it a hand.

The writer is the author of the just-released 101+ Ways to Help Israel: A Guide to Doing Small Things That Can Make Big Differences (Gavel Press).nussbaum@WaysToHelpIsrael.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Don't confuse interfaith dialogue with groveling</title>
<date>29/7/2008</date>
<content>
A global conference promoting interfaith dialogue sponsored by the current Saudi regime sounds somewhat like South African proponents of apartheid holding a global kumbaya extolling the virtues of racial equality.

That is not to deny that King Abdullah broke new ground by hosting an interfaith conference and for the first time inviting Jews to participate in a Saudi-sponsored event. Rabbi David Rosen, chairman of the International Jewish Committee on Interreligious Consultation, exuberantly described it as "an historic event" and a prelude "to the opening up of Saudi society," although he did caution that "time will tell if this is the beginning or just another event of no consequence."

Regrettably, being hosted by King Abdullah had such an intoxicating impact on some Jewish participants that they lost their bearings and indulged in excessive praise of their host that degenerated into groveling.

Rabbi Brad Hirschfeld, chairman of the National Center for Learning and Leadership, stressing that he was not naïve, claimed that immediately after he had blessed King Abdullah "with whom God shares divine glory," he saw the king's eyes fill with tears. Rabbi Michael Lerner, head of the radical Tikkun group, suggested that "for those of us who despair about Christianity and Judaism having gone astray... the notion that Islam might be the spark that generates a new religious revival based on mutual respect and spiritual intensity could dramatically expand our understanding of the endless potential for God to surprise us."

Walter Ruby, from the Foundation for Ethnic Understanding, compared King Abdullah's initiative to Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika, forgetting that the Soviet reformer initiated dramatic reforms within his country, whereas Saudi Arabia still represents the most extreme example of fanatical Wahhabi style Islamic extremism.

In fact, state sponsored export of Wahhabism has produced a global network of jihadist Islamic schools and institutions which sanctify violence. This has led to the creation of centers throughout the world nurturing terrorist cadres and incubating many of the suicide bombers who are at the forefront of terrorist activities.

Saudi Arabia denies entry to Jews and prohibits all religions other than Islam the right to establish houses of worship. Saudi imams openly promote virulent anti-Semitism, depicting Jews in mosques and on TV as descendents of apes and pigs who should be killed. To this day, the Saudi educational system continues to incorporate obscenely anti-Semitic texts.

CLEARLY, KING Abdullah in his old age did not become transformed overnight into a liberal. But he is astute enough to realize that his country is under great threat from the expanding Iranian dominated Shi'ite crescent and is desperately seeking to bolster the regime's poor standing in the United States and Europe. That was the prime objective of Abdullah's interfaith conference.

Not surprisingly, the conference took place in Madrid rather than Jedda or Mecca.

Initially, "Rabbi" Yisroel Dovid Weiss, the New York Natorei Karta crackpot who had previously attended the Iranian Holocaust denial conference, was designated to be the only Jew to speak from the podium. After protests supported by an American Muslim imam engaged in interfaith activity, the Saudis backed down and disinvited Weiss. He was substituted by US interfaith guru Rabbi Arthur Schneier, who had hosted Pope Benedict XVI at his Park Avenue synagogue during his recent visit New York.

No Israeli rabbis were invited. Rabbi David Rosen, being Israeli with dual nationality, was designated as an American. In fact, aside from a brief exchange, Israel was kept off the agenda.

More importantly, whereas King Abdullah extolled the virtues of peace and condemned terrorism, participants were informed that only at a subsequent conference would "terrorism" be defined. Hitherto Moslems have denied that attacks against Israel were acts of terror, describing them as legitimate resistance.

IT IS inexplicable why Jewish participants lacked the courage to raise the crucial issues that would not resonate with their hosts. How could Jewish leaders participate in such an event without even relating to the obscene, state-sanctioned religious anti-Semitic incitement openly promoted by the country sponsoring the event? How could they remain silent when a Saudi deputy minister of culture stated that "Islam is a moderate culture and we are determined to prevent extremists from hijacking Islam"? Surely they had an obligation to point out that while all three major monotheistic religions incorporate elements of militant piety and violence, Islam, with its dominant jihadist branches, today represents the most violent doctrine. To remain silent on these issues enabled the Saudis to exploit interfaith dialogue as a vehicle to obtain respectability and cover up their extremism.

Jewish representatives also failed to protest when the concluding communiqué of the conference called "for international organizations to work to issue a document stating respect of faiths and religious symbols and criminalizing those insulting them." This seemingly innocuous statement embodies a call to legally sanction Islamic bullying against all who criticize or question Islamic beliefs or behavior as exemplified by the violence and vicious campaign in relation to Danish cartoons of the prophet Muhammad. Jews who are sensitive to the demonization of religious practice must nevertheless strongly oppose this.

Failure to oppose such initiatives parallels liberal American Jewish leaders endorsing Muslim demands to outlaw security profiling, despite the fact that 95 percent of acts of global terrorism emanate from that group.

WE ALSO do ourselves a great disservice if we endorse the false allegation that Islamaphobia is rampant. It is in fact a tribute to tolerance in Western countries that despite the violence and intimidation emanating from Muslims, overt aggression or discrimination against them has been extremely limited. Indeed, unlike synagogues, mosques rarely require armed guards, and in Europe, much of the violence directed against Jews actually emanates from Muslims.

We must also demand reciprocity. Tolerance and rights for Muslims in Western countries must be matched by tolerance to non-Muslims in Islamic states.

None of this detracts from our obligation to raise our voices against those who would condemn an entire religion because of the criminal behavior of individuals. Yet it is galling that in the Muslim arena there are virtually no such condemnations in relation to incitement against Israel, Jews, or even the US.

Bottom line: Dialogue with the Catholic Church only succeeded because of openness and a will to proceed by both parties. Reputable Jewish organizations must recognize that dialogue with Muslims becomes counterproductive when they fail to present the Jewish case for fear of offending the other party or demean themselves by groveling to appease or curry favor with their hosts. All that is achieved is a façade of goodwill which ultimately only strengthens extremists at the expense of the few genuine moderates within the Islamic community.

It was particularly scandalous and shameful that at a conference presided over by Saudi Arabians who babbled on about tolerance and goodwill, the Jewish participants did not insist on raising the issue of state-sponsored clerical anti-Semitism which is endemic in the country which hosted them.

ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: 'Islamophobia'</title>
<date>26/11/2008</date>
<content>
The interfaith conference of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia which took place under the auspices of the United Nations received wide acclamation. President Shimon Peres went to the lengths of telling the Assembly that he wished that "King Abdullah's voice would become the prevailing voice of the whole region, of all people". The World Jewish Congress published a full page advertisement in The New York Times praising the monarch who leads one of the most oppressive and anti-Semitic regimes in the world.

To their credit, the Saudis were upfront about Israel, stressing that Peres and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni were present by virtue of their UN membership and not by Saudi invitation, and that the King would not engage in any contact with them. And, despite his somewhat servile remarks in praise of Abdullah, Peres was strongly criticized by the Saudi foreign minister.

As a reward for groveling to King Abdullah, the World Jewish Congress was invited to the conference after the Saudis had the chutzpa to brazenly inform them that major Jewish organizations - including the American Jewish Committee, the Presidents Conference, and the Anti Defamation League - were "too political" and would thus be excluded! It was shameful and unprecedented for a reputable Jewish organization to participate at an interfaith conference at which outsiders like the Saudis were able to veto who represents the Jewish people.

It was even more outrageous that the Jews who did participate in the event failed to challenge the behavior of the Saudi regime or even relate to the vicious anti-Semitism which dominates Saudi society. After all, it was Wahhabi preachers from Saudi Arabia who initially provided the inspiration for al Qaeda, until the latter turned on the Saudi leaders, accusing them of corruption and collusion with the US and Western world. To this day, Saudi money is utilized to promote global jihad.

THIS INTERFAITH activity must also be viewed in the context of the global campaign launched by the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the umbrella body representing 57 Moslem states, to criminalize any criticism of Islam - including Shar'ia law.

The members of the OIC include the most tyrannical and repressive states in the world. Many deny human rights to their own citizens and brutally persecute non-Islamic religious minorities, denying them freedom of worship. Even purportedly moderate Islamic countries such as Egypt endorse domestic campaigns inciting their citizens to hatred of non-Islamic minorities, concentrating in particular on promoting the crudest forms of anti-Semitism.

Some of these countries, like Saudi Arabia, also seek to globally extend the application of Shar'ia law, which incorporates barbaric practices such as stoning adulterous women to death, decapitating blasphemers, homosexuals and apostates, and cutting off limbs as punishment for petty theft.

The OIC bitterly complains that Islamophobia in Western countries is rampant and escalating. Yet taking into account that global terrorism today emanates overwhelmingly from Islamic fundamentalists - including those born and bred in the societies hosting them - it is surely a tribute to Western communities that they continue to peacefully co-exist with their Moslem minorities.

Without detracting from the obligation to combat hatred against Moslems and all minorities, the reality is that despite protestations to the contrary from liberals, Moslems residing in Europe face far less institutionalized discrimination than what other migrant groups, including Jews, underwent in the past. Moreover, they are not targeted by terrorists - in contrast to European Jews, their mosques and schools do not require round the clock security guards.

It is also astonishing that some Moslem organizations have the impudence to demand an end to security profiling, though over 95 percent of global terrorist acts originate from radical jihadists. Profiling is undertaken exclusively as a pragmatic means to maximize security and is not related to racist bias. If red-headed individuals committed the bulk of terrorist acts it would surely not be unreasonable to profile redheads for security screening. It is even more bizarre that demands to ban profiling are frequently supported by liberals, including paradoxically, Jews who themselves represent the prime targets for acts of terror.

The OIC campaign has made considerable inroads, with its secretary general recently boasting that "in confronting the Danish cartoons [caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad] and the Dutch film FITNA, we sent a clear message to the West regarding the red lines that should not be breached." In other words, violence, murder and blackmail have succeeded in forcing impotent Western governments to appease radical Islamist forces, even at the price of compromising hitherto sacrosanct commitments to freedom of expression.

Resolutions calling for criminal prosecution of anyone criticizing Islam or Islamic practices have already been formally adopted by the inappropriately named UN Human Rights Council and subsequently by the UN General Assembly. The discredited UN Human Rights Council, which concentrates the bulk of its efforts on delegitimizing Israel, has now formally endorsed a resolution prohibiting any discussion during its proceedings that could be deemed to be critical of Islam, Moslem practice or Shar'ia law. Yet this same body has shamelessly avoided condemning human rights violations including the genocidal killings by the barbaric Islamic Sudanese government at Darfur.

THE CURRENT priority for the Human Rights Council is to ensure that the forthcoming Durban II conference is transformed into a launching pad for resurrecting the previous Durban anti-Semitic hate fest demonizing Israel.

The structure of the Durban 2 Preparatory Committee says it all. The chairman is a former Libyan ambassador who described Israel as "the most tyrannical regime in the world," and he is backed by an Iranian deputy chairman. The Committee held one of its most important meetings on Yom Kippur to ensure that Israelis and Jews would not participate. In its recently released Final Document for Discussions, undisguised bias is reflected in the language employed. It refers to "Israeli apartheid," the "racist Israeli Law of Return", Palestinians as "victims of Israeli racism," and so on.

This abominable body is simultaneously proclaiming that "the most serious manifestations of the defamation of religion are the increase in Islamophobia and the worsening situation of Moslem minorities throughout the world."

It is incomprehensible why it took until now for Israel to recognize that Durban 2 is controlled by our most venomous enemies and is intended to serve as a global platform for promoting anti-Semitism and Israel bashing. Had we from the outset supported the Canadian decision to boycott this bogus conference, the Americans and many other democratic nations might also have resolved to distance themselves from these hate mongers.

To offset these challenges, Israel must seek to create alliances with democratic nations and NGOs. Likewise, where possible, Diaspora Jewish organizations should seek out moderate Moslem groups with whom to promote genuine interfaith relationships. But such activity must be transparent. Those who accept as a precondition to dialogue the exclusion of Israeli participants or restrictions on discussion relating to Israel are harming the Jewish cause, providing respectability to extremists and marginalizing moderate Moslems.

Without diminishing our ongoing efforts to outlaw hate crimes or incitement against all minorities, including Moslems, we must resist OIC attempts to pressure Western countries into criminalizing criticism of religion which, aside from being an unprecedented restriction of freedom of expression, would also deny us the opportunity of exposing Islamic extremism.

ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Can Israel win the 'soft power' war in Gaza?</title>
<date>28/12/2008</date>
<content>
The government's decision to launch a political and media offensive before beginning the major military operation in Gaza was an important and necessary step. The moral case for using force to protect citizens against aggression is clear - the most basic human right is the right to life, and this point needs to be highlighted in every venue. In contrast, there is no moral justification for Hamas's terror and missile attacks, or for remaining silent in the face of the use of human shields in Gaza to protect terrorists from counterattack.

But based on past experience, to make this moral case and to counteract the images from Gaza, carefully considered and professionally implemented strategies are required. For years, Israel has been totally defeated on the "soft power" battlefields, which are dominated by the UN, the media and powerful nongovernmental organizations funded by European governments that claim to speak in the name of human rights and international morality. In these venues, the most effective weapons have been the words and distorted (or faked) pictures highlighting the illusion of Israeli dominance and Palestinian victimization.

IN THE "soft war" that is accompanying the military operations in Gaza, Israel can expect a repeat of the successful strategies used by Palestinians and Hizbullah. In 2000, the apparently staged killing of 12-year old Muhammad al-Dura, orchestrated by a Palestinian cameraman working for a French television station and amplified by NGOs, was a central event and used to portray Israelis as child-murderers. In 2002, following the Passover night attack in Netanya, the IDF operation in Jenin was immediately countered by the false claims of a "massacre" (initiated by Palestinian officials, and echoed by Amnesty International and the British press, in particular). Campaigns to impose boycotts and sanctions followed, using demonization rhetoric such as "apartheid," in accordance with the strategy adopted by the infamous NGO Forum of the 2001 Durban Conference.

Similarly, the 2006 Second Lebanon War was accompanied by daily condemnations of "indiscriminate attacks" and "war crimes." In one incident, headlines based on a false claim of massive civilian casualties resulting from an air attack led Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to declare a 48-hour halt in air force operations, giving Hizbullah a chance to regroup and extending the war. A few days later, Human Rights Watch issued a minor correction, but by then, no one noticed.

THE PROPAGANDA war in Gaza began more than a year ago, with a steady flow of UN, media and NGO campaigns falsely accusing Israel of "collective punishment," starving the innocent population and preventing Fulbright students from leaving Gaza. In these attacks, the human rights of Israelis are usually ignored. The Hamas leadership provided images of "candlelight vigils" and hungry children, although there was always sufficient electricity and food. On this basis, the NGO "reports," press releases and pseudo-legal claims are repeated verbatim by the media, and then echoed by the UN and diplomats with a strong anti-Israel bias.

To counter this offensive and launch an effective counterattack, the main sources of "soft power" aggression must be confronted. In addition to giving a high priority to exposing the false claims and lack of credibility of many such human rights allegations, the best defense is a good offensive. The propaganda effort is supported by massive budgets, provided directly and indirectly (often through church groups) by the European Commission and member governments, as well as Norway and Switzerland. The funds are justified as support for peace, democracy and human rights, but the evidence shows that these groups use their funds for anti-Israel propaganda.

Similarly, action needs to be taken to prevent groups such as the Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network, (also funded by the EC) and Relief Web (run by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs - OCHA) from using their mandates and funding for anti-Israel political offensives.

THE GOVERNMENT must consistently confront foreign government funders - particularly the Europeans - on these issues. As long as this practice continues, Europe cannot expect to be given a serious role in attempts to reach peace agreements in the region. Foreign government funding for groups that lead campaign to demonize Israel through the false rhetoric of "apartheid," "war crimes" and "collective punishment" is fundamentally immoral. The Knesset can play an important role by investigating this practice, and passing legislation that makes all such political funding from foreign governments entirely transparent, in contrast to the current secrecy in decision making and other details.

Since many of the same organizations also receive generous donations from the private New Israel Fund (which is based in New York and receives money from Jewish federations), Israelis should also begin a dialogue with its donors and officials. Many of them are simply unaware of how their money is being spent. (The EC office in Washington also gives hundreds of thousands of dollars to the NIF - a highly unorthodox practice - which then distributes the money to some of the leading political NGOs.)  These are only the first steps in a long war to regain the moral high ground that Israel lost by default, and in the face of a very intensive and professional Arab attacks. To be successful, the efforts require a much wider and highly professional strategy of public diplomacy, involving all of the major officials and government offices.

The writer is chairman of the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University and executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: Committee for tyranny in academe</title>
<date>8/4/2008</date>
<content>
So far, 2007-2008 is looking like another bleak academic year for those of us who want the university to be a fair, welcoming and open-minded oasis where the life of the mind can flourish. In Gaza, Hamas police and their henchmen recently beat professors and students at Al Azhar University, who dared to protest a Hamas rally mourning the death of Hamas's founder. In Great Britain, radical academics are threatening to try boycotting Israel again, despite the financial strain it puts on their union which is supposed to improve scholars' working conditions. In California, an independent task force deemed University of California at Irvine a hostile environment for Jews, with the administration cowed by an aggressive and frequently anti-Semitic Muslim Student Union. And in February, in 20 campuses worldwide, activists spent a week perpetuating the historically inaccurate and libelous comparison between Israel's policies and the old South Africa's systematic, racist apartheid regime.

Despite these assaults on academic freedom and integrity, more of my professorial colleagues are outraged by the failure of the anti-Zionist polemicist Norman Finkelstein to get tenure. Many professors are also furious that some Barnard College alumni vainly tried to interfere in the tenure process of Nadia Abu El-Haj, who sloppily and tendentiously caricatures Israeli architecture as a prop for Zionist colonialism.

THESE TWO cases and others inspired the noble-sounding but deeply biased Ad Hoc Committee to Defend the University. This fall, leading scholars from Princeton and Columbia started a petition drive against outsiders imposing "political agendas" at the cost of academic freedom. These external forces, the petition argues in its first paragraph, have defamed scholars, pressured administrators and subverted university governance to achieve their aims. Such assaults violate "an important principle of scholarship, the free exchange of ideas, subjecting them to ideological and political tests. These attacks threaten academic freedom and the core mission of institutions of higher education in a democratic society."  The second paragraph then reveals the bias. The petitioners claim that "many of the most vociferous campaigns targeting universities and their faculty have been launched by groups portraying themselves as defenders of Israel." The petition ends by warning of a new McCarthyism, perpetuating a stereotype of embattled liberal academics, and vowing to defend and explain the "importance of academic freedom to a sustainable and vibrant democracy."

In fact, the 646 scholars who signed will have difficulty explaining academic freedom, considering their petition reflects such a deep misunderstanding of the essential mutuality underpinning academic freedom - and the broader notion of scholarly integrity. Conservative and liberal academics seem to agree that academic freedom is threatened. Yet they ignore that, together, partisans from both extremes risk creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. The more "academic freedom" becomes a term fronting a particular political agenda, the more embattled and devalued the concept becomes.

As writers and teachers, professors cherish their academic freedom to think and speak freely. Academic freedom is a politically neutral concept defending professors' rights not to be politically neutral. Scholars should be free to reach politically-charged conclusions without worrying about professional sanctions. But academic freedom demands that scholars grant colleagues and students the same latitude they enjoy to think differently. Unfortunately, too many modern academics demand the freedom to pursue their own political agendas without embracing that mutuality freedom requires.

THE PETITIONERS missed the historian's favorite text - context. They are free to condemn the backlash against the Columbia Middle East Studies professors who intimidated Zionist students, the Norman Finkelstein and Nadia Abu El-Haj tenure controversies, the fights over federal funding to bring Middle East Studies professors hostile to American policy into high schools. But an honest assessment of the background would conclude that these storms did not emerge in a vacuum. Tensions accumulated for years over perceived leftist biases and politically correct intolerance throughout the universities, most especially in Middle East studies.

In the modern university, attacks on George W. Bush are ubiquitous and guaranteed to get cheap and knowing laughs. Yet when critics suggest that academics on the whole veer left, cries of "McCarthyism" fill the air. A petition truly in the spirit of academic freedom would acknowledge the growing tension, both sides' excesses, and challenge everyone in the university to ratchet down the politicking, especially in the classroom.

The petitioners have undermined faith in their political smarts as well as their scholarly integrity. Given the charged context and the many grievances on both sides, their inability to mention even one abuse from anti-Israel or anti-American forces inside or outside the university is shocking. Scholars should be among the first to reject the modern Middle East's mutually exclusive, all-or-nothing narratives. This doctrinaire refusal to acknowledge complexity dismays many students who are subjected to their professors' one-sided perspectives.

Universities need professors to create a new tone in many classrooms. Many of my students understand that their professors will reveal some bias. The students resent professors who present their political bias as the only perspective and disdain any other positions.

Students know how to play the academic game. If they sense professors want parrots, they can squawk back brilliantly. But we do not need a generation of cynical copycats, echoing a party line. We need a generation of eagles, taught by their mentors to soar high, transcending the red-blue gravitational physics weighing down so many discussions today.

This need for independent, creative student thinkers, mentored by tolerant, truly liberal-minded professors, suggests the deeper scandal in spreading such one-sided petitions and such a pinched, my-way-or-the-highway view of academic freedom. These petitioning professors not only unduly politicize the meaning of academic freedom. If they impose the same one-sided views in the classroom that they do in such petitions, they are also regularly committing educational malpractice.

The writer is professor of history at McGill University. His next book Leading from the Center: Why Moderates Make the Best Presidents will be published this spring.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: What the Global Forum must do</title>
<date>12/2/2008</date>
<content>
While March is supposed to come in like a lion and go out like a lamb, in Jewish terms, this February has come in with a big lie and, hopefully, will go out with a roaring counter-slam.

From February 3 through 19 Israel-bashers mark "Israel Apartheid Week" - although this 17-day "week" suggests the organizers' arithmetic is as shoddy as their history. With that hate-fest's bitter aftertaste still lingering, the International Conference of the Global Forum for Combatting Anti-Semitism is convening at Israel's Foreign Ministry on February 24 and 25.

How do you fight hatred, especially when it masquerades as righteous indignation against Israeli policies which, like all policies, are debatable? Future historians will find our era's moral confusion stunning, as they trace how the unremitting, irrational Arab hatred of Israel soured into an unremitting, irrational hatred of Jews, yet was perfumed by the broader global crusade against racism. They will expose the "useful idiots" enabling Arab anti-Semitism, people like the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour, who initially applauded a Charter for Arab Human Rights that demonized Zionism - only under pressure did she belatedly, halfheartedly backpedal. They will mock the naïve young people and NGOs who judge Israel's actions in a complicated national conflict with the Palestinians so harshly, while blithely excusing Arab racism, sexism, homophobia, and xenophobia.

It is tempting during a grandly named Global Forum against this ancient poison in new, post-modern beakers, to be too ambitious. Intellectually, diagnosing this old-new disease requires a sweeping analysis of the pathologies of the Left and the Right, of the modern, sometimes far too sophisticated for its own good West, and the traditional, often addicted to the worst of its ancient heritage East. To solve the problem we would need a global action plan targeting the salons of London and the slums of Cairo, the Jewish graveyard that is the Ukraine and certain areas where Jews never lived, such as Japan.

SOMETIMES, however, less is more. While responding to the occasional outrages and boycotts with righteous indignation, it is better to focus on a few proactive steps that can yield measurable results than trying to master all the challenges simultaneously. The fight against anti-Semitism should focus on four targets, two conceptual and two political.

For starters, we have to distinguish between the moral clarity of the fight against anti-Semitism and the murkiness of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Our adversaries conflate the two, we should not. A Global Forum sponsored by Israel's Foreign Ministry should show that not all criticisms of Israel will be labelled anti-Semitic, making the fight against anti-Semitism a big-tent movement involving Jews and non-Jews, leftists and rightists, doves and hawks. We need a broad coalition against hatred that respects a wide range of views. And we have to be vigilant, being the first to censure the Jewish boys (and girls) who cry "wolf," yelling "anti-Semite" so frequently and promiscuously they neutralize the sting of what should be a devastating charge.

In that spirit, and as the second conceptual challenge, we must demonstrate that, wherever we stand on the question of Israeli policies, the language of apartheid is inaccurate and immoral. We have to separate the word "Israel" from the word "apartheid," filling our opponents' pithy phrases with bits of verbal rubble by calling their February fest "Israel-is-not-at-all-an-Apartheid-State-but-we-are-going-to-lie-and-claim-that-it-is Week."

This way, we make sure that the word "Israel" does not get linked in the public mind with the noxious racist policies of South African apartheid in the way that "Zionism" has become all too linked with "racism."

We have to work with South Africans who suffered under the old racist regime, mobilizing Africans and blacks around the world to object that this sloppy ahistorical analogizing obscures South African racism's harsh white supremacist character. We have to confront the Jimmy Carters and Norman Finkelsteins, who, by falsely comparing Jewish nationalism to South African racism rather than to other nationalist movements, implicitly delegitimize Zionism. And we have to challenge Israel's own internal critics, showing how their use of the term, however intentioned, feeds anti-Zionist and anti-Semitic fires, making them morally culpable for the conflagration.

Politically, we should target two specific enemies: the countries, international bodies and NGOs working to repeat the sins of Durban I, and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad along with his fellow cheerleaders for genocide in Iran. The fight against Durban II is focused and winnable. The Canadian government has already repudiated this charade. Canadians and other diplomats should be lobbied to stop this latest UN farce not just for the sake of the Jews but for the sake of the UN. Israel's representatives should approach former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson, inviting her to prove her protestations of innocence since presiding over the 2001 debacle were sincere by leading this fight.

While Durban II will resolve by 2009, we need more patience in confronting the ugly marriage between Iran's nuclear ambitions and genocidal rhetoric. As Natan Sharansky and Shlomo Avineri have proposed, we should replicate the Soviet Jewish movement's success, confronting Iranian diplomats wherever they are, challenging the Iranian people, and moderates within the regime, to live up to Iran's self-image as an enlightened nation not the world's outlaw.

Piling on more campaigns threatens to dissipate our energies; further limiting the agenda risks missing some of the most compelling keystone problems which, if handled properly, could help defuse other tensions. The week libelling Israel is not going away anytime soon. And the Global Forum will most probably, unhappily, have to assemble again next year. But while praying for the Global Forum to become unnecessary as soon as possible, we have to plan to make the time and effort of all involved deployed as constructively as possible.

The writer is professor of history at McGill and author of the forthcoming Leading from the Center: Why Moderates Make the Best Presidents.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Civil Fights: Pathological culture kills</title>
<date>27/2/2008</date>
<content>
Yet another study of suicide bombers was published recently, this time by researchers at the University of Toronto. Like almost all its predecessors, the study refuted the theory that such bombers are motivated by poverty and despair; most, it found, were not economically deprived. It also echoed previous studies in concluding that suicide bombers are not psychologically unstable.

But, again like many of its predecessors, it stopped short of the obvious conclusion: that suicide bombings are, overwhelmingly, a product of the surrounding culture.

The study, which focused on Palestinian bombers, concluded that their primary motivation was a desire for personal vengeance against Israel. Yet that begs an obvious question: If so, why do many violent conflicts not produce suicide bombers? The desire for revenge, after all, is a universal emotion, found in every conflict throughout the ages. Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland, for instance, were no less eager to avenge the deaths of loved ones than Palestinians are, yet their conflict produced no suicide bombers. The African National Congress produced no suicide bombers in its battle against apartheid, despite a plethora of victims. Wars have killed millions in other non-Islamic African countries without producing a single suicide bombing. Argentina's "dirty war" produced no suicide bombers despite thousands of governmental murders and kidnappings, nor has any other South American conflict. Nor have there been any Jewish suicide bombers, despite thousands of Israeli victims of Arab terror.

The same question applies to those who persist - despite all the studies showing that suicide bombers are typically relatively prosperous and well-educated - in deeming poverty the main motivator. Poverty in much of Africa, for instance, is far worse than in the Palestinian Authority; yet suicide bombings are unknown in non-Islamic parts of that continent.

THE ONLY explanation that consistently fits the data is the social and cultural milieu: Invariably, suicide bombers come from societies that view such bombings as an acceptable and even laudable response to grievance. Societies that deem them unacceptable do not produce suicide bombers.

That explains why most such bombers are Muslims: While an increasingly popular strain of Islam deems suicide bombers "holy martyrs" who merit praise on earth and reward in heaven, they have no such status in Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism, Confucianism or animism. Indeed, most religions deem suicide bombings an abomination.

But Islam alone cannot explain this phenomenon: Some Muslim countries, such as Bosnia and Kosovo, produced no suicide bombings despite suffering atrocities, while the predominantly secular Fatah frequently employs such bombings.

In the PA, however, secular society has reproduced the glorification of suicide bombings that Islamic fervor generates in groups like al-Qaida and Hizbullah. As leading Palestinian psychiatrist Eyad Sarraj told the Los Angeles Times in 2002, suicide bombers have "unparalleled" status in Palestinian society. "Their pictures are plastered on public walls, their funerals are emotional celebrations, their families often receive visits from state officials," the paper reported. "They become almost holy, praised by imams at mosques or over loudspeakers at rallies, where children are often dressed as shrouded dead or as pint-sized suicide bombers."  "We have here a cultural glorification of martyrs," Sarraj concluded. "If you asked children 20 years ago what they wanted to be when they grew up, they'd say a doctor or an engineer. Now they say they want to be a martyr."

The Shin Bet security service reached an identical conclusion a few years back, based on interviews with would-be bombers who were caught before blowing themselves up. It found that the primary motivation was the desire to be a hero in society's eyes.

How does that square with the new study's finding that the main factor is a desire for revenge? Because while revenge is a universal emotion, its outlet is strongly influenced by culture. If channeling your desire for revenge into a suicide bombing would make you a hero, this becomes an attractive option. If it would make you a pariah, it looks much less attractive.

FAILED BOMBERS' stories illustrate this dynamic. Arin Ahmed, for instance, described how, two months after her boyfriend Jad was killed, she suddenly told some friends that she wanted to avenge him by becoming a suicide bomber. It was a spur-of-the-moment thought, the 20-year-old said in a published 2002 interview; "a moment earlier, I hadn't thought of anything like that."

Four days later, some Fatah operatives arrived and said her bombing was ready. From then on, they never let her alone. "They didn't let me think about it too much," she said. "They pressured me and persuaded me. They told me: You'll gain a very special status among women suicide bombers. You'll be a real heroine. It's for Jad's memory. You'll be reunited with him in heaven. You'll be with him in paradise."

Contrast this with a scene I witnessed at the shiva for a teenage girl killed in a suicide bombing. Her grief-stricken 17-year-old brother screamed that he wanted to avenge her by killing Palestinians. It was a normal teenage reaction, no different from Ahmed's. But his society's response was very different: Rather than being instantly surrounded by people who promised him honor and glory if he acted on this impulse, his father and others present told him unequivocally that this response was unacceptable. And, as in Ahmed's case, societal pressure had an impact: She set off to kill and landed in jail; he worked through his grief and got on with his life.

UNFORTUNATELY, the world largely ignores this all-important cultural factor, deeming anyone who is not a terrorist an "innocent civilian." That is why, for instance, it lambastes Israeli sanctions on Gaza even as Gaza's elected government bombards Israel with rockets: Such sanctions "hurt innocent civilians." Yet Gaza's civilians are not exactly innocent: They elected the terrorist Hamas; they overwhelming support attacks on Israeli civilians (as repeated polls show); and they actively participate, as Sarraj noted, in glorifying such attacks, thereby creating the atmosphere in which they flourish.

If the world truly wants to eradicate terror, it must address the culture factor. And that starts with ending the "innocent civilian" myth. Societies that glorify terror must not be given a free pass.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Congress joins fight on Durban II</title>
<date>4/10/2008</date>
<content>
The plan to hold a second Durban conference in April 2009, eight years after the first catastrophic UN meeting, has led to slowly growing opposition. The government of Canada led the challenge to the exploitation of human rights in waging political war against Israel by declaring that it will not participate in the 2009 conference. Israeli and American officials also expressed opposition to a repetition of the anti-Semitism and incitement, but in the midst of an election campaign, the US government did not follow Canada in declaring a boycott.

However, Congress has spoken out strongly on the Durban Review Conference, in the form House of Representatives Resolution 1361 adopted on September 23. This resolution calls on the US government to "lead a high-level diplomatic effort" aimed at "defeating the campaign by some members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference to divert the United Nation's Durban Review Conference from a review of problems in their own and other countries by attacking Israel, promoting anti-Semitism and undermining the Universal Declaration of Human Rights."

The detailed text highlights the enormous damage to human rights that resulted from the 2001 conference, and particularly the NGO Forum, which "misused human rights language to promote hate, anti-Semitism, incitement and divert the focus of the conference from problems within their own countries to a focus on Israel."

Reflecting the analysis provided by NGO Monitor, the text emphasized the damage done by the NGO Declaration that contained abusive language, branding Israel an "apartheid state" that is guilty of "racist crimes against humanity."

The importance of this resolution, which was written in the Foreign Affairs committee, results in part from the wide consensus involving different political constituencies. In a highly partisan political era, this initiative gained the active support of Rep. Howard Berman, the leader of Democratic majority on the committee, and the Republican leader, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. A total of 24 co-sponsors signed their names to the text, including leading Afro-American political figures such as Rep. John Conyers.

IN SOUNDING the warning, the congressional resolution also highlights the declared intention of the Organization of the Islamic Conference to use the conference to again attack Israel, and to focus on "global blasphemy," which "would legitimize arbitrary restrictions of freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and the freedoms of expression and opinion, all in the name of protecting religions from 'defamation' and 'blasphemy.'"

On this foundation, the resolution goes on to propose a 15-point operational plan, including calling on "the president and the secretary of state to lead a high-level diplomatic effort to ensure that the Durban Review Conference focuses on the implementation by states of their commitments to combat racism" and "to defeat any effort by states to use the forum to promote anti-Semitism or hatred against members of any group or to call into question the legitimacy of any state."

It advocates pressure on US allies, such as Egypt (head of the African Group and very active in promoting the demonization of Israel, in violation of the 1979 peace treaty), to "ensure that the Durban Review Conference does not become a forum for anti-Semitism, incitement or hatred..."

While not calling explicitly for a boycott, the authors commend governments, including Canada, "that have declared their intentions not to participate in any... conference that... promotes hate, undermines human rights standards," etc. European governments are singled out for mention, reflecting the concern that, as in 2001, when the US and Israeli delegations demonstrably walked out of the conference, their officials will stay and ignore clear evidence that this review conference is again heading for catastrophe. Europe, unlike Canada and the US, appears to have learned little from the Durban experience.

Congress does not make foreign policy, but this broad-based resolution fills the leadership vacuum on this issue during the US election campaign and lays out clear guidelines for the next president. This is not a narrow "pro-Israel statement," but rather reflects the consensus understanding that the Durban process, and the strategy of abusing human rights rhetoric, is immoral and has been responsible for the destruction of these core values.

The writer is the executive director of www.ngo-monitor.org. and chairman of the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Cry, South Africa</title>
<date>27/5/2008</date>
<content>
English-speaking Israelis cannot easily ignore the media images of brutality and plunder in South Africa. For those born there, they are graphic manifestations of the culture of violence that has lately engulfed the post-apartheid society. For Israelis of South African heritage especially, the scenes of mobs rampaging through the streets of Johannesburg and Cape Town, beating, killing and wreaking general havoc, cannot but evoke great pain.

The local Jewish community (about 100,000) is doing all it can to aid the victims. In Johannesburg, for instance, it is sending them blankets, provisions and food while attempting to keep them secure in the churches where they have sought sanctuary.

The overriding majority of South African Jews abhorred apartheid, and many played an active role in opposing it. They welcomed the new pluralistic democracy and trusted in the promise of an African renaissance. Yet for many, the higher the hopes, the greater the ensuing disillusionment.

Evidence that South Africa is becoming a dysfunctional state is now undeniable. Crime rates are spiraling and seemingly out of control. Many citizens have lost their sense of personal security. Law enforcement is mistrusted. The  AIDS epidemic has gone virtually unchecked. Triggered by all these, the country is suffering a marked brain drain.

And yet despite this dismal picture, South Africa remains one of the more prosperous states on the African continent, a regional power and a magnet for economic migrants from countries like Nigeria as well as for refugees from failed states such as Mozambique and Zimbabwe.

AS ISRAEL - located at the crossroads between Africa and Asia - has discovered in recent years, the impetus to leave the sub-Sahara's failed states is powerful; though, of course, the increasing infiltrations of illegal migrants arriving at Israel's border with Egypt cannot compare in scope with what has happened in South Africa.

There, asylum-seekers, especially from Zimbabwe, have tended to be better educated and more skilled than many of South Africa's own citizens, notably those who subsist in squatter camps outside urban centers. The local poor accuse the newcomers of taking away their jobs, housing, even their women. The result has been a spontaneous outburst of xenophobia that has so far taken over 56 lives and seen 650 injured and perhaps 80,000 people displaced. No one knows how many have been traumatized.

AFTER MORE than two weeks of rioting, on Sunday President Thabo Mbeki belatedly remembered to condemn the onslaught against foreigners as "an absolute disgrace." And indeed, the shame, especially for a country that gloried in overthrowing oppression, cannot be exaggerated.

The recent violence only adds to South Africa's other travails, including its ineffectual public services, a 30% unemployment rate, erratic supply of electricity and an unnecessarily high infant mortality rate.

Mbeki became notorious worldwide for his assertion that HIV and AIDS were unconnected. Now, by propping up Zimbabwean tyrant Robert Mugabe, he has inadvertently helped bring South Africa's streets to a boiling point .

Mugabe's wanton destruction of Zimbabwe's economy and his reign of terror sent perhaps 3,000,000 of his frightened subjects fleeing into neighboring South Africa. And, by helping facilitate despotism in Harare, by tolerating injustice and appeasing political terror, the leadership in Pretoria imported Zimbabwe's troubles into its cities.

The vast majority of asylum-seekers aren't there by choice. Some, suspected by Mugabe of supporting his rival, Morgan Tsvangirai, were "cleansed." South Africa, out of a misguided sense of "anti-colonial" solidarity, was loath to stop Mugabe, much less denounce him - even after Tsvangirai's seeming victory in the March election and Mugabe's refusal to allow publication of the official results.

If any good can come out of this tragedy, it would be for the South African leadership to engage in some serious soul-searching. First, Pretoria might want to publicly acknowledge its dishonorable record vis-a-vis Zimbabwe, and then put its political weight behind ensuring a truly clean electoral run-off there.

Israelis are keenly interested in what goes on in South Africa because it is hard to imagine the continent thriving without Pretoria leading the way. We pray for the latest wounds to be healed, and for a country with such immense potential to finally fulfill it.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 10: Insecure in S.A.</title>
<date>9/12/2008</date>
<content>
Insecure in S.A.

Sir, - Re "Israeli protection may increase Chabad's risk, security expert says" (December 9): The security measures at Johannesburg's Chabad House probably have nothing to do with the fact that Chabad is a Jewish organization.

I recently made aliya from South Africa and can state that the security measures in place there are a deterrent against the crime wave sweeping the country.

A few months ago, on a Saturday morning, a gentleman walking to a Chabad synagogue service was mugged and murdered because he was carrying his gold-thread-embellished Tallit bag, which was found a few metres from his body. The murderer had found nothing of "value."

In certain areas of Johannesburg, groups of Jews returning in the dark from Shabbat Eve synagogue services are followed by a car driven by an armed security officer to ensure that they reach their homes safely.

GEOFFREY LEVY
Ra'anana

Bedtime yawn

Sir, - As a follower of Chabad ideology, with its predilection for gematrias and anagrams, has Shmuley Boteach ever noticed that his criticism of present-day marital malaise might be supported by the remarkable equivalence of "bedroom" and "boredom"? ("Take the TV out of the bedroom," December 9).
MARTIN D. STERN
Salford, UK

What 'pogrom'...

Sir, - Further to "No pogrom" (Letters, December 9): A pogrom, by definition, is citizen violence sponsored by the government. For the violence in Hebron to be a pogrom, the authorities would have to support it.

The only, verified and admitted, pogroms in Hebron were in the 1920s and 1930s, when the British Mandate government supported Arab violence and murder against the Jewish inhabitants and then removed the remaining Jews, leaving the city Judenrein for the first time in its history since biblical times. The Jews reestablished their presence there only after June 1967.

Is the prime minister, and maybe others, using "pogrom" in an inappropriate way in order to discredit Jews?

AHARON GOLDBERG
Hatzor Haglilit

...really means

Sir, - We Jews are sensitive about labels. We are inclined to be offended when Jimmy Carter uses the word "apartheid" in matters relating to us and when major media call terrorists "militants" or "jihadists."

Yet we now have our own PM describing the recent - admittedly ugly and distasteful - events in Hebron as a pogrom! Does this not indicate his blissful, disgraceful ignorance of the meaning of the term? ("Olmert calls Hebron settler violence a 'pogrom,'" December 8.)

ROCKY MURAVITZ
BENNIE PENZIK
Ramat Hasharon

Sir, - In the light of Jewish history and the fact that many of our families in eastern Europe were murdered in government-approved or -instigated slaughter, we object most strongly to Ehud Olmert's use of the word "pogrom."

We would have thought that the PM, with his experience, would utilize his brain before he opens his mouth.

SONIA AND NEVILLE GOLDREIN
Jerusalem

Territories belong to the Palestinians...

Sir, - Israel's bullying behavior toward Palestinians, and especially those in Gaza, must stop. Israel must not impede the flow of humanitarian shipments and deliveries into Gaza, where the population live in extreme conditions.

Israel must stop being hostile and have respect for others. Israel must not stop the flow of money into Palestinian banks in Gaza. Israel must ensure electricity supply and proper sanitation for the people in Gaza ("Israel reimposes Gaza media ban," December 9).

I pray that all journalists who report from Israel observe duty, fairness and impartiality and honor their profession. Finally, Israel must recognize that the occupied Palestinian territories belong to the Palestinians.

MATTEO D'AGOSTINO 
Veglie, Italy

...no, they do not

Sir, - In "The Zionist wunderkind," Colin Shindler wrote of an "Ottoman Palestine," when none actually existed (UpFront, Books, December 5).

In 1909, for example, Tel Aviv was founded in what the Ottomans called The Independent Sanjak (district of) Jerusalem - and not the "P" word. T. E. Lawrence's (Lawrence of Arabia's) published memoirs, The Seven Pillars of Wisdom, include four maps of the area, none of which uses the term "Palestine."

The "Palestine" of the British Mandate was comprised of Sanjak Acco, Sanjak Nablus, Independent Sanjak Jerusalem and on the other side of the Jordan River were Sanjak Maan and Sanjak Hauran.

Those last two, as part of a "land swap" were given to king Abdullah, who renamed them his Transjordan. His brother Feisal was given the vilayets (provinces) of Basra, Baghdad and Mosul which he renamed his green (yaroq) kingdom of Iraq.

The British received, in return, the Sinai Peninsula in 1922, which they made part of Egypt as a means of protecting their financial interests in the Suez Canal.

Saudi Ambassador to the UN Ahmed Shukairy told the Security Council in 1957 how it was common knowledge that "Palestine" was merely some area in Ancient Syria. Only later, as the first head of the PLO, did he define "Palestine" in the 1964 PLO Covenant as "the undivided boundaries of The British Mandate," and a "Palestinian" as an Arab who may have been in that area for two years prior to 1947 (see Israel-Arab Reader, edited by Walter Lacqueur).

G. DINERMAN 
Ramat Aviv

One-way deal

Sir, - How can Israel continue to release Palestinian prisoners without linking Jonathan Pollard's freedom to the deal? Three-way deals used to be normal during the Cold War ("Palestinian prisoner release put off until next week," December 9).
HOWARD SPERBER 
Cleveland

Who can complain?

Sir, - I just had to smile when I read in Barry Rubin's column "Vienna, Vienna" (December 9) that while in today's Austria "the Right is anti-Jewish, much of the Left is anti-Israel."
What a perfect example of balance!

GERSHON JACOBSON
Jerusalem

Bout of bellyaching

Sir, - Long ago we Israelis designed our own method of appraising any financial crisis - crude and unscientific, but seemingly as accurate as any professional estimate.

As far as we can judge, no more consumers than before are counting their change at checkout counters, or checking cheaper prices for identical goods. Traffic jams have not lessened. Has anybody seriously proposed car-pooling, switching to public transport, or really staggering the workday?

What we do see is many employers exploiting talk of a crisis to do a bit of well-needed house-cleaning. The government should follow suit.

If the financial crisis ever hits Israel in force, we should be prepared with belts already tightened. What is happening now is a minor panic and a major bout of bellyaching ("There is a solution," Shraga Biran, December 7).

MACABEE DEAN
Ramat Gan

CORRECTION 

A work accident that resulted in the death of a man over the weekend ("Man dies in Haifa Port work accident") occurred in Kiryat Haim, and not in Haifa, as reported in Sunday's paper.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Between Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur</title>
<date>6/10/2008</date>
<content>
Why did Prime Minister Ehud Olmert suddenly now realize that the price of peace with the Palestinians is giving back almost all of the West Bank, dividing Jerusalem and even acknowledging Israel's part in the suffering caused to Palestinians as a result of the establishment of Israel? Why do Israeli leaders and Israeli generals come to these same political insights only when they no longer have any real power to do anything about it?

At the time of coming to the decision to disengage from Gaza, prime minister Ariel Sharon said that the weight of responsibility changes your vantage point. Perhaps that is true when you are a leader with a strong coalition government behind you, or when there is no real opposition working against you, as Sharon had during those days. Olmert had a strong coalition, but only on paper and only if he didn't make any controversial decisions.

After muddling the war in Lebanon, he lost his "moral majority" in the Knesset and even within his own party, and along with all of the corruption investigations, he was not given a free day to really focus on his main and most important mission - peace with the Palestinians. Domestic politics have always clouded the vision of Israeli leaders and have always prevented them from fulfilling their political agenda.

Olmert has been liberated from domestic politics - he doesn't care about his coalition or his popularity rating any more. He can now say what he really believes. It is, on the one hand, refreshing to hear such honesty from a political leader, but; on the other, extremely frustrating to hear it when it is too late to impact any political change.

Olmert has faced the reality that we may have missed the opportunity to create the Palestinian state next to Israel. Ironically, for most of his political life he was opposed to this idea and now he has come to realize that the survival of the State of Israel and the Zionist enterprise is based on it.

I HAVE spent a lot of time recently traveling around the West Bank and seeing the reality of the settlement entrenchment that makes it almost impossible to separate Israel from Palestine. Larry Derfner, a Jerusalem Post columnist, wrote last week that we must come to realization that as much as Tel Aviv is Israel, so is Nablus. More and more Palestinians are coming to this conclusion as well. Palestinian newspapers as well as debates in the Palestinian universities and among political activists throughout Palestine and the Palestinian Diaspora are coming out in support of the one-state solution.

Objectively speaking, in light of the continued settlement building and the failure of the negotiators to produce an acceptable agreement, it seems like a logical conclusion. The main problem is that there is no such thing as a "one-state solution."

The Palestinian national movement has traveled long distances since its institutionalization with the founding of the PLO in 1964. For 24 years it held steadfast to the idea of a "secular democratic state" in all of Palestine, from the river to the sea. According to the PLO Charter, Jews that came to Palestine after the beginning of the Zionist movement's "colonialization" would have to go back to where they came from. We correctly understood the PLO Charter as a call for the destruction of the State of Israel.

In 1988, after the outbreak of the first intifada, the local Palestinian leadership in the refugee camps and in east Jerusalem, living under Israeli occupation for 20 years, succeeded in imposing a different agenda on the Palestinian leadership in exile. In November 1988 the PLO adopted the two-state solution which implicitly recognized the State of Israel. That recognition became explicit in 1993 with the signing of the Oslo Agreement.

Now after 20 years of failing to convince Israeli governments to accept the two-state solution, the Palestinian national movement is in the process of reviewing and renewing its political agenda. A significant number of Palestinian intellectuals and political thinkers, some of the very same people who helped to shape the position in support of the two-state solution, are now saying it's too late. There is currently a new search for ideas and political concepts aimed at reshaping the vision of the Palestinian national movement.

The more simplistic version or "sound bite" of the new vision is "the one-state solution." The more sophisticated renditions reflect an enhanced and keen political awareness of international politics and national liberation struggles and call for democracy - one person, one vote. They are not presenting their position as "anti-Israeli," in fact they are saying: Give me Israeli citizenship and Israeli freedom. They are aware that using the term "bi-national state" would not be popular because they also cannot find examples of successful and peaceful bi-national states.

But democracy is a different ball game. Who can oppose democracy? The people who support this program have already adopted and promulgated the term "apartheid wall." They are very well aware of the connotation that it is meant to arouse in the minds of the listeners. Israel, they say, is the new apartheid South Africa and it must be brought to accept democracy in the same way that the apartheid regime of South Africa was brought down.

WHAT THE supporters of this plan fail to understand is that the only hope for peace in this land has always been based on the concept of partition. This is the only way to move beyond an existential conflict of either "us or them." Partition allows for the conflict to be focused on issues: borders, sovereignty, Jerusalem, economics, water, etc. The demise of partition as an option brings us back into an existential conflict - a zero sum game where the focus of the conflict is "identity" and not borders.

If the Israeli-Palestinian conflict moves back into existential terms, then Israel/Palestine turns into Bosnia of the 1990s. In that Balkan conflict about 150,000 people were killed in 10 years. That is what will happen here if the conflict is about identity, because then it is a conflict of everyone against everyone. There is no escaping the conflict - it becomes all encompassing and completely intractable. Israelis and Palestinians are not ready now or at any time in the foreseeable future to share the same national home. We both need a physical territory in which we can claim sovereignty and express our own national identity.

Olmert's soul searching of the new year should be a collective soul searching in which we all reach the same conclusions. If we will not find the way to allow the Palestinians to gain their freedom and to end our occupation over them, in the not too distant future, we will be atoning for our loss of our own freedom in our own state and wondering how we missed the opportunity for peace.

The writer is the co-CEO of the Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information.
www.ipcri.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Green and red lines</title>
<date>2/6/2008</date>
<content>
Walking (and driving) the Green Line for three days this past week from Mt. Gilboa to Gush Etzion provided a unique opportunity to feel the pulse of the country, to reflect on its natural beauty and to assess the realities shaped on both sides of the border by the separation barrier.

Days prior to the journey, I participated in the Palestinian Investment Conference in Bethlehem that brought together close to 2000 participants from the West Bank and Gaza, Israel and the rest of the world. The Bethlehem Intercontinental Hotel and the newly opened Palestinian Convention Center in Bethlehem were overwhelmed by the huge turnout of participants who came to voice their support for normalcy, stability, and peace. The Palestinian Authority did an outstanding job to ensure real security and order for all of the local and foreign delegates and dignitaries, including the 50 Israeli business and community leaders who attended. The conference, initiated by Prime Minister Salam Fayad and Tony Blair, was an inspiration and a vote of confidence in the peace process and in the business of building a Palestinian state living in peace next to Israel.

The Green Line and the separation barrier in the northern section of the West Bank are one in the same. Admittedly the barrier is a clear wound in the pastoral beauty of the area, but the sense of security that it provides to both Israelis and Palestinians can be felt and witnessed by speaking with residents on both sides.

Israelis and Palestinians alike, in that part of the country, acknowledge that it is not yet possible or wise to re-establish an open border but note that at some time in the future, once there is real peace, it would be desirable. In the meantime, the lack of a border dispute in the area has enabled a process of fruitful dialogue and mutual planning that will bring great benefits to both populations.

Danny Atar, the mayor of the Gilboa Regional Council, and Kaddoura Mousa, the governor of the Jenin district in the Palestinian Authority, have reached a set of wide-ranging understandings and plans for the economic and social development of the area that will produce thousands of new jobs and will cement stability and security on both sides of the border. The sealed border has not prevented the opening of dialogue, negotiations, joint planning and a shared vision for the future.

The northern part of the West Bank is devoid of Israeli settlements. This fact has made it possible to construct the separation barrier on the Green Line. The Palestinians have made it 100% clear in their negotiations with Israel that the Green Line is their point of reference. The 1949 armistice line awarded the State of Israel with roughly 78% of the territory between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean. In their acceptance of the Oslo Accord, the Palestinians have continually asserted their acceptance of Israel in 78% of the land while they have demanded that the State of Palestine must be created in the remaining 22%.

YASSER ARAFAT accepted the principle of land swaps that would enable Israel to annex portions of the West Bank where large settlement blocks exist in exchange for parcels of land west of the Green Line in equal quantity and quality. President Abbas has adhered to that principle in the current negotiations. Palestinians state that in Oslo they made a concession on 78% of the land; they are not willing to negotiate on the remaining 22%. Accept this claim or not, in my assessment this is a Palestinian "red line" in the negotiations. There will be no agreement unless the State of Palestine will be established in 22% of the land.

THE SETTLEMENTS throughout the rest of the West Bank have created an untenable reality for both peoples there. After visiting the Palestinian village of Bil'in on the outskirts of the Modi'in Elite (Kiryat Sefer) settlement, we decided to return to Jerusalem on the Palestinian roads. Highway 443 is minutes away and the drive to Jerusalem would have taken some 20 minutes, but instead, after arriving at the blocked entrance to Highway 443, we continued on the roads that provide the Palestinians with the "transportation contiguity" of which Israelis governments have boasted to the US administration.

The countryside is breathtaking. The roads are narrow, winding and dangerous. There is no way possible to build a modern economy and to realize the promise of the Bethlehem Investment Conference without having access to modern infrastructure. The drive back to Jerusalem took over 90 minutes. If we had wanted to continue on to Ramallah or to Bethlehem, the two other main cities in the area, it would have taken considerably more time.

The closure of the main West Bank roads to Palestinians and the development of what they call the "apartheid transportation network" is a result of the existence of Israeli settlements adjacent to their villages, towns and cities. This system of separate roads enables the Israeli settlers to visualize their life in the West Bank as being devoid of Palestinians. When we were on top of the Gilboa, a group of girls from the Kedumim settlement was touring the area. From the top of Mt. Barkan, the topmost hill of the Gilboa ridge, the settlers' tour guide gazed out at the Jenin valley filled with Palestinian villages and described the view of "Ein Ganin" and the Israeli settlements in the distance, almost completely out of range. She did not make any mention of the thousands of Palestinians living just below except for commenting on the strategic and religious importance of holding onto this land.

THE RESIDENTS of Bil'in and hundreds of other Palestinian communities in the West Bank are filled with anger. They seek good neighborly relations with their Israeli neighbors, but not on the expense of their land. The High Court of Israel has ruled to move the separation barrier that has stolen so much agricultural land from the residents of Bil'in. The Ministry of Defense claims that there are no funds to implement the decision of the Court. Meanwhile the victims of the Heftsiba scandal have occupied their homes on Bil'in's land making the other Court decision into a mockery of justice. Every week the separation barrier in Bil'in turns into a war zone, while in the Jenin area, the separation barrier will shortly become a common economic development zone of peace, security and prosperity.

THESE MICRO snap shots should shed some light on the macro picture. The lessons should be clear. I wish that thousands of Israelis and Palestinians could join with me and walk the Green Line in search of understanding and peace. They too would have the opportunity to experience the real possibilities for creating neighborly relations that would benefit both peoples.

The writer is Co-CEO of the Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Europe should boycott Durban II</title>
<date>26/3/2008</date>
<content>
It's been said that "madness" is repeating an action over and over and expecting a different result. In the case of the Durban Review Conference (DRC), one can only expect a repeat of the unmitigated disaster that was the 2001 World Conference Against Racism (WCAR) in Durban.

Hope that lessons may have been learned was quickly dashed at last fall's planning meeting, when the fix was firmly put in. Like the WCAR before it, the Review Conference was hijacked by repressive regimes with wretched human rights records that saw next year's planned gathering as another opportunity to impose their narrow anti-West, anti-American, anti-Israel and anti-Jewish agenda on the international campaign to eliminate racism.

Let's recall exactly what transpired at the WCAR. Saying there was a problem with anti-Semitism there is like saying the Titanic stopped to take on some ice. The parallel NGO Forum in 2001 was a horrific Orwellian experience, turning the human rights movement on its head with the most vicious displays of anti-Semitism, Holocaust-denial and the denial of Jewish self-determination in Israel.

Pro-Hitler T-shirts were on display, with copies of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion readily available for sale. Jewish delegations were heckled, threatened, intimidated and attacked. Important anti-racism issues dealing with race, gender and poverty were ignored in the hate-fest.

The 2001 States Conference that followed was little better. To the shame of the countries involved, the "action plan against racism" that emerged was forever tainted by Israel's lone censure. And this lent credence to the twisted view of the now-defunct UN Human Rights Commission whose annual agenda had featured one standing item: to investigate Israel's putative human rights violations.

TO ITS CREDIT, the Canadian government of Prime Minister Stephen Harper assessed the situation last fall and made principled decisions. First it correctly decided not to support the allocation of dedicated UN funding for the DRC, and then to pull out altogether.

It properly understood malevolent forces had already derailed the review conference, and displayed courageous leadership, determining that Canada will have no part in yet another international forum that has been hopelessly politicized and corrupted.

Here is what the Canadian government saw transpiring:

• In keeping with normative UN protocols, the original mandate of the DRC was simply to review the implementation of the 2001 action plan. Led by the Organization of the Islamic Conference, this was summarily thrown out in favor of an agenda aimed at indicting the West for supposed Islamophobia, defamation of Islam and racial profiling.

• The conference will pick up where the WCAR left off, promoting grotesque charges against Israel as the "racist" successor to apartheid South Africa and seeking to move forward divestment and boycott strategies incubated in 2001.

• Today's UN Human Rights Council is facilitating this budding fiasco. Even a cursory glance at its sad, short history as the Commission's replacement should disqualify this dysfunctional, Israel-obsessed body from brokering a genuine anti-racism conference. The planning body for the DRC is chaired by Libya and includes other serial human rights violators such as Cuba, Iran and Pakistan.

• The two key preparatory commissions scheduled for 2008 fall over the major Jewish festival of Pessah and the holiest day on the Jewish calendar, Yom Kippur - a chilling echo of the original WCAR prepcomm held in Teheran which barred Jewish delegates from participating.

Canada made a wise decision to lead what one hopes will be a larger international dissociation from this conference. Our Canadian Jewish Congress will engage in dialogue with organizations that disagree with our government's approach, making the case that the marketing of the UN anti-racism conference is deceptive and beguiling. Early plans for the DRC should be seen as a ransom note from the event's hijackers who will hold hostage legitimate and necessary discussion of real historic wrongs and pressing contemporary human rights issues.

In late February Israel followed Canada's lead in announcing that it too saw little hope for resuscitating what seems clearly to be another bigoted conference aimed against the Jewish state and the Jewish people. Similar noises are being heard in a number of EU capitals.

Perhaps if enough countries refuse to participate in the Durban II charade, sanity will ultimately prevail. The issue of racism is too important to be exploited by the political enemies of Israel for their own tendentious purposes.

The writer is the Chief Executive Officer of Canadian Jewish Congress.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Facing up to the 'Facebook' dilemma</title>
<date>5/2/2008</date>
<content>
Eighty-three-year-old President Shimon Peres recently urged young people to fight anti-Semitism using Facebook. Social Affairs Minister Isaac Herzog met with delegates to the World Union of Jewish Students in the Knesset last week and told us to employ technology to combat Jew-hatred.

Herzog, who is also responsible for relations with world Jewry and the fight against anti-Semitism, wants us to fight the good fight via the Internet.

"Who's going to pay for this?" I asked.

Try British Jewry, he helpfully suggested. But when I approached figures in the British Jewish leadership, they suggested - you guessed it - that I turn to the Israelis.

Peres helpfully proposed a specific technology to focus on - Facebook - and I agree with his choice. If only we knew precisely what to do, and how to do it.

The idea probably stems from the fact that Peres recently met Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg at the World Economic Forum in Davos. In fact, Facebook is not only a potentially effective tool for combating anti-Semitism, it is also an dangerously potent tool for promoting the spread of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism.

Zuckerberg and not just Peres should be worried about this.

Facebook is being manipulated by enemies of Israel to push the message that Israel is not a country. And efforts to "de-list" the Jewish state from the Facebook country grouping are afloat despite the fact that there are 33,855 Israeli Facebook members.

Anti-Israel "virtual vandalism" struck last week when pro-Israel sites were hacked into. The vandals replaced the site image with the Palestinian flag and site descriptions with anti-Semitic and anti-Zionist diatribes. These rants were taken directly from the Israel is "not a country" Facebook group.

See how these messages are spread and connected? For instance, anyone familiar with Web anti-Semitism has seen messages such as:

Israel is an apartheid regime; Israel has no right to exist; Israelis accuse people of anti-Semitism every time someone criticizes Israel; Arabs are Semites - unlike most Jews; 80-90% of Jews today are Ashkenazi (and descendants of converts); they use the holocaust to silence critics of their own crime; Israel never met the conditions for its entry into the UN; the lies go on.

Messages from an anti-Israel Facebook group can spread like a cancer to its clones.

PERES IS right about the power of Facebook. Each time someone joins a group, their decision and details of the group are announced to all their "friends." Just focusing on the Israel is "not a state" group, and using a conservative estimate on the number of Facebook "friends," I estimate that this group was "announced" to over 5 million members. It may be true that only a fraction of them actually visit the anti-Israel site, and even less join it, but the anti-Semitic and anti-Zionist message is spread.

SO WHAT are we to do?

Both Peres and Herzog are right: We do need to use technology. But it is not enough to tell students and young people to go and "do something technological." Resources need to be dedicated, research needs to be done, and policies need to be developed.

Today, there is no global center to advise Jewish organizations on effective use of the Internet. No one is systematically developing strategies or training young people to enable them, as a community, to combat online anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism - or, for that matter, to effectively and efficiently promote Israel and Zionism.

At some point someone in the Jewish and Israeli leadership must take responsibility and come up with a budget. If you want the advice and commitment of the young, please, do ask, but listen as well.

MAYBE Zuckerberg, with a reported net worth estimated at $1.5 billion, might feel motivated to put some of his fortune into combating anti-Semitism on Facebook and elsewhere. Perhaps next month, when the Global Forum to Combat Anti-Semitism is scheduled to meet in Jerusalem, the issue of policy, strategy, training and a budget to combat anti-Semitism on the "social Web" will be addressed.

Or maybe we will simply be told, once again, that "technology" and "young people" are the answer - with no substantive plan or budget to actually implement "the answer."

The writer recently completed a PhD in Computer Science in the UK. A postdoctoral fellow in the political science department at Bar-Ilan, he is also a Legacy Heritage Fellow, and for the past three years has run www.ZionismOnTheWeb.org which monitors and combats online anti-Semitism.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 20: Prosecutor or persecutor?</title>
<date>19/2/2008</date>
<content>
Prosecutor...

The attorney-general's role as a prosecutor has been overshadowed by his activities as a persecutor. His incessant hounding of Chief Rabbi Yona Metzger for years did not produce enough evidence to bring the matter to trial ("Metzger resumes posts after panel declines to fire him," February 19). Nevertheless, he has besmirched the reputation of the rabbi and, I'm sure, caused him considerable anguish. All this without providing an opportunity for him to publicly defend himself.

Whether the charges against Rabbi Metzger are valid or not, and whether or not they impugn the rabbi's moral integrity, certainly the democratic integrity of Attorney-General Mazuz has been seriously compromised. Rather than calling for the resignation of Rabbi Metzger, perhaps we should call for the resignation of Menachem Mazuz!

HAIM M. LERNER
Ganei Tikva

...or persecutor?

Sir, - I am not a lawyer, but as a minister of religion I knew to listen to both sides of an argument. As a result of this case, who is going to advise our attorney-general that he should be more careful in future deliberations?

MICHAEL PLASKOW
Netanya

Tsar Dorit & Pope Aharon

Sir, - "Beinisch says Friedmann's reform proposals may be unconstitutional" (February 18). What constitution? Last I looked, we had none except the one that exists in the fertile imaginations of Ms. Beinisch and her mentor, Aharon Barak. Under cover of this fantastical non-document, Barak and Beinisch have imposed autocracy upon us and called it democracy.

No elected or appointed institution in this country has real authority any longer. Every issue is decided by the High Court of Justice - from the zoning of a plot, to whether some colonel may be promoted, to the size of the munitions the army uses, to how the state conducts its foreign relations. The court has stripped executive power from the government and legislative power from the Knesset. Is it any wonder these institutions are paralyzed?

The army, too, can no longer function effectively. There's no need to read the Winograd Report to know why the IDF couldn't or wouldn't fight in Lebanon. When the High Court heard the case accusing Dan Halutz and others of a war crime for using a one-ton bomb instead of smaller ordnance to kill a terrorist leader in Gaza, it effectively castrated the army. What officer will dare order an attack if every casualty or stray shell brings a High Court suit accusing him of criminal behavior?

No officer can make a decision without worrying what Beinisch will say. Soon every soldier will have a legal adviser to tell him when he can shoot.

Dorit Beinisch has the supreme powers of a Russian tsar over every act of the state; Aharon Barak fills the role of an infallible Roman pope. They can't be challenged because they tell us that would be unconstitutional. And since only they know what is in this constitution, it is hard to challenge them.

They promised us the rule of law, and gave us the rule of lawyers.

JOSEF GILBOA
Jaffa

State of confusion

Sir, - I'm confused. Azmi Bishara is in Canada calling us an apartheid state ("Israel's creation was 'armed robbery,' Bishara tells Toronto apartheid parley," February 19). In the same issue we read that Ghaleb Majadle had life-saving surgery in Hadassah University Hospital ("Month-old bump on the head necessitates surgery for Majadle"). The culture and sport minister, like thousands of Arab citizens, found help in an Israeli hospital.

Bishara reportedly said that "Palestine" is the only apartheid regime left in the world... maybe he was referring to the Palestinian territories, where Jews fear to even enter?

SHARON ALTSHUL
Jerusalem

Once bitten, twice bitten?

Sir, - Your February 19 headline read "Israel concerned over impending UNIFIL breakdown" and referred to the potential withdrawal of the international community from UNIFIL as a result of attacks on its soldiers by terrorist groups in Southern Lebanon. The day before, you had "IDF exit plan: Gaza invasion will bring multinational force," in which defense officials implied that our salvation lay in an international force in Gaza (UNIFIG?).

After the disastrous results of trusting UNIFIL in Lebanon, can anyone in their right mind think of doing the same in Gaza?

CECILIA HENRY
Kfar Bialik

The Kosovo case

Sir, - Re "Kosovo wins recognition from US, European powers" and "Israel won't recognize Kosovo for now" (both February 19): We are dealing with the creation of a completely illegal new country in the middle of Serbia.

If we take a look back, it seems that the countries that helped Nazi Germany in its insane "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer" war have been rewarded with independence and are widely recognized new states. Slovenia, now a EU member, welcomed Hitler with a red carpet; Croatia, which had concentration camps like Jasenovac and killed many Jewish and Serbian people, is now a fully recognized country (Germany was the first to recognize it). Croatia still has the Nazi symbol on its flag. Last but not least is Kosovo, which helped Hitler with its so-called Balists units operating on its territory in World War II.

It looks to me as if we were on the wrong side in WWII since we are still paying the price.

Your country still has no peace, and still struggles. Let me end by expressing my admiration for Jewish people and their unity in such hard times. I would like my country to have one-fifth of the unity you are showing. Although I'm of a different faith, I'm doing my best to become an educated, dedicated and faithful man, like most of your people.

DUSAN VUCKOVIC
Nis, Serbia

Pedophiles in society

Sir, - Israel's problem with pedophiles is no different from the US's, but the way they are handled is ("Why the leniency for pedophiles?" Editorial, February 13).

In many American states those convicted of pedophilia receive a sentence of at least five years. Upon release they are put on a national pedophile list, have to register where they live and every time they move, and cannot live within the restricted area of a school. When they moves into a neighborhood, people within a fixed radius have to be notified so they can watch out for their children.

Although pedophilia has not been eliminated in the US, it has been greatly reduced. If judges don't understand the damage a pedophile can do to children, they should be removed.

HARVEY MATTHEW
Har Homa

Cold comfort

Sir, - Kol hakavod to The Jerusalem Post for delivery of the newspaper on time during Tuesday's snowstorm, and during last month's as well. And kudos to the delivery men too.

That's more than we can say for the Jerusalem Municipality. The snowplows were ready, so why weren't they used to clear the bus routes early in the morning so the buses could run, people could get to work, children could get to school, and schools could open on time? ("Holy snow! Jerusalem braces for a second storm," February 18.)

HANNAH SONDHELM
Jerusalem

Sir, - Yes, we "should leave a faucet dripping slowly as soon as the temperatures drop," but not "to prevent the pipes from exploding." It is, rather, to prevent the pipes rupturing from expansion of the water when it freezes up.

M.M. VAN ZUIDEN
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fight anti-Israel week by rejecting the apartheid smear</title>
<date>28/12/2008</date>
<content>
How could it be that in 2008, whenever a certain professor mentions the market meltdown, he blames specific economists and businesspeople whom he identifies as Jewish - but never mentions other people's religion? (And this before Bernard Madoff became anti-Semites' newest poster child even though he most hurt Jews.) How could administrators dither as Jewish students feel bullied during the week perpetuating the libel that Israel is recreating South African racist apartheid? How could a campus "free speech forum" feature one speaker after another bashing Israel, with hecklers shouting down anyone who defends Israel? These are some of the challenges Jewish students on one Canadian campus are facing.

AS SOMEONE who has spent his life in the university, it pains me to identify campuses as centers of the new anti-Semitism. The new anti-Semitism is subtler than the traditional, more recognizable, type. But recent conversations with Jewish students reminded me how vulnerable many feel, how unsettling this new epidemic is for many.

Analyses of campus anti-Semitism must acknowledge that Jews are enjoying a golden age on campus. There never have been so many Jewish students, professors and university presidents. Most North American campuses are neither anti-Jewish nor anti-Israel battle zones. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore many students' distress - or fail to help them.

The new anti-Semitism is not wholly dependent on the controversies surrounding Israel. The Israel-Palestinian conflict has legitimized the hatred and confused the issue. The growth in blatantly anti-Jewish remarks, the insensitivity to Jewish concerns despite hyper-sensitivity to racist, sexist or homophobic epithets, and the singling out of Israel and Zionism for particular hatred, not just condemnation, transcend Israel's policies. It often feels that too many university communities accept Count de Clermont-Tonnerre's proposal to the French National Assembly of 1789: "The Jews must be granted everything as individuals - but nothing as a nation."

THIS CAMPUS hostility toward Israel and Jews collectively is rooted in the 1960s. Students' noble fight against Southern segregation curdled into attitudes romanticizing Third Worlders while demonizing whites and Westerners. The great modern sins became colonialism, imperialism and racism - along with sexism, heterosexism and now, the latest, Islamophobia.

Palestinian propagandists cleverly tagged Israel with the first three sins - caricatured as a colonialist, imperialist project of racist Zionists. This labeling is absurd. Jews returned to their historic homeland; they did not join a colonial expedition. Moreover, Palestinian Jews fought against the British Empire in the 1940s. And calling Zionism racist is itself racist, singling out Jewish nationalism for special disapproval in a world organized by nation-states.

Casting the Palestinian-Israeli conflict as a racial rather than national struggle demonized Israelis as Western whites stealing noble, colored Palestinians' land - despite the many non-Western, non-white Israelis, the many white-looking Palestinians and the fact that some Arab Palestinians who left in 1948 were as new to Palestine as some European Jews, because Mandatory Palestine attracted many Jews and Arabs.

These distortions underline the latest anti-Israel smear, the odious attempt to link Israel with South African racism. When we simply repeat the name of the week that is often observed in early February, without putting many words between the Jewish state and the word apartheid, we fail. Repetition creates a link just as Jewish nationalism was linked with that awful word racism. We should rename the week "Anti-Israel Week."

AS THE first semester winds down, now is the time to plan for the inevitable attack. Zionist activists should fashion a strategy based on these principles:

This is politics, not physics; not every action demands a reaction. The goal is not to try dissuading Israel's enemies. If Israel's attackers are being ignored or - as frequently happens - alienating bystanders by being aggressive, leave them alone. Only engage in battles which can build Jewish pride or present Israel to those who are open-minded.

Learn from feminists. In opposing sexual harassment, feminists have sensitized us to "hostile environments," the subtle ways intentional or unintentional aggression can make people feel demeaned. Students, their parents, alumni and professors must demand that administrators foster safe learning environments. The feminist idea of "taking back the night," is to celebrate where others may simply defend. So use the Z-word "Zionism" even if it is maligned, and turn "anti-Israel week" into a week-long celebration of Israel's accomplishments and Zionism's righteousness.

Students should be good consumers. If professors commit educational malpractice by not listening, or being so biased they squelch debate, students should file detailed complaints not against bad politics but demanding good education.

Find allies. The established Jewish community should find former black South Africans who endured apartheid and African scholars to explain apartheid's pernicious racism. We should seek South Africans offended by propagandists hijacking apartheid just as Jews resent hijacking the Holocaust to score cheap political points. Every comparison of the Israeli-Palestinian national conflict to apartheid dilutes the evil, racist injustice South African blacks and "mixed colors" endured under the color-conscious, depraved system which is not similar to the security measures Israel adopts in response to Palestinian terrorism.

Fight the upcoming Durban conference. Rather than simply reacting defensively, let this year's anti-Israel week become a consciousness raising moment for the university and broader Jewish community about the attempt to recreate the Durban conference this April in Geneva - again targeting Israel. Rather than stewing, and accepting the anti-Zionist agenda, use the attacks to fight the epidemic of Jewish apathy and mobilize a powerful pro-Israel response.

SADLY, PREPARATION for the next semester must be political not just educational. But we must master political jujitsu - a negative force, if properly met, can be transformed into a positive one. This February let us transform anti-Israel week's negative force into a positive force celebrating Israel, redeeming Zionism and moving forward with an effective, upbeat response to Durban.

The writer is professor of history at McGill University and the author of Why I Am a Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the Challenges of Today.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>For the cause, the settlements must go</title>
<date>29/1/2008</date>
<content>
Israelis seem to have lost their belief in the rightness of our cause, as various observers have recently noted with alarm. Whether you attribute this to ideological fatigue, the universal tendency to pursue personal and material goals over collective ones, or loss in the belief of God's promise of this Land to Abraham, there is real cause for concern.

Given Israel's challenges and the demands placed on its citizens, a national consensus on war and peace, relations with our Arab neighbors, and over societal priorities is no luxury, but a necessity.

How did we get to this situation, and how do we get to a better place? Israel's cataclysmic victory in the Six Day War released a wave of euphoric energy inside the country and in the entire Jewish world. Among other things, it led to the aliya of people like me.

But it also launched many on a gigantic tangent, deviating from the pragmatic Zionism responsible for the creation of the Jewish state. Huge energies, vast resources and endless creativity were poured into the settlements in territories conquered in 1967.

I IDENTIFY with the Jewish and Zionist motivations, though not with the actions or the messianist ideologies of many of the people living in these settlements. They include some of our finest citizens. They also include a small minority, extremist and violent, whose deeds have harmed the cause of the Jewish state, and the settlement project itself.

I recently read David Shulman's Dark Hope, which is an eyewitness report on the abominations committed in the West Bank in the name of the Jewish people.

My sharing of commitments with many settlers does not change my contention that they are profoundly, dangerously wrong in mortgaging the entire Zionist enterprise to the cause of the settlements. In so doing, they have unintentionally caused grievous damage to the rightness of our wider national cause, on two levels.

First, the perception of the essential rightness of our cause by the nations of the world. This was an indispensable condition for Israel's birth in 1948, and it remains critical today. It is criminally foolish to underestimate or scoff at its importance. Maintaining it is tough, as our enemies market the calumny that Israel is merely a colonial implant, another apartheid South Africa, or, at best, Europe's export of its Jewish problem to the Middle East.

The most important proof in the arsenal of our enemies is precisely the settlements, and the accusation that we are stealing the land and livelihoods of our neighbors. A security wall more or less along the 1967 armistice lines would not have aroused much opposition, international or local. The same barrier exploited for an extensive land grab confirms our enemies' claims. The recent announcements about extensive Jewish construction in east Jerusalem, right after the Annapolis meeting, fit right in.

SECOND IS the impact settlements have had on our internal consensus and belief in the rightness of our cause. Election results, not to mention our daily conversations, confirm the deep split in Israeli society over the settlements. The symptoms of the division abound, from the Second Lebanon War, to the disheartening bitterness and cynicism of so much of our public discourse, to the post-Zionism of many of our intellectuals, to the emigration rate. The settlements are not the only cause, but they are a strategic one.

The settlements thus undermine both the external perception others have of us, and our own internal perception of the rightness of our cause. As such, in utter contradiction to the intentions of so many of their residents, settlements wind up weakening rather than strengthening us, and seriously endangering the existence of the one Jewish state we do have.

There is a bizarre, paradoxical connection between the settlers' yearning for the whole land of Israel and the Arab demand for a single, secular, democratic state of all its citizens: Both would have the consequence of destroying Israel.

WITHDRAWING from the settlements will not appease our enemies, nor should we leave unilaterally, without guarantees, safeguards and milestones. But withdraw we should, for our own needs and benefits: Occupying the Palestinians is devouring us from the inside, like a cancerous growth that needs surgical removal in order to enable the organism to survive.

It is no accident that many of our most prominent generals-turned-politicians - Dayan, Weizman, Rabin, Barak and Sharon - concluded that separation from the Palestinians of the territories was critical for Israel's survival as a Jewish state.

We must sober up, prioritize and consolidate before it is too late. We have to relinquish our profound internal split over Greater Israel in order to unite effectively in favor of pre-1967 Israel (plus minor, negotiated additions). Our shared belief in the rightness of our cause - without which we shall fall - cannot be rebuilt so long as we are occupying and dispossessing another people.

It will be tragic to leave the sites associated with our cherished collective memories. But it would be infinitely more tragic to risk Israel's disintegration by a refusal to leave any work for the Messiah to complete. The cost of the settlements is much, much too great to bear.

The writer, a Ra'anana-based businessman, is a native of Montreal who made aliya in 1976.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Good Day Sunshine!</title>
<date>24/9/2008</date>
<content>
Sometimes it seems like the desire by Israelis to just live normal lives without constant drama is an unattainable dream. A case in point is the performance tonight by Paul McCartney at Yarkon Park in Tel Aviv.

The show is cause for genuinely joyous celebration by the 40,000 fans who will fill the grassy field, as well as by anyone who was touched by the remarkable musical and cultural magic that McCartney's former group The Beatles created in their relatively short existence.

However, there are those who would attempt to snatch the good will and messages of brotherhood that McCartney's music represents, and turn it into a political message, thereby elevating a tremendous culture story and event into yet another Israelis vs. Palestinians issue.

British-based organizations The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) and the Palestine Solidarity Campaign both launched campaigns after the show was confirmed to urge McCartney to cancel his performance in solidarity with the plight of the Palestinians at the hands of aggressor Israel.

"Performing in Israel at this time is morally equivalent to performing in South Africa at the height of the apartheid era," the PACBI wrote in a letter to McCartney.

And in a further attempt to prevent Israeli fans from seeing and hearing McCartney sing "Hey Jude" and "Yesterday," Omar Bakri, a Syrian-born Islamist who broadcasts sermons out of Lebanon, warned that if McCartney valued his life, he would cancel the show. "He will not be safe there, sacrifice operatives will be waiting for him," threatened Bakri, who has been called a friend of al-Qaida by CNN.

The resultant headlines around the world have shifted the focus from a positive story about McCartney hand picking Tel Aviv to join Quebec City as the only venue he's chosen to perform in during the second half of 2008, to yet another story focusing on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

An opinion piece that appeared earlier this week in the UK's Daily Mirror, by McCartney's former press agent Geoff Baker, was entitled 'Willing to risk it all in Israel', implying that McCartney's life would be on the line from the second he stepped onto the tarmac at Ben-Gurion Airport.

While security insiders have discounted the threats, saying that Bakri is a notorious media attention seeker who is more talk than action, the warning certainly must have rattled McCartney's nerves. To his credit though, McCartney has steadfastly refused to cave in to the pressure, saying that the show would go on as planned.

"I was approached by different groups and political bodies who asked me not to come here. I refused. I do what I think and I have many friends who support Israel," McCartney said earlier this month.

In a more recent interview, with The Jerusalem Post last weekend, McCartney chose to compare the threat to criticism he received when he played in Quebec for performing in English at the time of a French Canadian celebration. "I tend to just ignore those things and think there's always a voice in a crowd that will say that," McCartney told the Post, adding "You have to realize that any high profile event brings with it some worries... And I think that most people understand that I'm quite apolitical and that my message is a global one and that it is a peaceful one. So I just have faith in that aspect of what I do."

McCartney should be lauded for not caving in to the boycott calls or the threats, and we welcome him and his message of tolerance with wide, open arms. Israelis should take pride in the fact that the world's most successful musician, according to the Guinness Book of World's Records, is going to perform here tonight.

Promoter Dudu Zarzevsky's assertion that this is the "biggest cultural event that Israel has ever seen" is not just hyperbole. The Beatles broke barriers, established musical and fashion trends, expanded horizons and forever altered Western culture's axis. And as drummer Ringo Starr said in the late 90s Beatles Anthology documentary series, "it was all for love, and bloody peace. It was fabulous."

Instead of issuing threats and calling for boycotts of the show, why doesn't the Arab world organize concerts in which friendship and harmony are the main themes? What if tens of thousands of Palestinians or Syrians gathered in Ramallah or Gaza City or Damascus, and sang along to songs like "All You Need is Love" and "Let it Be"?

Imagine.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Grapevine: Focus on women</title>
<date>11/3/2008</date>
<content>
WHEN SHE came to Israel almost three years ago, Dr. Maina Chowla Singh, the wife of the Indian Ambassador, was interested to find out about the integration of Indian women into the country.

She went to university libraries and found nothing, even though the first Indian immigrants arrived in Israel in the early 1950s. So she decided to visit them in Dimona, Yeruham, Kiryat Ata and elsewhere to learn their stories.

This was the beginning of a "profiles project" on Indian women in Israel. So far, she's received several essays and two books, and says she's greatly encouraged.

At a reception at the Indian Embassy last week, Singh introduced the writers of the two books: Rebecca Yehezkiel, who wrote Of Muse and Memories and Sophie Judah, who authored a book of short stories, Dropped from Heaven, in which the plots are set in the India of her youth.

Both women are members of the centuries-old Bene Israel, which initially had trouble gaining recognition in Israel, but in 1964, the Chief Rabbinate pronounced that they were halachically Jewish.

Yehezkiel is also an artist whose works are full of Indian icons. The artwork is part of her private museum and hence the title of the book, she said, "because the root of museum is muse."

Both received fine educations and came from families in which their fathers were employed in privileged jobs. Growing up among Hindus and Muslims, they never felt any sense of discrimination. On the contrary, there was a sense of harmony in the blending of their Jewish and Indian roots, or what Singh described as "a harmonious intertwining" of cultures.

Both Yehezkiel and Judah made presentations that went down well with the audience and provoked several questions. The question that wasn't asked was what prompted them to come to Israel. But they answered it anyway. "We all make aliya for different reasons, but none of us [Indians] made aliya because of anti-Semitism," said Judah.

AMONG THE people to be honored Wednesday evening at the Yeshiva University Colloquium in Jerusalem is Clara Hammer, 97, better known as the Chicken Lady.

She earned the title quite a few years back when she started a small, personal, charitable enterprise that simply took wing. A retired teacher, she was in her butcher shop doing her Shabbat shopping, when a little girl came in and the butcher handed her a big bag of chicken scraps.

"They must have a lot of cats," commented Hammer after the child had left.

"No," said the butcher. "They're a big family who can't afford to buy a chicken. I give them the scraps every week so that they can make soup."

Hammer was horrified and instructed the butcher to give the family a chicken every week and put it on her bill. The butcher told her about another family and another family, and the word got around, and others told her about families, and her chicken bill kept growing and growing until she really could no longer afford her charitable enterprise.

But then the media got wind of her, and after a few stories had appeared in the press, she began receiving checks in the mail. Dozens of people wanted to become part of her chicken enterprise.

It was especially appreciated by people of limited means who wanted to do something for someone else but couldn't afford to give out hundreds or thousand of shekels at a time. But they could certainly manage the cost of a chicken a week.

With the extra money, Hammer began buying more chickens for families - literally hundreds of chickens a week. But from all the gifts she received from Israel and around the world, she had more money at her disposal than she needed for all the Jerusalem families who were receiving chickens each week.

So she began searching out poor families beyond the capital and sending them cash or food packages on Jewish holidays. The more money that came in from good-hearted people, the further it went to feed the poor.

The enterprise became so large that Hammer could no longer manage it alone and members of her family had to pitch in and help.

Hammer sought no reward for what she was doing, but at YU they thought a little recognition wouldn't do her any harm.

NUMEROUS WOMEN'S organizations in Israel recently
celebrated International Women's Day, but perhaps the most meaningful celebration was at the International Women's Club panel discussion hosted by Rita Stegny, the wife of the Russian ambassador, where more than a score of nationalities were represented.

The discussion was based on how to combine a career with family responsibilities. The panel comprised Israelis Dr. Efrat Rabinovitch, a scientist doing research in biochemistry at Tel Aviv University, and Sharon Rostdorf-Zamir, a well-known Israeli opera singer with an international career, along with Lithuanian Ambassador Asta Skaisgiryte, and the wife of the South African ambassador, Vuyo Gqiba.

The moderator was Ella Gera, chair of the Israeli Women's Network, who quoted Plato: "If women are expected to do the same work as men, we should teach them the same things."

Skaisgiryte described the position of women in her country, where, although they were given the vote as early as 1924 and laws exist to prevent any discrimination in political and social life, the reality is quite different.

Only 10 percent of women in Lithuania are politically active, she said. This is due partly to the patriarchal society and the strong influence of the Catholic Church. Asked about her husband, who accompanied her to Israel, the ambassador explained that since her husband was a journalist who can continue to work in his profession here, he does not feel that he sacrificed his career for hers.

Rostdorf-Zamir, whose husband was a lawyer when they met, said she warned him that being wed to a singer was being married to a voice, with all that that entails.

During the first seven years of their married life, when she gave birth to two children, her career came first and her husband looked after the children. But after her husband finished his medical studies and she had a third child, it was her turn to devote herself to the baby and enable her husband to further his career.

Luckily for her, her mother came to her help, but these past two years since the child was born, she has taken him wherever her career took her.

Gqiba's message, which she pronounced dramatically several times, was "Long live the spirit of women!"

Gqiba had been an active member of the ANC Youth Movement in South Africa, and had also been exiled from her country for a number of years until the end of apartheid blew in the revolutionary winds of political change.

"Women are not born to be victims of oppression," she declared. "They are born to be workers, managers, organizers."

She found that though life as a diplomat's wife has given her the opportunity to meet interesting people and spend time with her children, she needs to study and is now working towards a degree in security management.

Efrat Rabinovitch, who is married to Professor Itamar Rabinovitch, former president of the University of Tel Aviv and a former Israel ambassador to the US, spoke very amusingly about her experiences as the wife of the ambassador.

Her work in scientific research had not prepared her for the protocol and "rules" of diplomatic life. She said she had been fortunate to be able to continue some of her scientific work while performing her duties as an ambassador's wife.

STRANGE THOUGH it may seem, Yaakov Kirschen, better known as Dry Bones the cartoonist, had never had a birthday celebration throughout his adult life. But when he was about to turn 70, his wife, the artist Sali Ariel, thought it was high time to rectify the matter.

Kirschen, though very gregarious, was not too keen on the idea to start with, but was eventually won around. Although he is a favorite at other people's parties, and he's even better at the parties that he and his wife host at their own home, he was somewhat at a loss as to what he should be doing at his own birthday party.

Perhaps he was just contemplating the onset of age, or the fact that several of his invitees had gone either to the opening concert of the Rubinstein Piano Competitions or to the Black and White Auction at the American International School.

Nonetheless, some of the people closest to him were there, such as Hirsh Goodman, journalist, analyst and director of the Andrea and Charles Bronfman Program on Information Strategy at the Jaffee Center, and his wife, New York Times correspondent Isabel Kershner, CBS correspondent Bob Simon, Michael Sternberg, the MFO director-general's representative in Israel, Eric Silver, correspondent for The Independent in London and his wife Bridget, Gedaliah Gurfein, a business colleague, and Rachel Neiman, journalist and advertising executive, who are all long-time friends.

Others present included Israel Radio journalist Idele Ross and her husband, graphic artist Norman Slepkov, Miriam Ben Haim, who goes by the unofficial title of the foreign minister of Kfar Shmaryahu, and restaurateur Rena Pushkarna, whose totally unlined face belied the fact that she had celebrated her 50th birthday only a few days earlier.

Of course, it wouldn't be a milestone birthday without any speeches. Kirschen recalled that as a child, whenever he was asked about where he'd been born, it embarrassed him to say that he was born at the Columbia Hospital for Women. But then, as he got older and he realized that his birthday coincided with International Women's Day, he was quite pleased about having been born in a women's hospital.

Looking around, he said that there were two people who were now deceased whom he missed profoundly - radio broadcaster Bruno Wassertheil and journalist and author Robert Rosenberg, whose widow, Sylvia, was among the guests.

Goodman, who has known Kirschen for half his life, described him as a perennial optimist about a million dollars around the corner, and a person with a fertile mind that was always coming up with new ideas.

Sternberg invoked Gail Sheehy, the US "guruess" on ageing, and quoted from her book Passages, which looks at the ageing process decade by decade.

In the 40s, he recalled, you reinvent yourself. In the 50s, you're biologically secure.

"The 70s is the shortest chapter. What she gave as advice was, 'Keep breathing.'"

From his own standpoint, Sternberg said of Kirschen: "He's an individual who's mastered every bit of hi tech so he could listen to old radio shows."

Rachel and Abby, the oldest and youngest of his three daughters, prepared a wonderful photo album dating back to his babyhood, and kept calling him in the process for photoshop advice, making him an unknowing contributor to the project, which is a true piece of art.

Their sister, Jenny, was unable to attend because she lives in New York. After the speeches, Kirschen sat in contemplative mood, trying to decide whether he should have a 75th birthday or wait till he's 80.

The extremely dapper Lenny Maxwell, who is over 80 but doesn't look anywhere near his age, advised him to enjoy every birthday, and Silver, who has a couple of years to go towards his own 75th, advised Kirschen to definitely throw a party.

"I'm going to have one," he said. Bridget Silver demurred, but since she loves parties, it's an almost certain bet that Silver's 75th birthday party will be an even bigger blast than his 70th.

AMONG THE keen members of the Dry Bones fan club attending the party was Clarence Wagner, formerly of Bridges for Peace and now the CEO of Genesis Strategic Solutions International, which brings Christian business people to Israel to get them to invest or to buy Israeli products for distribution throughout the US. Kirschen is a great favorite with the Christian leadership, said Wagner.

NOBEL PRIZE laureate Elie Wiesel, who will be one of the Independence Day beacon lighters this year, will also participate in a Nobel Prize winners conference at the Haifa Technion.

This is an eventful year for Wiesel, who will also celebrate his 80th birthday and the 40th year of the struggle for Soviet Jewry, which was boosted by his best-selling book, Jews of Silence, published in 1966.

AUSTRALIA WAS the first country in November, 1947 to vote yes on UN Resolution 181, calling for the Partition of Palestine, thus paving the way for the creation of the State of Israel.

So it comes as no surprise that a bipartisan motion by the Australian Parliament, celebrating Israel's 60th anniversary will on Wednesday be introduced by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and seconded by Opposition Leader Dr. Brendon Nelson.

The two leaders are going ahead with the resolution, according to a source in the Australian Embassy, not withstanding fierce opposition by anti-Israel elements in Australia in general and anti-Zionist elements within the Jewish community.

The fact that the bill is being introduced by a Labour prime minister represents the closing of a circle. It was a Labour prime minister, the late Ben Chifley, who was in office during that fateful vote at the UN, and was still in office when David Ben-Gurion declared the establishment of the sovereign State of Israel in May, 1948. Interestingly enough, there will be an additional closing of a circle on this year's Independence Day, which falls on May 8, which also happens to be VE Day, the day on which the Allied Forces formally accepted the unconditional surrender of the armed forces of Nazi Germany, and were thus able to declare victory in Europe.

AN ISRAELI tourist fishing in northern Australia recently came close to being eaten by a giant crocodile.

Novon Mashiah, 27, was working the South Alligator River in the Northern Territory when he saw a salt-water croc and asked his Israeli friend, Doron Aviguy, 22, who was in another boat, to  photograph him, JTA reported.

The result, splashed across Australian newspapers, showed the four-meter croc, jaws apart, leaping out of the water in an attempt to devour Mashiah.

"I was shocked - the animal clearly wanted to kill me," Mashiah, from Tel Aviv, told the Northern Territory News. "One minute I was leaning over the boat teasing it for a picture. The next minute it burst out of the water with incredible speed... its jaws fully open. I was shaking."

"I didn't realize that crocs were so aggressive," said Mashiah, who has a giant Star of David tattooed on his chest.

CORDON BLEU. The two words alone already make the mouth water. For guests at the Sheraton Tel Aviv Hotel and Towers, it was more than imagination last Thursday. They actually got to taste the mouth-watering, feather-light culinary creations of chef Bruno Stril, the amicable chief instructor of Cordon Bleu in Paris, who transmitted both his savoir-faire and some of the secrets of his cuisine to Sheraton excutive chef Charlie Fadida (the son of international prize-winning chef Eli Fadida) as well as to special guests who attended a special reception.

Cordon Bleu has 30 schools in 15 countries and teaches around 20,000 students a year.

AFTER PUBLISHING the magnificent and fully illuminated Golden Book of Psalms, which won so much praise in Israel and abroad, Susan Roth, who claims to be a descendant of King David (but can prove beyond doubt that she's the daughter of famed Yiddish actors Pesach Burstein and Lillian Lux and twin sister of internationally acclaimed actor Mike Burstein), has decided to expand into the fragrance market. This coming Thursday evening, she will launch her perfume, Kaballah. It will be interesting to see if it's purchased by Madonna.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Grapevine: Saying it with flowers</title>
<date>29/4/2008</date>
<content>
It's not customary to applaud at wreath-laying ceremonies, but it is most definitely customary to applaud any successful effort to make peace, which is why when Mehmet Bozay, the deputy head of mission at the Turkish Embassy, joined in the official wreath-laying ceremony at the catafalque for the dedication of the Park of the Australian Soldier in Beersheba on Monday, the hundreds assembled broke into spontaneous applause.

This came as a result of remarks made earlier by Australian Governor-General Maj.-Gen. Michael Jeffery, who after describing in detail - as only a military man could - the October 1917 battle between the Australian Light Horse and the Turkish forces, noted that today Australia has "the warmest relations with former foes, which proves that those who fought and died here did not die in vain."

And of course, even though it was not mentioned, in the background was the knowledge that Turkey is acting as an important intermediary in the effort to renew peace negotiations between Israel and Syria. Caught pleasantly by surprise by the sustained applause, Bozay, before resuming his seat, moved in the direction of Jeffery and bowed.

The organization of the event, with its marvelous military overtones and Australian ex-servicemen in some cases wearing their uniforms and medals and in others a chestful of medals over a civilian jacket, was first class, marred only by the overzealous efforts of the security people to keep photographers and video camera teams behind a barricade which had been placed in a most disadvantageous position.

Although there were a few Israelis present, including President Shimon Peres and Diaspora Affairs Minister Isaac Herzog, who was recently in Australia, it was by and large a very Australian affair, with Australian residents here, an Australian business delegation, Australian tourists, members of the Australian Defense Forces who are serving with UNTSO and MFO and veterans of various Light Horse units. There were also descendants of those who fought in the region in World Wars I and II and present Light Horsemen Frank McKerrow, who had a relative killed in action in Palestine, Michael Medvesky, Les Prince and Scott Rhodes sitting astride Israel Police horses alongside four mounted policeman.

A distinguished honor guard of the Australian Defense Forces added to the military ambience. Maj.-Gen. W. Digger James (ret.), the patron of the Australian Light Horse Association, and the association's president, Phil Chalker, who were here in October for the reenactment of the historic charge by the Australian Light Horse, came in their uniforms and medals.

James, who conceived of the idea of the Park of the Australian Soldier and mentioned it to Australian Jewish philanthropist Richard Pratt (whom he has known since Pratt was a toddler), was thrilled to see the realization of his dream. Pratt and his wife, Jeanne, who through the Pratt Foundation have supported and initiated many projects here, were happy in more ways than one. Pratt noted that both he and his wife were the offspring of immigrant Polish parents who had come to Australia just in time to escape the Holocaust.

"Australia gave us a home as refugees. Australia has been good to us and we wanted to express our pride as Australians as Jews and as friends to Israel," he said.

Explaining that since he was four, he had looked up to and admired Digger James, Pratt said the Light Horse was the inspiration for the park, which also contains a state of the art playground for developmentally disabled children.

"I wanted to do the Light Horse proud," he said as he surveyed the vast expanse of landscaped garden which will soon be beautified by flowers. Recalling that not so long ago, the area had been "a scruffy park," James said he thought the whole affair was "terrific" and what impressed him most was that everyone, adults and children alike, looked so happy.

Following the formal ceremony, Pratt hosted a huge Australian-style party, with plenty of beer and Australian folk songs. Among the many Australians who came from all over the country to attend the event were two senior staff members of the Prime Minister's Office, spokesman Mark Regev and Diaspora Affairs adviser Rachael Risby-Raz. Regev, who always says he's Israeli first, appeared to be very Australian on Monday.

SOUTH AFRICA would not presume to advise other countries on how to conduct their affairs,  South African Ambassador Fumanekile Gqiba told guests at the 14th anniversary celebrations of South Africa's Freedom Day at the Dan Panorama Hotel in Tel Aviv, but he implied that it would not hurt for Israel and the Palestinians to learn from what South Africa has achieved.

Looking back at the painful years prior to 1994, Gqiba said that his country had made great strides since the end of apartheid.

"We have become victorious over the evils of injustice," he said, and emphasized that in the midst of the global economic crisis, South Africa prides itself on nine years of continuous economic growth.

"It is the largest economic upswing in our country's history," he said, with national income rising by 22 percent since 1999, and fixed investment increasing by 10% each year. South Africa's sustainable economy was based on a philosophy of develop through trade rather than aid, said Gqiba.

Declaring South Africa's belief in a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Gqiba said that South Africa is not in the business of imposing solutions "But we want to share our experience," he said.

He advised the two sides to keep talking regardless of how bleak the situation, in the hope of establishing a point of convergence which will enable sustainable peace.

"It's a win-win solution," he promised, envisaging a future in which Israeli and Palestinian children can walk anywhere and in safety in the region.

"It will be a new dawn of sustainable peace in which the children of Abraham will stop slaughtering each other," he said. "In South Africa, we stopped being foolish and began accepting each other in the image of God."

National Infrastructure Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer declared South Africa to be the most important leader on the African continent.

It was a rare occasion in which invitees actually kept quiet during the speeches, but not before Gqiba had beseeched their indulgence several times. There is something wrong with a society which eats and drinks at the lavish expense of the host, but lacks the respect and good manners to listen when he speaks. Gqiba is not the first ambassador, and presumably not the last to ask his guests to please be quiet and listen. In his case, he was fortunate. They actually took notice. Most of the time, such pleas go unheeded.

FOR SOME 15 to 20 minutes, organizers of the Mimouna festivities at Jerusalem's Great Synagogue last Saturday night looked somewhat concerned that the event might be a flop. It was timed to start at 9:30 p.m. and the guest of honor was President Shimon Peres.

However, at 9:30, only the organizers, a handful of invitees, a representative of the president's office and members of the media had arrived. Stragglers began drifting in very slowly and the phone calls between the venue and Beit Hanassi kept increasing, while Peres waited for an appropriate moment in which to arrive. It was obvious to the media that he would not come until the banquet hall was fairly full.

The event was coordinated by the umbrella group of of the Association of Sephardi Organizations whose chairman, Haim Cohen, seemed to be the least perturbed by the delay.

The urbane Cohen, who never looks ruffled, told news hounds who complained at the absence of moufletas, the traditional Mimouna fare, that if they were patient they would get their moufletas too, though he found it annoying that the more important traditions of Mimouna were overlooked because so many people were more conscious of moufletas than of anything else.

In previous years, the more formal Mimouna celebrations were held in Jerusalem hotels, where there were no moufletas because the hotels had to maintain the Passover menu for an additional day for tourists from abroad. However in a regular banquet hall, there was no problem with regard to preparing moufletas, and when Peres finally did arrive, he ate his share.

Among the guests was long-haired healer and mystic Oren Zarif, whose advertisements are saturated with photographs of him being hugged by grateful clients. Like most other guests, Zarif pushed forward to shake the hand of Sephardi Chief Rabbi Shlomo Amar when he entered the hall, and again some time later to shake the hand of Peres.

Zarif had come without a kippa. Haim Maman, editor of Yerushalayim Shelanu, took one out of his pocket for Zarif to wear when he approached Amar. Zarif gave it back after the handshake. But later, he saw a better photo opportunity when Amar and Peres were already seated, and insinuated himself between the two of them, to add yet another prize to his photo collection.

On the way to wedging himself between the two, he passed Maman, who was also sitting at the head table, and swiped the kippa off his head so that he would not be embarrassed when he sat down next to Amar.

MANY ATTRACTIVE young women who dream of being fashion models somehow don't make it, and move on into middle age still nursing the dream. Some of those women were able to finally rid themselves of the frustration on Sunday, when they participated in a 30th anniversary benefit show for LO, the organization dedicated to combating violence against women.

Fashion designer Yaron Minkowski provided the clothes and 70 singers, actresses, past and present fashion models, former beauty queens and socialites paraded them on the runway. Some of the "models" found difficulty in walking in stiletto heels and took them off because their feet were killing them. Others were hamming it up and prancing along the runway. The exercise caused singer Josie Katz to lose her balance and fall. But Katz who has terrific reflexes, managed to land in a graceful position, then quickly picked herself up and continued as if nothing were amiss.

IN REVISIONIST and Betar circles there is a sense of vindication in this year's Holocaust Remembrance Day in that those of their members who fought in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising will finally be acknowledged.

Among the people who have been laboring for some time to secure that acknowledgement and have it included in future ceremonies commemorating the uprising is former minister Moshe Arens, who has extensively researched the subject and who attended the unveiling of a plaque in Warsaw commemorating the heroism of Betar's Pawel Frankel, who was one of the fighting commanders in the ghetto. Betar heroism in the Warsaw Ghetto will be discussed by Arens and others at a memorial event taking place at the Begin Heritage Center in Jerusalem on Thursday, at 4:30 p.m.

FINDING SYMBOLIC meanings in occurrences is very Jewish, and it would be impossible for Rena Quint, child Holocaust survivor and president of the Jossi Berger Holocaust Study Center, not to find some degree of symbolism in the birth of her third great-grandchild, the second son of Odelia Chwat, the oldest of her 12 grandchildren, and her husband Udi Adler.

The infant, born during Pessah, is due to be formally welcomed into the faith on Thursday. His brit mila coincides with Holocaust Remembrance Day, and his birth is yet another symbolic proof that the Nazis failed in their objective to find a permanent solution for the Jewish problem.

Quint and her husband, Rabbi Emanuel Quint, are awaiting a fourth great-grandchild due somewhere close to Shavuot to their second grandchild, Moriah Chwat-Groner.

THERE'S NOTHING uniform about Israeli bureaucracy. For those who encounter it, there's the element of participating in a lottery. One might draw a power-hungry clerk who knows that he or she has the fate of another human being in his or her hand and delights in making life uncomfortable for that person; or one might be fortunate and get someone whose whole raison d'etre is solving other people's problems as quickly and efficiently as possible.

In swapping tales about aliya experiences, Raymond Apple, chief rabbi emeritus of the Great Synagogue of Sydney, recalled that when he and his wife came on aliya and went to apply for their identity cards, the clerk at the Interior Ministry looked at them suspiciously and demanded proof that they were Jewish. Apple who for some 30 years had been attesting to the Jewishness of Australians making aliya or wanting to get married outside their home state, was somewhat taken aback.

When he tried to explain his status to the clerk, she wasn't interested and told him to bring a letter confirming that he was Jewish. Apple initially dug his heels in and refused to comply, saying that if his Judaism was in doubt, so was the Judaism of all the people he had vouched for - and yet they had been given ID cards. The clerk didn't budge.

Apple tried another tack and suggested that she call Frank Stein, then the representative of the Zionist Federation of Australia in Israel, who could confirm that he was indeed Jewish. She told him she wasn't calling anyone, and if he didn't produce the letter, he wouldn't get the ID.

Apple had no choice but to yield, and wrote to the Sydney Beth Din, which wrote back on its letterhead declaring that Rabbi Raymond Apple was indeed halachically Jewish. They hadn't yet ordered new letterheads, so the printed list of dayanim down one side of the paper included Rabbi Raymond Apple.

The clerk was not sufficiently impressed to apologize or to even crack a joke. It's doubtful that she would have been impressed by the fact that Apple's wife Marian is the niece of the late Ashkenazi chief rabbi, Isser Yehuda Unterman.

FORMER DEPUTY defense minister Dalia Rabin-Pelossof has become a first-time grandmother. Her son, Jonathan Ben-Artzi, born of her first marriage, presented her with a granddaughter.

ONE OF the questions floating around in political circles is whether Nava Barak, the first wife of Defense Minister Ehud Barak, will change her political allegiance. Her significant other, businessman Shalom Zinger, has been seen in huddles with prominent Likud activists. It's not the first time that romance has stepped into the political arena. The late Amiram Nir, the first husband of Judy Shalom Nir Mozes and the father of three of her five children, was an ardent Labor activist and counterterrorism adviser to Shimon Peres.

When she married Silvan Shalom, an ardent Likudnik who became finance minister and subsequently foreign minister, she went on the campaign trail with him when he sought to protect his place on the Likud Knesset list and later when he competed against Binyamin Netanyahu and Uzi Landau for the Likud leadership.

But of course one doesn't have to change one's political stripes just because one is married or involved in a romantic relationship. For all the years that Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was in the Likud, his wife Aliza and their children remained staunch leftists and at opposite ends of the political spectrum. Now, they've met somewhere in the middle with Kadima.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Humanity's good neighour</title>
<date>23/11/2008</date>
<content>
A Westerner recently told me, "I feel I must support the Palestinians as much as I would support my own neighbor. In this world we are responsible for everyone's rights no matter how far away."

This is the classic tone of those who feel they are "citizens of the world." It is a very common feeling, especially among university students in Europe, the US and Canada. A pervasive "I am responsible for humanity" theme runs through many protest movements, charities, NGOs and volunteer organizations.

The interconnectedness of the world is a product of modernity. The first such societies that gathered together like-minded wealthy Westerners to support causes in far-off lands were formed in the early 19th century. These were primarily missionary movements such as the London Society for Promoting Christianity Among the Jews (London Jews Society), which was founded in 1809 and which by 1900 had 52 missionary stations in a dozen countries.

The legacy of international efforts by British citizens to missionize and save others can be found in Anglo countries and Western Europe among those who belong to such anti-Israel organizations as the International Solidarity Movement.

Since we know that some of the first to take up the belief that "I must save humanity" and "I am responsible to humanity" were Christian missionaries devoted to converting the Jews, we must ask, "To what degree is today's belief in saving the world stem from a sense that it is Westerners who can save the world - and that it is permissible for them to interfere in places where they do not belong?"

THE NEIGHBOR analogy is an interesting one. Someone has argued that due to the inter-connectedness of the world today one has as much responsibility for a person 2,000 miles away as 100 feet away. Thus the harm done to a Palestinian due to the "occupation" must be seen by the average resident of Boston or Toronto as if it was being done to him personally. But the real question should be: Does a person have the right to go into his neighbor's house and protest how his neighbor lives?

This is, in fact, the ultimate irony. The quiet Canadian I met who claimed he had a duty to defend Palestinians against Israel (who furthermore informed me that new "research" has shown that the Jews of today are not ethnically linked to the Jews of the Second Temple and thus have no "right" to Israel) would not break down his neighbor's door and tell his neighbor how to live. In fact the opposite is true in the West, where multiculturalism is held up as a virtue: The Westerner would bring his neighbor some food, take off his shoes at the door, welcome him to the neighborhood, and express interest in his neighbor's culture.

If Canadian, European, American and other activists believe they have a duty to fight as hard for the rights of the Palestinians as they do for the rights of their neighbor, they should first consider that under their own logic, Israel and its people are also their neighbors, and they should first take off their shoes and give some respect to Israel, rather then arriving in a foreign land, refusing to have their passports stamped and then going on to join a protest throwing rocks at young men and women doing their national service.

In September 1938 the Nazi flag was raised above Cardiff in England after the lord mayor, Cuthbert Purnell, declared that there was a "dawn of peace" in Europe. His ancestors could have participated in the London Jews Society's attempt to convert the Jews and his descendants can today help with the olive harvest on the West Bank in the name of fighting the "apartheid" State of Israel. All under the banner of peace and helping humanity.

And in each case the Jews are the victims of whatever fad humanity has decided to embrace. Good fences make good neighbors and foreign activists whether in Israel or elsewhere have not made good neighbors. Nor have their standards been the same for Jews and others.

The writer is a doctoral student at the Hebrew University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Human rights & wrongs</title>
<date>10/12/2008</date>
<content>
Richard Falk, professor emeritus of international law and advocate of "new international law" is a mild-mannered, white-haired, 78-year-old scholar-activist who, seemingly, weighs his words carefully - before lobbing rhetorical bombs.

He has reminisced that his family was so assimilated that it was in "virtual denial of even the ethnic side [of its] Jewishness."  Over the years, however, Falk has taken an interest in things Jewish, including the destruction of European Jewry.

His reflections have led him to conclude that Israel is now "slouching" toward another Holocaust. But this time, it is the Jews who may be dreaming of carrying out the genocide. Falk asks: "Is it an irresponsible overstatement to associate the treatment of Palestinians with this criminalized Nazi record of collective atrocity? I think not."

Looking at Israel, he sees a "holocaust-in-the-making" and a state with "genocidal tendencies."

Fortunately for Hamas, Falk believes international law gives it the "right of resistance." So shortly after the Islamists grabbed control of Gaza in June 2007, he pleaded for the world to "start protecting the people of Gaza" from Israel.

Still, when appointed "Special Rapporteur on the Occupied Palestinian Territories" by the incongruously-labeled UN Human Rights Council, the professor promised to keep an open mind. Perhaps it is that very open mind which enabled him to wonder whether the US government was complicit in the 9/11 attacks.

WEDNESDAY morning, as yet another fusillade of Hamas rockets and mortars slammed into the Negev, on the day after Israel allowed yet another humanitarian convoy of trucks carrying food, fuel and medical supplies to enter hostile Gaza, Falk "reported" his assessment of the situation: Israel's policy toward the Palestinian Arabs of Gaza is tantamount to a crime against humanity. And the International Court of Justice at The Hague needs to determine "whether the Israeli civilian leaders and military commanders responsible for the Gaza siege should be indicted and prosecuted for violations of international criminal law."

Falk likened Israel's behavior toward the Palestinians to - what else? - apartheid. He charged that the food and fuel Israel funnels into Gaza (during those intervals, we'd add, when Hamas halts its attacks) is hardly enough to prevent mass starvation and disease.

The Human Rights Council, meanwhile, presented Israel with 100 demands on behalf of the Palestinians. But it made not a single demand of the Palestinians - not even that they stop the violence. A new poll finds, not surprisingly, that 64% of Israelis feel the human rights community is biased.

ATTEMPTING to reason with people who think Israel is a genocidal apartheid state is like trying to convince the fellow who shows up at your office wrapped in aluminum foil from head to toe that, er, actually, aliens are not beaming radio waves into his brain.

With that in mind, let us nevertheless, state the obvious.

Israel is trying to protect itself from Gaza. We unilaterally pulled out our citizens and army from the Strip in 2005. Rather than use our departure to begin building a Palestinian state, Hamas vowed to keep "resisting" and never accept a Jewish state in the region. Its loathing actually solidified Hamas's popularity among Gazans.

In just the past three weeks, Hamastan has fired some 170 rockets and mortars at Israeli population centers. Our children and elderly are traumatized. Two weeks ago, one young man's leg had to be amputated because of shrapnel damage.

All day, every day, Hamas forces, trained by Iran, place bombs along our border and tunnel toward our territory in preparation for their next onslaught. They kidnapped and still hold IDF soldier Gilad Schalit.

We do not claim that life in Gaza is easy, but so much of its misfortune is self-inflicted. And at a time when the people of Zimbabwe and Congo are experiencing a true "humanitarian catastrophe," is it not obscene to talk of Gaza in those terms? With nearly a billion people today starving in Asia and Africa, is it not unconscionable to speak of "mass famine" in Gaza?

Prof. Falk: If you want to help the people of Gaza, stop besmirching Israel and start beseeching Hamas to stop shooting and return the Strip to Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hipocrita</title>
<date>26/11/2008</date>
<content>
In the topsy-turvy world of the United Nations, no issue gets more consideration, monopolizes more resources or engenders more sloganeering than the "Question of Palestine."

The UN maintains a Division for Palestinian Rights, a Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, and a United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. If only the world body devoted similar energies to fighting AIDS or saving Zimbabwe.

Some say that the UN is a noble experiment gone terribly wrong. But the organization isn't all bad. A range of autonomous bodies - such as the Universal Postal Union and the World Intellectual Property Organization - do their work in a professional and non-partisan manner (though even among these there are ignoble exceptions).

Moreover, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has strived to be a fair administrator and an honest broker. He has expressed concern about human rights abuses committed by Hamas and repeatedly condemned Palestinian Arab attacks against Israeli civilian targets.

Unfortunately, Ban has remarkably little sway over what is said or done in the name of the organization he heads.

THE TRUE character of the UN is exemplified by its 192 member states. And nowhere does the melding of their "values" manifest itself more than in the General Assembly. Here the tyranny of the majority, often enabled by the acquiescence of nations from whom one would have expected better, has made a bitter mockery of the 1945 UN Charter that was intended to make the institution a beacon of tolerance and enlightenment.

By habitually championing the "right of return" - not to a Palestinian state to be created alongside the Jewish one, but to Israel proper - the General Assembly has obliquely committed itself to the demographic destruction of Israel.

Given its long history of having one set of rules for the Jewish state and another for everyone else, it is all too tempting for decent men and women to block out the UN's Annual Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People which has consecrated November 29 as a day of hate against, and delegitimization of, the Jewish state.

But at this newspaper we are haunted by the words of Edmund Burke: "The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing."

A malevolent man who knew a thing or two about Jew-hatred once taught that a Big Lie can be made credible. He argued that people would have a hard time imagining that their representatives might fabricate colossal untruths.

Neither the evil man, nor his minister of propaganda, ever said: "If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it...." but that was their intent.

THIS BRINGS us to Nicaraguan diplomat, Catholic priest, and General Assembly President Miguel d'Escoto Brockmann, a self-proclaimed "lover" of the Jewish people. He declared Tuesday that nothing excuses "the failure to establish a Palestinian state."

Yet rather than blame the Arab and Muslim world which, between 1947 and 2002, explicitly rejected the two-state solution, or blame the Palestinian Arabs whose polity to this day is divided over the possibility of coexistence, d'Escoto Brockmann blames... the Jews.

Then comes the Big Lie: "Israeli policies in the Palestinian territories appear so similar to the apartheid of an earlier era, a continent away, and I believe it is very important we in the United Nations use this term," d'Escoto Brockmann said. "We must not be afraid to call something for what it is."

To state the obvious: The conflict between the Jewish people and the Palestinian Arabs has nothing to do with apartheid.

There is no system of racial segregation in the West Bank. There is a state of de-facto belligerency between West Bank Palestinians and Israeli Jews. Hamas-controlled Gaza seeks Israel's annihilation, not civil rights. Jews are not colonizers in Judea and Samaria. Nevertheless, Israel's government is ready to abandon much of the Jews' ancient heartland for peace with security.

As the padre speaks from the den of iniquity that is the General Assembly, we ask: "Why do you see the speck in your neighbor's eye, but do not notice the log in your own eye?" (Matthew 7:3)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Insatiable extremism</title>
<date>27/2/2008</date>
<content>
Roni Yihye, 47, a father of four, was murdered on Wednesday in the latest rocket assault from the Gaza Strip.

His death came a day after the 80th birthday of Ariel Sharon, the general and politician who ended a long career of outmaneuvering hostile Arab forces by withdrawing completely from the Gaza Strip. And it followed the latest anti-Israel broadside from the UN's Human Rights Council, whose rapporteur John Dugard wrote earlier this week that "a distinction must be drawn between acts of mindless terror, such as acts committed by al-Qaida, and acts committed in the course of a war of national liberation against colonialism, apartheid or military occupation... As long as there is occupation, there will be terrorism."

The combination of Yihye's murder, Sharon's birthday and Dugard's misguided report brings the current untenable reality apropos Gaza into sharp focus.

Led by Sharon, more than two years ago, Israel wrenched its settlers and withdrew its soldiers from the Gaza Strip. It left behind an unprecedented opportunity for Palestinian state-building and an international commitment to create a Singapore in the impoverished Strip, not to mention millions of dollars in farming equipment, including a world-famous complex of greenhouses. All these were wasted.

No other national liberation movement has ever garnered so much support and so much hard cash, nor been offered the opportunity to take major steps toward full independence by the unilateral withdrawal of the loathed "occupier" from a sizable proportion of its claimed territory. No other national liberation movement has ever spurned such opportunity with so determined an insistence on the terrorizing of neighboring civilians.

Israel is gone from Gaza. Yet Hamas has intensified its attacks on Israel. Palestinian refugees remain in their blighted camps. The notion of progress toward viable institutions of democratic governance is a bad joke.

The ruthless rocket attacks from civilian areas in Israel-free Gaza that have traumatized southern Israel and that claimed the life yesterday of Roni Yihye cannot be honestly construed as "acts committed in the course of a war of national liberation against colonialism, apartheid or military occupation." It is long past time for the learned diplomats of the UN, and all too many other international statespeople, to stop excusing the Islamist supremacists and ignoring their avowed and insatiable ambitions.

This newspaper recognizes that for Israel to remain at once Jewish in character and democratic, it must relinquish territory to which it claims a biblical and historic right and separate from the Palestinians. It looks forward to the day when the Palestinians will live peacefully, and independently, alongside Israel.

But Sharon's "disengagement" did not advance that day. And the failure is that of the Palestinians. A mindset that loathes Israel more than it seeks its own freedom will not be remade by Israeli withdrawal or endless international funding and sympathy. A leadership inciting against Israel in its media, mosques and school system will not be rejected by the Palestinian public so long as much of that population is mired in a bigotry that inculcates permanent victimhood, refuses to recognize any shred of justice to Israel's sovereign claims and extols the virtues of violence and death.

Perceived legitimization for such violence, furthermore, can only exacerbate the tendency. What the international community must do is show its abhorrence of the rocket attacks and other violence and incitement, eschew the Palestinian leadership that encourages them, and energetically support the faint voices of moderation and educational programs that offer the prospect of a changed Palestinian mindset.

The Islamists' strategy, updating enemy efforts to destroy this state, has been to so dishearten and bleed us that we dismantle the country and the instruments of our self-reliance, and go quietly into a Hamas or Hizbullah caliphate, or (as the Iranian version has it) get on a boat for Poland.

But Israelis are not packing their bags. Under Ehud Barak, Ariel Sharon and now Ehud Olmert, we have sought somehow to separate from the Palestinians. What the Hamas-inspired murderous rocket fire across the Gaza border should long since have made plain to all, however, is that even territory cleared of every last vestige of Israeli presence does not sate the appetite of the Islamists - who, terribly, happen to constitute the parliamentary leadership freely elected by the Palestinian public, and the murderous sole rulers of Gaza.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Interesting Times: A synthesis to win</title>
<date>13/3/2008</date>
<content>
IThough somewhat eclipsed by an economic slowdown, foreign policy is still a major political football in the upcoming US election. Presumptive Republican nominee John McCain will portray his Democratic rival, particularly the emphasis on dialogue with rogue regimes, as naive. Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton will claim that the Bush foreign policy was a disaster, and that they can do better.

The truth is that both critiques are right. The deeper truth is that the past two decades of American foreign policy - including the senior George Bush's term, eight years of Bill Clinton, and eight years of George Bush the son - all failed to fundamentally grasp the imperatives of the post-Cold War era.

The core of the problem is this: Democrats take international law and institutions seriously, but not international threats; Republicans take global threats seriously, but not the institutions that have been created to deal with them. Today's world demands an integrated approach.

To be fair, the Republican approach is considerable closer to the target. The Democratic failure to take fundamental threats to the international order seriously is ultimately a failure to take the ideals represented by international institutions seriously as well.

WHEN DEMOCRATS scoff at the idea of promoting democracy, when they are happy to "engage" the worst dictators and ignore their human rights records, when they fail to be repelled as much by militant Islamism as they were by apartheid and other assaults on democratic values, they reveal their faith in multilateralism and the United Nations to be excuses for doing nothing.

But the post-Cold War Republican approach has failed as well. It has oscillated between "realists" such as the senior Bush, who subscribed to pre-9/11 notions of "stability," to the current Bush, who knew how to take on tyrants militarily but fumbled when it came to consolidating victories and confronting rogues by non-military means.

The charge that Bush is a unilateralist "cowboy" is not accurate. He did seek UN Security Council authorization for the invasion of Iraq, and the US did lead a coalition of nations in both Afghanistan and Iraq. It's not fair to pretend that support from Great Britain doesn't count while support from France does.

The failure, however, is at a more fundamental level. Democrats have largely been defenders of the UN, while Republicans have been willing to go around it; but neither has attempted to confront and transform the international system into something that aids, rather than impedes, the struggle for freedom, security and human rights.

The task of transforming the international system must be taken on, even if it does not succeed for many years. There is no greater illustration of this need than the rising threat from Iran, and the stumbling international response to it.

To most, the failure regarding Iran relates to its quest to become a nuclear power. Yet this is just the tip of the iceberg. The even more fundamental error was to continue to allow rogue states to support terrorism with impunity.

WHAT NEEDS to be remembered is that the UN was born after the most devastating bloodletting in history with a straightforward mission: to be a vehicle for peace-loving nations to take collective action against international aggressors. Unlike its predecessor, the League of Nations, the UN Charter had teeth, and soberly laid out escalating tools - from trade and diplomatic embargoes to military action - to maintain international order.

We tend to forget this because the Soviet Union quickly turned the charter into a dead letter. During the Cold War, the fox had a veto in the hen house. But when, over two decades ago, the Soviets evaporated from the scene, the West did not proceed with a belated crackdown on terror-supporting regimes.

The 9/11 attacks should have made such a crackdown an obvious imperative. Even then, however, the US chose to demand UN support for American-led action rather than demand that the UN take simultaneous and comprehensive action against all terror-supporting states.

Though the UN Charter was written with old-fashioned invasions in mind, there can be no doubt that state support for terrorism constitutes a raw and brutal form of international aggression. Accordingly, it is impossible to speak of a "war against terrorism" when the UN Security Council still does not treat support for terrorism as a sanctionable offense.

The sanctions that were imposed on Libya for terrorism were the exception that proves the rule; Iran's and Syria's open support for Hamas and Hizbullah continues with complete impunity.

BUSH KNEW from the beginning that the Iranian regime, unlike those in Afghanistan or Iraq, could not be dealt with by an invasion. Yet he devised no coherent alternative designed to force Teheran to back down. He allowed his State Department to pursue a lowest-common-denominator policy designed around what Europe would agree to, not what had a chance of working.

European, not to mention Russian or Chinese, myopia is no excuse. A major part of the job description of being leader of the free world is to have the inclination and ability to persuade free nations to join the US in collective self-defense, and others to at least not stand in the way.

The Iranian debacle derives from the US leaving itself with only two options: military action or doing nothing. Creating the option of meaningful non-military action requires a Democratic-style commitment to diplomacy combined with a non-"realist," Republican-style determination to win, not just "deter" or "contain."

Bush's foreign policy has been discredited, while the Democrats have not offered a substitute that can be taken seriously. McCain needs to show how he would do things differently from his predecessor, while Obama and Clinton need something that Americans will feel addresses the rising threat from totalitarian Islamism.

Accordingly, the next president should hit the ground running with two goals, one immediate and the other  longer-term. The immediate goal should be to convince Europe to end the 1 percent of its trade that is with Iran, which is 40% of Iran's trade with the world. The wider goal should be to ensure that any nation that supports terrorism is punished by UN Security Council sanctions.

Together, these goals require a new foreign policy synthesis that infuses diplomacy with muscle in order to achieve concrete objectives.

The West has no shortage of economic, diplomatic and military power. Yet the refusal to deploy these tools in an integrated way has rendered the West impotent in the face of a highly vulnerable, third-rate power. A post-Bush foreign policy - championed by either a Democrat or Republican - can transcend standard categories and end Western helplessness.

saul@jpost.com

- Editorial Page Editor Saul Singer is author of the book, Confronting Jihad: Israel's Struggle & the World After 9/11
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In the Diaspora: Letter to an Israeli friend</title>
<date>30/10/2008</date>
<content>
The past few weeks, my son has been telling me about a new television show called Life on Mars. The premise is that a cop in 2008 gets hit by a car, knocked unconscious and wakes up in 1973. Maybe the reason I haven't watched yet, unless you count checking out the ads at bus stops, is that I was starting college that year and it'd just be too painful to be reminded of a time when a walrus mustache was considered cool. (And I didn't even have enough facial hair to grown one.)

I can only guess that all the chatter about the show is what has got me thinking so much lately about Richard Nixon's trip to Egypt, which might've been in '74, but that's beside the point. When the whole Watergate mess was falling on his head, when the whole country despised him, Nixon went off to visit Anwar Sadat in Egypt and got a hero's welcome. I swear, I can still see him tooling through Cairo, waving from an open car, ticker tape all around. OK, maybe not ticker tape, but you get the idea. There was still one place in the world where they loved him.

We both know that Israel has been that place for W. - the one place where he could take a victory lap while his approval ratings here in the US sank into the 20s. (All right, I grant you even those numbers look good compared to Olmert's.) But it's not even Bush I'm really talking about. He and his incompetent presidency will be history soon enough, thank Jah.

No, I'm thinking about how differently you and I are experiencing the race to succeed him. You're pulling for John McCain, I'm with Barack Obama, and there's nothing idiosyncratic about our choices. I was just looking at some recent poll numbers. In Israel, according to TNS Teleseker, Jews favor McCain by 46 percent to 34%. In America, the latest Gallup survey has Obama ahead with Jews by 74% to 22%.

You think we've all lost our minds, I realize that. You think we've all gone soft and wobbly. You think we're turning into a bunch of appeasing Europeans. And it's hard to hear that, not only because I think you're wrong but because we're used to agreeing on so much.

I'VE NEVER been one of those American Jews who just laid aside Israel as an embarrassment, or one who sat in mute agreement when my liberal friends went on about it being an apartheid state. We agreed, you and I, about the necessity of Operation Defensive Shield, the legitimacy of the Second Lebanon War and the dangerously mistaken way it was waged. Your combination of patriotism and dissidence set an example I admired and tried to follow, even from afar.

On this election, though, I know we're irreconcilable. For you, it's a one-issue campaign, and that issue is Iran. You want McCain because you figure he'll either bomb Iran himself or get your back when Israel does, and I have to admit you're probably right. Does it make me less of a Zionist, or less of a friend, to worry about what Israel will look like the morning after? Is mutually assured destruction really worse than actually enacted destruction? Do you really want a president who'll urge you into a war that I fear will be more of a murder-suicide pact, leaving Israel both victorious and ruined?

For you, a green light to attack Iran has become the one proof of a president who supports Israel. I just don't accept that as the sole definition. You're right, I'm fairly certain, that Obama won't enable Israel tp strike Iran, but you're wrong to extrapolate from this that he's an untrustworthy ally. Someone who takes counsel on the Middle East from Dennis Ross and has been endorsed by Marty Peretz and has chosen Joe Biden as his running mate isn't my idea of a security risk.

Look, paranoids do have enemies, and you're well within your historical rights to worry about betrayal. But I have to remind you that you worried, too, about George W. Bush - that his father's "Arabists" like Jim Baker were going to run Middle East policy, that he was an oilman who was too close to the Saudis. You and Israel even survived Bush the Elder, who genuinely was hostile. There's a deep reservoir of support for Israel in this country that you don't quite trust and I do. It runs deeper than Bush or McCain, and a lot wider than the Christian Zionist movement.

SPEAKING OF which, I'm not sure you realize what a blunder McCain made by picking Sarah Palin. I don't mean for the obvious reasons - her inexperience, her lack of depth - but for her fundamentalism. Yes, she brought around the Republican base, but even without her, on Election Day that base would've had nowhere else to go. A lot of moderate to conservative Jews did.

In my hometown in New Jersey (a real stronghold of the modern Orthodox), you should have seen the McCain lawn signs come down, and I mean the morning after Palin got selected instead of Joe Lieberman. Israel may be one emotional trigger for American Jewish voters, but the Christian Right is another, and the minute you heard about Palin's church hosting events with Jews for Jesus you knew the Semitic swing voters were going to swing the other way.

And then came the crash. Why do you think Florida is suddenly in play? All those elderly Jews along the coastline, all those alter kackers you thought wouldn't vote for a schvartze, well they know when green trumps black. They're watching their retirement money evaporate at the very time they need it. And when they see Obama there with Robert Rubin and Larry Summers talk about having a Yiddishe kup, they trust it more than a white candidate touting the same economics that brought on this mess.

Social Security will win a lot more Jewish votes than Sarah Silverman.

We'll see next week who turns out to be right. There's plenty of reason to believe a lot of whites are lying to pollsters and the election will be much closer than anticipated. The one thing we do know, you and I, is that for the next four years at least we're going to have to agree to disagree.

www.samuelfreedman.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 12: Talking the talk...</title>
<date>11/6/2008</date>
<content>
Talking the talk...

Sir, - Wow, did Michael Freund hit the nail on the head with his "Israel's big-mouth syndrome" (June 11). There may not be another people on the face of the earth that talks more and backs it up less than you dear Israelis.

We learned in nursery school that you don't start a fight unless you are prepared to go on. Your leaders threaten major Gaza action almost daily, but it's only big talk. Others threaten Iran, again big talk. And Hizbullah must be shaking in its boots over yet another threat from Prime Minister Olmert.

There was a time when Israel did little talking but lots of acting - the Six Day War, the Entebbe hostage rescue, the destruction of the Iraqi reactor; but this Europeanized Israel does it the other way around. And missiles continue to land on you.

Finally, maybe you shouldn't tell your enemies what you're planning. Just a thought.

ABE KRIEGER
Highland Park, New Jersey

Sir, - Michael Freund's op-ed was superb. Transportation Minister Mofaz should have realized that we don't know how to deal with Gaza, let alone Iran. The Ehuds, Olmert and Barak, are still promising the residents of Sderot on a virtually daily basis that the rockets will be stopped. And then there's Meni Mazuz, our attorney-general, who lets us know in advance that certain people will be indicted.

Well is it written in Ethics of the Fathers: "Ye sages, be heedful of your words."

MICHAEL PLASKOW

Netanya

...walking the walk?

Sir, - Caroline Glick points out that our leadership plans to carry out a limited war against Hamas - not to defeat them, but only to deliver a message ("The government's plan for Gaza," June 10). Yet this incursion will do nothing effective to halt the murderous attacks against innocent Israeli civilians in the Negev. It's like telling Ismail Haniyeh that he'd better watch out for what we might do sometime or other if Hamas doesn't behave.

This "limited war," it is said, would also limit IDF casualties. Let me see if I understand: We are willing to sacrifice a few of our precious children in order to tell Hamas that it had better act nice.

I have six grandsons and one grandson-in-law. Two are currently serving in combat units. The other five are reservists in the Paratroops, Golani, Combat Engineers and Artillery. All have seen some level of combat, going back to the First Lebanon War. Among them are married men with children. They stand ready to serve again, if they must, to protect the civilians living close to our borders. But if they are called upon to risk their lives to protect our leaders' political hides, it is an abomination.

Let the sons of those politicos stand up and shout, in the tradition of the IDF: "Follow me!"

DAVID STAR
Ma'aleh Adumim

Talking & shooting

Sir, - In response to your reader's letter of June 11, I must correct the misquote of the Eli Wallach character ("the Ugly") from the movie The Good, the Bad and the Ugly because the real quote is so much more appropriate for our situation in the south. Upon killing his blathering nemesis, caught seemingly unawares in the middle of bathing, he says: "If you're going to shoot, shoot - don't talk."

Truly a valuable lesson forour leaders.

BENJAMIN AVERICK

Beit Shemesh

Paradoxes? You bet

Sir, - Is it too late to praise Yossi Klein Halevi's "The paradoxes of life in Israel" (May 21)? Its many truths included: "The Left has won the argument over concessions; the Right has won the argument over peace."

Not long ago the occupation seemed wantonly endless; the then-dominant Likud's platform claimed an eternal "Greater Israel"; in Gaza one percent of the people were settlers given 30 percent of the land, on which demarcations seemed to exceed security needs and Palestinians could become a majority "between the sea and the river."

Israel seemed increasingly maximalistic and ideological, and the Palestinians increasingly moderate and pragmatic, just wanting the territories back.

But since then a sea change has occurred. Ehud Barak's and Clinton's offer to Yasser Arafat of land for a state was rejected outright, the second intifada came, and Islamist extremism arose. Ariel Sharon came to reject the occupation and Greater Israel and unilaterally withdrew from Gaza, with further plans to withdraw from most of the West Bank. The ominous future of an impending Palestinian majority and Israel as a future, "apartheid-like" occupier of a majority Palestinian population disappeared, and Israel's stature in the world - and its self-confidence - leapt.

But though Israel's new stature has, importantly, remained, her sense of well-being soon ended with Ahmadinejad's threats and Hamas in power, the 2006 war from Hizbullah in the north and Gaza in the south, and continuing missiles from the now Hamas-run Gaza in the south.

Now the Palestinian side is the one that seems maximalist and ideological, and Israel the side that is moderate and pragmatic.

The Left's critique of Israel - which I used to agree with - doesn't make sense to me anymore. I feel betrayed by the Palestinian leadership. I have run out of excuses for it.

Nonetheless, there is no choice but to keep trying for peace, even if it takes decades, or even centuries. I wish I knew an alternative, but I just don't.

JAMES ADLER
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Twice shy

Sir, - In "She's not all pure" (June 10), Jeff Barak touched on Tzipi Livni's contradictory statements surrounding the disengagement from Gaza.

Ms. Livni was elected with Ariel Sharon under the slogan "The status of Netzarim equals the status of Tel Aviv." This slogan was changed shortly after the elections, without any reason given. The prime minister then promised to adhere to the outcome of a party referendum on the Gaza withdrawal, but did not keep his promise. Thus was the democratic process twice defeated.

Livni, despite being a key member in the government, never questioned this political fraud.

GABRIEL H. COHN
Jerusalem



Sir, - With Hizbullah, we exchanged a living prisoner for body parts and personal effects of Israeli soldiers. Why can't we ensure we get a living Gilad Schalit back by releasing, immediately, all the miserable prisoners on Hamas's wish list - that is, if they are willing to move from an Israeli prison to a situation of poverty and hunger in Gaza? ("As Israel mulls Gaza operation, Hamas transfers Schalit letter," June 10.)

BEATE ZILVERSMIDT
Tel Aviv

Sir, - Doesn't it embarrass the Palestinians to equate one Jew's worth with hundreds, or even thousands of Arabs? ("Hamas wants 1,000 prisoners for Schalit," May 28.)

STUART CUMMINGS
Las Vegas

In the court of public opinion

Sir, - Larry Derfner's "The other Olmert" (June 5) hit a sore spot. All the "silly, sentimental' points he makes are really beautiful actions we would hope to expect from anyone in the human race. Yet we seem to see and hear so very little of them these days.

When do we usually find out about such extremely positive behavior? When an accused has to bring character witnesses into court to testify to what a fine, upstanding citizen he really is.

So I guess the Olmert trial has already started.

SETH CLYMAN
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 15: Gordimer wants Israel to talk to Hamas</title>
<date>14/5/2008</date>
<content>
Sir, - We were prisoners of conscience in the USSR. Our identification with our brethren and with Israel - with justice, freedom and the battle against overt and veiled anti-Semitism - took a toll of many years of imprisonment in the Soviet Union. However, none of us even came close to being jailed for a quarter of a century, as Jonathan Pollard has been in your country.

If Pollard should die in prison, God forbid, complex questions will remain unanswered that may affect the conscience of America and permanently damage its reputation.

Pollard was active in a period when the evil Soviet empire of cruelty, espionage and world subversion was at its peak. Does any agent of this horrible and hostile power remain in an American prison? Nyet! Has anyone who operated against the US during that period on behalf of any foreign intelligence service been punished with such severity as Pollard? Again - Nyet!

Therefore, the question cries out: Why the discrimination against Pollard, who exposed the ominous secrets of Iraq - not of the US - in order to save Israel, a country friendly to America (indeed, its only democratic, bona fide and reliable friend in the Middle East)?

Why is Pollard loathed more than any true enemy? Why is he being treated in such a brutal manner? Why and for what reason has there been such a travesty of justice? Is his Jewish origin, or his devotion to Israel the cause of this mistreatment? Does equality before the law really exist in the US, or are some people worth less than others?

You, President Bush, have the power to correct this injustice - but only while two flames still burn: the flame of Pollard's life and the flame of your term of office. You can pardon Pollard and go down in history as the one who removed this dark stain on the conscience of your country. It would be an act of benevolence of the highest order, fitting for the president of the greatest world power, who supposedly stands for the struggle against world evil.

We, the undersigned, call upon you also in the names of Former Prisoners of Zion Lasalle Kaminski, Lazar Leoverski, Aryeh Vudka, Silva Zalmanson, Anatoly Altman, Kim Friedman, Ephraim Cholmianski, Dovid Maayan, Baruch Shilkrut, Aharon Spielberg - and of freedom-loving people everywhere ("Bible quiz winner to PM: Get Pollard out of jail," May 9).

IDA NUDEL
YOSEF MENDELOVICH
RUALD ZELICHONICK
Jerusalem

Gordimer wants Israel...

Sir, - Re "Gordimer to 'Post': Israel must talk to its enemies" (May 14): Nadine Gordimer's claim that "We never would have got away with a new South Africa if the people who were so bitterly opposed had not sat down together" begs the question: What exactly does she mean by a "new South Africa"? If it is the one where the white minority is leaving at a growing pace, having in 1994 conceded defeat and turned over power to the black majority, there is no reason why Israel would want to follow such an outcome of diplomatic discourse.

Jews are the majority in Israel, and the reason we are the majority is that with the establishment of the Jewish state 60 years ago, I and my fellow Jews - like Gordimer, born in a land without our forefathers or Jewish national memory - were finally given an opportunity to return to the land where we belong.

It is this that underlies Israel's success and will determine its future - and not some abstract notion of right and wrong put forward by a Nobel laureate who, after all, enjoyed her privileged white supremacy status for so many years.

LILY SINGER-POLLIACK
Cape Town/Jerusalem

...to talk to Hamas

Sir, - Another notable figure wants us to talk, her rationale being the clever slogan "Peace is made with enemies, not with friends."

Looking into the Bible and even the Talmud, I found no restrictions on talking to enemies. Moses spoke to Pharaoh. Mordechai spoke to Haman and told him he could not bow down to him. Menachem Begin spoke to Anwar Sadat before he made peace with him.

Neville Chamberlain's sin lay not in talking to Hitler, but in giving him what he wanted.

The issue, therefore, is not talking or not talking. It's giving in. Giving Hamas and Islamic Jihad what they want, while not talking to them, is worse than talking to them but not giving them anything. Even diplomatic recognition combined with firm and military opposition is better than no talking and no recognition combined with weak or no resistance.

Unfortunately, Nadine Gordimer wants Israel to talk and give in to Hamas and Islamic Jihad.
How about telling them to go to hell, or to the paradise they promise their suicide bombers?

J.M. KING
Jerusalem

Sir, - As a long-time admirer and old acquaintance of Nadine Gordimer, I nevertheless take issue with her saying some Israeli actions are comparable to apartheid.

As one who lived in apartheid South Africa for 53 years, I can assure her that no similarity exists. In S. Africa non-whites could not be treated in hospitals reserved for whites. They could not attend cinemas or other places of entertainment in white areas. They had separate entrances in post offices and were forbidden to sit on park benches reserved for whites. There were numerous other restrictions. Nothing even approximating that exists in Israel.

The wall which she decries was built solely to reduce the risk of terrorist attacks, which have resulted in so many deaths of innocent Israelis.

In S. Africa whole communities were uprooted from their homes and transferred elsewhere. In Israel, houses belonging to terrorists have been razed, but there have been no major population moves of Arabs. On the contrary, large Jewish communities were removed in order to return to Arabs land they lost in wars they started.

Ms. Gordimer has every right to disapprove of Israel's actions. But to compare them to apartheid approximates in some ways to Palestinian claims that some of our actions are comparable to the Holocaust.

MONTY M. ZION
Tel Mond

Lose-lose situation

Sir, - Benjamin Franklin, "father" of the American Revolution, entrepreneur, inventor, author and statesman, wrote: "Any society that would give up a little liberty to gain a little security will deserve neither and lose both."

DVORA WAYSMAN
Jerusalem

Emptiness waiting to be filled

Sir, - Carol Novis wrote of "Jerusalem of Gold" that "critics have noted that the marketplace and Temple Mount were far from empty, as Shemer suggested; we just didn't see the Arabs who filled the place" ("Songs of our times," May 13).

But the point Naomi Shemer was making was that those places were indeed empty - not of Arabs, but of Jews. Despite UN assurances and other international guarantees, the Arabs who were in the city's eastern neighborhoods until 1967 refused Jews our right of access to the Western Wall, destroyed our synagogues and desecrated our cemeteries on the Mt. of Olives.

Today the Old City marketplace is not bustling with Jews either, but that is because of Arab terror stabbings and Israel's security failures. And the Temple Mount does not yet have a shofar blowing or Jews praying on it because Israel actually discriminates against Jews.

Given this situation, "Jerusalem of Gold" will remain our substitute anthem and our most popular song because our national aspirations remain partly unfulfilled.

YISRAEL MEDAD
Shilo
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 29: New moral low?</title>
<date>28/5/2008</date>
<content>
New moral low?

Sir, - Re "'Prisoner exchange would strengthen Hizbullah'" (May 28): If Ehud Olmert's "real motivation for the exchange... is [the] desire to divert attention from his possible indictment for bribery in the Talansky affair," it would indicate a new moral low in a system that is no stranger to immorality.

For chief among the prisoners in Israeli jails whom Hassan Nasrallah wants released is Lebanese Druse terrorist Samir Kuntar, currently serving four life terms for the 1979 deaths of police officer Eliyahu Shahar and Danny Haran and his two daughters, one of whom, a four-year-old, he killed on the Nahariya beach by bashing her head against a rock ("Samir Kuntar's bloody deeds," same date).

The article goes on to note, by the way, that Kuntar, "who has openly expressed pride about the killings over the years... got married while in prison and receives conjugal visits from his wife."

R. LOBELL
Westchester, New York

Levantine 'demockracy'

Sir, - Morris Talansky's evidence raises two interesting points:

1. In any normal democracy, the attorney-general would ask a minister - certainly a PM under not one, but four or five criminal investigations - to "stand aside" temporarily until all the investigations have been concluded. However, in this Levantine "demockracy" of ours we have Menahem Mazuz stating that the investigations will continue for some months, making it very clear that the premier can continue his domestic and foreign policies without having to worry about "justice" stopping him.

2. Since Olmert, according to Talansky, was always needing money to pay off election and other debts, how did he have the funds to buy that apartment in Cremieux St.? One has to wonder ("Talansky: I gave Olmert $150,000 of my own money and large sums from others - all in cash," May 28).

MENACHEM SAMUEL
Jerusalem

Sir, - There are leaders who excel at being politicians (Ehud Olmert), and politicians who excel at being leaders (David Ben-Gurion). Right now we need a leader who will deal with the threats to the state rather than his potential indictment ("Delay in cross-examination gives PM political breather," May 28).

BARRY LYNN
Efrat

Sir, - The prime minister maintains Morris Talansky gave him all that money without expecting anything in return. Why shouldn't we believe him? Isn't that Mr. Olmert's standard business model - offering everything without expecting anything in return? ("It stinks, but is it criminal?" David Horovitz, May 27).

ZALMI UNSDORFER
London

Sir, - OK, so Talansky gave Olmert cash at will, like he was his sugar daddy. That's fine. Really. It's his money, and as long as he doesn't take advantage politically, he can dish out funds for cigars, hotels and other luxuries his friends can't afford.

But Olmert ought to have been embarrassed to take the money, especially for luxury items. It puts him on the level of a spoilt child. He might as well be Paris Hilton.

Sad, for a country's leader.

MATTHEW BERMAN
Herzliya

How the Irish dealt with it

Sir, - I read with great interest the news that your defense minister, Ehud Barak, has called on Ehud Olmert to resign ("Barak calls on Olmert to step down," On-Line Edition, May 28).

Our taoiseach (prime minister), Bertie Ahern, had, for almost two years, been involved in dealing with a special tribunal of enquiry into his personal finances concerning his receipt of cash from various businessmen. Mr. Ahern maintained in evidence that it was a combination of political donations and loans. The country was transfixed by this matter and last month, after 10 months in office, Mr. Ahern resigned. He wanted the political life of the country to deal with real issues and not speculation concerning his finances.

We now have a new prime minister and the entire political landscape has changed. The country is talking about oil prices, the world credit crunch and domestic issues. Mr. Ahern's finances have disappeared off the political radar.

As an Irish citizen, I am not making any comment on Mr. Olmert's position, but I do wish to enlighten your readers with a similar situation in Ireland.

And happy 60th birthday to Israel from an Irish friend.

GERARD SEERY
Cork, Ireland

Prime example of 'peace at any price'

Sir, - MJ Rosenberg has a long history of believing that if you give terrorist nations or groups everything they demand, they will leave you alone ("There are no dangers in diplomacy," May 27). Unfortunately, he fails to understand that what these enemies are demanding is the dissolution of Israel.

Had we listened to Mr. Rosenberg's advice, Israel would not have been founded; and if it had been founded, it would have disappeared long ago.

MJ Rosenberg is a prime example of the philosophy of "peace at any price," an attitude that has been discredited since the time that nations have existed, and certainly one that led to World War II and the prior ascendancy of Hitler to power in Germany.

NELSON MARANS
Silver Spring, Maryland

Succor & sanctimony

Sir, - Former Rhodesians/Zimbabweans and South Africans, myself included, must concur with your insightful assessment of the tragic consequences of decades-long, simmering rage erupting into violence and anarchy ("Cry, South Africa," Editorial, May 28).

We are deeply pained by the images of brutality and misery shown in the media.

You correctly surmised that the blame should be laid squarely on the shoulders of criminally inept President Thabo Mbeki and his government - whose outrageous denial of the disconnect between HIV and AIDS and the subsequent suffering and deaths of a large percentage of the population, combined with his support and collusion of (brother-in-law) megalomaniac dictator Robert Mugabe, has resulted in this tragedy perpetuated on both sides of the border between S. Africa and Zimbabwe.

Meanwhile, South African Jewry has rallied and mobilized all its resources to help ease the plight of the terrified refugees in the poverty-stricken and neglected black African townships; while the sanctimonious, pontificating Bishop Desmond Tutu neglects his own backyard to visit Gaza - on a sponsored UN human-rights investigation of an incident which occurred in 2006 - to ostensibly empathize with the Palestinians living in a police state amongst warring militia clans, motivated by a self-destructive hatred of Israel and Jews.

GISH TRUMAN ROBBINS
Pardesiya

Sir - To this South African, your editorial did much for the heart, yet little for the mind. Contrary to what you stated, many S. African Jews did not play an active role in opposing apartheid, whether out of personal trepidation, or fear for the Jewish community as a whole. Nelson Mandela was ensconced in Jewish homes while planning his revolution and the black majority does owe a great debt to a small Jewish contingent, but less to the community as a whole.

Yes, moral indignation was felt by the majority of S. Africa's Jews, but it was, unfortunately, translated into practical action by only a minority. Only those living there at the time can really understand why this was, and no guilt can be laid at the community's feet.

Nonetheless, the question has to be asked: Why was there an unofficial, yet strongly implemented decision taken by community leaders not to accept black converts to Judaism during the apartheid era?

DANIEL ABELMAN
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 5: Astounding how illiberal some 'liberals' can be</title>
<date>4/5/2008</date>
<content>
Sir, - Sarah Kreimer takes the extremist position that we can do justice to our Israeli Arab citizens only by relinquishing our Jewish state in favor of a Jewish "homeland" ("Moving on to 'stage-two' Zionism," April 30). Putting aside for the moment the probability that even this will not satisfy them, it is a shame that she does not demand the same values from the Palestinians busy building the democratic institutions for their state (or states) on our borders.

She berates Israel for "restricting" Arab citizens, "limiting their development," and "Judaizing the Galilee and the Negev." But presumably the Palestinians in their new states will not have to cope with such minority problems since she calls for all Jewish towns and villages in their territories to be "jettisoned," - i.e., demolished and their residents transferred.

The result would be a binational Jewish "homeland" side by side with a judenrein Palestinian state - hardly a fair and balanced approach.

If Ms. Kreimer were truly a "liberal Jew," as she defines herself, she would oppose any family, Jewish or Arab, being torn from its home. She would be calling on the Palestinians to establish a binational Palestinian homeland which accepts, respects and honors its Jewish minority with no less vigor than what she demands of her fellow Israelis.

DOUG GREENER
Jerusalem

Sir, - The British Jews who put an anti-Israel ad in the Guardian make a serious error when they propose a "one-state solution" because this would, in effect, remove the Jewish basis of Israel. Maybe it is understandable that they hold these views, living as they do in the comfort and relative safety of the West.

But anti-Semitism is on the rise again, and where they live Jews need armed guards to protect their institutions. Here we have our army to defend us against the Palestinian terrorist organizations and others who seek to kill all Jews - a violation of human rights the ad failed to mention ("'Guardian' letter backing one-state solution divides anti-Zionist Jews," May 4).

JACK COHEN
Netanya

Sir, - I find it odd that were I to try to set up an organization based on the proposition that Muslims are responsible for mass murder around the world and indulge in limb-lopping, torture, kidnapping, blackmail and threaten death to all who are not of their creed, I probably could not get a single Jewish academic to join me. And yet such an organization would be closer to the truth than the claims of this group of British, Jewish anti-Israel academics.

DOV AARONS
London

Sir, - At 10 o'clock on Holocaust Remembrance Day I was in hospital, about to be examined by a young woman doctor. In dress, manner and command of Hebrew she was indistinguishable from the rest of the staff; but her name tag revealed that she was Arab. Soon after she entered the siren sounded; my son, who was with me, rose to his feet. The doctor looked at him enquiringly, and he explained. They both stood motionless for two minutes, and then routine returned.

Over the years I have become familiar with three of the major hospitals in Israel, either as patient or visitor. In each of them I have been convinced that the percentage of Arab staff, patients and visitors is much in excess of the Arab percentage of the population.

For three generations, the lies that have been spread about Israel are legion; but to accuse her of apartheid is one of the most monstrous - and one that can easily be dispelled by a visit, not only to our hospitals, but to our universities.

MEIR ABELSON
Beit Shemesh

Sir, - Nadine Gordimer: "Hamas, despite its declaration denying the right of Israel to exist, must be part of these talks, for the very survival of Palestine and Israel, for them to be at peace in full independent states within justly agreed boundaries" ("Rejecting calls to boycott Israel, Gordimer urges talks with Hamas," May 4).

They don't accept our right to exist - therefore we have to talk to them is a non sequitur par excellence. Ms. Gordimer does not seem to understand that it is impossible to make peace or negotiate with a genocidal organization that believes it a religious duty to subjugate us or destroy us and will never compromise one inch except as part of a deception to achieve its goal.

Does she really believe that Article 7 of the Hamas Charter is negotiable? (Taken from hadith Sahih Bukhari (4:52:177), it quotes the Prophet: "O Muslim! There is a Jew hiding behind me, come on and kill him!"

How long will the world's foremost intellectuals, including Nobel prizewinners, keep producing statements that show utter ignorance of Islamism?

MLADEN ANDRIJASEVIC
Beersheba

No wonder Abbas is depressed

Sir, - It was remarkable to read the Palestinian conditions for a peace agreement: Full withdrawal to the 1967 border, including what was Arab Jerusalem, and the return of refugees to Israel. Translation: unless Israel agrees to 1. uproot 500,000 people; 2. be the only country without a unified capital, and 3. turn itself into a Palestinian state, there will be no peace.

No wonder PA President Mahmoud Abbas is depressed: Having failed to destroy Israel militarily, he is finding that his diplomacy doesn't work either ("Palestinian losing his authority," May 2).

There's irony here: Abbas is threatening to resign and warns that failure to reach an agreement will mean a Hamas takeover. Yet were he to accept the Israeli offer of most of the West Bank, a toe-hold in Jerusalem and the return of refugees to a Palestinian state, he could continue as president for quite a long time and go down in history as the man who led his people to statehood. He needs to decide whether that is more important than the dream of destroying Israel.

BARRY LYNN
Efrat

Arafat's spirit sets the tone

Sir, - In "Once and for all" (Editorial, May 4) you complain about the Palestinian failure to appreciate Israeli concessions, but seem unaware that the Palestinians consider Israel and Israelis the root of all their evil and the source of all their problems, and thus will never thank us for anything.

As regards the Palestinian failure to make any reciprocal moves, the Palestinians repeatedly ask why they should concede anything to Israel - the mass murderer of the Palestinian people, the rapist of their women and children, and the thief who stole their land.

It is time we faced the fact that the Palestinian leadership and people will never concede anything to Israel or anybody else, that the Palestinian "struggle" will continue until our destruction, and that the spirit of that struggle, Yasser Arafat, will, as his picture posters point out in Jenin, Nablus, Ramallah and even Israeli Arab communities, "always be with you."

KENNETH BESIG
Kiryat Arba

Sir, - B'Tselem spokeswoman Sarit Michaeli was upset that an IAF attack targeting terrorists caused a terrorist's bomb to explode amid an innocent civilian population. Well, that's where the terrorist's bomb was meant to explode, amid an innocent civilian population - ours ("Gaza family was killed when missile set off terrorist's bombs," May 4).

DEBBIE SCHWARTZ
Neveh Ya'acov

This won't fly

Sir, - You stated that the airport serving Rome is called Leonardo da Vinci, which is the name of one of the airports serving Milan. Rome's airport is called Fiumicino ("Rome terminal opens for Israel flights," May 4).

SHARON LEVY
Kiryat Motzkin
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Munich comes to Oxford</title>
<date>11/3/2008</date>
<content>
The response to the decision by the student union of the London School of Economics to launch a campaign to boycott Israel is instructive. Britain is so teaming with boycotts and boycott attempts that the news of the latest one barely rated mention in the Israeli media.

After the Oxford Union debating society invited Hizbullah champion Norman Finkelstein, of all people, to represent the pro-Israel stance in a debate about whether Israel has a right to exist, not much more could surprise me.

However, the Oxford Union's decision, is significant because the subject of the planned debate did not revolve around opposition to settlements in the occupied territories, but rather something else completely.

The decision to hold the debate on "This house believes that one-state is the only solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict" made no effort to conceal the union's hatred for Israel. Not a single word was said about the terror attacks against Israelis, the rockets from Gaza, or even a call for peace based on two states for two peoples. The official motion mentions the Nakba, but says not a word about the invasion of Israel by Arab armies.

The Oxford Union narrowly defeated a resolution calling for the Right of Return and demands that Israel become a "state of all its citizens." The motion quotes an article by a former attorney-general of Israel, Michael Ben Yair, who wrote: "We founded an apartheid regime in the territories immediately after their occupation. This oppressive regime continues to exist to this very day."

It is true that the settlements, the expropriation of land and the checkpoints have made a significant contribution to the creation of an anti-Israeli atmosphere. It is also true that the settlements and the division between one law for Israelis and one law for the Palestinians must not be justified.

But it was not about that that the debate in Oxford was to be held.

THIS DEBATE, and others like it, is part of a vast propaganda campaign, funded by Arab capital - not to put an end to the occupation - but to completely delegitimize the Jewish state and prepare the ground to "wipe it off the map" as the Iranian president has threatened to do.

It would be, in short, a diatribe in the tradition of Durban. The Jews have no human or national rights (But why should I be complaining about the British? The Association for Civil Rights in Israel - ACRI - has refused for the very same reason to demand the return of Israel's abducted soldiers, or even that they be granted the right to be visited by the Red Cross).

It is difficult to imagine a similar campaign against any other country, not even against South Africa in the days of apartheid. The world has never seen such a wave of abysmal hatred. The only precedent in the past for what is happening now is the Nazi anti-Semitic propaganda in the 1930s.

And indeed, there is much similarity between the two: First comes the demonization: Just as the Jews, according to the Nazi narrative, poisoned all the West and became "our catastrophe," thus tiny Israel is portrayed, from Teheran to Berkeley as the mother of all evil, as the one solely responsible for all the Arabs' and the world's woes, as the embodiment of Satan himself.

SECOND, just as the Jews were described as vermin and microbes but at the same time, also as a cruel international force that posed a threat to every German; both as miserable parasites and also as monsters about to destroy the world, thus Israel too is portrayed: as both as flimsy as a spider's web, while at the same time wielding enormous international power and influence; as both a horde of ignoble wretches and as evil plotters capable of infecting the entire Middle East with AIDS; as both being on the verge of disappearing and passing into oblivion and of destroying the world.

Indeed, it is only recently that the vast similarities between the Arab and Nazi propaganda have begun to be noticed. The German scholar Matthias Künzel discusses this similarity in his book Jihad and Jew-Hatred. He points out that Hizbullah and Hamas leaders employ Nazi terminology in their propaganda and that this resemblance, he maintains, is no coincidence: The Nazis considered it a national mission to make the Arabs anti-Jewish and anti-Zionist, and the dissemination of Mein Kampf and The Protocols of the Elders of Zion in Arabic was an important part of this effort.

Künzel relates that former Hamas leader Abdel Aziz Rantisi told him, "The question is not what the Germans did to the Jews but what the Jews did to the Germans." The Jews, he said, got what they deserved. Künzel views these haters and this hatred as the successors of the mufti of Jerusalem as well as of the Nazis and their legacy.

WHAT PURPOSE does this campaign serve? What explains why so many Israelis and foreign Jews have joined forces to support it? Whatever the answers, the efforts only pushes ever further away the possibility that the Arabs will ever make peace with the existence of a Jewish state in the Middle East.

It has a destructive influence on Israelis too because it undermines their willingness to make tangible concessions for any kind of peace settlement in a reality in which every agreement with the Palestinians produces only more hate and more hostility.

Throughout the world, this campaign to delegitimize Israel is fueling anti-Semitic sentiments and attendant attacks on Jews and their institutions. Any way you look at it, it is a monstrous mirror image of the anti-Jewish narrative of the 1930s.

It is to this campaign that the Oxford Union has lent a hand. But it did not happen in a Munich beer hall, but rather in the most highly respected debating society in Britain.

The writer is a professor of law at the Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya, a former minister of education and MK, and the recipient of the 2006 Israel Prize in Law.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Now get ready for Round 2</title>
<date>17/12/2008</date>
<content>
While Jews, including a Chabad rabbi and his pregnant wife, were being slaughtered by terrorists in Mumbai, the United Nations was busy preparing more anti-Israel resolutions and using US tax dollars to plan "Durban 2." Will the world tolerate another internationally sanctioned attack on Jews and Israel? Unless something serious is done immediately, it appears that it will.

Indeed, this past year alone the UN General Assembly adopted 14 resolutions specifically criticizing Israel, and seven more expressing support for the Palestinian people vis-à-vis its relations with Israel. All together, the 21 resolutions addressing alleged Israeli violations and obligations stretched to 61 pages of text, compared with only 20 pages for resolutions critical of other countries - including Sudan, Iran, Syria and other nations with massive human rights abuses.

The 2001 UN Durban Review Conference was an eight-day platform for attacks against the State of Israel. At the conference, driven primarily by nongovernmental organizations in close cooperation with Iran and other Islamic regimes, Israel was repeatedly singled out and internationally isolated as the participants equated Zionism with racism and derided Israel's attempts to defend itself as war crimes.

Anti-Semitic cartoons and books such as The Protocols of the Elders of Zion and Hitler's Mein Kampf were circulated. Protesters shouted "Death to the Jews" and accused Israel of committing holocausts. The NGO final declaration accused Israel of apartheid and ethnic cleansings, called for the total isolation of Israel through sanctions and made threats against countries that support Israel.

Durban 1 may have been the largest anti-Semitic and anti-Israel meeting of the 21st century. Now get ready for Round 2.

EIGHT YEARS later, on April 20, the UN will once again convene the Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, this time at its European headquarters in Geneva. So far, the conference promises to be nothing more than a dangerous reprisal of the 2001 debacle - a broad campaign to demonize Israel while ignoring racist and discriminatory acts by UN members such as Sudan, Iran and China. And since America pays for at least 20 percent of the UN's budget, this will be our tax dollars at work.

Regional conferences show the same lopsided tendency as they set the stage for another UN-backed bashing of Israel. That should come as no surprise given that the Preparatory Committee (PrepCom) is being led by Libya, one of the 20 committee members. Others include Iran, Egypt, Pakistan and Cuba, all of which have an interest in distracting attention from their own human rights records.

Further: At a PrepCom meeting in May 2008, a UN working group released a document expressing "concern about the plight of the Palestinian people under foreign occupation." At the same meeting, the PrepCom accredited the Palestinian Grassroots Anti-Apartheid Wall Campaign for the NGO forum accompanying the conference but rejected the Canadian Council for Israel and Jewish Advocacy.

In late October, the UN Human Rights Council, which facilitates the PrepCom and is hosting the conference - released a draft document containing no fewer than nine paragraphs condemning Israel as guilty of apartheid, accusing it of crimes against humanity and genocide and once again impugning Zionism as racist by referring to a "racially based law of return." The representatives of various Arab and Muslim states already have stated their support for these passages and recommended additional condemnations.

In August, the African Regional Conference issued a declaration mentioning the "plight of the Palestinian people" while ignoring the genocide in Sudan.

Already, a number of Western governments and international organizations including ours are preparing for more of the same. Canada and Israel plan to stay away from the conference altogether; the US vowed not to participate without proof that the conference will not become another internationally sanctioned assault against Jews and Israel. France's President Nicolas Sarkozy said earlier this year that his country will withdraw from the conference unless certain demands are met.

With enough blood spilled, it isn't too late for world powers and leaders of the future to take an affirmative stand - this time in support of Israel's right to live in security and peace.

The writer is the founder and president of www.theisraelproject.org, a nonprofit organization providing reporters with facts and sources about Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 20: Passing of an era</title>
<date>19/10/2008</date>
<content>
Passing of an era

Sir, - I cannot thank David Horovitz enough for "Hardman's humanity" (October 17). He spoke for all of us who grew up in London's Raleigh Close Synagogue. The description of Rev. Hardman giving the bar mitzva boy his humash was so perfect that I chuckled out loud!

I grew up in this community, from 1948 until 1968. My whole family had a very close personal relationship with the Hardmans. Rev. Hardman was indeed blessed with all the virtues with which Mr. Horovitz extolled him, enhanced by his lifelong partner, Josi. With her calm, soft Scottish voice, his wife was at his side whenever needed. They were an amazing couple.

The Hardmans had to grapple not only with the atrocities of Bergen-Belsen, but with many personal tragedies over the years. Despite this, or because of it, "humanity" is the word that comes foremost to mind when talking about them.

Because of their warmth and humanity, it was to Leslie and Josi Hardman that we turned for help when terrible tidings had to be imparted - not once, but twice - to the older members of our family.

Those who survived the death camp, and all of us who came into contact with the Hardmans, are the better for it.

An era has passed. Thank you for leaving us this poignant memory.

BARBARA PFEFFER
Rehovot

Sir, - Rev. Hardman was a mensch in the true Jewish sense, always caring, helping and supporting. Some years ago, when I met him here, I reminded him of the BBC broadcast of his first Jewish "service" at Bergen-Belsen after the liberation.

Two things about it burned into my memory: His beginning, in an emotionally charged voice, "Nahamu, nahamu ami - troest sich, troest sich mein Volk sogt unser Gott," and his reciting of the Kaddish prayer. Everyone who listened surely had tears running down their faces.

Rev. Hardman was surprised to hear that someone could quote him after all these years - but then, that was the man.

May his memory be a blessing for all of Israel.

EMANUEL FISCHER
Jerusalem

Sir, - In my 43 years as hazan at Woodside Park Synagogue in Finchley, I had the good fortune, for many of them, to have Rev. Leslie Hardman as a neighboring minister. In my early years in the ministry he gave me wonderful advice in a fatherly manner, and friendship which I have always treasured.

A true gentleman indeed.

MICHAEL PLASKOW
Netanya

Away with apathy

Sir, - According to deputy defense minister Matan Vilna'i, our country is facing one of the most complicated and dangerous periods in its history, confronting at any one time a guerilla war in Lebanon, a terror war in Judea, Samaria and Gaza, conventional war with Syria and a possible existential threat from Iran ("'We are in the midst of preparing the home front for war,'" October 17).

How on earth is a fractious government monopolized by devious, self-seeking politicians - headed once again by an unelected leader, who most certainly does not represent the public consensus - supposed to function effectively?

Yet again, another editorial ("In praise of Joe the plumber," same date) slammed the utter futility of our unwieldy election system and urged change.

Obviously the vast majority of Knesset members are neither idealistically nor patriotically inclined to put their careers on hold and lead the charge to legislate for electoral reform - so the onus falls on us Israeli citizens. Instead of resigning ourselves to apathetic indifference, we must fight for electoral reform - now.

GISH TRUMAN ROBBINS
Pardesiya

End this idiocy

Sir, - Re "Peres: No progress made in Schalit talks" (October 19): Enough already. End this. Take a picture of one Palestinian boy warrior prisoner, put it on the Worldwide Web, and say: This is who we will trade for Schalit. And walk away from the table.

The government way always leads to another kidnapping and endless blah, blah for another 1,000 prisoner releases; and heartbreak for the parents of the new IDF captive.

One for one. Raise the value of their children to yours. This elitist snobbery only perpetuates the idiocy and gives value to their arguments.

Enough already. End it.

WILLIAM LEVY
Baltimore

In Grant's defense

Sir, - Linda Grant does not need me to defend her, but Lynette Ordman's attack requires a response ("Sickening views," Letters, October 17).

She claims that Ms. Grant's book The Clothes on Their Backs was shortlisted for the Booker Prize because "the British establishment is only too keen to promote another vehicle that reinforces new forms of anti-Jewish sentiment." By the same logic, the fact that the book did not actually win the Booker prize presumably shows that the British establishment has seen the error of its ways and is now firmly pro-Jewish. The prize was, in fact, won by a young Indian writer whose book covers the vast disparity between rich and poor in India. Clear evidence of the British establishment's imperialist and colonialist attitude to India?

Ms. Grant's latest book is, among other things, a sensitive and sympathetic portrait of the effect of Holocaust survival on two brothers and their families in Britain. She is critical of some aspects of Israeli policy toward the Palestinians, as are many Israelis. She is also a courageous campaigner against the anti-Israel policies of many on the Left, fighting the academic and cultural boycott and the notion of Israel as an apartheid state. Moreover, she does so from within the hostile environment of British Left politics, rather than from the relative comfort of Netanya.

LESLIE WAGNER
Jerusalem

A mass of...

Sir, - It was the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 that started the US on the slippery slope of replacing prudent lending practices with dubious social engineering mandates. In addition, the government created Fannie Mae and Feddie Mac, which amassed six trillion dollars of mortgages-disguised-as-welfare, then trussed them up into complex securitized instruments marketed to gullible banks worldwide.

The twin evils of lax lending standards and the use of derivatives to hide risk were also practised by the private sector, but they were initiated and encouraged by the government.

Thus our desire to be rescued by the government is only fair, since the liberals in government created this mess in the first place ("We're all liberals now," Larry Derfner, October 16).

DAVID KATCOFF
Jericho, Vermont

...shaky structures

Sir, - Re "Panic vs self-interest" (Editorial, October 13): The effects of the economic crisis are already easy to see in Israel. People are moving out of their houses and living in simple booths that lack proper walls and roofs. The UN should be told about how we unfortunates have been reduced to living like refugees.

JACK COHEN
Netanya

From Hindu to Jew

Sir, - I am a proud Hindu and I really do not know your customs. So please forgive me if I offend you. I presume it is your New Year, so please accept my best wishes. I appreciate your determination and courage in maintaining your freedom against all odds.

I wish very happy and prosperous years ahead for all of you.

VASANT SAHASRABUDDHE
Vadodara, India
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: From Tel Aviv to Teheran, with love</title>
<date>10/11/2008</date>
<content>
Two weeks ago, the Palestinians and their anti-Zionist Israeli and international partners finally produced a smoking gun. They had a videotape of evil settlers brutally attacking poor, defenseless Palestinians as they innocently picked olives with their enlightened supporters in a grove by the Tel Rumeida neighborhood in Hebron.

The local media went into a feeding frenzy. The footage led the television news broadcasts. Photos taken from the video were plastered across the front pages of the newspapers. Radio talk show hosts denounced the criminal settlers and celebrated the guileless Palestinians and their heroic Israeli supporters. The Olmert-Livni-Barak government was quick to weigh in, promising stiff punishment for the Jewish fascists involved and a curtailment of their supporters' civil rights.

In the weeks that have followed, and with elections looming, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and Defense Minister Ehud Barak have stepped up their attacks on the evil right-wing extremists. At Saturday night's memorial ceremony/political rally for slain prime minister Yitzhak Rabin in Tel Aviv, Barak called right-wing activists "cancers." He claimed that they are a "threat to democracy." And he pledged, "We will uproot this evil from within us."

The crowd loved Barak's statement. The few audience members who might have booed him had already been beaten and arrested by police for disturbing the peace. A handful of anti-leftist activists from the student group Im Tirtzu came to Kikar Rabin carrying signs decrying leftist demonization of the Right. The police beat them and carted them off before the rally began.

If it were true that settlers are marauding around Judea and Samaria beating innocent Palestinians, perhaps it would be possible to understand this assault against the Right. But as it works out, the videotape that was supposed to be the definitive proof that settlers are violent criminals was a fabrication. It was simply the latest anti-Israel snuff film brought to us by our friends at Pallywood Productions. These are the same creative filmmakers whose previous credits include the fabricated IDF shooting of Muhammad al-Dura, the Jenin massacre that wasn't, the Kafr Kana massacre that wasn't and a host of other notable blood libels.

The inconvenient truth that these activists remain liars was exposed at the remand hearings of the settlers accused of beating the Palestinian olive harvesters. As the NFC news Web site reported exclusively on Sunday, the Palestinians showed their film as evidence against the arrested offenders in two separate hearings before two different judges at the Jerusalem Magistrate's Court. And at each hearing, after viewing the film the judges concluded that through heavy editing, the video had inverted reality. Both stated that it was impossible to know who began the fight - the Palestinians and their Israeli and foreign supporters who beat the settlers, or the settlers who walked to the grove on Shabbat carrying nothing but their prayer shawls and hit them back.

The judges also noted that one of the Palestinians threw a large rock at the back of one of the settlers after he and his friends had disengaged from the fight. The judges expressed anger and amazement at the police for failing to arrest the Palestinian who had clearly attacked the Jewish defendant without provocation.

IT GOES without saying that the local media have chosen to ignore the court's exposure of the latest hoax. The truth doesn't fit their anti-right-wing narrative and so it isn't being covered.

What the local media and politicians such as Barak and Livni who seek to criminalize the Right for political gain refuse to acknowledge is that their embrace of these lies not only harms the settlers, it harms the country as a whole.

Although from the rap they've gotten from the political Left and its supporters in the media, it seems like right-wing extremists are both numerous and powerful, the fact of the matter is that the number of right-wingers who reject the authority of the state or would take the law into their own hands is tiny. And they are politically isolated both at home and abroad and have no money.

In stark contrast, the anti-Zionist, Israeli Left is an integral part of a well-funded international movement actively engaged in waging political warfare not against the settlers, but against Israel as a whole. The end of this political war is Israel's destruction. The anti-Zionist Israeli Left advances this destruction both by directly assisting terror groups and by indirectly assisting terror groups through activities aimed at delegitimizing Israel's right to defend itself.

The clear collusion between both Israeli and international anti-Israel leftist activists with terrorist groups like Hamas is nowhere more evident than in the terror-supporting International Solidarity Movement's newest spin-off, the Free Gaza campaign. On Saturday, this group broke the IDF's sea blockade of the Hamas-controlled Gazan coast for the third time in recent months by sailing a ship filled with rabidly pro-jihadist and anti-Israel European politicians from Cyprus to Gaza.

According to a credible source with close ties to the operation, the Free Gaza campaign works closely with Israeli far-left groups including Anarchists against the Wall, Gush Shalom, Gisha, Machsom Watch, New Profile and Women in Black. These organizations are generously funded by the US-based New Israel Fund, by European governments and by anti-Israel church groups like the Quakers. The Free Gaza campaign's first ship, which arrived in Gaza in late August, was led by Israeli anti-Zionist activist and former lecturer at Ben-Gurion University Jeff Halper.

The Free Gaza campaign is a clear assault on Israel's national security. Under the banner of "human rights," this new ferry service between Cyprus and Gaza is meant to compromise the country's ability to combat terror operations and to provide political support for Hamas. Crew members and passengers on board these boats meet with Hamas terror commanders in Gaza and coordinate future missions.

Their newest campaign is to prevent the navy from interdicting fishing boats. Hamas and other terror groups make wide use of fishing boats to import weapons and transport terror personnel from abroad into Gaza. By demonizing the navy for interdicting fishing boats, and in open collusion with Hamas, the activists provide political cover for weapons transfers and jihadist maritime traffic into and out of Gaza.

To date, Israel has chosen not to intercept the Free Gaza campaign's boats out of concern that taking such necessary action will prove a public relations disaster both at home and abroad. And this concern is reasonable. But by taking no diplomatic or military steps to prevent this terror-supporting traffic from continuing and expanding, the government allows these Israeli and European terror supporters to strengthen Hamas's war machine and legitimize Hamas's objective of destroying Israel.

Official Israel's failure to act against this breach of its security is directly related to its support of Israeli anti-Zionist groups when they direct their guns at the Israeli Right - rather than Israel as a whole. As a practical matter, it is difficult for the government to show that the Free Gaza campaign actively supports the war against Israel when it willingly embraces the bona fides of the Free Gaza campaign's supporters when they attack settlers, or when the government adopts these organizations' false assertion that the Right is the greatest threat to the country.

By the same token, it is difficult for the government to discredit films purporting to demonstrate the human rights plight of Gazans as Pallywood propaganda flicks when the government accepts these films as accurate when their culprits are right-wing activists.

BUT WHILE the domestic Left sees a distinction between its right-wing opponents and the country as a whole, the international community sees no distinction between the two. Indeed, the international community has used the cover that official Israel provides anti-Zionist activists for their settler vilifying activities in order to advance the cause of criminalizing Israel as a whole.

Case in point is what has become known as the Durban II conference in Geneva. Durban I, it will be recalled, was the UN's 2001 "anti-racism" conference in Durban, South Africa. The conference, which took place the week before the jihadist attacks on the US, was an anti-Semitic hate-fest. The American and Israeli delegations walked out as Israel and the Jewish people were castigated as the greatest human rights abusers, genocide committers, apartheid propagators and general all purpose bad guys in the entire world.

The Nazi-like propaganda emanating from the conference led to violent attacks against Jews all over the world. Durban I's resolutions also provided the policy blueprint for much of political warfare that has been waged against Israel by so-called human rights groups ever since. These include the violent demonstrations against the security fence organized by anti-Zionist Israeli groups, the Free Gaza campaign they support and the international boycotts against Israeli exports and academics they advocate.

Today, the UN is busily organizing its follow-up conference that will be held next year in Geneva. As the watchdog group Eye on the UN reported over the weekend, the conference's organizing committee just met and approved most of the resolutions it is set to adopt at Geneva. These resolutions again castigate Israel as the chief violator of human rights in the world. Israel is accused of committing genocide, crimes against humanity and being an apartheid state. It is also condemned as the most serious threat to international peace and security.

But of course, what starts with Israel doesn't end with Israel. The conference organizers have used the basic unanimity about Israel's criminal nature to launch an assault against the foundations of Western civilization. In addition to the numerous and repetitious attacks against Israel and Jews, the conference organizers passed multiple resolutions calling for the abrogation of freedom of expression and the criminalization of political speech in order to outlaw discussion of Islamic terrorism and block counterterror efforts in the West.

Among the conference's chief organizers are Iran, Libya, Egypt and Cuba. Iran is the vice-chairman of the executive committee responsible for planning Durban II. Much of the language in the proposed resolutions is taken directly from resolutions passed at a planning session last year in Teheran.

Israel had no hand in organizing this conference, which, following Canada, it announced it will boycott. But over the years, it could have taken actions that might have tempered or weakened the international coalition arrayed against it.

If the government had outlawed anti-Israel groups like Machsom Watch, New Profile, Gisha, Gush Shalom, Women in Black and Anarchists against the Wall, rather than tolerate them on account of their activities against settlers, it could at least have weakened their efforts. Had they been disbanded, they would have had less capacity to legitimize and assist Palestinians and Europeans who engage in political warfare against Israel on the ground.

By refusing to recognize the international consequences of their domestic battle against their political opponents on the Right, the Olmert-Livni-Barak government and the local media have strengthened Israel's enemies in their battle to destroy the country.

caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Political personality</title>
<date>29/10/2008</date>
<content>
In ancient mythology, Narcissus, a handsome young man rejected the companionship of both women and men to fall in love with his own reflection in a pond of water. The theme of the myth is the pervasive self-aggrandizement that he exhibited to the point of ignoring his own basic needs as well as the needs of others.

Mental health specialists refer to a syndrome called a narcissistic personality disorder, which is characterized by a rigid all-encompassing pattern of grandiosity. Primary among the traits displayed is an over-inflated sense of self-importance, intellectual ability and uniqueness. Additional traits include the need for extreme admiration and entitlement.

Personality disorders tend to occur in only about one percent of the population. While the disorder is rare in the general population, people who suffer from personality disorders, especially narcissism, have a tremendous impact on others, not simply themselves. What is most notable is that individuals with the disorder are completely unaware of the distress they cause others. How can you be concerned about causing distress if you do not consider the needs of others?

It has been suggested that individuals with a narcissistic personality tend to gravitate to certain specific professions, in particular acting and politics. Clearly not all actors or politicians are narcissists, but the behavioral patterns of self-aggrandizement and entitlement found more in politicians may indicate that the pattern is anything but uncommon among those in this group. Politicians seek power, validation and attention almost constantly. They operate with an illusion of superiority and infallibility; they are self-enamored and concerned primarily with their own preservation. And, they rarely, if ever, admit to a mistake.

Take as case in point former US president Jimmy Carter. In May of 2002, Jay Nordlinger, writing in the National Review said that he had never known anyone who "so nakedly loved praise." Quoting from a variety of sources, Nordlinger found Carter to be virulently anti-Israel and as having no qualms in accepting funding from any source that allowed him to receive attention, perhaps even narcissistic attention. In his own most recent book, Carter egregiously referred to Israel as an apartheid state with policies worse than those of South Africa's apartheid.

Putting aside the details of his biased funding sources, one only needs to check those who were supportive of him at the time that the book was released and who remain supporters of his to this day to find an entire coterie of well-known self-aggrandizers. Many of these people are individuals who believe themselves to be completely infallible.

IT IS election time in the US and time for a new government to form in Israel. Many of the political blogs in the US are referring to both Barack Obama and John McCain as having narcissistic tendencies or as actual narcissists. Perhaps we should make a distinction between someone who has a strong attitude of self-interest and someone who is a self-aggrandizer. The person who has a great deal of self-interest can accept someone else's view or a different position and admit error. The self-aggrandizer cannot.

Using this as the yardstick, neither Obama nor McCain seem to be aggrandizers, so while they may have tendencies toward narcissism they do not have clear signs of a narcissistic personality, at least not at this point.

There is a possibility, however, that the actual disorder of narcissism is not exhibited until after an individual who has been in public office has suffered a defeat. This seems to be the case with Jimmy Carter. It also seems to be the situation with Ehud Olmert.

Olmert, in a recent interview, suggested that for Israel to achieve peace it would have to cede virtually all of the disputed lands. The interview and controversial suggestions that were made by him seem to follow the pattern that a narcissist might take. Having been found to be at least suspect in several improprieties and being virtually forced from his position in government, Olmert has begun making comments that are bound to anger all, regardless of their political affiliation. He did not admit to wrongdoing and appeared to have significantly changed his position on negotiating for peace. Those on the right are incensed because of his newly found liberalism, while those on the left are infuriated that he is stating this new position only now, at the point that it can have no impact except for his own aggrandizement.

The truer question is not the issue of relevance but the degree of damage individuals can cause with statements that are relevant only to their own perceived self-importance and public enhancement. In the US, very few now take Jimmy Carter's statements as having much veracity. Most see him as someone struggling to preserve some relevance. His statements about Israel are rejected by most, and while his book may have sold briskly at the outset, he is now a fringe personality. But it has taken many years for this change to occur. Olmert, on the other hand, has burdened the next prime minister with statements that can alter the peacemaking process for decades starting immediately.

How to deal with an over-inflated sense of self, particularly in an environment where there can be much damage? Unfortunately, there are no easy techniques. We can change personality only if the person suffering the personality disorder acknowledges the problem. This is especially unlikely in the case of a narcissist. After all, it takes someone special to fall in love with his or her own reflection, and many years, if not longer, to pry him away.

The writer, a fellow of the American Psychological Association, is the founder and director of the Adult Developmental Center in Hewlett, New York. His recent books include, The Shidduch Crisis: Causes and Cures, published by Urim Publications, and Every Pot Has a Cover: A Proven Guide to Finding, Keeping and Enhancing the Ideal Relationship, published by Rowman & Littlefield.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Racism in the name of religion</title>
<date>23/9/2008</date>
<content>
There are moments when I find myself truly ashamed to be part of Israeli society. I had a moment like that recently as I stood outside the Supreme Court with women from Ahoti, a Sephardi feminist organization, waiting for a ruling on the religious girls' school in Emanuel where racism is so entrenched that parents will do all it takes to keep antiquated Jim Crow-like separations in place.

What is happening in the Beit Ya'acov school is nothing less than the formalization of racism. Here the school implements a policy in which Sephardi girls are not allowed to be in a class with Ashkenazi or hassidic girls, and they have different teachers, different classes and even different recess times and a fence between their yards just to ensure that the two groups do not mingle during the breaks.

It's not just Emanuel, but in other religious girls' schools around the country, such as Elad, where parents protested to ensure that a Sephardi girl would not be allowed in to the class. Protested! There have been reports from around the country of girls being rejected or ejected from schools because of the color of their skin or their last name. And even though the High Court ruled last week that the apartheid has to end, the school and parents are refusing to comply, thus rejecting civil as well as moral obligations. This is not the post-Civil War South, but Israel of 2008, where I would have expected more people to be outraged by this blatant racism.

"WHAT'S HAPPENING in the Beit Ya'acov is outrageous," said Yael Ben-Yefet, one of the leaders of Ahoti. "The girls get the message that they are deformed, that they are less good, that there is something inherently wrong with them. This happens everywhere in Israel, but it is the most prominent in this school."

This story comes on the heels of a similarly shocking exposure of racist practice in a religious school in Petah Tikva. Earlier this year, in a state religious school, the school physically and academically separated the Ethiopian girls from the rest of the school - separate teachers, separate curricula, separate rooms, separate recess.

My kids and I spent some time last year at a predominantly Ethiopian preschool in Mevaseret Zion, shortly after the Petah Tikva events came to light. One morning, as the kids all played together in the sand, the teacher said, "This community is very hurt. It just doesn't understand how such a deep-rooted hatred can exist in the country that its members dreamed of coming to."

The teacher suggested that as a form of healing, kids from around the country come and play with Ethiopian kids in preschool. It sounds so basic, and yet that basic sense of morality and equality is so profoundly lacking.

It's no coincidence that many these stories of racism take place in religious schools. Religious schools are drenched with practices that created social hierarchies between those who are "more" and those who are "less," or those who are "in" and those who are "out." Indeed, for my doctoral research on religious school culture, I discovered multiple hierarchies intersecting and intertwining in religious schools via a discourse that takes for granted Ashkenazi culture as morally, intellectually and religiously superior to Mizrahi or Sephardi culture.

The demeaning of Mizrahi kids is sometimes subtle, but often strikingly overt. Discrimination may take the form of teachers casually referring to "Ashkenazi intellect," and "Mizrahi emotion," or where the highest tracks become predominantly Ashkenazi and the lowest tracks predominantly Sephardi, based presumably on "intelligence."  Mizrahi students are typically penalized and suspended more often than Ashkenazi students; they are reprimanded for the same offenses that Ashkenazi kids get away with, and are lectured on how to avoid things like dropping out, getting pregnant or turning on a light switch on Shabbat. Mizrahi students are assumed to be "problems," on the margins of society, teetering on the edge of an abyss or at high risk of being deemed the worst of all - non-religious.

Indeed, in religious schools, as opposed to state schools, discriminatory practices are rationalized on the basis of "religiousness." That is, whereas in non-religious schools, discrimination revolves primarily around academics and class, in religious schools, there is an entire extra level of patronizing in which Mizrahi kids are assumed to be less religious. Thus, for example, United Torah Judaism MK Avraham Ravitz, in an attempt to "explain" the events in Emanuel and Elad, said that "the ethnic discrimination stems first and foremost from the desire to maintain the school's educational atmosphere... We educate on internal and external values and there are differences among the different ethnic groups."

IN OTHER words, Sephardim have different "values" that threaten the "educational atmosphere." Mizrahi students are thus viewed as being on the margins educationally, economically and morally - and in religious schools, these hierarchies ultimately conflate into the view of Mizrahi students as less "religious."

This language of Sephardi culture as "threatening" to religiousness is rampant. Yair Sheleg, in his book Dati'im Hadashim (The New Religious), documents Ashkenazi fear of "contamination" by Mizrahi families. He writes that the 21st-century version of "white flight" is among Ashkenazi religious families. That is, as soon as parents see that Mizrahi students are entering "their" schools, they open up a new elitist "torani" school in the name of creating a "higher" religious level, but is in fact simply Mizrahi-free.

These religious hierarchies are the latest version of 19th-century colonialist racism of the "Great Chain of Being" and "Social Darwinism." Shlomo Deshen and Moshe Shokeid brilliantly write in Dor Hatemura (Generation in Transition) that Mizrahi and Ashkenazi religious identities take different forms - not superior and inferior, but simply different. Mizrahi religiousness is transmitted via people, families and traditions, while Ashkenazi religiousness is transmitted via the written word.

So a kid who spends Shabbat with her family and flicks a light switch is keeping the faith in Sephardi culture, whereas a kid who spends Shabbat all alone but does not flick the light switch is keeping the faith in Ashkenazi culture. But in state religious schools, only the Ashkenazi version of religiousness counts, and those who don't abide by the Ashkenazi culture are just inferior outsiders.

"FOR A girl to make it in this system," said Vardit of the organization Tmura, "girls in Beit Ya'acov are expected to give up their entire culture, everything they know and love from at home. They have to accept that their food, their customs, even their pronunciation of Hebrew, are wrong. They have to be willing to reject their entire spiritual and cultural heritage as inferior. It's horrible."

In the Beit Ya'acov in Emanuel, Vardit explained, Sephardi girls who want to enter the "regular" track are told to actually sign a written contract to the effect that they will conduct themselves according to Ashkenazi expectations - and, by the way, pay an extra school fee. "So far, no girls have agreed to sign," she said.

As I discussed these events at home, my 11-year old daughter was dumbfounded. "Why won't they let the girls into class?" she demanded. She could not get her head around this racist reality. Kids can be very wise - wiser, in fact, than many adults. My daughter understands how such practices violate our basic humanity.

The writer is an educator, writer, researcher and activist and blogs regularly for JPost.com at A Woman's Own
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling The Cage: If Obama were white</title>
<date>2/4/2008</date>
<content>
Assuming that Barack Obama will be the Democrats' nominee for president, Rev. Jeremiah Wright is going to be dogging him all the way through Election Day November 4. Wright's You Tubed vilifications of America and rancor against white people are, at least for now, the one arrow aimed at Obama's heart, the one potentially lethal doubt about the Illinois senator that will stay on the minds of America's undecideds. For many Jews and evangelical Christians, there's also Wright's characterization of Israel as a practitioner of "state terrorism." This stuff is not going to go away.

For hardcore conservatives and liberals, Wright doesn't matter; these people are going to vote either for John McCain or Obama no matter what that scary old demagogue said in that church. But the election is going to be fought over the vast middle - the independents, the liberal wing of the GOP and the conservative wing of the Democrats - and a lot of these people may end up rejecting Obama and voting for McCain because of Jeremiah Wright. And although I'm supporting McCain because of his stand on Iraq, I think it would be a racial injustice, it would be holding a black presidential candidate to a standard of "cleanliness" that no white presidential candidate has ever been held to, for people to reject Obama simply, or even mainly, because of his long, close connection to Wright.

It's like this: If you believe Obama's true political and racial attitudes are an echo of Wright's, then you're not going to vote for Obama (unless, of course, your attitudes are an echo of Wright's). But it doesn't seem that any open-minded, reasonable person believes this about Obama. I'm sure the Republicans have been Googling around the clock trying to find some wild, Black Panther-style statement that Obama made somewhere, sometime. But they haven't found one. Not a word. Nobody who ever knew Obama has come forward with some radical, militant remark they heard him make - and among those who knew him at Harvard Law School were students who went on to become major Republican Party operatives. This guy's been "vetted," to use Hillary Clinton's word, and he's clean as a whistle.

BUT THE argument made by many open-minded, reasonable people is that while Obama clearly has a completely different ideology from Wright's, it says something very bad about him that he stuck with this pastor for 20 years, that he attended his church, listened to his sermons, made him a "spiritual adviser" to his campaign, and allowed himself and his family to remain under his influence. It says something very troubling about Obama's judgment, and thus about his suitability to be president, goes this argument.

But then you have to ask yourself: Why did Obama make that judgment? Why did he stick with Wright and Trinity Baptist Church for 20 years, even when he knew that the pastor was way off in loony left field? If we agree that it's not because Obama identified with Wright's politics, then what was it? One common speculation is that Obama, whose father abandoned the family, saw Wright as a father figure, and since Wright had brought him to Christianity, married him and his wife and baptized their children, Obama psychologically couldn't break away from him. The other popular explanation is that Obama, a racially-mixed politician from Harvard with a largely black, working-class Illinois constituency, was vulnerable to charges that he "wasn't black enough," so joining a big, grassroots black church with a popular minister was a smart move, while leaving the church under fire from white people would have been political suicide.

Either way, whether you think Obama aligned himself with Wright for psychological reasons or cynical ones, or if you think it was a combination of the two, or if you think he had any other reason except affinity for Wright's politics - is this a reason to write him off?

No, it's not. Even if you attribute the cynical motive to Obama, this is a reason to recognize him as a politician, not a savior, but it's not a reason to dismiss him. I don't like it that McCain has kissed up to some of America's worst, most bigoted, most rabidly right-wing evangelical leaders, but I forgive him. If I thought McCain identified with the political and social ideas of Pat Robertson, John Hagee and the late Jerry Falwell, I couldn't vote for him, but I understand that he's a politician, not a savior, so I can tolerate it - just as I could tolerate Obama's connection with Wright if I was otherwise inclined to vote for him.

STILL, THE point is made against Obama that if a white presidential candidate had been so close for so long to a racist white preacher, that white candidate would have been run out of the campaign in an instant, no explanations accepted.

But this is a false equation. Jeremiah Wright makes me extremely uncomfortable. He believes in some of the worst crackpot, anti-American conspiracy theories, his attitude toward whites seems tainted by black paranoia, his views of Israel are harsh and distorted, and from what I've seen on YouTube - from watching his sermons at length, not just sound bites - he generally comes off as hostile and intolerant. I'd say he's a pretty bad egg.

Still, he should not be equated with a white racist preacher. Wright may be bad news, but I wouldn't call him evil; a disseminator of white racism is evil. You can't equate black resentment of whites with white contempt for blacks. You can't equate the residual antagonism of history's victims with the residual cruelty of history's victimizers.

If a Jew, even a rabbi in a synagogue, speaks bitterly about "the goyim," it's not the same as a gentile, let's say a preacher in church, speaking bitterly about "the Jews," is it? On this subject, I'll add that while Wright is clearly anti-Israel, there's no evidence at all that he's a Jew-hater, an anti-Semite. On this score, too, I don't like him, but I can't call him evil, it's not beyond the pale for a politician to belong to his church - no more than it would be for a politician to belong to a synagogue whose rabbi opposed the Palestinians' right to statehood.

But what really bothers me about the idea that Obama could actually lose the election because of Jeremiah Wright is that no white candidate has ever been penalized for racism; in fact, racism has helped many a white man get to the White House.

"You start out in 1954 by saying, 'Nigger, nigger, nigger.' By 1968 you can't say nigger - that hurts you. Backfires. So you say stuff like forced busing, states' rights and all that stuff."

That was Lee Atwater, Karl Rove's deceased mentor, explaining the GOP's "southern strategy" in a 1981 interview. "All that stuff" helped Richard Nixon get elected in 1968 and 1972, and it helped Ronald Reagan get elected in 1980 and 1984. That Willie Horton stuff helped George H.W. Bush get elected in 1992. That lying stuff about McCain fathering a black child helped George W. Bush get the Republican nomination in 2000. Congressman Dick Cheney's votes in the 1980s in support of South Africa's apartheid regime didn't help elect Bush-Cheney in 2000 and 2004, but it didn't hurt, either.

Now, for the first time in American history, a candidate for president may be defeated because of the taint of racism - and it's a black candidate. Something tells me these Jeremiah Wright YouTubes are just the 2008 version of "all that stuff."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: Quicksand in Yesha</title>
<date>6/8/2008</date>
<content>
Ehud Olmert said it about as well as anybody. "We're nearing the point where more and more Palestinians are going to say: 'We're convinced. We agree with [Avigdor] Lieberman. There isn't room for two states between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. All we want is the right to vote.'

"The day that happens," Olmert continued, "we will have lost everything. Even when they commit terrorism, it's hard for us to convince the world that we're right. It'll be that much harder when they're demanding equal voting rights. I dread the thought that the leaders of the struggle against us will be the liberal Jewish organizations that carried the fight against apartheid in South Africa."

That was from an interview with Yediot Aharonot in December 2003. Since then, Ariel Sharon made the good faith effort to avoid Olmert's nightmare scenario by getting us out of Gaza. Then Olmert wanted to go further with his "convergence plan" to withdraw from about 90% of the West Bank. But the Second Lebanon War, the Kassams from Gaza and the rise of Hamas doomed that idea. Instead, the settlements and outposts in the West Bank have only been growing, and there's no end to their growth in sight.

MEANWHILE, ISRAELIS are thoroughly complacent. It's the Palestinians' fault there's no peace process, they say. When the Palestinians prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that they're through with terror, then we'll talk, but only then. Of course, there's more than a little justice to this view. The Kassams and Hamas have given Israelis, including me, a very good reason not to want to withdraw from the West Bank: the very legitimate fear that if we do, rockets will start hitting Ben-Gurion Airport.

Yet there's an opposing argument that has more than a little justice, too: Israel may say it's ready to give up settlements, may say it's ready to live alongside a peaceful Palestinian state, but Israel's actions say different. Israel's actions say it wants more and more West Bank land for itself, and less for the Palestinians. This didn't start with the intifada, or with the Kassams; this started 41 years ago. The disengagement was a fluke. Only a leader of Sharon's magnitude could have pulled it off, and a prime minister like that comes along once in a generation, if you're lucky. There's nobody like Sharon in Israel today, and nobody like him on the horizon, either.

PUT THESE two arguments together and what you get is this: Even if the Palestinians were ready to give up terror, which they're not, Israel is not about to uproot the 50,000-100,000 settlers necessary to make room for a Palestinian state. Bottom line: Israel is staying in the West Bank indefinitely.

The question is: What are the Palestinians supposed to say to that? I know what I would say if I were a Palestinian. I'd say: I'm convinced. There isn't room for two states between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. All I want is the right to vote. Citizenship. Equality.

How's that for an existential threat to Israel? It's called the "one-state solution."

Abu Ala, chief peace negotiator for the Palestinians, says it's the only alternative if the two-state solution fails. Polls say about one-quarter of the Palestinian public is ready for it right now.

If Palestinians as a body ever become convinced by Israeli settlement expansion that the one-state-solution is their only path, what will Israel say to them? "No, you can't vote, you can't have citizenship, you can't have equality"? We're a democracy, remember. We're joined at the hip with America.

Or will we tell them - "Yes, you can be equal, voting citizens"? Then that's it for the Jewish state. The Arabs will have a majority, if not now, then soon, and I'm not sure we'll do so well here in the minority.

So if Israel becomes forced by world pressure to choose between abandoning democracy, abandoning Zionism, or abandoning the West Bank, will it take the third way?

Sure. And risk seeing Ben-Gurion Airport, Kfar Saba, Modi'in, etc. turn into new versions of Sderot.

So what on earth will we do when the Palestinians finally wise up and demand citizenship and voting rights, knowing this will either lead Israel to become a pariah state, turn the Arabs into Israel's majority, or give the Palestinians the West Bank in a hurry?

For now, I'd say we should stop doing nothing. We should stop telling ourselves the ball is in their court and that we've got all the time in the world. Because we don't. The status quo in the West Bank may be tolerable for us, but it isn't for them. It's not going to last forever. So maybe now's the time to make a plan, then start carrying it out. Here's an idea:

Uproot the West Bank settlers on the far side of the security barrier - but keep the IDF there, unless and until a final peace agreement is reached.  Evacuate 50,000-100,000 settlers and redeploy the army in the West Bank for the sole purpose of defending Israelis behind the security barrier, instead of on both sides of it.

Pulling the settlers out but keeping the soldiers in - pending a final peace treaty, if and when it comes - would probably be good for Israel's security. It would definitely be good for Israel's democracy. The gridlock with the Palestinians would be broken; a giant step toward peace would be made. Yes, it would be traumatic for the many thousands of settler families who'd lose their homes, but there's no way of avoiding that trauma if Israel is going to remain a Jewish, democratic state.

AND AFTERWARD, if the Palestinians demanded citizenship, equality and the right to vote in Israeli elections, we would be able to say: No, but you can have an independent Palestinian state so long as it's peaceful. We've just demonstrated that what we want is security, not more land; now it's your turn to demonstrate that you'll deliver.

I don't know if even then the Palestinians would hold up their end, but I think the democratic world, the world whose good will Israel needs, would see that we had held up ours. I think Olmert's bleak vision of international sanctions and boycotts against Israel would be forestalled. I think the Palestinians would have lost the political leverage they're gaining from Israel's filling up the West Bank with settlers.

But I know this is a dream. Israel is not about to start moving out 50,000-100,000 settlers. It's not about to move out even one. The iron will isn't there, not in any potential prime minister, not in any potential government, and not in the public. Ever since Sharon's stroke 2-1/2 years ago, the settler movement and its supporters have been back in the saddle.

No, Israel doesn't look like it's going to wise up anytime soon. Like Olmert, I fear that the Palestinians may.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Self-defense, not occupation</title>
<date>6/2/2008</date>
<content>
In my January 30 op-ed in The Jerusalem Post, I contended that our settlements weaken rather than strengthen us by seriously eroding both our own and the world's belief in the justice of our cause. That cause is asserting the right of the Jewish people to a sovereign state in their ancient homeland.

In over 100 "talkbacks" on jpost.com, letters to the editor, and some personal communications, my views were mostly attacked, though occasionally supported. Let me address some of the criticisms of my argument.

Security and strategic depth are the most salient objections to any withdrawal from the West Bank. The continued shelling of Sderot following Israel's exit from Gaza is regarded as the conclusive proof of the foolishness of any attempt to compromise with the Palestinians.

Israel's Right argues that standing pat on the West Bank is thus our safest, indeed our only course. Heavy Israeli presence on the ground, plus the security wall, have significantly reduced terrorist incidents - that is a fact.

BUT THERE are three questions: How much of this is attributable to the settlements? Opposite the benefits, what are the costs? And can these benefits be achieved in any other way?

The settlements are not a security asset; they are rather a liability, a drain on our military capability. They constitute a multiplicity of "soft" civilian targets which require enormous military resources to defend, resources which could be deployed much better elsewhere. We can achieve better anti-terrorism results without them.

And the cost of maintaining them? The huge economic cost, at a time when Israel's health, educational and welfare systems are all in massive disarray, is a topic deserving another article. Let us focus on the political cost and its implications.

Jews and Israelis know that we cannot depend on the goodwill of the world to protect us, but neither can we survive for long without it. Those are the facts of of life. The struggle over public opinion is deadly serious for us. It is not a matter of "currying favor" with the gentiles, as some of our mindless patriots pretend. It is rather about winning, which we must do, in a world more interdependent and online than any in the history of the human race.

THE STRATEGY of our enemies, pursued with ever-greater sophistication since 1967, is to portray Israel as another apartheid South Africa, doomed to the oblivion of other colonial regimes. Their narrative has made inroads among elites and opinion-molders - among academia, the media, religious movements (there are a lot more religious Americans than just Evangelicals), the international NGOs, trade unions and elsewhere. Among others, it has touched many younger Jews and helped distance them from Israel and their own Jewishness.

For all these audiences, the central exhibits are precisely the settlements and Israel's ongoing occupation of Palestinian civilians. Compared to these, Israel's struggle against its genocidal enemies is increasingly belittled, and its truthfulness cast into doubt.

We often hear complaints about the failure of Israel's public relations to counter this long-term campaign to destroy us. Whatever happened to our common sense? We can make a compelling case for self-defense, without apology, as the assertion of a natural human right. When we try to justify annexation, the game is lost before it has begun.

Not only that: By subordinating our public relations to the cause of the settlements, we severely damage our own case for self-defense. This generates international political pressures which tie our hands and cripple our ability to fight terrorism effectively.

What a boomerang! The settlements are a boon to our enemies, and harmful to us.

BUT WON'T leaving them subject the rest of Israel to Sderot-
like bombardment? This can be seriously minimized by a negotiated withdrawal with the appropriate security provisions, including surveillance, milestones, clear casus belli understandings and international guarantees.

But you would have to be delusional to imagine that this removes all risk. Without doubt, a very strong self-defense capacity will be required for a long time, bolstered by an international climate in which we would be much freer to use it, if necessary.

What best serves Israel's long-term interests? The certainty of Israel's increasing isolation and delegitimization as the inevitable cost of hanging on to the settlements, or the risks of cutting a deal with the Palestinian Authority, backed up by security arrangements on the ground and various international guarantees? That is the substantive national debate we need to have.

Moreover, the real antidote to Palestinian terror is Palestinian economic development, which cannot happen when we have to maintain over 500 checkpoints on West Bank roads. Most of them are designed to protect the settlements rather than to interdict terrorism aimed at Israel.

THIS ARGUMENT has related purely to concrete strategic considerations since that is what we must address in the present. But there is a moral dimension as well: Since 1948, defenselessness and powerlessness are no longer acceptable models for Jewish collective existence. But neither is power wielded without morality. This is first and foremost for our own sakes, because of who we are called upon to be, and because of the frightening consequences of neglecting that. Our self-determination is not negotiable, but it must be implemented without dispossessing our neighbors.

The Land of Israel is critical for us, but it is still only the means to an end. The end is the liberation of the Jewish people from an intolerable human condition, and their creation of a just society. If we defile this Land by immoral behavior - so our prophets warned - it will surely cast us out. Its sacredness is not intrinsic, but conferred by our ethical actions. It is much less important for us to control Hebron than it is to deal justly with the widow, the orphan and the stranger.

The writer, a Ra'anana-based businessman, is a native of Montreal  who made aliya in 1976.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ship of fools</title>
<date>27/8/2008</date>
<content>
When the "Free Gaza" voyage belatedly reached its destination, the fanfare and world attention that its organizers craved was thankfully largely absent. Claims that they had "broken the blockade" were quickly refuted by the Israeli government, which well understood that the voyage had little to do with humanitarian aid and everything to do with publicity. This important lesson must be learned by others, including European governments which are among the donors to the Free Gaza organizers.

There is no doubt that the Free Gaza crossing was nothing more than an expensive publicity stunt. Claims by its organizers of a "humanitarian mission" are refuted by simple logic. The activists estimated that the voyage cost in excess of $300,000, yet the only genuine humanitarian cargo consisted of several hundred hearing aids. Beyond the possibility that Free Gaza purchased history's most expensive hearing devices, one wonders how much genuine aid could have been purchased at this cost. More worrying, is the moral danger posed by the Free Gaza organization. Theirs is one of the clearest examples of a radical agenda masquerading as human rights.

Free Gaza is a coalition of several groups, including the International Solidarity Movement (ISM), Israel Committee Against House Demolitions (ICAHD) and Palestinian Center for Human Rights (PCHR). ISM has a shameful record of placing foreign nationals in danger through encouraging "direct action," most recently as a leading force in the violent protests against the security barrier at Ni'lin. In 2003, ISM's ideology was underscored when terrorists, originating from the UK, used ISM as a cover to attack the Mike's Place bar in Tel Aviv, murdering three people. As part of Free Gaza, ISM attempts to veil its extremism beneath the cause of humanitarian aid.

Less notorious although no less pernicious are the activities of ICAHD. Manipulating the language of human rights to promote a similar ideological agenda, ICAHD refers to Israel as an "apartheid" state and promotes anti-Israel boycotts. ICAHD's director, Jeff Halper has been one of Free Gaza's leading spokesmen.

WORRYINGLY, SEVERAL European governments are hoodwinked by the "humanitarian" agenda of radical NGOs, allocating them significant funds. The European Union, under its Partnership for Peace program, awarded ICAHD a two-year grant of 473,000 euros in 2005, comprising the majority of ICAHD's 2006 annual budget. Recently the Spanish government too deemed ICAHD a worthy recipient of its funds. Meanwhile, another Free Gaza member, PCHR, receives funding from the Danish, Norwegian and Irish governments.

The EU and others argue that their funds are directed to specific projects, rather than organizations in their entirety. But, European government backing affords significant legitimacy to these NGOs and their politicized agendas, in which they too are implicated. The exploits of Free Gaza, Halper and his cohorts come with a European stamp of approval. European governments have, perhaps unwittingly, placed themselves in the midst of a stunt orchestrated by extreme groups and endorsed by Hamas.

The Israeli government commendably recognized the agenda of the Free Gaza organizers and denied them the confrontation which they so desired. European governments must internalize this important lesson. NGOs are guilty of manipulating the rhetoric of human rights, betraying genuine humanitarian principles in the process. Yet the European governments, whose money legitimizes this practice, are also complicit. So long as they continue to support radical NGOs, charades such as Free Gaza will continue.

The writer is communications director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The 'halo effect' shields NGOs from media scrutiny</title>
<date>10/8/2008</date>
<content>
A familiar scenario: A non-governmental organization (NGO) issues a report on alleged Israeli human rights violations, and it's instantly and automatically newsworthy. The Israeli and foreign media uncritically, even eagerly, promote the NGO's politicized agenda, regardless of the NGO's credibility or the veracity of the allegations.

This "halo effect," whereby the claims of human rights groups are accepted without a modicum of scrutiny, often results in Israel's vilification on the international stage for violating "international humanitarian law" or demonized as an "apartheid state" to be shunned and boycotted. By publishing these stories, the media reinforces the halo effect and becomes partner to the damage done.

The typical article on Israeli "violations" has a number of common denominators. Beyond the ubiquitous headline championing a human rights NGO and condemning Israel, the NGO's "evidence" and sensational accusations are repeated, left unchallenged by the reporter. By dint of its presumed independence and stated lofty goals, the NGO is considered more truthful than the government. The media pits universal human rights against Israel, leaving it to respond on the defensive. This might make for "good" journalism, but does it tell the whole story?

IN RECENT weeks, local, highly political rights groups - funded by the EU and by European governments - have received worldwide coverage for their attacks on Israel. Consider the publicity afforded to Physicians for Human Rights - Israel (PHR-I) when it accused the Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) of denying Gazans life-saving health care in Israel unless the patients informed on family and friends. PHR-I's report was published in hundreds of major media outlets, and Israel was portrayed as cruel and inhumane, as opposed to genuinely concerned for the security of its citizens.

Yet, despite the importance of this story, did reporters question PHR-I's reliability? Rather, the halo effect shielded it from past mistakes. Three months ago, PHR-I reported that a cancer patient in Gaza died while awaiting a permit to receive treatment in Israel, only to admit days later that the "deceased" was still alive. The patient was attempting to evade a security check. Even if we give PHR-I the benefit of the doubt, that it was unknowingly misled by the patient's family, surely similar self-serving "evidence" from Palestinians and provided by PHR-I should be taken with a healthy dose of skepticism. But it was not.

A TELLING, but more subtle form of the halo effect was also manifest in The Jerusalem Post's coverage of Yesh Din during the last week of July. The Post published no less than three articles on the same data sheet alleging a failure by the IDF to report, investigate and indict soldiers for crimes against Palestinians ("Israeli rights group: IDF fails to indict soldiers," July 29; "IDF refutes report on misconduct claims," July 30; "Yesh Din renews complaint of IDF probes," July 31). The second in the series added value to the story, including a previously unavailable official IDF response and a subsequent reply from Yesh Din. However, the third article provided nothing more than Yesh Din's perspective on its back-and-forth with the IDF. This repetition failed to provide the reader with any fresh information. Needless to say, none of the articles assumed a critical point of view regarding Yesh Din's speculative conclusions drawn from an absence of data. The media merely served as a pawn in Yesh Din's politicized war against the justice system.

Should journalists report allegations of human rights violations by Israel? Absolutely, they have a duty to do so. However, journalistic integrity demands an equal duty to ask tough questions of NGOs and critically examine their claims. Human rights groups deserve the same scrutiny as any other actor in the theater of the Arab-Israeli conflict - no more, but certainly no less. A truly effective media should lead civil society in discussing the implications of security policy, and even suggest viable alternatives. However, this valuable role is jeopardized by blind repetition of NGO allegations without obtaining independent verification or giving due consideration to their political agendas.

The writer is managing editor of NGO Monitor.
www.ngo-monitor.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Jews' journey back to history</title>
<date>13/5/2008</date>
<content>
Ten years ago, on Israel's 50th anniversary, the peace process begun by the path-breaking Oslo Accord, reached by Israel and the Palestinian Authority in 1993, established the legitimacy of two peoples' national existence in their shared homeland on the basis of territorial compromise. There was a general feeling that this long conflict was being resolved.

Unfortunately, the past 10 years have witnessed a painful setback in many areas. Individuals and peoples are capable of enduring difficulties if there is a sense that the future will be better and conflicts resolved. But a sudden backward regression can lead to despair, which we feel today.

Why is it that struggles far more complex than the Israel-Arab conflict - apartheid in South Africa, the partition of Germany, or the collapse of the Soviet Union - all seem to have been resolved, usually without bloodshed, whereas the Middle East conflict, after more than a century, claims more victims every day?

One reason is that this conflict is unparalleled in human history. There is no other example of a nation that returned after a 2,000-year absence to a territory that it never stopped regarding as its homeland. So it is no wonder that the Arabs, especially the Palestinians, remain unable to comprehend, existentially or morally, what has befallen them.

THE JEWS' return to Israel was not colonialism, as the Arabs thought. Not only did the Jews lack a mother country, but in Europe they lived as a foreign nation, leading to expulsion and annihilation. The Jews did not come to exploit Palestine's resources or subjugate its residents in order to transfer the economic benefits elsewhere. Nor did they come like the American or Australian settlers in order to build a new identity and assimilate the natives into it.

Zionism aimed at renewing and deepening an old identity. From the beginning, there was no intention to damage the identity of the native-born Arabs, or to merge it with the traditional Jewish identity. Because the Arabs had no corresponding historical model from which to learn how to relate to the phenomenon that had overtaken them, they tried to interpret Zionism as colonialism, and thought that other nations' fight against colonialism provided a model for resistance.

Thus, for the Arabs, the legitimacy of Israel's right to exist remains an open question. Indeed, never before has the question of legitimacy been so fundamental to a conflict between nations.

Although recognition of Israeli nationality is increasingly widespread, even among most nations of the Middle East, it remains obstructed by two closely related - and dangerous - notions. The first is the growing shift in the Middle East, and elsewhere, from rejection of Israel's legitimacy to rejection of Zionism's legitimacy. The second is the growing tendency among Palestinians, other Arabs, and many Europeans to prefer a bi-national Israeli-Palestinian state to the original two-state solution.

Hamas spokesmen speak not of "Israelis" but of "Zionists," as does Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Discussion about the "de-Zionization" of Israel can also be heard at universities worldwide and even among Jewish leftists. In Israel, too, there are people, though not many, who call themselves "post-Zionist" or "non-Zionist."

But the sole practical expression of Zionism nowadays is the Law of Return, which is not a racist law but a moral law. When the world's nations decided in favor of the creation of an independent Jewish state, they did not designate it only for the 600,000 Jews then living there. Rather, they intended that Israel would help solve the Jewish problem everywhere in the world by enabling every Jew who wished to leave the Diaspora to do so.

THE IDEA of a bi-national Israeli-Palestinian state embodies the dangerous illusion that two peoples who are utterly different in their language, religion, culture and history, who are divided by a deep economic chasm and connected to their own external worlds - the Palestinians to the Arab world and Israelis to the rest of world Jewry - can be combined in the framework of a single state. Moreover, these are two peoples that have been intensely engaged in a bloody and intractable conflict for the last century.

Both Palestinians and Israelis, as two different nations, deserve their own states. There must be a clear border between the two. In Israel, an Israeli Arab-Palestinian minority has full citizenship, even if much remains to be done to afford it full social and economic equality. It is possible that in the Palestinian state there would be a small Jewish minority, consisting of West Bank settlers whose attachment to the biblical homeland is so intense that they would be willing to live under Palestinian control - provided that the Palestinians would grant them Palestinian citizenship.

During the early years of Zionism, the great Jewish scholar Gershom Scholem - who was born in Berlin - said that the Jews were embarking on a difficult journey, a return to history. In other words, the Jews, who based their identity in the Diaspora on mythological memory and time, were now returning to its clear-cut elements: a territory defined by borders, and a detailed chronological understanding of their own history.

Sixty years later, the Arab-Israeli conflict reminds us that the Jews' journey back to history continues.

The writer is a novelist and essayist. His most recent book is A Woman in Jerusalem. - Project Syndicate 
www.project-syndicate.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>This is apartheid?</title>
<date>11/8/2008</date>
<content>
Two weeks ago the editor of the largest newspaper in South Africa, The Sunday Times, wrote an article saying that Israel applies apartheid to Palestinian Arabs. In this scandalous accusation, he joins Jimmy Carter and others who have defamed the Jewish state.

The apartheid label is very dangerous. If it sticks, Israel's ability to defend itself diplomatically and militarily will be severely weakened. International pressure on South Africa's apartheid government eventually played a major role in ending its power. The apartheid label is calculated to break the resolve of the Israeli people, who are called upon to make terrible sacrifices for our Jewish state. Who wants to die for apartheid?

As Jews, we must fight this kind of mass defamation of our people. Israel's security and Jewish lives all over the world depends on it, as well as our historic God-given mission of being "a light unto the nations." To say that Israel is an apartheid state is as wildly outrageous as the blood libels of Europe.

To answer the editor of South Africa's Sunday Times, I wrote an article which he kindly published in last week's newspaper. Here follow its arguments:

TO ACCUSE Israel of apartheid is to diminish the victims of the real apartheid - the men, women and children of South Africa, who suffered for centuries under arrogant, heartless colonialism, and then for decades under the brutal policies of racial superiority, oppression and separation inflicted by the National Party. If everything is apartheid, then nothing is apartheid.

In the State of Israel all citizens - Jew and Arab alike - are equal before the law. Israel has none of the apartheid legislative machinery devised to discriminate against and to separate people. It has no Population Registration Act, no Group Areas Act, no Mixed Marriages and Immorality Act, no Separate Representation of Voters Act, no Separate Amenities Act, no pass laws or any other of the myriad apartheid laws.

On the contrary: Israel is a vibrant liberal democracy which accords full political, civil and other human rights to all its people, including its one million-plus Arab citizens, many of whom hold positions of authority throughout the Jewish state - including that of cabinet minister, Knesset member and judge at every level of the judiciary, the Supreme Court included.

All citizens vote on the same voters' roll in regular, multiparty elections, and there are Arab parties and Arab members of other parties in the Knesset. Due to Israel's proportional representation system, Arab voters, although a minority, have often been partners in various coalition governments and influenced major long-term decisions affecting the country.

Arabs and Jews live and work together, share all public facilities, including, importantly, hospitals and schools, and also malls, buses, cinemas and parks. Israel protects religious freedom and has been very sensitive and respectful in its management of the holy sites of all religions, granting easy access to everyone.

Arab Israelis, like all their compatriots, can express themselves and act freely as members of a transparent and open, democratic society, where criticism of the government in an aggressively free press is the norm.

IN FACT, Israeli Arabs enjoy more freedom and rights than do any other Arabs in the Middle East, where autocratic governments suppress democracy and freedoms, such as freedom of expression and of association, including outlawing labor unions. Israel is the only truly free democracy in the Middle East.

If there is apartheid in the Middle East, then it is the apartheid in Arab states against Jews, Christians and women, who are all denied the most basic human rights and treated as second-class citizens.

Most Arab governments do not even allow Jews to visit, let alone live. In fact, more than 800,000 Jews have been expelled from Arab countries over the last five decades, where they lived peacefully for centuries, albeit with inferior status.

In 1967, as a result of a defensive war thrust upon it, Israel captured the territories known today as the West Bank and Gaza. Since then the status of these territories and their occupants has been unclear. It is incorrect legally, factually and even morally to speak of an occupation, which implies there was once a Palestinian entity in these territories, and that this is now occupied by Israeli forces.

Before 1967 the West Bank was controlled by Jordan, and Gaza by Egypt. We should not speak of the "occupied territories," but more accurately of "disputed territories."

THERE HAS never been a Palestinian state in all of history. By contrast, the State of Israel is the third Jewish state on the same land, the first dating back 3,280 years to when Joshua led the Jewish people into the land of Israel. Furthermore, Israel has strong claims to the West Bank, which is part of the biblical Israel that the Jews have always lived in. One of the holiest sites of Judaism is there - Hebron, where the founding fathers and mothers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, Sarah, Rebecca and Leah, are buried.

Apart from the city of Jerusalem, the ancient capital of the Jewish people from the times of King David, the West Bank and Gaza were never annexed, pending the resolution of their status. For decades Israel tried to negotiate with various parties to permanently resolve the future of the disputed territories, but is still in search of a genuine peace partner to represent the Palestinian Arabs.

Yasser Arafat demonstrated his inability to relinquish his dream of destroying Israel when he rejected prime minister Ehud Barak's incredibly generous offer at the Camp David talks in 2000 - a rejection which even Prince Bandar, the official representative of Saudi Arabia at the talks, described as a crime.

And now Hamas, which states in its founding constitution its aim of destroying Israel completely, is the democratically elected majority party of the Palestinian people.

AS AN example of what they are talking about, the apartheid accusers point to Israel's security fence and checkpoints, which limit the movement of people from the disputed territories into the internationally recognized borders of the State of Israel. In this they are also wrong.

After the collapse of the Camp David talks, Arafat and other Palestinian groups dispatched suicide bomber after suicide bomber into Israel, targeting Jewish civilians. In the past eight years, terrorist attacks have led to more than 1,300 civilians being murdered and 10,000 wounded by the human guided missiles of the Islamic suicide bombers.

Given Israel's relatively small population, proportionately, such carnage in South Africa would mean more than 10,000 murdered and more than 80,000 injured. What would we South Africans do if so many of our fellow citizens were blown up by suicide bombers? Appreciate for the moment what this would mean in the context of the US, where the murder of about 3,000 people at the World Trade Center bombings led to the invasion of two countries. Proportionately, had the US sustained similar causalities to those suffered in Israel, almost 80,000 Americans would have been killed and about 600,000 injured.

THE TRAUMA inflicted on the Israeli people from the relentless barrage unleashed by the Palestinian leadership, enjoying widespread support from its people, is indescribable. Israel erected a security fence to shield it from the attacks launched from the disputed territories across its internationally recognized borders. Every sovereign country is legally and morally entitled to erect a fence to defend its people from attacks launched from the outside.

The fence has been remarkably successful and has reduced successful suicide bombings by up to 90 percent. Israel relies on the most fundamental moral and legal principle - the right to self-defense. Never before in recorded history has any nation endured such civilian casualties and responded with such restraint.

The security fence is a defensive instrument, and the most humanitarian one possible in a situation where the alternative is heavy military action which would result in the death of thousands.

None of this has anything to do with apartheid, and everything to do with an ongoing war over the disputed territories, and over the very existence of the Jewish state. After nearly 2,000 years of exile, persecutions and genocides, the Jewish people are surely entitled to a tiny strip of country to call their own.

If there is an analogy to the South African situation, it is that Israel is like the African National Congress, which was forced into the armed struggle because it had no partner for peace. As soon as the National Party came around to wanting genuinely negotiations, the situation was resolved. Our South African experience has taught us that you cannot make peace unless both parties to the conflict wish to resolve it.

When the Arab world is ready to make peace, Israel will be there. Let us all pray to God that this happens soon so that the misery and suffering of all can be brought to an immediate end.

The writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Where the Christian Left is wrong</title>
<date>14/1/2008</date>
<content>
An interesting contest seems to be heating up as the world paves a road to a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The American religious Left has felt compelled to issue a series of documents slanted toward the Arab and Palestinian points of view, urging the powers that be to muscle Israel to accede to demands that will place Israelis in a virtually untenable position regarding their future security.

Signatories to these documents propose that they speak for the majority of evangelical Christians and, therefore, are in a position to pontificate on the direction the United States and other Western powers should take in (1) determining the future shape of the new Middle East and (2) correcting what they claim are the egregious malefactions of the Israeli government and its friends in the Zionist evangelical camp.

Their criticisms are based on the concept that Israel's day is over, both biblically and historically. Consequently, Israelis have no more right to the land than their Muslim/Arab antagonists. Theologically, this position is popularly known as Replacement Theology, which claims that God's promises to the heirs of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were conditional and therefore abrogated by Israel's disobedience. So the church stepped in as the true "Israel of God" and possesses the spiritualized, redefined covenants of promise.

From this lofty, self-ascribed position, modern Israel is seen as a squatter on property it seized from militarily inferior Palestinians who should receive it back, so much so that Israel has been called an apartheid state equal to South Africa, which practiced legal racial segregation and suppressed human rights from 1948 to 1994.

ZIONIST Christians (those of us who believe the land promises to the Jewish people are irrevocable-biblically, historically, morally, and legally) are written off as an illegitimate theological mutation, unworthy of serious consideration. Furthermore, we are accused of being anti-Palestinian political meddlers who say, "Israel right or wrong." This point of view elicits a number of responses that are perfectly in order considering the seriousness of the accusations.

First and foremost, on the matter of believing God's biblical promises regarding Jewish rights to a homeland in Eretz Yisrael, we are guilty as charged. The birth of the church as God's grace gift to the Gentiles did not contain a deed to property in the Middle East. Nor does it give Christian leaders, as some have wrongly concluded, a mandate to dictate what land is actually His land.

Second, the accusation that we are anti-Palestinian is totally without foundation. The Palestinians are caught in the middle of a conflict created and maintained by the manipulative mismanagement of their leaders who act in their own behalf, disregarding the needs of their people. The most unfortunate are Palestinian Christians. Witness the exodus of Christian Arabs to the West and Europe in recent years. Some have gone so far as to blame this evacuation on Israel and economic oppression and despair caused by the continual "occupation."

Hardly mentioned is the fact that the Christian exodus from the Middle East is a response to the Islamic drive to exterminate Christians and Jews from the region.

Criticism of Israel's 8,000 settlers in Gaza was a popular theme for many years. If the Jewish infiltrators were eliminated from the Gaza, the mantra went, Palestinians could elevate their social and economic status, which would change their lives and lifestyles. So the Jews left, at great cost. The result? Gaza became a staging area for terrorists; Hamas rules the street; and Christian Arabs are hunted, assassinated, and forced to find safe haven somewhere other than Gaza.

With regard to the charge of meddling in politics, let it be said that Christian Zionism is not primarily a political action movement. It is not the legitimate province of outsiders, however benevolently motivated, to dictate the political policy of a foreign government. The Israeli people are perfectly capable of determining the course their nation should pursue. That said, there is a point where politics and biblical, prophetic realities converge. This is not a matter of dictation but observation; and there is no doubt that current events, when compared with scriptural predictions, help us discern where we are and where history is heading.

For Israelis and the Jewish state, the issue is survival within secure, recognized borders. And for Palestinians, Christians, and others, it is the right to pursue productive and tranquil lives without fear of radical Islamist discrimination.

The writer, a pastor, is a veteran leader of the Christian Zionist movement in the US.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why can't they be friends?</title>
<date>28/4/2008</date>
<content>
Grab a pencil: Consider the following statements, each by a prominent newsmaker. Next to each rate their friendliness to Israel on a scale from one (least friendly) to five (most friendly).

1. "If the day comes when the two-state solution collapses and we face a South African-style struggle for equal voting rights [among Palestinians of the occupied territories], then, as soon as that happens, the State of Israel is finished."

2. "If America puts pressure on Israel to divide Jerusalem we are following the blueprint of the Prince of Darkness. Amos 3:2 states that any nation that divides the Land of Israel will come under the severe judgment of God." 

My hunch is that the first statement will resonate among the American Jews and other Israel supporters who back a two-state solution not out of any great love of the Palestinians but because they don't see a viable alternative.

They might define "friendliness" as anything the West can do to help Israel make the tough choices to achieve peace with security - and prevent the Palestinians from making the suicidal, and homicidal, choices that would sabotage it.

The second statement is likely to speak to pro-Israel hard-liners, who may not share the speaker's theology but certainly see dire consequences were Israel to abet the creation of a Palestinian state with a "shared" capital in Jerusalem. Friendliness to Israel, they might argue, is preventing Israel from being pressured to return territories that will later serve as the next staging ground for terrorism.

Now ask yourself this: How might an American politician be judged by the "pro-Israel community" were he or she to utter either statement? Controlling for hot-button expressions like "apartheid" and "Prince of Darkness," which is the riskier statement for a mainstream politician to make?

Which statement would likely get a politician an invitation to the next Zionist Organization of America convention?

WHEN IT comes to the pro-Israel mainstream, there's no such thing as "too right-wing" on Israel. The Rev. John Hagee, who uttered the second statement above, has proven that in recent weeks. When Rabbi Eric Yoffie, president of the Union for Reform Judaism, suggested that his followers keep their distance from the evangelical minister and his "theology of despair," he was subjected to ridicule. Yoffie was surely in the minds of the seven Jewish leaders, each a former chair of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, who signed a letter to The New York Times reasserting their support for Hagee. "Pastor Hagee has been a true friend of Israel for many years," they wrote.

I don't share Hagee's theology or his Mideast politics, but I'll say this: Hagee has been a true friend to Israel. I was disappointed with Yoffie's statement - even as I agree with him when he says that Hagee's vision of Israel "would lead to diplomatic isolation, increased violence, and the loss of Israel's Jewish majority."

I was disappointed because Yoffie's speech was a mirror image of one I've heard at too many right-wing events, from speakers who don't just disagree with the "peace camp" but suggest, as Yoffie does of Hagee, that their views are not "acceptable or right."

It's the "acceptable" that worries me. It suggests that certain views take you outside the pro-Israel camp. Yoffie surely must remember the time when speaking of a two-state solution was an "unacceptable" position in the Jewish community. Those who advocated it were scorned and blacklisted. It took Yitzhak Rabin's election to make it safe to be an American-Jewish dove.

Yoffie is right to remind us that the two-state solution is the policy of the last five Israeli governments, including the current one, and that it is also the position of the US government, all the current presidential candidates - and the overwhelming majority of the American-Jewish community.

But it is a failure of the activist imagination to reject the support of an influential pastor and his generous flock because he rebuts this consensus.

BUT IF it's wrong for Yoffie to label Hagee's views "unacceptable," it's wrong for other pro-Israel advocates to question the pro-Israel creds of any politician or pundit who refuses to pander to the Right.

Watch all three candidates contort themselves when asked what the United States' role should be in brokering an Israeli-Palestinian peace.

Politicians on both sides of the aisle know that no agreement can be forged without the muscle of the world's remaining superpower. But hinting that America might have to twist arms is a political third rail.

Despite the consensus that Yoffie identifies, legitimate anxieties about Israel's future and the failure of Palestinians to develop a strong "peace camp" of their own have made it harder to be a strong advocate for the two-state solution.

Hoping to counter this, a group of doves this week launched a pro-Israel lobbying outfit and political action committee called J Street. "The definition of what it means to be pro-Israel has come to diverge from pursuing a peace settlement," Alan Solomont, one of its backers, told The Washington Post.

Broadening that definition is not going to be easy. But if the organizers lose sight of the goal or are accused of "undermining" Israel, they might remember the warning recently voiced by Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert.
You can read what he said above - it's the first statement.

The writer is editor in chief of the New Jersey Jewish News.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why more Jews won't be voting Democrat this year</title>
<date>1/7/2008</date>
<content>
Defenders of Barack Obama, and sometimes Obama himself, seem frustrated that some American Jews refuse to assume their traditional role of support for the Democratic presidential nominee. The Obama defenders are irked that not all Jews accept at face value Obama's expressions of devotion to Israel and commitment to her security.

Why can't these contrarians just take Obama at his word (he is a Zionist, he really is, they insist)? The answer is "1973."

But the explanation starts in 2008. Many Jewish Obama doubters are convinced that Israel faces a true existential threat unlike any in 35 years. From nation states like Iran, which threaten to destroy Israel, to Hizbullah and Hamas terrorists, Israel may in the next decade be pushed to the brink of its existence. Israel's failure to defeat Hizbullah in 2006 demonstrated the limits of Israel's historic military advantage.

With the spread of nuclear weapons and other deadly technologies a second Holocaust - that is, the annihilation of a substantial portion of world Jewry - is not out of the realm of imagination.

THESE OBAMA skeptics recall a similar time, 1973, when Israel also faced extermination. Prime minister Golda Meir had miscalculated Anwar Sadat's willingness to go to war and decided against a first strike against Egypt. The Arab nations attacked in October 1973, and within days Israel was facing defeat.

The Israelis went to president Richard Nixon with a request for a massive infusion of arms. The Defense and State Departments squabbled. Our European allies, who feared an oil embargo (and would refuse us bases to refuel our planes), inveighed against it, and the Soviets blustered. Many on Nixon's staff wanted to deny the request, or offer only token assistance. Don't antagonize the Arab states, they counseled.

Nixon persisted and, according to some accounts, doubled the amount of aid Israel had requested. Riding herd on the bureaucrats, Nixon repeatedly intervened to push the transports along. Informed about a dispute regarding the type of air transportation, Nixon at one point exclaimed in frustration: "Tell them to send everything that can fly." Over the course of a month US airplanes conducted 815 sorties with over 27,900 tons of materiel.

Israel was saved due to this massive infusion of military aid. Meir referred to Nixon with enormous affection for the rest of her life. Nixon, despised by many in the US, was hailed as a hero in Israel. And Nixon (who had garnered a minority of the Jewish vote in 1972) received little or no political benefit at home for his trouble, leaving office the following year.

SO WHAT does this have to do with Obama? The Obama skeptics do not for a moment believe that Obama, in the face of domestic and international pressure similar to what Nixon faced, would rise to the occasion at a critical moment in Israel's history and "tell them to send everything that can fly."

In every significant interaction in Obama's adult life with those who distain and vilify Israel - from Rashid Khalidi to Reverend Jeremiah Wright to Louis Farrakhan - Obama has demonstrated passive resignation and indifference.

He did not stand up to his friend Khalidi, the Palestinian activist, professor and former Palestinian spokesman whom Obama honored at a farewell dinner, and object to Palestinian invectives that Israel was an apartheid state. He did not recoil, until Wright insulted him at the National Press Club, from Wright when he learned that Wright considered Israel a "dirty word" and postulated that Israel had invented an "ethnic bomb."

He did not heed (or was oblivious to) public pleas from Jewish organizations to avoid the Million Man March that Farrakhan organized; nor did he years later leave his church when it honored Farrakhan. It took a hateful rant from another wide-eyed preacher against Hillary Clinton, just when Obama needed to cool intra-party animosities, to do that.

AND IF any further proof were needed, Obama's actions with regard to the Kyl-Lieberman Amendment, the measure to classify the Iranian National Guard as a terrorist organization, should settle the question of Obama's intestinal fortitude when it comes to Israel. An issue presented itself: a choice between, on the one hand, taking a stance against Israel's most vile enemy, Iran, and, on the other, appeasing the far Left of his own party.

Obama chose to satisfy the MoveOn.org crowd and opposed the amendment. The amendment would have been "saber rattling" and unduly provocative, Obama argued at the time. Senators Dick Durbin, Harry Reid, Hillary Clinton and three quarters of the US Senate voted for the amendment.

Once his nomination was secured, Obama told those assembled at the AIPAC convention that he supported classification of the Iranian National Guard as a terrorist organization, a move he well understood was important to Israel's security and to AIPAC's members. Yet under just a smidgen of political pressure during the primary race, he had not been able to muster the will to support a modest measure which inured to Israel's benefit.

IS THERE anything in all this to suggest that in a potential crisis, when much of the world would be pressuring him to let Israel die, Obama would push all the naysayers aside and demand to "send them everything that can fly"? There is not a shred of evidence to suggest that he would be beyond persuasion when it came down to Israel's survival. In fact, all the available evidence indicates that the opposite is true.

That does not mean Obama will not carry the majority of the Jewish vote. Jews are overwhelmingly Democratic, and it is certainly the case that for many American Jews the secular liberal agenda takes precedence over everything else in presidential politics.

For these voters, then, "1973" is not uppermost in their minds. Their devotion to liberalism is controlling, and for their own peace of mind they are willing to accept Obama's generic expressions of warm feelings toward Israel.

Indeed the temptation to believe in Obama's bland promises of support for Israel is a tempting one for liberal Jews. If they can convince themselves that he will be "fine on Israel," no conflict arises between their liberal impulses and their concern for Israel. The urge to believe is a powerful thing, especially when the alternative is an intellectual or moral quandary.

It is also the case that some American Jews simply do not believe Israel is in peril, or that "1973" is remotely relevant. They imagine Iran is merely spouting nonsense, that Hizbullah and Hamas lack the organization or competence to threaten Israel's survival, and that Israel will muddle along indefinitely.

BUT SOME Jews are incapable of deluding themselves that Obama would be the most resolute candidate in defending Israel. In quiet moments of contemplation and in noisy debates with family members and friends, they worry about the tenuous nature of Israel's existence and the dangers which lurk from within and outside Israel's borders. These Jews cannot imagine a world without Israel and could not countenance election of a president who, in Israel's moment of peril, could well falter.

And that is why these obstinate Obama skeptics, some even after a lifetime of Democratic voting, will not pull the lever for him. For them some things rank higher than even the top items on the liberal political agenda. The risk is, in their minds, too great that when Israel needs help the most, Obama will buckle and Israel will be crushed.

Many, albeit not all and likely not even most, American Jews will therefore decline to vote for Obama. They know that if the majority of their co-religionists had their way and George McGovern, rather than Richard Nixon, had been in the White House in 1973, Israel might not have survived.

A few barbs from their fellow congregants, amazed they would not vote for a Democrat for president, are a small burden to bear as they cast their vote for the candidate who - they are certain - when the chips are down, will send everything that can fly.

The writer blogs at Commentary Magazine's CONTENTIONS Web site and is a regular contributor to Weekly Standard, New York Observer, Human Events, American Spectator and other print and online publications.  She lives in Northern Virginia.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why we hosted Carter</title>
<date>24/4/2008</date>
<content>
There was much soul-searching in the office of the Israel Council for Foreign Relations. Should former president of the United States Jimmy Carter be invited to speak about his visit to Syria, Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia? Should we not follow the example of the prime minister, the foreign minister and the defense minister who decided to boycott him?

His harsh criticism of Israel's actions in the occupied territories and his accusation that our policy bordered on apartheid were, in the opinion of some of the colleagues at the council, ample reasons for not inviting him.

Boycotting can sometimes be a very effective weapon. But not always.

Back in the 1980s, when the PLO was our most vicious enemy, the government passed a decree forbidding its representatives from participating in organizations that accepted PLO delegates.

The result was that Israel refused to attend dozens of international conferences - from sessions of the International Postal Union to a large variety of different groupings, some of which were very important for us - because of the presence of the PLO.

What we were doing was tantamount to boycotting ourselves. Instead of harming the PLO we were isolating ourselves. Our foreign minister at the time, Yitzhak Shamir, certainly no lover of the PLO but a man driven by a very healthy common sense (in my opinion one of the better foreign ministers that Israel has fielded), realized that we were shooting ourselves in the foot and had the boycott decree canceled.

Who would we be punishing by sticking our fingers in our ears and refusing to listen to what Jimmy Carter had to report on his Middle Eastern tour? Carter or us? More importantly, the Council for Foreign Relations, which is an independent apolitical body, believes in hearing different views, not necessarily those that are identified with official Israeli thinking.

Over the years, it has hosted many distinguished guest speakers, some of whom were highly critical of Israel's policies - UN secretary-general Kofi Annan, for example, or Quartet emissary James Wolfensohn, or Amr Moussa when he was foreign minister of Egypt, to name just a few.

There were two other considerations that clinched the decision to invite Carter. The treaty of peace between Egypt and Israel was, perhaps, the most important event in the 60 years of Israel's existence as a modern state; it changed the entire strategic equation of Israel.

Without the single-minded determination of Carter, it is doubtful if the tremendous obstacles blocking the agreement would have been surmounted, and for that we are indebted to him. And, in addition, we are, after all, speaking of a former president of the United States, our closest ally, and that, in itself, was ample reason to invite him. The fact that the president of Israel and our deputy prime minister, Eli Yishai, met with him also had an effect.

The large hall in the King David Hotel in Jerusalem was packed; no more room even for standing. Ambassadors, former ministers, dozens of journalists and a huge turnout of council members came to hear what the former president had to say.

I had feared demonstrations or, at the very least, hostile questions, but my fears were groundless. I had in the past disliked Jimmy Carter's penchant to show largesse in voicing criticism against us and paucity when it came to criticizing the Palestinians, but in his speech at the King David Hotel he tried to be more even-handed.

He called the firing of Kassams on Sderot "despicable" - a strong word indeed - and "an act of terrorism," and said he had used these expressions in his talk with the Hamas leaders.

Hamas, he declared, should recognize Israel and renounce violence: "We insisted on these things."

There were no earth-shattering revelations in his speech. Yet there were renewed commitments that are worth recording. For example, the statement by Khaled Mashaal that Hamas would "accept a peace agreement negotiated between President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert if submitted a) to the Palestinian people in a referendum monitored by the Carter Center and other international bodies or b) to a newly elected Palestine National Council;" or that Hamas is prepared to negotiate an agreement with Abbas to create a government of national consensus "composed of technocrats belonging neither to Fatah nor to Hamas, but approved by both. This nonpartisan group would govern at least until the scheduled elections in 2010."

Carter's efforts to achieve a prisoner exchange, and a truce between Hamas and Israel, were stymied by the progress Hamas has already achieved in its negotiations with the Egyptians on these two subjects.

Carter decries the fact that neither the US nor we are willing to talk to Hamas. "The current strategy isolating and suppressing Hamas is not working. It only exacerbates the cycle of violence," he said, adding: "Peace is not sustainable unless a way can be found to ensure that Hamas will not disrupt the peace negotiations."

This is a subject that has divided our government. Some ministers, such as National Infrastructures Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer and Deputy Prime Minister Haim Ramon, have openly expressed their belief that it is necessary to talk to Hamas; others have expressed support for a truce, especially now that Hamas has agreed to a separate truce in Gaza from Judea and Samaria.

Carter's comments on his meeting with President Bashar Assad of Syria were intriguing, especially in view of the rumors of the last two days of messages from Israel to the effect that we would be willing to withdraw from all of the Golan. "Senior [Syrian] government officials pledged to complete an agreement on the Golan Heights and peace with Israel as soon as possible... Since the Syrian government considers that about 85 percent of the issues have been resolved in prior negotiations, it believes the agreement should be completed soon."

According to the former president, the Syrians claim that there has been agreement on the borders, riparian rights as they apply to the Sea of Galilee, security zones, and - most interestingly - the presence of international forces.

Did Carter's meeting with Hamas leaders cause any harm to the present policy of isolating Hamas? Egypt has been openly negotiating a prisoner exchange with Hamas, and so have we, indirectly through the Egyptians.

Yishai, who asked Carter to arrange a meeting with Mashaal for him, was not reprimanded. Informal meetings have been taking place for a long time - Rabbi Menahem Froman of Tekoa with one of the most extreme members of Hamas, Foreign Minister Mahmoud al-Zahar, for example. So we have no reason to criticize Carter for his meeting with Hamas; if the Americans wish to do so, that is their business.

Carter has, indeed, been very critical of Israel's behavior in the occupied territories. Some of his contentions have been justified - suffice, for example, to see the behavior of the settlers in Hebron.

Some have not. We tend to look upon all criticism as something reprehensible, bordering on anti-Semitism. As a free and democratic society, perhaps we should be more tolerant of criticism, and not brand automatically all those who criticize us as haters of Israel, or of Jews.

Carter has been much too one-sided in his criticism, and yet the large audience that heard his speech to the Israel Council for Foreign Relations were impressed by his sincerity and appreciative of his efforts. And for that, it was well worthwhile to have invited him.

The writer, a former director of the Foreign Ministry, is president of the Israel Council for Foreign Relations.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Will Durban II be a replay of racist Durban I?</title>
<date>4/8/2008</date>
<content>
Is the United Nations' follow-up to the racist 2001 Durban World Conference Against Racism headed for the same fate? Perhaps. In response to the newly released UN blueprint for next April's Durban II in Geneva, EU members need to defend the red lines set by France, the UK and the Netherlands.

What went wrong with Durban I? Despite its supposedly universal intentions,   compromises were made to satisfy the non-aligned group of 118 countries, dominated by Islamic states.

Slavery was and is evil. But by addressing only the trans-Atlantic slave trade of previous centuries while ignoring the modern Arab slave trade and other  forms of slavery, the 2001 conference showed itself to be more concerned with scoring points than promoting human rights.

SIMILARLY, THE conference's condemnation of Western European colonialism became tainted when it omitted mention of far more recent colonial crimes - be it Russian colonialism in Ukraine, Armenia and the Baltics, or China's ongoing repression of Tibet.

To make matters worse, the entire Durban I agenda was hijacked by anti-Israel forces, led by Iran and Yasser Arafat, who showed up in person.

Then as now, the lead-up was formative. Six months before Durban I, at the preparatory Asian meeting in Teheran, the 57-strong Organization of the Islamic Conference led the conference to single out Israel, accusing it of "ethnic cleansing" and committing a "new kind of apartheid, a crime against humanity." After international interventions, Durban's final declaration was toned down. Nevertheless, it expressed concern about "the plight of the Palestinian people under foreign occupation," and recognized "the right of refugees to return voluntarily to their homes." The US delegation walked out. At the end of the conference the Canadian representative said: "Canada is still here only because we wanted to have our voice decry the attempts at this conference to delegitimize the State of Israel."

Far worse, though, were the nongovernmental proceedings. Goebbels-like caricatures of Jews circulated freely. Jewish activists were harassed. The final NGO statement declared Israel a "racist apartheid state" guilty of "genocide." The text was so odious that even Mary Robinson, the UN rights chief who had been criticized for appeasing anti-Israel forces, refused to accept it.

The late Democratic Representative Tom Lantos of California, a US delegate, said "this was the most sickening and unabashed display of hate for Jews I had seen since the Nazi period."

WILL DURBAN II suffer the same fate?

Some fear it is inevitable. Canada has already announced that it will not participate. The US and Israel will also stay away, unless it is proven that Durban II will not be another platform for anti-Semitic hatred.

That leaves the EU.

It has been clear in resisting attempts by Algeria, Pakistan and other Islamic states to alter the agreed mandate with a condemnation of "defamation of religions" - i.e., the unflattering Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, as well as milder forms of free speech deemed unacceptable to Islam.

It has been ambivalent, however, in its response to the renewed attempts to tar Israel. On the one hand, France and some other leading EU states have declared attacks on Israel to be a red line. "[T]the Durban conference in 2001 led to intolerable excesses from certain states and numerous NGOs that turned the conference into a forum against Israel," said President Nicolas Sarkozy in February. "France will not allow a repetition." His position was unequivocal: "If our legitimate demands are not taken into account, we will disengage from the process."

Similar warnings were expressed by UK Minister for Europe Jim Murphy and Netherlands Interior Minister Maxime Verhagen.

BUT SINCE the UN on May 27 released a blueprint for Durban II that again singles out Israel, not one EU state has spoken out.

The issues to be included in an April 2009 declaration confirm that the planners of Durban II, headed by Libya, have again set their sights on the Jewish state. First, under the header "Victims of racism," the draft makes special reference to "the plight of the Palestinians."

Second, under "contemporary forms of racism as reported by different countries," Israel is singled out by Iran, a vice chair of the conference's organizing bureau.

In other words, the train to Durban II has already left the station. Why is the EU failing to defend the principles laid down by France, the UK and the Netherlands? Those who would like to give the new conference a genuine chance to combat intolerance need to know that Durban II will not be a repeat of the Durban I debacle.

The test - the EU's test - is now.

The writer, former US ambassador to Romania and special presidential emissary for the Cyprus conflict, is chairman of UN Watch and a past president of the American Jewish Committee.
</content>
</article>
