<article>
<title>A clear victory for Likud among minorities</title>
<date>14/2/2013</date>
<content>
Likud party members, including myself, were not thrilled with the recent 
election results. But for the first time, the Likud received more minority votes 
than Labor or Meretz. This dramatic reversal, which has not occurred since the 
creation of the State of Israel, will be etched in the country’s leaders’ 
memories for many years to come.The Likud received 20,000 minority 
votes, mostly from the Druse community. Labor received 14,000, Meretz 12,000, 
Kadima 10,000 – and if I had been higher up on the list, it is likely that the 
Likud would have fared even better.




Minority Likud candidates, especially 
among the Druse, lacked the funding available to Labor, Meretz and Kadima 
candidates who ranked higher on their parties’ lists.Despite the 
tendency among minorities to vote for leftwing parties, apparently my thorough 
work helped bring about this change in spite of harsh criticism coming from the 
Arab parties.The Arab parties that recognized my potential did not attack any 
candidates from the Zionist parties and concentrated on supporting us. MK Gideon 
Sa’ar recognized my potential to bring in 15,000-20,000 minority 
votes.Israel’s minority population is made up of various groups: Sunni 
Muslims, Druse, Christians, Beduin, Circassians, Alawites and Samaritans, which 
together amount to 1.7 million of the 8 million people living in Israel. Some 
700,000 of them have voting privileges, and 375,000 exercised this right in this 
past election. 300,000 of these voters voted for Arab parties and the remainder 
voted for Zionist parties. Ninety-five percent of Druse voters voted for Zionist 
parties, which is also typical of the Circassian, Samaritan and Alawite 
communities.On the other hand, the Sunnis, Beduin and Christians mostly 
voted for the Arab parties.I focused on each group in the Arab community 
separately, with increased focus on the Druse and Beduin communities, and as a 
result, the Likud received a much higher number of votes from these 
communities.ONE NEEDS to remember that the Druse people believe they are 
the descendants of Yitro, Moses’s father-in-law.The Druse believe that 
they served as high priests in the first and second temple periods and that 
hundreds of years ago, they were the first ones to help the Jews and as a result 
were killed.When Israel became a state, most of the Druse youth 
volunteered to serve in the IDF well before there was an official draft. Since 
then, hundreds of Druse have been killed defending Israel’s borders.A 
research study about minorities’ DNA that was carried out at the Technion in 
Haifa shows that the Druse have similarities in their DNA to that of Jews, a 
finding that has strengthened the belief that the Druse were at one point part 
of the Jewish people.There are numerous holy personages in Druse lore 
that also appear in Jewish scripture: Jethro, Zebulon, Judah, Elijah, Job and 
Abel.Druse live mostly in Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, and of course in 
Israel. The Israeli national anthem was composed by Naftali Herz Imber in 
Daliat-el-Carmel, the largest Druse village in Israel, and the government 
established Beit Yad Labanim there as a memorial of fallen Druse 
soldiers.The outgoing Knesset has six Druse members, one of whom was a 
minister. This granted increased power to the Druse community, which has 
suffered from social discrimination, even though the percentage of Druse youth 
who serve in the army is higher than among Jews.Following the recent 
election, the Druse community will have only one representative in the 19th 
Knesset – MK Hamed Amer from Likud Beytenu – which has been a tremendous 
disappointment for Druse youth. As a result, many articles against the 
government have been published, and this could even affect the Druse youth’s 
morale and attitude toward serving in the IDF.THIS IS the time to call 
upon Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to appoint a Druse minister in his 
government and thereby reduce tensions and prevent the Arab parties from trying 
to bring the Druse over to their side. We must not let the Druse and other 
minorities for whom the future and safety of the State of Israel is important to 
feel that they are only good for cutting down trees and drawing water. This 
could rip apart the pact between the Druse and Israel, a situation that Israel’s 
enemies would thoroughly enjoy.Israel’s minorities are torn between two 
worlds; on the one hand, they recognize that civil rights in Israel are 
respected as opposed to the situation in Arab countries, especially since the 
Arab spring. On the other hand, minorities in Israel can see that the villages 
of Druse, Circassian and Beduin, all of whom serve in the IDF, are even more 
neglected than other Arab villages. In other words, equality for all people 
living in Israel, which was a part of the original vision of the founders of the 
state, has not been achieved.Affirmative action needs to be implemented. 
Druse need to be represented in each Knesset, as Ze’ev Jabotinsky aspired to 
when he said, “I hope that one day a Jew will be prime minister and a non- Jew 
deputy, and vice versa.”If this were to occur, it would change world 
public opinion of Israel and counter those who claim that Israel is an apartheid 
state.Minorities are clearly represented in all of the dictatorships in 
the region, yet Israel, which is considered liberal and open, is behind in this 
area as a result of internal party politics. The absurdity in this situation is 
that Druse command entire divisions in the army and participate in the most 
significant security decisions, yet when it comes to government participation, 
there is no place for Druse.This untenable situation should be keeping 
all the party leaders awake at night.
There needs to be a new legislative 
initiative that would ensure proper representation in the Knesset by Druse and 
other minorities in Israel, especially among the communities that desire a 
strong Israel that will last for many generations to come.The author is 
a former deputy minister for regional development.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>AIPAC: The ‘chosen people’ and the 'elected people'</title>
<date>6/3/2013</date>
<content>
The master of ceremonies at Monday night’s AIPAC gala, introducing hundreds of 
leading American senators and members of Congress to 13,000 enthusiastic Israel 
supporters, joked that “the chosen people” were now encountering “the elected 
people.”This AIPAC Israel love-fest, more freewheeling and fun carnival 
than dark political conspiracy, highlighted the deep, enduring, constructive 
friendship between the United States and Israel.




Wandering around 
Washington’s packed Convention Center, seeing so many manifestations of the 
extraordinary American-Israel bond, I was struck yet again by how hard Israel’s 
enemies – call them the benighted people – work to hijack the debate and rob us 
of anything good. The harshness of the criticism polarizes the debate and 
inflames the region, making these people, who call themselves progressives, a 
destructive, reactionary force advancing war, not peace, unreason, not reason, 
hurting all involved, damaging their supposedly beloved Palestinians as well as 
their intended target, the Jews, er, Israelis.You feel the poison in the 
exaggerated attacks on AIPAC and the American-Israel friendship. The notion that 
these two countries might have a natural alliance, reflecting shared values and 
common interests, is too threatening to the Israel bashers, these Islamist 
fellow travelers. So they concoct a claim echoing longstanding anti-Semitic 
fears of Jewish power and attribute this authentic friendship to the supposedly 
all-powerful, mythical, mystical Jewish lobby. To mask charges of anti-Semitism, 
they call it “the Israel Lobby,” but the effect is the same. They are 
caricaturing the relationship as artificial, not organic, Astroturf, not 
grassroots, imposed from without by these alien forces, not generated from 
within by these similar ideals and pressing needs.The bashers also take 
all that is good in Israel and try turning it into something manipulative and 
nefarious. Unable to process the contradictions between their liberal positions 
on gay rights and women and Palestinian homophobia and sexism, they try 
diminishing Israel’s moral stature on that front. The result is the ridiculous 
“pinkwashing charge,” another attempt to rob Israel of its ethical advantage by 
claiming that Israel’s progressive position on homosexuality is a propaganda 
move to divert attention from the Palestinian problem.In this 
environment, denying any genuine friendship between Israel and its allies, 
negating any possible good that comes from the Jewish state, provides the 
traction needed to attack Israel’s existence. Or to use the language of former 
British prime minister Tony Blair, in an extraordinary speech he delivered in 
Herzliya on August 24, 2010, calling it a “democratic duty to counter 
delegitimization of Israel,” “soft” delegitimization encourages “hard,” violent 
delegitimization of Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas. The soft form, Blair explained, 
“is a conscious or often unconscious resistance, sometimes bordering on refusal, 
to accept Israel has a legitimate point of view,” for example, criticizing 
Israel for acts of self-defense every other nation would undertake when 
bombed.Blair called this form “insidious, harder to spot, harder to 
anticipate and harder to deal with, because many of those engaging in it, will 
fiercely deny they are doing so. It is this form that is in danger of growing, 
and whose impact is potentially highly threatening, in part because it isn’t 
obvious.”This form, often masked in the language of human rights, 
catapults Israel bashers from Lobbylibels and false “pinkwashing” claims to 
apartheid weeks and racism charges to the Turkish premier’s latest rant calling 
Zionism “a crime against humanity.”It is easy, when enduring this kind 
of unrelenting attack, to succumb to bitterness, to sacrifice nuance, to squelch 
all dissent. This is why I warn about the Israel Exaggeration Factor; that our 
enemies’ hysterical attacks risk inducing equally hysterical responses – 
although we must be careful, while being self-critical, to reject any 
suggestions of moral equivalence. I might criticize some partisans who take an 
Israel-right-or-wrong stance, but we cannot compare them to those evil 
extremists who take an Israel-can-do-no-right and has-no-right-toexist stance. 
We must distinguish between defending a democracy, with all its flaws, and 
comparing it to totalitarianism, marinating in evil.Actually, the 
opposite occurs, again and again: the vitality of Israel eclipses the evil of 
Israel’s enemies.As a result, the Zionist movement does not simply “not 
succumb to bitterness,” it celebrates life; at the AIPAC conference, throughout 
the Jewish community, and in Israel everyday.And someone like Tony Blair 
joins many others in refusing to sacrifice nuance, never fearing to criticize 
Israel regarding all kinds of policies while refusing to join the 
Hard-Left-European pile-on against Israel’s essence or existence. And Israel, 
despite being the world’s most embattled democracy, is one of the world’s most 
dynamic democracies, too – although wouldn’t it be great if someone could 
explain to Israel’s police that, in the democratic spirit we champion, the 
women’s prayer at the Western Wall next week on Rosh Hodesh Nisan should proceed 
with no arrests. I still do not get what they arrest these women for: illegal 
prayershawling? Unauthorized enveloping? All this does is embarrass Israel and 
inflame the situation.One of my fellow speakers at the AIPAC conference 
approached me and asked “as an American historian – do you think the Founding 
Fathers ever imagined this” – marveling at this uniquely democratic three-ring 
circus, with 13,000 citizens, many from the world’s most hated minority uniting 
with others from once-dominant majorities and equallyhated minorities, running 
around America’s capital, hobnobbing with America’s leaders, serving as living 
bridges between the global colossus America has become and the extraordinary 
old-new state now flourishing in the once benighted Promised Land.“Of 
course not,” I replied. But the magic seeds of liberty, equality and democracy 
the Framers planted had the extraordinary ability to exceed their imagination 
and create an America of today far better than it was, populated and led by many 
citizens who once lacked the most basic of rights, supporting an Israel that did 
not even exist.The author is professor of history at McGill University 
and a Shalom Hartman Engaging Israel Research Fellow. He is the author, most 
recently of Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight Against Zionism as Racism, 
published by Oxford University Press.
Watch the new Moynihan’s Moment 
video! www.giltroy.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A lesson from Martin Luther King</title>
<date>1/5/2013</date>
<content>
In his 1968 speech to the Rabbinical Assembly, Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
said “peace for Israel means security, and we must stand with all our might to 
protect its right to exist, its territorial integrity. I see Israel as one of 
the great outposts of democracy in the world, and a marvelous example of what 
can be done, how desert land can be transformed into an oasis of brotherhood and 
democracy.” Less than two weeks after giving that speech, Dr. King was 
assassinated.Unfortunately, since Dr. King’s passing, some high-profile 
African-American individuals have embraced anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism. 
Rather than building upon the strong ties forged between Jews and 
African-Americans during the struggle for civil rights, some African-American 
leaders have damaged both communities with their demagoguery.




This was 
not Dr. King’s dream.Dr. King saw that like African-Americans, the 
Children of Israel have suffered at the hands of hostile neighbors filled with 
hate and bigotry. He knew that “Peace for Israel means security and that 
security must be a reality.” But somewhere along the way, too many of our 
leaders forgot what he preached.African-Americans are among the 
country’s most religious demographics. We go to church in greater numbers than 
any other racial group. We read our Bibles.Since I believe that this 
Bible is a Zionist document, I also believe that African- Americans should be 
among Israel’s greatest supporters in America. This is the message that I and 
Christians United for Israel (CUFI) are bringing to historically black churches 
across this country and around the world. We are determined to return my 
community to the Christian Zionism Dr. King embraced.The time is long 
overdue for African- Americans and Jews to once again join hands and march 
together.Our support for Israel starts with the Bible and the clear 
connection detailed therein between the people of Israel and the land of Israel. 
We have studied our Christian history and theology – from Genesis to Revelation. 
Our Messiah, his apostles, and the prophets are all from the House of Israel; we 
condemn the efforts of some Palestinian propagandists to sever Christianity from 
its Jewish roots.But for us the Bible is merely a starting point. We’re 
also learning – and teaching – the justice of the modern state of Israel and its 
struggle for survival. In recent months, I’ve traveled with more than 50 leading 
African-American pastors on CUFI trips to the Holy Land. We have met with 
African Israelis who have been brought home to Israel from an ancient exile in 
Ethiopia. We have met with Arab Israelis who are thriving in the freest country 
in the Middle East. And we have met with brave Palestinians who share with us 
the persecution they face as Christians living under Muslim rule.We have 
seen the diversity and equality of all Israelis. As African-Americans who 
understand the true evil of apartheid, we find the use of this term to describe 
the situation in Israel as deeply offensive – not only towards Israelis, but 
also to all Africans who suffered under that evil system. How dare the Israel 
haters cheapen the evil of apartheid by applying it to a country that 
exemplifies Dr. King’s dream of color blindness.50 years ago, the Jewish 
people stood with us during our hour of need, not because they wanted something 
in return, but because God and human reason compelled them to do so. Now is the 
Jewish state’s hour of need. Israel is under assault by terrorists seeking to 
kill her people and propagandists seeking to undermine her legitimacy. But one 
by one, African-American leaders are beginning to stand up for the Jewish state, 
not because we want anything in return, but because God and human reason compel 
us to do so.
The author is the African-American Outreach Coordinator for 
Christians United for Israel and the author of We Too Stand: A call for the 
African-American church to support the Jewish State (Frontline Publishing, 2013)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>All eyes on Jerusalem</title>
<date>30/7/2013</date>
<content>
In 1948 when the State of Israel was established, most of the laws prevailing in then British Mandate Palestine were initially adopted by the fledgling state. One of those laws, dating from Queen Victoria’s time (she died in 1901), made homosexuality illegal. (Only between males. The prim, proper and Majestic Victoria was said to have expressed sheer disbelief that two women could or would ever love one another “that way”). That restrictive law – excluding lesbians – was adopted in Israel.In 1967, a full 10 years after the Wolfenden Report (named for the commission investigating laws concerning homosexuality in Britain) had been published, Queen Victoria’s laws were dumped in Britain.




The ban on same-sex consensual acts in Israel was repealed by the Knesset in 1988.According to the Huffington Post this week, the editors of the iconic Oxford English Dictionary are at full gallop in considering how to change the dictionary definition of marriage to reflect the reality of the world in 2013. A spokeswoman for Oxford University Press confirmed that the definition of “marriage” will change in a future edition of the Oxford English Dictionary to include same-sex couples.“We continually monitor the words in our dictionaries, paying particular attention to those words whose usage is shifting, so yes, this will happen with marriage.”New York City held its first pride parade in 1970, Jerusalem only in 2002. The parade in New York draws millions of marchers and spectators, while according to this newspaper there were only about 4,000 at last year’s event in Jerusalem. And yet – the importance of the event in Israel’s capital far far outweighs those in New York and all the dozens of annual parades all over the world, combined.It’s so easy to hold a parade in liberal New York, in the almost 240-year-old US democracy. It takes ambition, determination and powered-up commitment to do so in staid, ancient Jerusalem, capital of 66-yearold not-yet-sure Israel. The Jerusalem Open House, organizers of the event (which is called the “Parade for Pride and Tolerance”), aims for love without borders; where those borders might be political, geographical or racial. The parade fosters welcoming inclusivity for all communities, races and religions. In previous years threats of violence – and in 2005, actual physical violence involving knifing – have marred, but not succeeded in canceling, the happy events.The parades in Jerusalem are “gay” in the happiest sense of the word.Too many confused and questioning youth, from all segments of Israeli society, gain strength, insight and self-respect from knowing that even in Jerusalem, the holiest city in the world, the right to say “I’m gay” is sacrosanct. Too many parents of gay or lesbian children need to know that their children are perfectly normative – different perhaps, but normal – and that the skies do not and will not rain fire and brimstone of the gay community, even in Jerusalem.It is unreasonable to compare Jerusalem’s pride to London’s (or Paris or Toronto or Cape Town). The pride of Jerusalem can however be contrasted to the shame of Riyadh, the criminality of Damascus, the violence of Cairo, the milquetoast that is Amman.Jerusalem has suffered from extremists of every ilk, yet Israel’s capital is still “a light unto the nations.”When the nations of the world look at the colorful pride parades in Oslo, Amsterdam and yes, New York, they yawn politely. But when The Jerusalem Post reports on the pride parade here, the nations of the world sit up and listen.And not only the nations of the world – for here lies the key to the importance of the Jerusalem pride parade: It is a dazzling light; a breath of fresh air; a moment of profound rapture, for, say, a confused lesbian Catholic in Dublin; a puzzled gay Anglican in Uganda; for an about-to-commit-suicide Protestant teenager in St. Johns, or a gay father in Boise, Idaho.But not least, for the gay Jewish communities of Buenos Aires, Wellington, Costa Rica and Chicago.Jerusalem is one of the oldest, and certainly the holiest, city in the world; the world listens when Jerusalem speaks. Tolerance, love, acceptance and pride from Jerusalem are worth their weight in gold.No other city in the world can do that.Israel, a Western, first-world, hi-tech, developed and liberal country somehow fits comfortably into the Levant, perhaps to show the world that even in the Middle East jungle, things can be different. Too many people take comfort from the hope that only the unique Jerusalem Pride Parade for tolerance brings them. Too many lives depend on it.All the rest is commentary.
The writer is the author of a new book, “Flying Colors” (http://tinyurl.com/cpa8bq3) about his youth in apartheid South Africa, and his experiences as an El Al flight attendant. He established TEHILA – a self-help organization for parents and families of gay men and lesbians.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>American Jewish leaders: Stop the rot now</title>
<date>22/4/2013</date>
<content>
Visiting New York this week, I sought to assess the broader implications of the recent “International Peace Award” bestowed on former president Jimmy Carter by Yeshiva University’s Cardozo Law School. This unsavory display of groveling by a major Jewish institution to a committed foe of the Jewish people is not merely a stain on the entire Jewish community but highlights a dramatic erosion of Jewish values and Jewish dignity.Many consider it a wake-up call and believe that alarm bells should be ringing in the conference rooms of major Jewish organizations.




Yeshiva University, created 127 years ago, is the crown jewel of America’s modern Orthodox establishment. Its Rabbinical Seminary was headed by the revered Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik. Its Cardozo Law School has evolved into one of the most preeminent legal educational institutions.Although it caters to all Americans, Cardozo prides itself on being a Jewish institution, serves only kosher food and is closed on Shabbat and Jewish holidays.Since his electoral defeat, Carter has emerged as one of the most vicious opponents of the Jewish state, whose vile bias appears to stem from traditional Christian anti-Semitism. His theological approach even retains the odium of Jewish deicide and he is on record stating that Jews hate Christians because they are “unclean, uncircumcised,” and view them as “dogs.”He was one of the principal architects of the campaign to demonize Israel as an “apartheid state” which led to 14 members of the Carter Center, including his former close adviser, Kenneth Stein, resigning and unequivocally accusing him of maliciously lying about Israel. Carter meets and embraces Hamas leaders, urging the US to negotiate with them. He also opposes efforts to deny Iran nuclear weapons.Alan Dershowitz said that he could not “imagine a worse person to honor for conflict resolution.”He accused Carter of being “significantly responsible for the second intifada... He just prefers terrorists to Israelis” and “encouraged terrorism and violence by Hamas and Hezbollah.”He accused him of having “more blood on his hands than practically any other president” and could not understand how such a person, who “never met a terrorist he didn’t like,” could become the recipient of such an award.Yet the administrators of Yeshiva University refused to rescind or even condemn the award to Carter. Their principal concern was to display political correctness and avoid being accused of restricting “academic freedom” or infringing on the rights of their students.Chancellor Richard Joel declined to endorse the decision and unlike the dean of Cardozo, Professor Matthew Diller, "courageously" announced that he would absent himself from the proceedings. But he stressed that “Yeshiva University both celebrates and takes seriously its obligation at the university to thrive as a free marketplace of ideas, while remaining committed to its unique mission as a proud Jewish university.”Needless to say, it would have been highly unlikely for Yeshiva University authorities to have stood aside and mumbled clichés about academic freedom had one of their student affiliates sought to honor a racist or right-wing extremist.The event was announced only four days in advance because the organizers knew that honoring such an inveterate anti-Semite would enrage many members of the Jewish community.There were major protests from Yeshiva University alumni and students. But the Jewish leadership establishment itself was incredibly restrained. Other than the Zionist Organization of America, no Jewish organization of substance called on the authorities at Yeshiva University to intervene or rescind the award.ADL’s Abe Foxman remarked that the award was wrong, that it was inappropriate to honor Carter and that there was a need to “instill values” to ensure that “future mistakes like this will not be made.” But he stressed that “the university responded properly” by not intervening.Even the outspoken Simon Wiesenthal Center, while blaming the students for failing to “exercise due diligence,” avoided calling on the university authorities to rescind the award.IN CONTRAST, when a Jewish institution invites or honors controversial personalities on the radical political Right, or anyone out of favor with the liberal set, there are invariably widespread protests and condemnations. This was exemplified by the recent histrionic pressures and threats which led to the cancellation of the invitation extended to Pamela Geller, the outspoken campaigner against Islamic fundamentalism, to address Jewish organizations. Had the students at Yeshiva University invited her, it is highly unlikely that the authorities would have been as accommodating as they were to Carter.Regrettably, when it comes to those demonizing and delegitimizing Israel, the trend is for mainstream leaders to bury their heads in the sand, babble about freedom of expression and the need for dialogue and avoid confrontations. They rationalize this by insisting that the overriding objective must be to create a “big tent” encompassing the widest possible range of viewpoints, including those previously considered beyond the pale of the mainstream Jewish community.During the Cold War, Jewish communists served as apologists for Stalinism and even applauded the execution of Jews on trumped-up charges. But they were deemed rogue elements.In contrast, their successors who today engage in vicious anti-Israeli rhetoric, promote BDS (Boycotts, Divestments, Sanctions) and campaign to persuade the American administration to exert pressure on Israel are becoming integrated as legitimate components of the mainstream Jewish community, or are simply regarded as just another facet of a “pluralistic” Jewish community.Yeshiva University is one of the most committed bastions of the Jewish community. When its management declines to overrule the unconscionable decision of its students to honor an anti-Semite, it highlights the extent to which the rot has already advanced and penetrated organizations purportedly promoting Jewish values and Jewish interests.Thus one should not be surprised to learn that Hillel branches on some campuses host disgusting, Israel-demonizing groups such as “Breaking the Silence” and engage in kumbaya with Muslims hostile to the Jewish state.Even a number of federations have set aside funds for anti-Israeli institutions and initiatives.Increasingly, radical rabbis, synagogues and Jewish cultural organizations are hosting speakers who shamelessly defame Israel.Most current Diaspora Jewish religious, political and cultural leaders were molded during an era when the Holocaust and the struggle to create a Jewish state still dominated public consciousness.Now, many of these are reaching the age of retirement.If they are loath to speak out when such degradation of Jewish values takes place on their watch, the situation may worsen dramatically when the next generation of leaders emerge, whose background is likely to make them even less sensitive to these issues.When Jewish leaders stand aside or remain silent as elements hostile to the Jewish people and Israel are hosted or honored within the Jewish community, this invariably impacts on their core values. It will also legitimize and embolden Israel’s adversaries to intensify efforts to impose BDS, as exemplified last week when UC Berkeley student senators carried a resolution to that effect.Jewish leaders committed to Jewish continuity who proclaim their love for Israel must agree upon certain codes of conduct. This has no bearing on freedom of expression. Nobody seeks to deny anyone the right to say what they please.But if a community fails to draw red lines for its constituents, it will face chaos and anarchy and undermine the shared values which enabled the Jewish people to survive throughout the ages.The writer’s website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com.
He may be contacted at ileibler@leibler.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A misinformed public</title>
<date>29/3/2013</date>
<content>
On the evening of March 12, Israeli-born pianist Dr. Yossi Reshef’s 
performance in front of a full auditorium at the University of the 
Witwatersrand (Wits) in Johannesburg, South Africa, was savagely disrupted 
and abruptly ended after about 60 anti-Israel protesters, including members of 
the Palestine Solidarity Committee, the Wits Student Representative Council 
and the Muslim Students Association repeatedly broke into the 
hall.Reshef is a world-renowned pianist, now residing in Berlin. He has 
performed all over the world, including in Britain, Denmark, Israel, Italy, 
Germany, Poland, Croatia, Spain, Russia and the US. He and his entourage had 
to endure a hostile “silent protest” on their way into the hall through a 
restive and hostile crowd. A lecturer from the Wits Music Department was pushed 
and kicked as he attempted to enter the concert hall. Apparently, while security 
was focused on preventing unruly protesters from obtaining entry into the 
hall, they succeeded in gaining entry through a fire exit, carrying vuvuzelas, 
and started to attack the Steinway piano.




In the ensuing chaos, Reshef 
and several ambassadors in the audience were immediately evacuated by their 
security personnel. Apparently five members of the Wits SRC that were present 
in the audience failed to take any measures to stop the chaos, and an anonymous eyewitness is on record as stating that the vice-president of the Wits SRC 
cheered and encouraged the mayhem.This event should be viewed in the 
broader context that has engendered a culture of excluding all Israelis or even 
Israeli-born visitors from South African campuses. By participating in practices 
reminiscent of the Judenrein policies of Nazi Germany, our universities have 
lost their moral high ground as they can no longer claim to be bastions of free 
speech.Last year Prof. Jeffrey Kantor, an Israeli, was invited to a 
sociology conference at the University of Cape Town. As he was about to 
start his address as part of a panel discussion, a certain Prof. Peter Alexander 
from the University of Johannesburg interjected, demanding that if Kantor 
wished to proceed, he should first apologize for the atrocities and human rights 
abuses perpetrated by Israel. When the Israeli professor refused, Alexander, 
supported by many of his peers, called on the audience to boycott the lecture, 
and everyone in the audience vacated the lecture hall, leaving only the Israeli 
professor and the sound technician.What these two victims of boycott 
share is their association with Israel. The boycotters have dehumanized 
and debased them on that criterion only. Their values, political 
ideologies and beliefs are irrelevant. They are condemned for being Israeli. 
They have convinced themselves that the nation of Israel, like apartheid, is a 
crime against humanity and must be exorcised from the planet. That is the danger of this apartheid analogy. Good people, the best among us, are condemned 
because of their place of birth. For Jews, the wounds of our history, of 
being hounded because of being born Jewish, are still too fresh. These Israelis, 
not coincidentally, are Jewish.WHAT WE share in common with other 
societies that target minorities is a widespread approval and sanctioning of 
these sentiments in South Africa; to attack anything Israeli, products, people, organizations and symbols. This license to target Israel flows from decisions to bestow legitimacy to the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) 
Campaign by the ANC at its policy conference in Gallagher Estate in June 2012 
and subsequently at Mangaung in December.Leading up to these policy 
decisions, the rhetoric emanating from the Tripartite Alliance partners, 
particularly from Zwelinzima Vavi, leader of the Congress of South African 
Trade Unions, became increasingly shrill and accusatory. Ever since Vavi’s 
call in January 2009 on “all trade unions, social movements, NGOs, religious 
organizations and academics to support and actively participate in the boycott, 
divestment and sanctions campaign against Israel,” he has at almost very public 
appearance lambasted and condemned Israel.His vitriol, focusing on the 
alleged crimes of the Israeli government, demanded that Israel be excommunicated from the family of nations – his calls are a metaphor for Israel’s demise 
and destruction. So in November, during the lead-up to Mangaung, he called for 
“The intensification of the Global Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement by 
refusing all and any association with the State of Israel and its agents of 
whatever form,” as well as for “intensified global marches,” “sit-ins in all 
Israeli embassies, and night vigils,” an “International Solidarity Conference” 
and more.His partisan stance has opened the floodgates for hate speech 
to emanate from almost all bodies, organizations and NGOs affiliated with the 
Tripartite Alliance, including the ANC Youth League. The latest of these groups 
to unleash its vitriol is the South African Students Conference Gauteng, who 
issued the following statement; “We hail the heroic students of Wits for 
blocking the performance of the pianist Yossi Reshef who was sent by the Israeli 
embassy to disturb our 2013 Israeli Apartheid Week through performances geared 
to cover the murderous Israeli state.” They moreover claim that “this is a 
cheap and malicious trick by the Israeli lobby to undermine the solidarity work 
which South African students have been embarking on.”This is nothing 
short of conspiracy theorizing, and is completely mendacious. Its members are 
not the “heroic students” they claim to be, but rather a lynch mob baying for 
Israeli blood.They represent totalitarian forces, blind to reason, with 
no sense and understanding of the liberties that they enjoy on campuses, but 
deny to others.They have been been emboldened by the likes of Zwelinzima 
Vavi with regard to the correctness of their cause, which gives them the 
confidence to threaten university authorities, lest any retributive steps be 
taken.“We are aware of plans by the Wits management to intimidate 
students who participated in the protest through unwarranted inquiries and 
threats of suspensions and would like to warn them that the blood of many 
Palestinian children, mothers and fathers will be on their hands should any of 
the students be suspended.”They have now threatened mass action, which 
is likely to lead to the university being made ungovernable. Caving in to 
the students will be an unmitigated disaster which will usher in a reign of 
lawlessness, disregard for university authorities and contempt for liberties and 
academic freedoms integral to the development of human endeavour. I implore 
university authorities to disallow any discrimination and sanctions against 
any person or country on all campuses and that they reaffirm their commitment to 
the rights of all to pursue knowledge and culture in a safe and conducive environment.
The writer is chairman of the South African Zionist Federation 
(Cape Council).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An open letter to Her Excellency Angela Merkel</title>
<date>19/7/2013</date>
<content>
Her Excellency Angela Merkel                                                                   July 18, 2013




Chancellor of The Federal Republic of GermanyThe Chancellery, Berlin Dear Madam Chancellor,I have had the privilege of meeting with you several times in my various positions serving the government of the State of Israel. I have always been impressed with your leadership and commitment to Israel's security and well-being in our region, with its risks and uncertainties.A special relationship exists between our two countries, and Germany has been a true friend of Israel and the Jewish people, proven many times over. Under your direction, Germany has become the leading country in the European Union economically and financially. You have overcome historical sensitivities to become leaders politically and militarily as well. There is no doubt that today Germany is the most influential country in the EU and a major player in the global arena.I am quite sure that decision to impose economic sanctions on Israel, made by the EU bureaucracy in Brussels, was an unexpected surprise for you, as it was for all friends of Israel worldwide. This is not only because of your support of Israel, but also because of your sense of justice and morality.  This decision lacks any political and diplomatic logic.Modern history cannot recall a case in which democratic nations imposed sanctions on any other democratic country which shares with them the rule of law, transparency, and preservation of minority rights. Nor has there been a case of imposing such sanctions without going through the legal process in the UN Security Council according to its mandate.Even dictatorships like Iraq of Saddam Hussein, South Africa during the apartheid and Iran today, were punished with sanctions only after exhaustive international deliberations and resolutions made by the Security Council.The immorality of this action without a legal international case is especially flagrant in light of the EU's refusal to impose sanctions on terrorist organizations such as Hezbollah after murderous acts committed on European soil as demonstrated in Burgas, Bulgaria.Imposing sanctions on Israel which has an existential conflict with the Palestinians is blatant interference in the process that should be dealt with directly between the parties, without preconditions. Active interference in favor of one side will cause irreversible damage. Such a step will harden the position of the Palestinians who will lose any reason to negotiate. This, in turn, will stifle any flexibility that Israel may have thought to offer, thus alienating prospects for peace.Israel has always deemed Europe as a partner based on shared values of democracy and freedom, and common economic and security interests.The fate of Europe, Israel and other Western democracies are intertwined in the common fight against international terrorism and extremism. We have always viewed Europe as a role model, objective and fair, that can bring both sides together, rather than driving them apart.  Europe should encourage a peaceful solution and not perpetuate the conflict.This unilateral and brutal move planned by the European Commission is not only morally unjust and politically illogical, but it undermines the trust and confidence of Israel in its allies in Europe.I know, Madam Chancellor, you realize the tremendous responsibility Germany has as the leading country in the European Union, and as an ally of Israel, to intervene in time to stop and roll back this harmful development coming out of Brussels.With great respect,Sincerely yours,Danny Ayalon
The writer is the former deputy foreign minister.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Another tack: Who’s the sucker?</title>
<date>1/8/2013</date>
<content>
Almost five years ago the Foreign Ministry, then under the aegis of Tzipi Livni, 
published the following official press release: On 25 August 2008, Israel 
released 198 convicted Palestinian terrorists. Israel undertook this risky 
measure in the hope of promoting dialogue with the pragmatic Palestinians who 
reject terrorism and are engaged in diplomacy with Israel.




It is never 
easy for Israel to decide on the early release of convicted Palestinian 
terrorists.The issue is one fraught with emotional overtones, for 
Israelis in general and the families of terrorism victims in 
particular.In these instances, Israel’s decision-makers have been faced 
with both political and moral dilemmas. All the while, they remain fully 
cognizant of the security risks posed to the Israeli public by such 
measures.Yet Israel decided on 17 August 2008 to unilaterally initiate 
the release of approximately 200 Palestinian prisoners, a decision that was 
realized the next week, with the 25 August release of 198 convicted terrorists. 
Among them were Palestinians serving long-term sentences for the murder of 
Israeli civilians; their release came at the personal request of Palestinian 
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.Israel undertook this dramatic step in 
the hope of promoting dialogue with those pragmatic Palestinians who are both 
engaged in diplomacy with Israel (most specifically, the Annapolis process) and 
opposed to terrorism.Palestinians from many factions have often 
expressed their interest in seeing prisoners released. The 198 prisoners came 
from the ranks of those factions that support the leadership of PA President 
Abbas.Israel’s large-scale release of prisoners underscores its 
willingness to take confidence-building measures – and even make painful 
concessions – during those periods when the Palestinians are interested in 
maintaining an atmosphere of dialogue and negotiations.Israel hopes that 
the Palestinians and its other neighbors will recognize that commitment to the 
peaceful resolution of disputes can indeed produce tangible results. As Foreign 
Minister Tzipi Livni noted at the August 17 cabinet meeting, “The release of 
prisoners to pragmatic elements as part of a process of negotiation conveys the 
message that those who negotiate with Israel can gain through 
dialogue.”Three crucial notes must be interjected here: 1. This group of 
198 released terrorists wasn’t the first. In August 2007, 255 were released to 
entice Abbas to at all palaver, along with a further 87 in October 
2007.In mid-December 2008, 224 more terrorists were liberated. In all, 
some 1,000 terrorists were let go to grease Abbas’s palms during 
2007-8.2. Many of the liberated terror-mongers set loose in order to 
foster confidence and goodwill quickly returned to their old murderous 
ways.3. The Annapolis process – formally launched on November 27, 2007 – 
was the biggest and costliest Israeli diplomatic flop to date. It even eclipsed 
Ehud Barak’s colossal failures at Camp David and Taba, because premier Ehud 
Olmert and Livni offered even more than Barak’s already egregious offers. Olmert 
and Livni were ready to cede just about everything. Their risky generosity, 
though, changed nothing.They were rebuffed as gruffly as was 
Barak.Abbas plainly cannot do a deal, no more than his way more powerful 
predecessor Yasser Arafat could. Abbas won’t agree to end the dispute, 
relinquish the so-called right to inundate the Jewish state with millions of 
hostile Arabs or at all recognize the legitimacy of a Jewish state in the 
Mideast. Why? Because the object of Ramallah’s honchos was never to establish a 
Palestinian state but to destroy the Jewish state. All else is a ploy to 
debilitate Israel.But it’s not like Barak and Olmert cleverly 
demonstrated this truth to the watching world. They swayed no minds but they did 
create a new square-one for future haggling.Abbas already demands that 
all new talks begin from what Barak and Olmert were ready to surrender. That 
becomes a given, an already-made concession that cannot be retracted, even if 
nothing was signed or traded in return.Olmert’s/Livni’s largess was as 
futile as the release of a thousand convicted killers for no other reason than 
to bolster Abbas in a self-deceptive bid to assemble a DIY peace 
partner.When all this took place, Binyamin Netanyahu, who then headed 
the opposition, was outspokenly censorious of the gratuitous giveaways to Abbas. 
Now Prime Minister Netanyahu too makes superfluous payments to Abbas – albeit on 
a smaller scale.There are those among us who have already decided that 
Netanyahu is in the midst of performing an Ariel Sharon-style 
sleight-of-hand.The accusers claim that another craven head of 
government has seen fit – for whatever quasi-cogent consideration – to cheat his 
voters. Although elected on a hawkish ticket, the suspected charlatan implements 
the most dovish agenda.Superficially there’s cause for acute 
misgivings.After all, Netanyahu is faced with a second-term Obama 
administration that presumably finds nothing more pressing in world affairs than 
to twist the arms of the only stable democracy in the volatile and despotic 
Mideast.Then, adding angst to acute distress, there’s endemically 
Israel-bashing Europe which relishes any new pretexts to instigate boycotts 
against the Jewish state.To boot, Netanyahu heads a precarious coalition 
whose members are continually at cross-purposes with each other on an array of 
pesky issues, something which makes the PM particularly susceptible to all 
manner of ultimatums from within.Undeniably, Netanyahu is the poker 
player who was dealt a particularly atrocious hand, yet tries his darndest to 
stay in the game and pretend that he can actually avoid losing. Pretense in 
itself is of course a disincentive to learning anything from the past. What if 
he’s not actually throwing more good money after the bad? Why should he be 
branded intransigent with all the disadvantages that piles up? The poker face 
Netanyahu seeks to put on is known in political terminology as pragmatism. He 
plays along in the hope that something will somehow improve his odds along the 
way. He needs time. His luck may yet change.Let’s be charitable. 
Netanyahu nowhere contemplates the betrayals that Sharon began springing on his 
unwary supporters a decade ago. Netanyahu’s heart may be in the right place, but 
he is too frightened to refuse to participate in a crooked 
game.Pragmatically, he even deposits a down payment for the privilege of 
being fleeced.Such pragmatism is sure to land us into more trouble than 
it would extricate us from. The road to disaster is paved with pragmatic good 
intentions.Pragmatism is akin to focusing on specific potholes in our 
national path rather than sometimes lifting our eyes from the ground to scan the 
horizon, survey the sweep of the land and behold the full track ahead. We bog 
ourselves down with details and neglect the whole. We quibble about incidentals 
and forget the basics.Unlike visionary against-the-odds Zionists of 
yesteryear, pragmatists reject dreams, absolutes and truths. Everything is 
judged by the assumed practical outcome.The more facile a solution, the 
better – even if only for the foreseeable shorthaul.Thus if the world, 
for a host of ulterior motives, contends that Israel is the villain and the 
Arabs are its downtrodden victims, we don’t quarrel with this premise.We 
throw the howling hostile hounds a few bones to mollify them.If the 
world, for cynical self-serving reasons, equates us with South Africa’s old 
apartheid regime and the Arabs with the oppressed indigenous masses, we don’t 
challenge this odious distortion. We try to improve our image.If the 
world decides we’re foreign colonists who forcefully usurped the land of 
peaceful natives, we remove several settler outposts rather than refute the 
brazen fabrications and stress our right to our only homeland.If the 
world falsely depicts us as the many and the mighty and the Arabs as the few and 
defenseless, we shy from military solutions to violent conflicts. If the world 
calls us aggressors, we apologize.We convince ourselves that we thereby 
stave off immediate disaster, that we outsmart all other poker players. But in 
fact we only impress ourselves, while at the same time honing our image overseas 
as tyrannical Goliaths, diehard apartheid adherents, colonialist interlopers 
and/or militarist ogres.It’s staggering stupidity to appear to own up, 
even if indirectly, to the rampant slander that has today replaced the medieval 
calumny of deicide.By repeatedly conceding the basic assumptions against 
us, we aggravate our own distress and inevitably succumb to the inimical 
international axiom that we’re in the wrong and that those who would annihilate 
us are desperate insurgents against injustice.Any means to which they 
resort are thereby legitimized and terrorism against Israel isn’t entirely cast 
out of moral bounds. Our accommodating pragmatism effectively removes Israelis, 
even Jews, from what the world’s anti-terror warriors define as terrorism. 
Insidiously, terrorism becomes the indiscriminate targeting of 
non-Jews.We’d therefore do better to go back to basics, proclaim loud 
and clear that we are in our historical homeland by right; that we were 
attacked; that the Arabs only conjured Palestinian nationality in order to stake 
rival claims; that a Palestinian state never existed (i.e. we certainly didn’t 
conquer and subjugate it); that we didn’t drive out hapless refugees (who 
themselves launched the war); that they caused their own downfall by plotting 
genocide and ethnic cleansing against us; that our only sin is surviving. We can 
even remind the world of the Nazi legacy of “Palestinian hero” Haj Amin 
al-Husseini.Admittedly, we may not convince anyone.The cards are 
stacked against us. But we’ve nothing to lose by rediscovering our defiant 
spirit and lost Zionist ideals. Excessive pragmatism – the sacrifice of national 
honor for temporary gain – will lose us everything, from our own sense of 
justice to the souls of our youngsters.It’s time to admit that Israelis 
are pathetically bad at poker, that we haven’t got the prerequisite steely 
nerves, that our anxious faces give us away. True, it’s hard to quit when 
losing, but that’s no reason to keep gambling with the very lives of this 
state’s citizens today and with the survival of future 
generations.Poker, or what Obama/Kerry market as negotiations, can be a 
form of psychological warfare, a fact which behooves Netanyahu to remember that 
old casino adage: If you’re playing poker and look around the table to see who 
the sucker is, it’s doubtless you. 
www.sarahhonig.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A Palestinian doctor’s difficult legacy</title>
<date>25/12/2013</date>
<content>
Last week, Dr. Eyad 
el-Sarraj, a Palestinian psychiatrist and founder of the NGO known as the Gaza 
Community Mental Health Programme (GCMHP), passed away after a month of 
treatment in an Israeli hospital.In his professional work, including 
with GCMHP, Sarraj devoted himself to mental health in Gaza and to the 
Palestinian political cause. Upon his death, he was hailed as a “leading 
Palestinian human rights campaigner” and a “psychiatrist who pioneered mental 
health care in Gaza.”




However, Sarraj also left a more problematic 
legacy. For years, he exploited his professional credentials and reputation as a 
psychiatrist and the head of a human rights organization for the purpose of 
conducting political warfare against Israel. As part of the medical community, 
Sarraj failed in his obligation to protest the unceasing Palestinian terror 
attacks against Israelis. If he was really concerned about human rights and the 
impact of violence on mental health, the children of Sderot should have been an 
important part of his agenda.That this central element of his activism 
was ignored by the media encapsulates the “halo effect” that is granted to 
individuals and organizations that claim to represent moral and universal human 
rights values.As shown in a new report by Jerusalem-based research 
organization NGO Monitor, “NGO Malpractice,” NGOs and NGO officials that 
proclaim a mandate related to medical and health issues, in particular, are 
shielded from scrutiny. As groups with a medical focus, they benefit from an 
added degree of credibility, reflecting a perception of altruism and scientific 
expertise. For example, on the second day of the fighting in the December 
2008-January 2009 Gaza conflict, GCMHP issued a press statement referring to an 
Israeli air strike as “part of the vicious military attacks.” A week later, in 
an op-ed, “A 14-year-old’s question – Why?” Sarraj asked, “who will save Israel 
from itself?” He blamed Israel entirely for harming Gaza civilians and condemned 
Israeli self-defense measures, while denying the intent of terror groups 
strategically operating from civilian areas in Gaza.Further, in June 
2009, Sarraj and another GCMHP staffer appeared before the biased, and later 
discredited Goldstone Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza conflict. Sarraj’s 
testimony presented a stereotype that was entirely without scientific or medical 
foundation: “...there is no restraint, no discipline within the army... 
even there’s an encouragement.”His testimony then went a step further: 
“...inside Israel there is an identification with the aggressor, the 
Nazi.” These comments harken to a 2003 interview with Tikkun Magazine, where 
Sarraj offensively asked, “Are they evil by nature, these Jews? Or are they 
stupid, born mentally subnormal? ...They are psycho- pathologically 
disturbed....” In addition to these inflammatory statements, Sarraj and GCMHP 
were strong promoters of anti-Israel BDS (boycotts, divestment and sanctions) 
campaigns, completely unrelated to the mental health of Gazans. For instance, 
GCMHP signed the “Palestinian Civil Society Call for BDS” in 2005, which calls 
for the imposition of “broad boycotts and divestment initiatives against Israel 
similar to those applied to South Africa in the apartheid era.”Moreover, 
following the armed struggle with activists on the 2010 Flotilla, but before a 
definitive picture of the incident materialized, GCMHP signed a joint NGO 
statement claiming that “Israel [is] accountable for the murder of foreign 
civilians at sea and illegal piracy of civilian vessels carrying humanitarian 
aid for Gaza” and calling “on you to join the growing international boycott, 
divestment and sanction campaign of a country proving again to be so violent and 
yet so unchallenged.”In its own press release, GCMHP falsely accused 
Israel of “savagely attack[ing] the Gaza Freedom Flotilla,” a “heinous crime,” 
and “an act of piracy and a serious violation of international law and human 
rights.”Clearly, there is an urgent need to restore the moral framework 
when discussing these issues.Instead of promoting medical assistance on 
the basis of universality and political neutrality, medical NGOs and their 
representatives have become central players in the political conflict. 
Exploiting medicine and science for political purposes undermines the integrity 
of what should be highly valued, noble professions, and respectable 
institutions.Despite Sarraj’s political warfare on Israel, offensive 
statements toward Jews and promotion of BDS, Israel provided him with 
state-ofthe- art medical care when he became ill, like it has for thousands of 
other Gazans. Unlike Sarraj and the NGO network, Israel understands that 
medicine and science cannot and should not be politicized.
The author is 
a 2013-2014 Research Fellow at NGO Monitor in Jerusalem, Israel. She holds a 
Juris Doctor degree from the University of Melbourne, and has also worked and 
studied in areas of conventional and alternative medicine, as well as education, 
in various jurisdictions.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Apartheid, genocide and the slander of Zionism</title>
<date>15/3/2013</date>
<content>
And the winner is... recently we had three from Ethiopia in a single week. The 
first was Yityish Titi Aynaw, a 21-year-old Ethiopian-born Israeli woman who was 
just crowned Miss Israel. Nine years ago she arrived here with her family and, 
at the tender age of 12, set out to surmount innumerable hurdles of culture, 
language and socialization on the way to her successful integration into Israeli 
society, exemplified by her serving as an officer during her stint in the Israel 
Defense Forces.The other two were here as our guests. Abraham Kabeto 
Ketla and Mihiret Anamo Anotonios came in first place in the men’s and women’s 
categories, respectively, of the Jerusalem Marathon.




Literally in the 
midst of all this, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan condemned Zionism 
as a crime against humanity in his address before the United Nations Alliance of 
Civilizations in Vienna. Ironically, the organization was established “to 
improve understanding and cooperative relations among nations and peoples across 
cultures and religions.” Yet remarkably, no one present protested the outrageous 
statement, though the body’s self-proclaimed aim is “to counter the forces that 
fuel polarization and extremism.” The acquiescence of silence.Erdogan’s 
despicable characterization of the Jewish people’s noble movement for national 
liberation, and the shameful calm with which it was met, are only the latest 
manifestation of an interminable struggle to delegitimize the very idea of a 
Jewish state. It affects not only we who live here, but also our brethren and 
supporters abroad who find themselves on the front lines of our defense, 
particularly now, during the annual International Apartheid Week currently 
coming to a campus near you.This well-orchestrated campaign that aims to 
bring about the boycott of, divestment from and sanctions against Israel (BDS) 
began in earnest with the 1975 United Nations resolution declaring Zionism a 
form of racism. That this infamous declaration was repealed in 1991 has done 
little to prevent Israel’s detractors from continuing to defame the Jewish state 
with impunity. Nor has the phenomenon been checked by Israel’s proud 
record in the public domain.A fine example of our diversity and the 
public’s favorable reception of it: The three finalists in the latest episode of 
Israel’s immensely popular MasterChef reality show typify the heterogeneity of 
our society and the popular magnanimity with which it is accepted.The 
winner of the competition was Tom Franz, a 39- year-old convert to Judaism who 
was born a German Catholic and is now a lawyer living in Tel Aviv. Runner-up was 
27-year-old Salma Fiomy-Farij, a devout hijab-shrouded Muslim Arab nurse from 
Kafr Kasim. Third place went to Jackie Azoulay, a 29-year-old religious woman 
from the haredi city of Elad and the second of 14 children.The spirit of 
camaraderie among the three was infectious and the mutual affection, 
particularly between the two women, evident in their hug of consolation, was 
genuine. Given that this was a cooking contest, it is appropriate to note that 
the audience – the largest ever of any Israeli TV broadcast – ate it up, 
devouring every morsel of the feel-good democracy and tolerance that went into 
that embrace.Throw into this recipe of tolerance and harmony that 10 
percent of our Knesset members are Arab and it is self-evident that Israel is 
not an apartheid state. Nor are we the country that presents the single greatest 
threat to world peace. We don’t even bear primary responsibility for our ongoing 
conflict with the Palestinians. What we sometimes are guilty of, however, is 
being our own worst enemy.Which means I can’t end this column here as I 
had intended. I’d planned on offering a few more examples of the enlightened 
society that we are, alongside instances of our neighbors’ state-sponsored 
abuses of human rights (not to mention outright slaughter) before asking Prime 
Minister Erdogan who was calling the kettle black. The recent rash of attacks 
against Arabs perpetrated by Jews here at home, however, scuttled that 
idea.THIS LATEST wave of violent bigotry began some two months ago with 
the virulently racist protests by Beitar Jerusalem fans against the decision of 
the football team’s management to sign two Muslim players from 
Chechnya. “Beitar Forever Pure” read the sign held aloft at the game 
played on the eve of International Holocaust Remembrance Day.That four 
of the squad’s supporters were later indicted for harassing the non-Jewish 
players, and that the team itself was fined NIS 50,000 because of the racist 
epithets hurled at the field during the game, offers some consolation, but very 
little. Particularly given the number of physical assaults since 
then.The list is becoming hard to keep up with. Earlier this month, an 
Israeli citizen was accosted and ordered “Arab, out of the Kinneret,” before 
being beaten by four youths and hospitalized with a fractured jawbone. Two of 
those arrested for the incident were also implicated in an earlier attack on an 
Arab municipal worker in Tel Aviv. In a separate case, an Arab woman waiting at 
a light rail station in Jerusalem was allegedly harassed and punched in the face 
by three teenage girls. That was followed by stones being thrown at and 
shattering the windows of a car in which two teachers, one Arab and one Jewish, 
were making their way to a condolence call. Later that week, in Upper Nazareth, 
an Arab woman resident was spat at by teens and told to move out of the 
neighborhood.Indeed all of this constitutes a “despicable and criminal” 
phenomenon, as it has been labeled by Police Commissioner Yohanan Danino. But it 
is also more than that. It is a challenge to our collective resolve to fulfill 
the promise of our Declaration of Independence, unequivocally calling for “the 
development of the country for the benefit of all its inhabitants,” and 
explicitly ensuring “complete equality... irrespective of religion, race or 
sex.”Meeting that challenge is not the responsibility only of the police 
officers whom the commissioner charged with apprehending those responsible for 
these dastardly, nationalistically motivated crimes; it is the responsibility of 
us all. For it is not only our fellow human beings who are being threatened but 
also those values that are so fundamental to what we set out to build here. And 
they can be protected only through education and the establishment of acceptable 
social norms.In this regard, it would be doing no one any favor to 
ignore that a large majority of those who have been apprehended in connection 
with this wave of nationalistically motivated violence have been described as 
religiously observant, a good number of them yeshiva students.Should we 
take all this as a “wake-up call”? It is too late for that. The alarm was 
already sounded last August when a Palestinian was severely beaten by Jewish 
teens in Jerusalem’s Zion Square. Then someone apparently hit the snooze button, 
and we all drifted off to sleep again. Now it is time to open our eyes. These 
displays of racism may be isolated and anomalous. They may reflect only the 
aberrant behavior of a tiny minority. They may be antithetical to the legal and 
moral foundations on which our justice system rests. But they are no less 
unconscionable for being so and cannot be ignored.If we have any right 
to expect that the world shout down the Turkish prime minister’s loathsome 
condemnation of Zionism, if we expect students on campuses around the world to 
counter the propaganda of Apartheid Week, we must first speak out vociferously 
and resolutely against the shameful displays of xenophobia to which we have 
recently borne witness.A step in the right direction was taken this week 
by the Education Ministry, which instructed all schools to hold discussions on 
the matter in honor of International Day for the Elimination of Racial 
Discrimination. (One can only hope the directive was also noted by those 
religious educational institutions operating outside the authority of the 
ministry.) But while commendable, the message will be internalized by our 
youngsters only if reinforced by their parents. In addition, then, to 
raising our voices loudly in the public domain, we must also speak quietly with 
our children at home. 
The author is vice chairman of the World Zionist 
Organization and a member of The Jewish Agency executive. The opinions expressed 
herein are his own.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter and Tutu won’t bring peace to Holy Land</title>
<date>16/4/2013</date>
<content>
In 2007, human rights icon Nelson Mandela appointed a “Council of Elders,” 
including former US president Jimmy Carter and South African Archbishop Desmond 
Tutu, to help defuse world trouble spots. After an unsuccessful mission to 
Sudan, they headed for one of several visits to Israel and Palestinian 
communities to “help people understand the urgency of peace.”The key to 
being a successful mediator is the reality and perception of impartiality and 
fairness.




Back then Israelis were already skeptical about the fairness of 
these “Elders” who applauded the blizzard of UN resolutions condemning the 
Jewish state while failing to lead the international community in condemning the 
terrorism of Hamas and Hezbollah.Carter and Tutu’s biases against the 
Jewish state are longstanding: President Carter, despite hosting the signing of 
the historic peace treaty between Egypt’s president Sadat and Israel’s prime 
minister Begin in 1979, has for decades lambasted the Jewish state, while giving 
a virtual moral free pass to the Palestinians, even legitimizing Hamas. He’s 
failed to acknowledge the 3,000-year presence of the Jewish people in the Holy 
Land, falsely accused Israel of launching a pre-emptive strike on Jordan in 
1967, blamed Israel for the exodus of Christians from Palestinian territories, 
and faulted Israel for its administration of Christian and Muslim holy sites, 
when in fact only Israel protects all holy sites and guarantees access to all 
religions.Then there is Carter’s last book on the Middle East: 
Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid. That title alone would have led to protests 
against a Yeshiva University Cardozo Law School student journal’s award they are 
presenting this week to the former president for conflict 
resolution.Bottom line: Whatever his other achievements, Carter has 
never resolved his own conflict with the Jewish State of Israel.And 
speaking of apartheid, Archbishop Tutu has provided much of the “moral” backbone 
for this and other slanders against the Jewish state and her people.In 
1989, Bishop Tutu lectured Israel during a visit to Yad Vashem, the national 
memorial to six million Jews murdered by the Nazis. He advised Jews to pray in 
this fashion: “God, this happened to us.We pray for those who made it 
happen, help us to forgive them and help us so that we in our turn will not make 
others suffer.”Now, New York commuters are confronted by a poster 
campaign paid for by the American Muslims for Palestine, which is urging the US 
to cut off aid to “the Apartheid State” of Israel as part of the global 
anti-Israel Boycott/divest/sanctions movement: Its headline is this quote from 
the Nobel Peace Prize winner: “I’ve been very deeply distressed in my visit to 
the Holy Land; it reminded me so much of what happened to us black people in 
South Africa.”What motivates Tutu? His refusal to acknowledge the 
legitimacy of a future for the Jewish people in some ways echoes the 
anti-Semitic views expressed in 1938 by his mentor, Mahatma Gandhi, who 
essentially told the Jews of Europe to accept their pending doom at the hands of 
the Nazis. And there is theological bias. In 2003, Tutu became a patron of 
Sabeel International, founded by Palestinian cleric Rev. Dr. Naim Ateek, who has 
declared: “It seems to many of us that Jesus is on the cross again with 
thousands of crucified Palestinians around him... The Israeli government 
crucifixion system is operating daily.”“Elders” like Carter and Tutu, 
who demonize the Jewish nation, who deny the Jewish people’s past in the Holy 
Land, who refuse to acknowledge Israel’s right to defend herself, are neither 
peaceseekers or peacemakers. Apartheid slanderers and boycott campaigners will 
only succeed in further emboldening the extremists who have already turned much 
of the Middle East’s Arab Spring into an international nightmare.
Abraham 
Cooper is associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Dr. Harold Brackman, a 
historian is a consultant to the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Apartheid Palestine?</title>
<date>17/3/2013</date>
<content>
On Monday, March 17 in Geneva, the UN Human Rights Council will hold a first-ever three-hour session devoted to the alleged human rights abomination known as the “Israeli settlement.” In the moral wasteland of the United Nations, a Jew living on Arab-claimed land is a violation of Arab human rights.There were once an estimated 900,000 Jews across the Arab world, but today there are less than a few thousand.   They were given a choice: die, convert or flee.




Now the 22nd Judenrein Arab state is in-the-making: Apartheid Palestine.Meanwhile, 20 percent of Israel’s population is Arab, and free Arab citizens sit on the highest courts of the land, represent Israel abroad, and hold political office. An Arab living (and thriving) in the Jewish state is fulfilling a human right.How does this obvious contradiction make it past the human rights geniuses at the UN?The answer is almost as old as humankind: intolerance, xenophobia, bigotry and lawyers.On the table in Geneva will be a report, produced by three lawyers carefully selected by the UN brass.The first item of business brushed aside by these legal beagles was that the conclusion of their so-called “fact-finding mission” was decided before they ever got started. Their job description, laid out by the Human Rights Council, was “to investigate the implications of the Israeli settlements on the... rights of the Palestinian people.”  But the same resolution already says: “Affirming that the Israeli settlement activities... constitute very serious violations... of the human rights of the Palestinian people.”Then there was the irrelevant issue of the bias of the fact-finders.Pakistani “expert” Asma Jahangir has already had numerous UN jobs (as has her sister Hina Jilani, one of four authors of the UN’s infamous Goldstone Report). In 2004, as UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, Jahangir took the extraordinary step of issuing a special statement exclaiming she was “aghast at the planned and deliberate extrajudicial execution of Hamas spiritual leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin.”When Israel killed Yassin’s successor, Abdul Aziz Rantissi – with zero civilian casualties – Jahangir “sent a communication to the Government of Israel” worried that Israeli helicopters had fired “into the civilian car of Dr. Abdul Aziz al-Rantisi, a senior Hamas political leader.” No matter that their terrible acts had led US authorities to name both men as “specially designated global terrorists,” or that as combatants in a war they were not entitled to judicial process.French “expert” Christine Chanet is on record as having told a UN treaty body meeting in July 2010 that settlements impose “severe” impediments to Palestinian rights. Her decisions as a member of the UN Human Rights Committee are also revealing. In 2001 she dissented when the Committee decided that a Jewish citizen of the Czech Republic had been denied equal protection of the law after Czech authorities failed to provide restitution for property plundered by the Nazis. Chanet reasoned that by deciding in favor of the Jewish victim, the Committee was wrongly “involving itself in the assessment of evidence by the domestic courts.”But in 2004, Chanet dissented when the Committee decided not to pursue the complaint of a professor who alleged he was denied an academic promotion because of his perceived anti-Israel and anti-Semitic views. In the case of the alleged anti-Jewish victim, Chanet reasoned in the opposite direction. She said the Committee erred in refusing to reassess the professor’s record of performance because the right answer was to “be determined not in the light of the complaint as made before a domestic court.”The third judge, Unity Dow from Botswana, has been on the Executive Committee of the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) since 2006, and was chairperson of the Executive Committee from June 2011 to June 2012. During that time, the ICJ played a leading role in pressing for and supporting the Goldstone report and its libelous accusation that Israeli defense forces deliberately targeted Palestinian civilians.It is hardly surprising, therefore, that these legal minds produced a report on settlements that looks like law but smells like rubbish.The report objects to “Settlement Master Plans.” The capitalized terminology is invented by the reports’ authors and is an unmistakable allusion to the deportation “masterplan” of Nazi SS chief Heinrich Himmler.The report has one annex. It begins: “Timeline – Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestine Territory 1948.” Not 1967.The report provides a “list of selected sources” upon which it relied, and links to them are helpfully provided by the UN website. A submission by the International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists was deliberately excluded. Included are sources that claim Israel is deliberately dumping “waste” in the territories to increase cancer and miscarriages among Palestinians, that object to Israel’s “Law of Return” – the foundation of Zionism, and that place Israeli “security” in quotation marks on the grounds that the issue deliberately “masks an intent” to impose “a system of domination by one racial group over another.”In short, the UN got exactly what it asked for.Just as predictable is Monday’s so-called “interactive dialogue” between UN states and these “fact-finders.” Only last November the General Assembly Hall echoed with the hate speech of 120 members of political blocs like the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, as well as individual states.The word “settler” was always preceded by “extremist” or “racist.” And “inhuman” “racist” “cruel” Israel was committing a “crime against humanity,” a “genocidal blockade,” “a regime of closure without precedent anywhere on earth,” and “indiscriminately killing civilians.”It is impossible to read this latest UN report, or to listen to its authors and its state sponsors, without knowing that the campaign to rid the world of Israeli settlements is a campaign to rid the world of Israel.And yet, at the UN, apartheid Palestine is a human right.
The writer is Director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust, @AnneBayefsky
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A path to loyal citizenship</title>
<date>8/7/2013</date>
<content>
Deputy Transportation Minister MK Tzipi Hotovely (Likud) has raised some 
eyebrows by calling on the Israeli government to move toward the annexation of 
Judea and Samaria, even if it comes at the price of giving citizenship to Arabs 
residing in these areas. Estimates of the number of Arabs in the area have 
ranged from 1.5 million to 2.4 million.In the past 35 years, there have 
been many peace plans, the most recent of which have been based on the “land for 
peace” formula of Israel surrendering its heartland of Judea and Samaria, as 
well as eastern Jerusalem, to the Palestinian Authority, mainly comprised of the 
Fatah and Hamas terrorist organizations. With the demonstrated failure of those 
plans, more and more suggestions are being heard calling for Israel to extend 
its sovereignty to these regions.




MK Hotovely’s proposal to annex all of 
Judea and Samaria to Israel differs from many pro-annexation proposals in that 
she calls for the granting of citizenship to the Arab residents.Such a 
suggestion is certain to bring criticism from both Left and Right in the 
political spectrum, with both complaining about the demographic and existential 
threat that would be caused by the addition of such a large number of mostly 
hostile citizens to the Israeli population.The concern is not misplaced. 
Even if the most optimistic demographers, such as Yoram Ettinger, who estimate 
that granting citizenship would bring the total Arab population from the 
Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River up to about 35 percent, are correct, we 
must understand that the political ramifications of a large Arab minority with 
increasing demands do not bode well for the State of Israel. On the other hand, 
declaring Israeli sovereignty without granting citizenship admittedly creates an 
apartheid-like situation that would greatly heighten the tensions between Israel 
and the ostensibly friendly nations of the world, including the United 
States.Given all of these concerns, I have proposed my Peace For Peace 
plan, which includes the annexation of Judea and Samaria, as well as a path to 
loyal citizenship for all residents of the region. Such a path would include an 
extensive, two-year course in Zionist, Jewish history and good citizenship, 
culminating in a required oath of loyalty to the Jewish State of Israel, and a 
two to three year commitment of national service to Israel, as performed by 
other citizens. Those residents who accept this offer would in effect be 
agreeing to become a loyal minority within Israel, much like the Druse 
community.The residents of Judea and Samaria who refuse this path to 
loyal citizenship would be offered a stipend to be resettled in one of the 
neighboring countries. The option of subsidized transfer would be on the table 
for one year. After that point, only a small number of noncitizens would be 
allowed to remain, based solely on Israel’s needs.With the offer on the 
table, all charges of apartheid would be easily refuted as disingenuous, since 
the rejection of such an offer would clearly demonstrate the hostility of those 
particular residents. No country can reasonably be expected to welcome as 
citizens those who seek its destruction.This plan to extend Israeli 
sovereignty to all of Judea and Samaria and to absorb those with the potential 
to be loyal citizens is a clear, unambiguous plan that can bring historical 
justice to the region and to all of its inhabitants.
The author, former 
mayor of Shilo, is founder and president of the Shiloh Israel Children’s Fund 
(www.ShilohIsraelChildren.org), established after he and his threeyear- 
old son were wounded in a terrorist attack. He is the author of three books, 
including Peace for Peace: Israel in the New Middle East, available on 
Amazon.com or at www.DavidRubinIsrael.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>April 17: Soldiers all</title>
<date>16/4/2013</date>
<content>
Soldiers all Sir, – With regard to Israel honors its fallen on Remembrance Day” 
(April 15), we do not leap from planes. We are not on the front lines of the 
battlefield. We do not leave our loved ones at the beginning of each day and 
wonder whether we will see them again.




We do not face bombs, stabbings, 
shootings or stone throwers because our fight is different, but the love and 
conviction that propel you to defend the land exists within us, too.We 
fight for you. For us. For the Jewish nation. We battle the hypocrisy and double 
standards of academia. We skip class to rally for peace because if we are not 
for ourselves, who will be for us? We know it would be easier to be silent 
because it is an oftworthless fight. For our reasoning they do not care. Our 
facts are “lies,” propaganda from the “Jewish Lobby.” Yet we are not deterred, 
because neither are you.You continue to fight and hope and cry, and 
wonder why being a Jew costs so much. But you are not alone. You protect us. And 
we defend you from the professors and students and others who label Israel 
“racist,” “apartheid” and “colonialist” yet know so little.We are the 
students who never forget Jerusalem and are never silent for her sake. As long 
as you continue to be our soldiers, we will be yours.SHIRA M. FRISHMAN 
Minneapolis The writer is a student at the University of Minnesota Staged 
setting Sir, – Forgive my cynicism, but why did a private visit to his brother’s 
grave by Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu ahead of Remembrance Day merit a 
front page photograph in The Jerusalem Post (“Remembering the fallen,” April 
14)? Did the Government Press Office photographer just happen to be around? I 
sympathize with the wish to mourn and remember a beloved brother but I find it 
rather inappropriate to do so in a clearly staged setting intended for public 
viewing.KAY WEINBERGER Jerusalem Magic words Sir, – The conclusion of 
“Pollard’s 10,000 days” (Editorial, April 14) brilliantly and cleverly suggests 
that Jonathan Pollard’s release “can be demanded prior to any further 
American-initiated negotiations.” For example, when working on getting Israel to 
apologize to Turkey, US President Barack Obama would have responded favorably to 
just six words by Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu: “Release Pollard, then I 
will apologize.”Let’s hope we do not pass up another 
opportunity.LEONARD KAHN Zichron Ya'acov Sherman’s sky Sir, – Martin 
Sherman can say less in half a page of newsprint than any other person writing 
opinion today.What really annoyed me in “The deconstruction of Israel: 
Has the countdown begun?” (Into the Fray, April 12) was his referral to 
“Chicken-Licken,” who was “mongering irrational fears as to the imminent fall of 
the firmament.”Your proofreaders should have caught the mistake – it was 
Chicken Little who was hit on the head by a pebble and proceeded to rush through 
the barnyard shouting, “The sky is falling, the sky is falling!” Incidentally, 
that is exactly what exemplifies the frantic overstatement of Sherman’s 
columns.BURT EDELSTEIN Jerusalem Rachel’s conflict Sir, – As a colleague 
and admirer of the good works of Evelyn Haies, president of the Rachel’s 
Children Reclamation Foundation, I want to set the record straight about her 
contributions, past and present, to Rachel’s Tomb.As opposed to the 
claims of Benny Elon (“American Jew sues Benny Elon in New York court over 
ownership of Bethlehem building,” April 11), Evelyn is a very good person. For 
the past 12 years she has organized life cycle, holiday and Rosh Hodesh events 
in the reception hall at Beit Beni Rachel (BBR), the building next to Rachel’s 
Tomb.She dedicated two Torah scrolls, one to Rachel’s Tomb and the other 
to BBR, during the years that the army and later the border police utilized the 
building.This year alone she has held numerous gatherings and holiday 
events. There have been bat mitzva celebrations, circumcisions and even a 
wedding.She also hosts singles events, and Torah classes in Hebrew and 
English take place on a regular basis. Schools from all over the country bring 
students for lectures and activities after prayers at Rachel’s Tomb.Two 
and a half years ago, when a satellite school of Elon’s Beit Orot yeshiva moved 
into the building, it changed the locks, denied Evelyn entry and claimed 
exclusive rights. Only then did she go to court. The court reinstated the right 
of her organization to also make use of the building.Evelyn’s wish and 
dream is to continue providing a comfortable setting for visitors to Rachel’s 
Tomb while raising consciousness about the importance of this holy site to the 
Jewish people.RACHEL SHURIN Jerusalem Haredi bashing Sir, – Thanks are 
due Seth J. Frantzman for his enlightening exposure of the secular 
bashing of haredim around Holocaust Remembrance Day (“The haredim and Yom 
Hashoah,” Terra Incognita, April 10).I would add a major point. No one 
will deny that haredim tragically lost many of their beloved rabbis, parents, 
siblings, children, relatives and friends in the Holocaust.Their choice 
of how and when to mourn these people is certainly up to them, and it is 
ludicrous to insinuate that their failing to join with everyone else reflects a 
lack of respect for the victims of the Shoah.ILANA SPRINGER Jerusalem 
Iron Lady Sir, – With regard to “Passing of an ‘Iron Lady’” (April 9), Margaret 
Thatcher, during her 11 years as prime minister of Great Britain, was a 
commanding figure in both domestic and world politics.The members of the 
Israel, Britain and the Commonwealth Association are deeply saddened by her 
death. Her courageous and dominant leadership enabled her to pursue a 
controversial economic policy that revolutionized the British economy and 
allowed Britain to remain a leading force in the family of 
nations.Thatcher was a true friend of the Jewish community in the UK and 
Israel. She should be remembered for her friendly attitude toward Israel and her 
staunch support for the peace process.ALAN WEBBER Netanya The writer is 
chairman of the Israel, Britain and the Commonwealth Association Enough already
Sir, – Readers of the paper edition of The Jerusalem Post may not realize that 
the same Dry Bones cartoon has kept its high profile position on the paper’s 
website since back in early January.If it is still fresh enough to 
continue its prominence, it is fresh enough to continue the debate about 
it.The cartoon hopes “the world stops worrying about the Jewish state 
building homes for Jews.”But the issue the cartoon deftly conceals is: 
Where? France has the right to build homes for the French in Paris, but not in 
Madrid, Amsterdam or Brussels. Israel has the right to build homes for Jews in 
Tel Aviv, Haifa and west Jerusalem, but not in Arab east Jerusalem or Amman or 
Beirut.Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East, but it also 
appears to be the only conqueror in the Middle East – and modern history indeed 
shows that popularity and conquest are connected with one another. Wasn’t the 
West’s victory in the Cold War supposed to represent its repudiation of 
conquest? When will this cartoon – a disguised promotion of conquest – be 
retired? 
JAMES ADLER Cambridge, Massachusetts
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 25: Double Standard</title>
<date>24/8/2013</date>
<content>
Double standard Sir, – Regarding “Grunis: Disqualifying Knesset candidates is 
too extreme” (August 22), Supreme Court president Asher Grunis claims that MK 
Haneen Zoabi’s presence on the Mavi Marmara “comes especially close to the 
forbidden area of activity.”




He also claims that her presence on the ship 
should not be taken lightly.Of course not. Passengers on the ship were 
equipped with lethal weapons. They attacked our soldiers with poles and sticks, 
wounding many.I wish to remind Justice Grunis that in the 1988 
elections, the late Meir Kahane and his Kach list were disqualified because the 
High Court said they racist. That decision was a bald lie because the dictionary 
explains racist as one who believes that “one race is superior to others.” Kach 
and Rabbi Kahane never claimed as such.Polls showed that Kach would 
receive up to 12 seats in that election, thus the court’s decision was 
political, not the rule of law.Double standard? You bet.CHAIM 
GINSBERG Ma’aleh Adumim We deserve it Sir, – I am absolutely amazed at the lack 
of response by the Israeli government and Jewish organizations to the sentence a 
US military court gave Bradley Manning (“WikiLeaks soldier Manning sentenced to 
35 years in prison for espionage,” August 22).Manning’s crime was far 
more dangerous to the US than was Jonathan Pollard’s, yet he will be eligible 
for parole in just a few years. If Manning’s name had been Bernie Markowitz, 
he’d be sitting next to Pollard for the rest of his life.Unless there is 
a secret protocol attached to the talks between Israel and the Palestinian 
Authority regarding Pollard’s release, he will die in prison.Silence 
from the Likud, from Avigdor Liberman, Naftali Bennett, Uzi Landau, the Anti- 
Defamation League, the “official Jews” and the Israeli media. We deserve what we 
get.GERALD SCHOR Ra’anana A lot to learn Sir, – Two statements by Andrew 
Hamilton (“Israel, the un-apartheid state – a comparison with Australia,” 
Comment & Features, August 22) are correct: Israel is not an apartheid state 
and never had specific racist laws. However, beyond that, Hamilton’s view is 
somewhat blinkered.Australia has come a long way since its racist past 
and made conscious efforts to change. It has had an official policy of 
multiculturalism, with laws, institutions and educational means of 
implementation. The fact that few Jews are seen in elected positions is not 
proof of discrimination, but rather that they don’t seek office for all kinds of 
reasons. (Australia did have two Jewish governors-general.) While Israel never 
had discriminatory laws, in practice things happen here that would not be 
possible in Australia today: A government-paid official (a rabbi) calling 
publicly on the population not to make housing or employment available to a 
minority; the segregation of public buses; and official support for entire 
groups to be exempt from military service, broad school curricula and paying 
taxes.So it is not the legal situation that matters, but the political 
will to build a fair and equitable nation where prejudice and discrimination are 
unacceptable and offenders get dealt with accordingly. In that respect Israel 
has a lot to learn from Australia.URI THEMAL Kiryat Tivon The writer was 
executive director of multicultural affairs for Queensland Bad on Livni Sir, – 
Isn’t it somewhat presumptuous of Tzipi Livni, whose party received six mandates 
in the last election, to advise Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to oust Bayit 
Yehudi and replace it with Labor so we can arrive at a two-state solution and 
live happily ever after (“Livni says peace would be easier without Bennett,” 
August 21)? Livni claims to be speaking in the name of peace, but she persists 
in the misconception that Israel is the impediment by indicating that the new 
culprit is Bayit Yehudi. What the general public seems to be grasping, and some 
Arab publicists are willing to say, is that the Palestinians are the ones 
standing in the way of peace because they refuse to negotiate without 
preconditions and are either unable or unwilling to make concessions.By 
releasing the unrepentant perpetrators of vile terrorist attacks against its 
citizens, Israel has made more than enough of a gesture toward peace. Let’s wait 
and see what the other side comes up with before embarking on this precarious 
road.Perhaps Livni should try selling her two-state solution to Egypt, 
Syria, Bahrain, Yemen, Jordan and Lebanon before applying the model to 
Israel.LINDA WOLFF Sha’arei Tikva Sir, – Recent statements by our chief 
negotiator with the Palestinians, Tzipi Livni, are very worrisome.She 
says peace will demand big sacrifices. From whom? From the Palestinians? No way. 
They have never moved one iota from their bargaining positions.There 
will be no concessions or sacrifices from the Palestinian side, therefore her 
statement is directed only to the people of Israel. The Palestinian negotiators 
only laugh at her, as she is doing their job so splendidly.Why are the 
negotiations being held in secrecy? In order not to divulge the details of 
one-sided concessions and withdrawals Livni might agree to. If these details 
become public, large anti-government demonstrations can be expected. They might 
ruin the capitulation process and maybe even topple the government.Livni 
uses the term “peace process,” thereby hiding the actual process of 
capitulation.Therefore, Bennett must stay in the government. For his 
firm stand, the public will be grateful to him at the next election, where Livni 
will probably end her political career.SHLOMO FELDMANN Givatayim Good on 
Livni Sir, – With regard to “Livni asks Gavison to draft definition of Israel’s 
nature as both ‘Jewish and democratic’” (August 20), Prof. Ruth Gavison is ideal 
for this appointment.The need for a revision of the electoral laws of 
Israel is pressing.We need not merely an upward revision of the 
thresholds for party entitlement to seats, we need a constituencybased electoral 
system so that Knesset members are representative of, and answerable to, an 
electorate of geographicallydefined constituencies as in other democratic, 
civilized countries.MICHAEL BRUNERT Modi’in Hardly appetizing Sir, – You 
ruin my breakfast when you give such a prominent platform to the spokesperson of 
Gush Shalom (“Supreme Court to rule on legality of settlement boycott,” Comment 
& Features, August 21). I am sick of the selfincriminating Jews of Israel 
who care more about those who feed on a diet of hate and vilification than they 
do about the lives of Israelis.Why is this country so tolerant of groups 
like Gush Shalom, Peace Now and B’Tselem, which incite to destroy Jews and are 
lavishly funded by the anti-Semites of Europe? Why does The Jerusalem Post feel 
a need to spread their venom? Don’t we get enough of that from non- Israelis? 
SONIA GOLDSMITH Netanya Sir, – Gush Shalom spokesperson Adam Keller is right 
when he states that the Boycott Law constitutes an unacceptable violation of 
freedom of speech and political action in Israel.Israel, as a democratic 
and liberal society, should respect the fundamental right of harassing Jews and 
telling them where they should or should not live, especially if they are 
thought to be, by their mere existence, an obstacle to peace.
OSCAR VOLIJ 
Meitar
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 6: Is this gambling...</title>
<date>5/8/2013</date>
<content>
Is this gambling...Sir, – Ever since the Yom Kippur War, Israel has been 
playing the “land-for-peace” card, meaning we give up land and we get peace. How 
has this played out? After the 1973 war we retreated from the Suez Canal and 
got... nothing. After Camp David later in the decade we left Sinai. We got 
non-belligerency, hate articles in the press, no real economic or cultural 
exchanges, and even a few murders.




With Oslo we left Areas A and B, and 
bombs exploded in our faces. Then, the second intifada brought suicide bombings, 
wreckage and mourning. By disengaging from Gaza we took with us all our 
people... and got mortar shells, rockets and a kidnapping.Apparently, we 
are not playing this card very well. So maybe we should let our “peace partners” 
play it instead: They give us the land where our settlements are, and we give 
them peace.I am sure we can count on ourselves to keep a real peace – 
economic and cultural cooperation, no suicide bombings, no rockets, no 
mortars.DANIEL BRAUNSCHVIG Jerusalem Sir, – The demand for a referendum 
before land can be surrendered to the Palestinians is a symptom of the lack of 
trust Israelis have in their elected representatives.However, the 
referendum law is badly worded and far too restrictive.It should be 
amended to require popular approval for: • Any change in the extent or quality 
of Israeli sovereignty.This would include an increase, like formally 
annexing the Golan Heights or any area part of Area C, or a decrease, such as 
abandoning any part Judea or Samaria.• Any action that is clearly in 
contravention of the party platform on which the major members of the coalition 
were elected. One example is releasing convicted criminals, which the Likud 
vowed never to do.Of course, given the deviousness and immorality of our 
leaders, I doubt that such an amendment would be implemented.Somehow our 
government would find a way to reverse it when most needed.Fortunately 
for me, I hold dual citizenship. If our craven government succeeds in giving my 
home away I will have the option of returning to a Western democracy, an option 
I will exercise.STEPHEN COHEN Ma’aleh Adumim Sir, – This is not the 
first time that murderers will be released to start peace talks (only to have a 
good number of those murderers go back and kill again). But it’s the first time 
I feel that Israelis with blood on their hands for murdering Arabs should also 
be freed.It has become all too one-sided.LISA KLEIN Jerusalem 
...or plain insanity? Sir, – Albert Einstein has been quoted as saying that the 
definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, and 
expecting different results.Releasing murderous prisoners who have been 
given multiple life sentences, and doing so in the hope of having a peace 
process when multiple times before such talks have proved unsuccessful, shows 
this government is insane.I shall not be insane and vote for the Likud 
again. I believe that with this move the party has undermined its strongest 
pillar of support within the nation and will be rendered irrelevant in the next 
election.AVRAHAM SCHWARTZ Jerusalem Jew-free ‘Palestine’ Sir, – One 
thing that has been ingrained in us since the Shoah is that we must take the 
threats of our adversaries seriously.Therefore, I have difficulty 
understanding how we, through our government or the government of the United 
States, can be complicit in the establishment of an apartheid State of Palestine 
(“Abbas wants ‘not a single Israeli’ in Palestinian state,” July 
31).EPHRAIM I. ZIMAND Jerusalem Sir, – If Palestine is to be without 
Jews, there are two ways to react (and they are not mutually 
exclusive).First, the cost of transfer back to Israel of Jews living in 
what will be the Palestinian state should be borne by the Palestinians, who 
might receive assistance from the EU or other groups that feel judenrein is 
acceptable. Second, Israel should be Arab-free (what’s sauce for the goose is 
sauce for the gander, so to speak). Since this would be precipitated by the 
Palestinians, they should foot the bill for this as well.HAIM SHALOM 
SNYDER Petah Tikva Unworthy language Sir, – I felt that both Martin Sherman’s 
“Resign, just resign!” (Into the Fray, August 2) and Caroline B. Glick’s “Bibi 
and the true believers” (Column One, August 2) employed needless abusive 
rhetoric in referring to Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, and tasteless and 
vulgar language in referring to Israelis who do not share their political 
opinions.I realize that the issues under discussion are deeply 
provocative and sensitive, but nonetheless this sort of language is unworthy of 
both of these writers, and of The Jerusalem Post.I believe that both 
Sherman and Glick are well-informed and knowledgeable political pundits, and 
well-versed in Middle East diplomacy and, of course, the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
This is why it is so hard for me to understand how both of them fail to 
understand that our prime minister is trying to deal with an almost impossible 
diplomatic situation.Netanyahu is walking a very thin tightrope in 
trying to keep Israel secure and protect its essential interests while at the 
same time trying to satisfy the unfair demands of an international community 
that is biased against us and favors our Palestinian enemies.I believe 
that both fail to fully understand that entirely apart from international 
pressure, Israel deeply wants and needs peace and security for itself and its 
Palestinian neighbors. This is why our government is willing to make 
disproportional concessions like prisoner releases in the hope of moderating 
Palestinian rejectionism, even though the Palestinians have not yet disabused 
themselves of their vile dreams of our destruction.I do not expect 
Sherman or Glick to support policies they oppose, but I do expect them to couch 
their opposition in relatively refined prose and the understanding I am sure 
they possess of Israel’s precarious diplomatic situation.KENNETH BESIGKiryat Arba Tell us more Sir, – After reading in your newspaper about a 
decapitated body in a suitcase, my spirits were lifted to read about 
Dr.Cyril Sherer (“The good old doctor – 92 years young,” Health & 
Science, August 4).Dr. Sherer is amazing for his age. Kol hakavod! I 
wish you would do another article on him, telling us all about his daily regimen 
and more or less what he consumes each day. He looks 20 years younger than 92! 
Thank you for brightening my day, Judy Siegel-Itzkovich.Well done! 
MIRANDA SALTZ Jerusalem The writer’s late husband was a physicianIndia in the 
Negev Sir, – Journalist and travel writer Ben G. Frank’s excellent article about 
the Cochin Jews of India (“India’s living evidence of Jewish pride and honor,” 
Travel Trends, July 21) should instill interest in a visit to Moshav Nevatim, 15 
minutes outside Beersheba.Many Cochin immigrants settled at the moshav, 
where the Cochin Jewish Heritage Center will give visitors an excellent 
background of the community’s past in India. The beautiful synagogue there is a 
replica of the house of worship in Cochin (now known as Kochi).
HURLEY R. 
LANGERT Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS: A threat to Palestine</title>
<date>8/12/2013</date>
<content>
If Palestinian organizations want a two-state solution, then they need to 
dissociate from the BDS (Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions) movement.While 
human rights organizations that demand a two-state solution tend to ignore the 
fact, their support of BDS seriously comprises their integrity. Here are a few 
critical arguments level-headed Palestinian supporters should consider: 
Effective boycotts against Israel are impossible, as well as destructive to 
Palestinians. Specifically within the IT, agricultural and medical industries, 
Israel’s contributions are invaluable and irreplaceable. There at a plethora of 
Israeli products that the global community benefits from of which many are not 
even aware. For example, BDS relies on Facebook to promote its campaigns; 
Facebook recently acquired Israel-based start-up Onavo.




BDS activists 
prefer to focus on boycotting settlement- made goods, such as Sodastream, yet 
are insensitive to the fact that many Palestinians work for Israeli companies in 
the settlements, earning higher wages than if they were to work for Palestinian 
companies.BDS-ers have declared that if Palestinians lose their jobs due 
to sanctions against settlements goods, it is a sad yet necessary price to end 
“apartheid.” Yet they offer no road map for how these Palestinians will support 
themselves economically if they are totally disassociated from Israel, even if a 
Palestinian state were to be established.This anarchistic approach to 
Palestinian welfare impacts heavily on the BDS movement’s integrity, as well as 
that of other Palestinian organizations that claim to be supporting Palestinian 
self-determination.BDS activists enjoy using the South African narrative 
as an example of why such concern for Palestinian welfare after a Palestinian 
state is established is nothing more than Zionist propaganda. A key fact they 
choose to ignore is that Nelson Mandela valued collaboration between whites and 
blacks in South Africa, especially because South Africa’s economy required white 
experience within commerce to insure economical sustainability.Then 
there’s the fact that BDS supports a similar narrative to Fatah’s political 
charter that states Fatah’s commitment to the destruction of Israel’s government 
and economy. The strong BDS anti-Israel narrative results in further 
polarization of moderate Jews who would otherwise be open to the idea of peace 
talks and a two-state solution. Jews who were previously critical of the 
Israeli- Palestinian conflict are pushed to the Right due to the perception that 
so-called liberal organizations are not concerned about the total ethnic 
cleansing of Zionist culture, economy and state, as stated by every Palestinian 
political charter, and following the intense anti-Semitic narrative expressed by 
Palestinian media as well as religious institutions, in which Judaism and 
Zionism are identified as the same thing.IT IS not unrealistic to 
imagine a crusade against Zionism easily evolving into genocide and ethnic 
cleansing of Jews living in Israel.If liberal human rights organizations 
are indifferent to such concerns – or view the destruction of Israel and 
genocide of Jews as moral and humane aspirations – why would any sane human 
being support or even indulge them? The greatest catalysts in establishing a 
Palestinian state will be Jews, but how can pro-Palestinian organizations expect 
to get buy-in while indulging the BDS narrative that Israel simply needs to 
disappear? Further, it is highly irrational to expect the Knesset to simply sign 
on the dotted line an agreement for Israel’s extinction. So many organizations 
that support Palestinian statehood keep on shifting the battle lines regarding 
their demand for a two-state solution, but will also argue that the 
establishment of the State of Israel was a mistake and criminal, something which 
needs to be rectified.This results in level-headed people disengaging 
from these organizations.Even Norman Finkelstien, a dedicated activist 
against Israel holding the 1967 borders, has stated that the BDS movement cannot 
be recognized as a legitimate organization that should be engaged in political 
and legal issues with Israel, since on the one hand BDSers use the law to 
protest against Israel keeping the 1967 borders, but on the other, neglect the 
law when demanding Israel’s destruction.Finkelstien explains that BDS 
will never get the required political and legal backing that will be effective 
enough to create a Palestinian state if it continues with double standards 
regarding Palestinian rights while neglecting Israel’s right to 
exist.Either an organization is pro-human rights or pro-BDS.To 
be both is very problematic, and even hypocritical.The rest of the 
global community is also not going to accept a false narrative created by 
organizations that seek solely to demonize Israel; most people are not 
interested in being involved with a political debate that involves radical 
opinions. For Palestinian solidarity organizations, this should be a serious 
problem.Lastly, BDS activists often claim that they “distance” 
themselves from violence. What they mean, however, is that while they do not 
support Israeli violence against Palestinians, they will turn a blind eye toward 
Hamas’s activities, for example.But if one truly supports the 
Palestinian cause, then they should also feel comfortable criticizing any 
actions of the Palestinian leadership that are preventing the establishment of a 
Palestinian state.Consider: Israel’s greatest ally, America, is a strong 
critic of Israel’s settlement activity, which the US believes is harmful to 
peace, yet Israel still holds the US to be a close ally. The fact that BDSers 
are not prepared to condemn Palestinian violence and jihadist ideology suggests 
that they support terrorism and the killing of Israeli civilians.If 
Palestinian organizations truly want to help Palestinians, they need to start 
thinking along the lines of conflict resolution, and be openly critical of 
Palestinian militant factions. Anyone organization truly sincere about advancing 
Palestinian self-determination will need level- headed, critical and educated 
individuals on its side.
To this end, they will also need to disassociate 
from BDS and the anti-Israel narrative, as the BDS movement and its Marxist 
approach to politics is heavily impacting on the integrity of Palestinian 
solidarity organizations.The author is a social media activist against 
the BDS and the Media Review Network. He holds a degree in psychology and 
business administration.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Borderline Views: The Obama and Kerry map</title>
<date>8/4/2013</date>
<content>
President Barack Obama has attempted to simplify the complexities of the 
Israel-Palestine conflict; in advance of Secretary of State John Kerry’s visit 
to Israel this week, he has urged both sides to guarantee the single most 
important objective for the other. An independent state with clearly defined 
borders for the Palestinians, physical security and safety for Israel. The 
details, such as settlements, he argues, can come later.In one sense 
this is a naïve statement. The assumption that the eventual demarcation of 
borders can be worked out without paying attention to the details is faulty. The 
location and dispersion of settlements throughout the West Bank has a major 
impact on the way in which borders are demarcated. One only has to look at the 
interim maps which accompanied the Oslo Agreements back in the 1990s to 
understand what a significant role the settlements played in preventing the 
creation of two distinct and separate territorial units, each of which 
constituted a compact and contiguous piece of territory.




The Oslo map 
looks more like a piece of Swiss cheese, full of enclaves and exclaves, with 
bypass roads linking the Jewish settlements to each other and effectively 
cutting off any form of territorial contiguity between the Palestinian areas of 
autonomy. The division of the West Bank, at that time, into Areas A, B and C, 
each of which had different levels of autonomy and self rule, were a recipe for 
political instability, as indeed they proved to be.The Palestinians only 
agreed to sign on to the Oslo maps because at the time, this was seen as being a 
first stage in a five-year transition period of negotiations aimed at arriving 
at a final map which would satisfy the sovereign needs of the Palestinians and 
the security needs of Israel.Since that time, there have been numerous 
attempts at map-drawing. Various versions of borders have been proposed at 
countless “track II” discussions, by geographers, cartographers and diplomats. 
Government ministers, each of whom has had aspirations of being the ultimate 
“peace maker,” have proposed new contours for the future borders of a two-state 
solution. In reality, they are not vastly different from each other.They 
all use the Green Line as a base from which they try to deviate so as to 
incorporate as many of the settlements as possible, especially those in relative 
proximity to the Green Line. During the past decade, some of these cartographic 
scenarios have also included the proposal for land swaps, with Israel annexing 
settlement areas inside the West Bank, in return for which the Palestinians 
would receive land inside Israel which is unsettled and, in this way, maintain 
the same proportions of land for Israel and the West bank which existed prior to 
1967.But since Oslo, the settlement project has doubled in numbers. 
Existing settlements have grown to the size of small townships, while many new 
settlements have been established, including the hilltop squatter communities 
which have been dispersed throughout the region and which make it even more 
difficult than before to create contiguous, uninterrupted 
territories.The construction of the Separation/Security 
Barrier/Wall/Fence has been the only attempt to actually implement a border on 
the ground and although it can be removed far more quickly than it was ever 
established, its course indicates the political thinking of Israeli leaders 
during the past decade concerning the ultimate route of a border.Anyone 
who crosses this line on a regular basis can testify to the fact that it has all 
the characteristics of an international border separating two states. Documents 
are scrutinized, Palestinians refused entry and trucks checked for the 
transportation of goods which are forbidden or require customs 
payments.It is no surprise that the new Economy and Trade minister, 
Bayit Yehudi leader Naftali Bennett, has suggested that the separation barrier 
should ultimately be removed and that Palestinians should eventually be allowed 
back into the Israeli workforce. This is, in his worldview, the only way to 
prevent the two-state solution, to which he is totally opposed, from eventually 
becoming a reality.For Bennett and the new right-wing coalition 
government, any talk of borders has to cease. In their view Israel has to return 
to a situation in which the entire territory between the Mediterranean and the 
Jordan River is a single entity, never to be divided.Ironically, this is 
a territorial solution which is also supported by the more radical Palestinian 
groups who see the future in terms of a single binational state of Jews and 
Arabs in which all are equal and which is not defined by its Jewish or Arab 
national status. The far Right (continued occupation) and the radical Left (a 
binational state) share the same basic criteria – namely, that we should not be 
drawing borders and that we should be relating to the entire territory as a 
single political and administrative unit. Despite the geographic similarities 
however, the contrasting sets of power relations are clear for all. Under a 
Bennett solution, there would be first- and second-class citizens and the state 
would retain its formal Jewish status, while under the binational scenario, all 
would be equal and there would no longer be a State of Israel defined by its 
Jewish identity.What Bennett and his supporters on the Right constantly 
fail to realize is that, by the abolition of borders, and the continued 
construction of settlements throughout the West Bank, they are the people who, 
more than any others, are bringing about the one-state scenario and the end to 
the Jewish state.No less than right-wing prime minister and warrior 
Ariel Sharon eventually came to this understanding. As a result he forced 
through the painful evacuation of Gush Katif in the Gaza Strip and established 
the Kadima party with the intention of moving ahead with similar territorial 
withdrawals and evacuations in the West Bank. He did not change his right-wing 
beliefs, nor did he intrinsically believe in the legitimacy of a Palestinian 
state, despite his public statements acknowledging two states.But he did 
understand, as a person for whom security was so important, that Israel’s 
long-term security was threatened as much, if not more, by the demographics than 
it was by the missiles and the foreign armies.To implement a classic 
version of the two-state solution, the recognition of an international border 
along the Green Line, the Separation Barrier or any other single line would 
necessitate the forced evacuation of tens, perhaps, hundreds of thousands of 
settlers. This is simply not going to happen. No Israeli government has the 
ability to implement such a scenario in the face of the massive opposition it 
will entail. There will always be settlements on the wrong side of the border, 
even those borders which have been drawn to include the major settlement blocs 
close to the Green Line.But the ultimate removal of borders will 
eventually bring about one of two equally unacceptable scenarios for most 
Israelis – either apartheid and institutionalized discrimination or a binational 
state.What is required is an innovative way of thinking about borders 
and their relationship to independence and citizenship.Obama and Kerry 
have their hearts in the right place but they make an extremely complex 
situation sound too simplistic. They are concerned for both Israel’s security 
and for Palestinians’ right to independence. But unless there is a clear 
acceptance from both sides – especially Israel – as to what this entails it, 
like all previous attempts at reaching a solution, will come to 
nought.
The writer is dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Social 
Sciences at Ben-Gurion University. Editor of the International Journal of 
Geopolitics, he heads the Israeli participation in the EU FP7 project examining 
the future status of borders in Europe and the neighboring regions. The views 
expressed are his alone.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Breaking the Silence 2.0</title>
<date>26/6/2013</date>
<content>
Once again the fallacies of the Israeli NGO Breaking the Silence (BtS) are 
making headlines, this time directly from the IDF. Barak Raz, spokesman for the 
IDF’s Judea and Samaria Division, correctly blasted the group and its actions, 
stating that “Breaking the Silence is an organization that engages in nothing – 
but nothing – other than a smear campaign targeting the IDF. This smear campaign 
has nothing to do with rooting out their observed problem. Furthermore, none of 
their work helps the IDF (or Israel, for that matter) provide a 
solution.”Notwithstanding such criticisms, BtS has become the poster 
child for groups like J Street and others on many North American campuses that 
want to engage in “honest debate” about the Israeli- Palestinian conflict. In 
reality these groups do nothing more than fuel a skewed view of Israel in order 
to pressure Israel to succumb to Palestinian demands, thereby only contributing 
to the isolation of the Jewish state. Further, it is also the pervasive tactic 
employed by the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement (BDS) in their 
political warfare against Israel.




The adaptation of soft power by the 
pro- Palestinian camps and far-left Jewish groups is one of the main vehicles 
used in this political warfare. Breaking the Silence plays a central role in 
this agenda, now spearheaded by J Street. In 2008, before J Street was founded, 
BtS was disseminating its message on campuses like the University of 
Pennsylvania and Harvard through a photo exhibit showing the “egregious acts” of 
the IDF, mostly in Hebron.At the time, I wrote that the exhibit was 
completely one-sided and portrayed Israel unfairly. The presentation lacked any 
context or proportionality whatsoever.It did not present – or even 
attempt to present – the complexity of the political and military situation in 
the West Bank and Gaza. Rather, the exhibit sought to present a distorted image 
of Israel, its people and its defense forces. Since then BtS has produced a 
431-page publication entitled Occupation of the Territories – Israeli Soldier 
Testimonies 2000-2010 that claims to “describe an offensive policy that includes 
annexation of territory, terrorizing and tightening the control over the 
civilian population.”J Street, which was founded in April of 2008, is 
now using the group to cascade its message of “peace and co-existence” to 
students through BtS. J Street has attempted to sell its agenda as the 
alternative to the “mainstream” and demand that the tent of the Jewish community 
stretch to include views that at times are harmful to State of Israel under the 
guise of openness.Consequently, according to a statement written by J 
Street in The Daily Pennsylvanian this past March, “Breaking the Silence is an 
organization of former Israel Defense Forces soldiers who speak openly about 
their experiences serving in the West Bank and Gaza. They shed light on the 
price of military occupation for both Israelis and Palestinians and argue that 
bringing it to an end is in Israel’s best long-term interests. The most 
important goal of Breaking the Silence is to foster dialogue and awareness about 
the facts on the ground. This, above all, is why we wanted to host 
them.”The fact of the matter is that Breaking the Silence, as IDF 
spokesman Raz underscores, is hardly representative of the IDF, and its goal is 
not to foster dialogue.Rather, it is an Israeli fringe group funded by 
mostly non-Israelis to collect testimonies from soldiers who shared their 
“horrific experiences” while fueling an image of Israel as the worst violator of 
human rights. A concomitant message used by the pro-Palestinian supporters to 
sell to the Western media outlets. The difficulty here is that these myths are 
now being perpetuated by former Israeli soldiers.Journalist Amos Harel 
wrote about the group in Haaretz (Gaza testimonies/Diverting the debate from the 
real issue, July 16, 2009): “Breaking the Silence... has a clear political 
agenda, and can no longer be classed as a‘human rights organization.’ Any 
organization whose website includes the claim by members to expose the 
‘corruption which permeates the military system’ is not a neutral observer. The 
organization has a clear agenda: to expose the consequences of IDF troops 
serving in the West Bank and Gaza. This seems more of interest to its members 
than seeking justice for specific injustices.”The BtS campaign has taken 
its cues directly from the Durban playbook, with the goal of discrediting the 
IDF using repeated accusations of “war crimes,” “genocide” and “apartheid” – all 
of this is at the core of the Palestinian weltanschauung which is now subscribed 
to by groups like BtS.Notwithstanding the above, BtS is welcomed by 
Hillels and other Jewish groups in order to offer its students a “diverse” point 
of views when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. While diversity and 
openness is a positive attribute of academia this program does not represent a 
true discourse of the reality but rather one that is aimed to demonize and 
isolate Israel by Israelis.Benjamin Franklin once said that “we are all 
born ignorant, but one must work hard to remain stupid.”It would behoove 
such groups to remember Franklin’s words when they consider such “educational 
programs.”Mainstream Jewish groups have a responsibility to their 
stakeholders to establish clear lines that they will uphold while affording 
their constituents a wide range of opinions that fall within the realm of 
legitimate debate and public discourse. Being a “big tent” shouldn’t mean 
killing yourself.
Asaf Romirowsky is the acting executive director for 
Scholars for Peace in the Middle East (SPME)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bullying tactics</title>
<date>29/8/2013</date>
<content>
The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement, which advocates the 
international isolation of Israel in protest of its policies toward the 
Palestinians, has seen its profile spike recently.A well-organized, 
well-funded movement without clear leadership or hierarchy, advocates of BDS 
have long lobbied for performing artists to shun Israel, and they faithfully 
launch vociferous email and Internet campaigns whenever a foreign act is booked 
for a show.




However much they try to turn these artists against Israel, 
they seem to have had only a marginal effect on the international artistic 
community.Sure, they have achieved some success with high-profile 
artists from Elvis Costello to the Pixies – both of whom canceled sold-out shows 
shortly before their scheduled dates – but the tsunami of noted musicians, 
dancers, writers and singers who continue to land on our shores and fill our 
venues continues unabated.Last month, the rather under-the-radar efforts 
by the BDSers received a big boost when former Pink Floyd leader Roger Waters 
wrote an open letter to his fellow artists calling on them to join the cultural 
boycott of Israel. But Waters – who himself performed in Israel in 2006 at Neveh 
Shalom to promote coexistence – does not have the kind of influence he once 
might have.It is unlikely that his plea will have much, if any, impact 
on the multi-million dollar Israeli entertainment touring industry that has 
hosted everyone from Paul McCartney and Elton John to Madonna and Alicia 
Keys.While their efforts to portray Israel as an apartheid state are 
fundamentally flawed, the BDS advocates are certainly free to pursue their 
counterproductive hobby. By anti-Israel advocate parameters at least, there have 
been much more vitriolic campaigns in the past against the 
country.Recent disclosures reveal, however, that BDS advocates have 
added sordid and ugly tactics to their methods, indicating that their seemingly 
emotional, humanistic appeals are really thinly veiled – or unveiled – 
threats.Rumors have persisted for years, going back to unsourced claims 
that McCartney received a death threat during his 2008 visit here, and that 
singer Macy Gray was threatened with harm to her family if she went through with 
her 2011 performance.Recently, however, these rumors have been replaced 
by clear facts. Scooter Braun, the Jewish manager of teen phenomenon Justin 
Bieber, told The Jerusalem Post that their 2011 appearance in Tel Aviv was 
surrounded by threats.“We had plenty of death threats from different 
groups over him coming to Israel. But most of the death threats were that ‘the 
Jew manager will die,” he said.In July, Eric Burdon, the famed vocalist 
for 1960s band The Animals, almost canceled his August 1 show in Binyamina owing 
to threats to his safety. “We’ve been receiving mounting pressure, including 
numerous threatening emails, daily. The last thing I intend do is put Eric in 
jeopardy,” Burdon’s management said. Burdon later reconsidered his decision and 
arrived in Israel for the performance.Most recently, the management for 
Afropop superstar Salif Keita canceled his appearance at the Jerusalem Sacred 
Music Festival last week due to threats made to ruin his reputation.The 
method of harassment was detailed in a Facebook post by Keita’s nonprofit 
organization, the Salif Keita Global Foundation. The performer’s representatives 
“were bombarded with hundreds of threats, blackmail attempts, intimidation, 
social media harassment and slander stating that Mr. Keita was to perform in 
Israel, ‘not for peace, but for apartheid,’” the post stated.“These 
threats were made by a group named BDS, who also threatened to keep increasing 
an anti-Salif Keita campaign, which they had already started on social media, 
and to work diligently at ruining the reputation and career that Mr. Keita has 
worked 40 years to achieve not only professionally, but for human rights and 
albinism.”When the artists being pressured to boycott Israel go public 
with these campaign of intimidation, nothing is left to the imagination. No 
longer can the BDS efforts be concealed as an ideological appeal from 
peace-loving activists – it is thuggery, bordering on criminality, and it 
reflects just how desperate their cause has become.
It is heartening that 
most performers do not fall victim to these bullying tactics and make their own 
decisions about performing in Israel. With Rihanna, Tom Jones and DJ superstar 
David Guetta all due here this fall, it is clear they are making the correct 
choice.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>CANDIDLY SPEAKING: Israel-bashing in Israeli movies</title>
<date>7/3/2013</date>
<content>
It is a depressing reflection on our times that many of us heaved a sigh of 
relief when neither of the two Israeli documentaries nominated for an Oscar 
received awards.In the current perverted environment, it has become a 
hallmark of left-liberal political correctness to project Israel as a racist and 
colonial implant imposed on the Palestinian underdogs, even if that necessitates 
a distortion of reality.




In Israel, practitioners of the arts, especially 
film producers, are conscious that creating a work which besmirches their nation 
enhances their prospects of achieving global recognition. That, in part, 
explains why so many recent Israeli films with a social or political dimension, 
designed for international consumption, have tended to be masochistically 
critical and demeaning.What makes this even more bizarre is that in many 
cases, these rabidly anti-Israeli films are subsidized by the Israeli 
taxpayer.This was exemplified by the Israel-bashing documentary 5 Broken 
Cameras which depicts protests against the construction of the security barrier 
in Bil’in without even a hint as to why a security barrier and checkpoints were 
put there in the first place. It demonizes Israel’s administration of the 
disputed territories and portrays the IDF as cruel, heartless tyrants, while 
presenting Palestinians as noble underdogs.It is co-directed by an 
far-left Israeli who supports global boycott of his country and a hostile 
Palestinian who had the chutzpah to demand that the government-subsidized 
documentary not be designated as an Israeli production.Most Israelis 
would consider it the height of insanity for the government to fund and 
effectively bestow legitimacy on an enterprise engaged in a global campaign to 
defame it, challenge its right to self-defense and delegitimize it.The 
other Oscar nomination, The Gatekeepers, raises far more complex issues. Yet it 
is likely to inflict considerably greater damage to Israel’s standing than the 
cruder propaganda production.This documentary, directed by Dror Moreh, 
is based on over 70 hours of interviews with six former heads of the Shin Bet 
(Israel Security Agency) from 1980 to the present, all of whom served the nation 
with distinction. We are unable to ascertain whether the extracts presented 
reflect fair and balanced views of the participants but, to date, none of them 
have protested that they were misrepresented.The film unquestionably 
portrays Israel negatively. It is presented as a colonial implant, and the film 
is replete with harsh denunciations of alleged torture, racial discrimination, 
targeted assassinations, needless violence and oppression in the disputed 
territories. It depicts cruel military commanders “winning the battles but 
losing the war.”Avraham Shalom, one of the former Shin Bet heads, 
initially states that “with terrorism there are no morals” and any measure to 
save innocent lives is warranted. But toward the end of the film he remarks, “We 
became cruel,” and challenges the morality of current policies. There is even an 
obscene analogy made between Israeli and Nazi occupation policies – implying 
that we practice genocide, ethnic cleansing and apartheid.This extremely 
critical presentation raises other important issues. Without in any way 
detracting from their service in defense of the state, we are not obliged to 
treat these six former heads of Shin Bet as sacred cows. One is entitled to ask: 
why did they remain silent in office and refrain from expressing such views 
until their retirement? If they felt so strongly about these issues, why did 
they not resign? There are surely serious questions of propriety involved when 
senior intelligence officers, upon retirement, become bleeding hearts and engage 
in publicly undermining the policies implemented throughout their own 
careers.Particularly so as this was not the first outburst of this 
nature by former Shin Bet heads. In 2003, four former Shin Bet heads publicly 
called for unilateral withdrawal. We are all conscious of the disastrous 
consequences which resulted when Ariel Sharon implemented their recommendations 
and uprooted the Gaza settlements. The territories ceded were immediately 
overtaken by Hamas and employed to launch missiles deeper into 
Israel.However, my principal ire is directed towards Dror Moreh who, 
aware that his production could have major international impact, should at least 
have placed the alleged suffering and victimization of Palestinians in context 
and not dealt with such issues almost in isolation.Moreh provided 
insufficient emphasis on the context of terror which obliges Israel to take 
tough steps to to defend the lives of its citizens. He should have laid greater 
emphasis on the swarms of suicide bombers that targeted and murdered more than 
1,100 innocent Israelis during the second intifada; the genocidal hatred and 
calls for the annihilation of the Jewish state; the brainwashing of Palestinian 
children from kindergarten age upwards into believing that the highest Islamic 
objective is martyrdom by killing as many Jews as possible; the impact on a 
quarter of the Israeli population traumatized by 13,000 missiles launched 
against them between 2005 and 2012, obliging them and their families to spend 
much of their time in underground shelters.He should have mentioned that 
prime ministers Ehud Barak and Ehud Olmert were rebuffed after they had offered 
95% of the territories over the Green Line to the Palestinian Authority and that 
despite Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu imposing a 10-month settlement freeze 
and calling for negotiations without preconditions, the Palestinians rejected 
all these offers.Instead, Moreh used his documentary to repeat the 
mindless mantra “end the occupation.”None of those interviewed suggested 
that terror would end if Israel withdrew from the disputed territories nor did 
they propose any constructive solutions.They are fully cognizant that 
the vast majority of Israelis yearn to separate themselves from the Palestinians 
and have no desire to rule over them. But they realize that to do so 
unilaterally, in the absence of adequate security arrangements, would 
effectively be committing national suicide.The fact is that Moreh 
produced a film with an agenda which, according to former IDF chief of staff and 
deputy prime minister Moshe Ya’alon amounted to a deliberate mission to promote 
a distorted Palestinian narrative demonizing Israel.Moreh himself 
confirmed this when he explicitly expressed the hope that President Barack 
Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel would see 
his film and be encouraged to exert greater pressure on the Israeli 
government.There were protests that the government is employing taxpayer 
funds to subsidize global anti-Israeli propaganda. Culture and Sport Minister 
Limor Livnat expressed reluctance to introduce what she feared could be 
condemned as political censorship. However she called on responsible film 
producers to exercise restraint, knowing the severe damage they can inflict on 
Israel in the war of ideas by pandering to the propaganda of our 
enemies.She also urged them to acknowledge the sensitivities of the 
thousands of Israelis who lost loved ones and suffered from Palestinian 
terror.We all look forward to the day when talented producers emerge 
from our ranks who will create works displaying our extraordinary achievements 
to the world and that, despite being the only nation in the world under 
continuous existential threat, we remain a vibrant democratic state in this 
regional cauldron of Islamic tyrannies.In the meantime, without 
implementing full blown censorship, we should find a means to bring an end to 
the lunacy of employing Israeli taxpayer funds to promote global anti-Israeli 
propaganda designed to defame the nation.The writer’s website can be 
viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com.
He may be contacted at 
ileibler@leibler.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: It is crucial Netanyahu creates a coherent settlement policy</title>
<date>21/12/2013</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu enjoys enormous public support. Most Israelis, including many of those who generally oppose his policies, supported his singlehanded global campaign against a nuclear Iran and the delicate diplomacy he employed in resisting unreasonable demands from US President Barack Obama, while retaining the support of the American people and Congress.Given this level of support, Netanyahu has a rare opportunity of developing a coherent policy strategy – which is currently lacking, particularly with regard to the settlements.




He has a better understanding of the world of diplomacy than any other Israeli politician. But heading a coalition government comprised of conflicting groups ranging from Tzipi Livni’s dovish Tnuah to Naftali Bennett’s hawkish Bayit Yehudi – not to mention the factions within the Likud itself - has made it extraordinarily difficult to develop a coherent strategy.Besides this, Netanyahu faces ceaseless pressure from the Americans and Europeans, and is often intimidated by a rabidly hostile media and unduly influenced by fickle public opinion polls. These combined elements divert him from his course and result in paralysis, zigzagging and the implementation of contradictory policies and statements that benefit our adversaries and confuse our friends.For example: Netanyahu condemns Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority for their intransigence, incitement to hatred, calls for the demise of the Jewish state and criminal behavior. Yet, in order to placate the Americans and the dovish elements of his coalition, he frequently praises Abbas as a “genuine peace partner.”But it is the absence of a coherent policy in relation to settlement construction which has most undermined our global status. On this explosive issue, over which there are serious and legitimate divisions within Israel, the prime minister’s inconsistencies have been a major contributing factor towards alienating our allies.Netanyahu reassures right-wing elements that he will continue authorizing settlement construction. But in response to American pressure, settlement construction has largely been frozen. This erratic approach and repeated contradictory, ill-timed statements have heightened divisiveness within the country and enabled our adversaries to depict us as duplicitous.It has also led to a bizarre blurring of issues. For example, Netanyahu sought to compensate the abominable decision to release Palestinian terrorists with blood on their hands by authorizing more construction, unintentionally conveying the perception that settlement construction was a form of retribution against Palestinian malfeasance and terror.Virtually the entire world is deluded into believing that settlements represent the principal obstacle to peace. In addition to making Israel appear dysfunctional and devious, our contradictory policies enable our enemies to blur the distinction between construction in the major settlement blocs and east Jerusalem, which will always remain part of Israel, and the isolated outposts and settlements located in heavily Arab populated areas within the disputed territories.OUR ENEMIES exploit this confusion to convince much of the world to denounce all construction over the Green Line as illegal, even including the Jewish suburbs of east Jerusalem. They leverage this further by using it as a benchmark to define our future borders as limited to the Green Line with minor adjustments – without reference to defensible boundaries.With the ongoing confrontation with the Americans, domestic party political considerations can no longer justify the government’s burying its head in the sand and avoiding this issue. To avert disaster, Netanyahu must now seize the moment to develop a coherent and consistent government policy.He must strive, initially behind closed doors, to formulate a long-term strategy to be endorsed by leaders of the coalition. They should resolve, as a matter of policy, to commit to intensifying construction in those areas over the Green Line which would unquestionably be retained by Israel. But in isolated settlements primarily located in the disputed territories in Arab-populated areas, a status quo in relation to expansion should be maintained.Adopting such a policy would deeply distress some of the most idealistic and Zionist elements in the country.But nevertheless, even those who unreservedly support all aspects of the settlement enterprise and the legitimate right of Jews to live anywhere in the Land of Israel, must face the harsh realities confronting us and recognize that the time has come for clarity and tough decisions.The government must act rationally and adopt policies promoting the national interest and protecting the security interests of the nation, which is facing a bitterly hostile world.To persist with maximalist positions in this situation could threaten core security and other crucial areas where we are being pressured to make additional concessions.For example, it is insufficient to merely demand that Israel maintain a presence in the Jordan Valley. We must also resist efforts to impose the 1949 armistice lines with minor adjustments. We must insist on adherence to UN Resolution 242, which refers to defensible borders. We must never concede to the division of Jerusalem.The government must accept the daunting responsibility, set aside emotions and act rationally and pragmatically.Our leaders should realize that if they do not succeed in achieving minimum long-term security and recognition of the need for defensible borders, their failure will haunt future Israeli generations.We are under no illusions. The current Palestinian leadership has displayed virtually zero intentions of reaching a settlement. They depict themselves as occupied underdogs in order to obtain more territory from us. Whatever concessions we make, they will readily accept – but their goal remains the dismantling of the Jewish state in stages.Regrettably, the Americans are promoting an Alice in Wonderland scenario based on the false premise that there is a Palestinian peace partner and are pressuring us into further unrealistic concessions that would threaten our security. This is compounded by Secretary of State John Kerry, who not so long ago described Syria’s Bashar Assad a as a “reformer”, now frenetically seeking to compensate for his dismal political failures by engineering a cosmetic peace settlement at Israel’s expense.IF, WHEN negotiations collapse, we become the losers in the blame game, we could face devastating repercussions.The potency of our adversaries should not be underestimated. It is highly unlikely that we will be able to accept the Obama administration proposals. The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement has made massive progress in Europe, and is gaining ground amongst liberals and in academia in the US. Our enemies are determined to replicate the boycott against apartheid in South Africa and bring Israel to its knees.We are dangerously isolated.Netanyahu’s leadership qualities will now be put to the test. He has popular support and no real competitor, and is thus in a position to pressure his coalition leaders, Yisrael Beytenu’s Avigdor Liberman, Yesh Atid’s Yair Lapid, Bennett and Livni – as well as the hawks dominating his own Likud party – to work together in the national interest to craft common denominators for achieving a comprehensive strategic policy. This must be designed to enable us to stand firm and united, to confront the mounting international pressures facing us in the months ahead.If extreme Right or Left ideologues are unwilling to agree to a consensus on these issues, Netanyahu must seriously consider dissolving the government and creating a new coalition committed to broad policy guidelines – which 75 percent of Israelis would enthusiastically support.Should he achieve this goal, he would undoubtedly be recorded in history as a great leader who overcame partisan politics and intrigues, and succeeded in adopting a coherent policy reflecting the national interest.
The writer’s website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com; he may be contacted at ileibler@leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: Fight the delegitimizing lies, don’t embrace them</title>
<date>2/7/2013</date>
<content>
Israel’s Justice Minister and chief Palestinian negotiator, Tzipi Livni, just 
won what I am going to call the “Legitimizing the Delegitimizers Award” with a 
foolish, self-destructive speech in Eilat on Monday.Livni legitimized 
Israel’s delegitimizers by echoing their unreasonable prejudices against the 
Jewish state to try encouraging Israeli peacemaking. Using inaccurate, harmful 
words like “colonialist” and “apartheid,” she echoed the rhetorical sloppiness 
of Ehud Olmert and Ehud Barak who have also used our enemies’ language, warning 
Israel about becoming an “apartheid state” – when in Israel there never has been 
the benighted South African regime’s institutionalized, biological, 
state-sponsored racism.




Appalled by seeing our leaders internalizing our 
adversaries’ language, I will grant this “Legitimizing the Delegitimizers Award” 
annually in these pages to condemn acts of outrageous rhetorical negligence – by 
smart leaders who should know better.Because this award believes that 
words matter – here are Livni’s musings: “Europe is boycotting goods,” she said. 
“True, it starts with settlement [goods], but their problem is with Israel, 
which is seen as a colonialist country. Therefore, it won’t stop at the 
settlements, but [will spread] to all of Israel,” she warned. Then, praising 
young Israelis for protesting her own government’s decision to export natural 
gas, she insisted: “The time has come for the same youth to ask, to what kind of 
state do they want to leave the gas reserves? To a Jewish democratic Israel? Or 
to a binational Arab state? Or to an apartheid state?” Peace is only achievable 
if Israelis negotiate for the right reasons.Israel should not compromise 
in an unrealistic attempt to woo Europeans, many of whose prejudices transcend 
what Israel does or does not do. Israel should compromise as part of a 
reality-based attempt at a just, necessary peace that preserves state security, 
maximizes individual satisfaction regionally, and respects Israeli and 
Palestinian national dignity.“Europe” – which has a hard enough time 
cooperating about anything these days – is not “boycotting goods.” The European 
Commission website calls Israel “an important trading partner for the EU in the 
Mediterranean area, and the EU is the first trading partner for Israel with 
total trade amounting to approximately 29.4 billion euros in 2011” – some 
boycott.Calling Israel “colonialist” is historically inaccurate and 
morally offensive. “Colonialism” means imposing foreigners on lands to which 
they do not belong. Calling Israel’s West Bank presence “colonial,” like using 
the words “settlements” to describe restored Jewish communities in Gush Etzion 
and elsewhere, ignores Jews’ historic, ideological, and legal ties to “Eretz 
Yisrael,” the land of Israel.If the Jews have no valid national claim to 
Hebron, Jews have no valid claim anywhere.Since the British Mandate, 
Jews have had the right to settle anywhere between the Jordan River and the 
Mediterranean, despite the attempt to make the hastily improvised 1949 armistice 
“green line” sacred.Of course, national greatness sometimes comes from 
refusing to assert all your claims, no matter how valid. 2013 is not 1913 or 13 
BCE. Peace will emerge when most Israelis and Palestinians recognize that 
borders shifted, populations moved, so no one has exclusive claims, making 
compromise necessary.Jews should no longer live in places like Hebron, 
where Palestinians outnumber Jews by more than 300 to 1. But those of us who 
acknowledge Jewish rights to Hebron and other parts of Jordan’s West Bank, yet 
would sacrifice them for peace, show far more commitment to peace – along with 
more historical authenticity and self-respect – than those who view Israelis 
there as colonialist brigands who should flee in shame.Apartheid is an 
inflammatory word that should be banned from Middle East discourse. Apartheid 
imposed a biologically-based racist system of distinction between whites, blacks 
and colored.The Palestinian-Israeli clash is national, not racial. 
Apartness is not apartheid, especially because more initiatives for true 
separation and purging of populations come from Palestinians, whereas most 
assume that Israeli Arabs will remain Israeli citizens even if Palestine becomes 
independent.In the 1970s, egged on by Soviet manipulators seeking to woo 
the Third World and “South Africanize” Israel, Palestinian and Arab 
propagandists injected words like “colonialism,” “imperialism,” “racism” and 
“apartheid” into the Arab-Israeli conflict.Manipulators like Columbia 
University Professor Edward Said and the perpetual terrorist Yasser Arafat 
understood that if the conflict remained a local Arab-Jewish clash, the world 
would sympathize with Israel; but if the conflict could be globalized and linked 
to the broader – noble – fight against European crimes like racism, the 
Palestinians might win.How ironic that the Jews, having been kicked out 
of Europe in the 1940s, were now being Europeanized in the 1970s – and that in 
2013, some Europeans exorcise their collective guilt by self-righteously 
accusing Israel of European- style crimes.How pathetic that some Israeli 
leaders – egged on by a worldwide propaganda campaign and inured to the truth by 
Haaretz’s constant use of words like “apartheid” echo and implicitly validate 
this rhetorical assault on Israel’s legitimacy.If Tzipi Livni and others 
want to nurture the Israeli peace consensus, weak arguments about making nice 
with Europe will fail. We need peace for our sake.Those on the Left must 
be challenged to fight the delegitimizing lies about Israel to detoxify the 
environment and build an atmosphere conducive to peace.Those on the 
Right must be challenged to acknowledge the realities of Palestinian demography 
and preserve Israeli democracy by finding new arrangements.Smart leaders 
who build consensus by crossing political wires will win; scared politicians who 
want to be liked in Europe or elsewhere will lose.The “Legitimizing the 
Delegitimizers Award” comes with my free offer of bread crumbs, symbolizing the 
weak, cowardly, European Jews who used to beg for scraps in currying their 
oppressors’ favor. I look forward to a year when there will be no politician 
careless enough to win this booby prize.The author is professor of 
history at McGill University and a Shalom Hartman Engaging Israel Research 
Fellow in Jerusalem. He is the author, most recently, of Moynihan’s Moment: 
America’s Fight Against Zionism as Racism, just published by Oxford University 
Press.
Watch the new Moynihan’s Moment video! www.giltroy.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: The ‘Troycott’ Jew-jitsu</title>
<date>24/12/2013</date>
<content>
Hysterical headlines about academic boycotts and Hillel free speech fights 
suggest that Americans and American Jews are abandoning Israel due to its 
supposedly bad behavior. Yet polls show that Americans and American Jews still 
support Israel enthusiastically, bound by common values and shared 
interests.Marginal shrieks should not be mistaken for mainstream calls. 
Moreover, the fanatic academic boycotters and those who want Jewish 
organizations to host speakers rejecting Israel’s right to exist should 
encounter a classic “Jew-jitsu” move: let’s repudiate the anti-intellectual 
anti-Israel boycott by mobilizing people to learn about Zionism.




This 
academic boycott should prompt mass study about Israel and Zionism. We could 
call that constructive response a “Troycott” – and “like” it on the Troycott 
Facebook page. Israel critics are trying to make the American Studies 
Association’s bigoted boycott of Israeli academic institutions and the 
Swarthmore Hillel rebellion against Hillel International’s refusal to host 
anti-Israel groups sound popular, not marginal. And predictably, they 
blame Israel for deserving such contempt and generating such 
controversy.But Daniel Patrick Moynihan long ago taught us to blame the 
totalitarian accusers not the democratic accused. Alas, Moynihan’s prophecy from 
the 1970s risks coming true. As lies charging racism, apartheid and colonialism 
accumulated, he said, “Whether Israel was responsible, Israel surely would be 
blamed....Israel would be regretted.”Despite its sweeping, 
impressive-sounding name, “American Studies” is a small, ideologically- charged 
academic sub-discipline. Merely 5,000 scholars belong to the ASA – only 827 
voted to boycott. With Foucault the deconstructionist their god, Che Guevara the 
Marxist guerrilla their patron saint and Edward Said, the Palestinian 
propagandist their muse, the ASA ’s tweedy totalitarians demonize America and 
American allies, especially Israel, while overlooking to any Third World sins. 
These doctrinaire scholars don’t realize that refusing to criticize people of 
color is itself condescending – and racist.Drinking the anti-Zionist 
Koolaid they caricature the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as racial not national, 
and colonial not local. This one-sided blame game further insults the 
Palestinians, depriving them of agency (academese for responsibility).As 
The New Republic’s Leon Wieseletier wrote, so far, Palestinians’ intransigence 
reveals that “the imperfection of the solution disturbs them more than the 
imperfection of the problem.”Meanwhile, with only 275 Jews at 
Swarthmore, that campus is marginal, too. As Swarthmore Hillel demands an “Open 
Hillel” to host speakers who reject Israel’s right to exist, I am waiting for 
the “open” Swarthmore Women’s Resource Center to host male chauvinists and for 
the “open” Swarthmore Queer Union to host gay marriage opponents.Still, 
increasingly, it is becoming intellectually respectable to question Israel’s 
very existence and treat Israel as a country uniquely born in original 
sin. Ari Shavit’s complex book, My Promised Land, is being used 
simplistically to open the 1948 file, to treat Israel’s founding as a human 
rights “nakba,” catastrophe. Neither his odes to Israel’s “vitality” and 
Zionism’s “remarkable success,” nor his warnings that “secular young Jews” 
outside Israel “are disappearing into the non-Jewish space” have commanded elite 
attention. Instead, his heavy-handed, moralistic, determinist attacks on Zionism 
have gotten him traction – and excerpting in The New Yorker.In 1976, 
Israel’s UN ambassador Chaim Herzog said: “The real core of the conflict is the 
denial by the Arabs of Israel’s sovereignty and Israel’s right to exist.” Now, 
hard leftists are trying to mainstream that denial – without realizing that 
delegitimizing and ostracizing Israel undermines peace by radicalizing Israelis 
and Palestinians.I have declared my own boycott of the ASA . I will not 
serve on any panels with ASA members or read any members’ manuscripts until the 
boycott ends. Yet I want to engage students. In fact, the Swarthmore controversy 
inspired this counter- proposal. Too frequently on campus – and beyond – we 
discuss Israel Crossfire-style, aping media sensationalism, through 
confrontational panels, controversial speakers, conflict-driven 
discourse.Yet, Jews traditionally studied text together – sometimes 
proclaiming “taiku” – a respectful impasse. Zionists have long preferred 
tree-planting to firefighting. And good teachers follow John Dewey, the great 
20th-century educator, who taught that “democracy begins in 
conversation.”In that spirit, let’s repudiate the boycotters by 
encouraging conversations about Zionism, in person and on the Internet. Let’s 
see, using social media, if at least 828 learners will outnumber the 827 ASA 
“yes” votes with 828 Facebook “likes.”Let’s “like” and learn together 
about Zionism, analyzing what Zionists mean when calling Jews a nation, not just 
a religious community; exploring Israel’s traditional role as the Jews’ 
ancestral homeland; weighing the distinctions between Israel as an imperfect 
democracy – like all democracies – and Zionism as the aspirational movement to 
found and perfect the Jewish State. Let’s see what Zionism can mean to us in the 
modern world.Once we better understand the rationale for a Jewish state, 
by all means let’s learn about the Palestinian problem, Jewish-democratic 
dilemmas, why Jerusalem distributes free Christmas trees, how Israel innovates, 
along with all the other blessings and curses resulting from translating Zionist 
ideas into Israeli realities.So let’s encourage Zionist learning, 
Zionist salons, facilitating open, substantive, critical, meaningful 
conversations. Let’s read Theodor Herzl, Israel’s Declaration of Independence, 
great modern Zionist manifestos, Barack Obama’s understanding of Zionism and 
Ruth Gavison’s explanation for how a state can be both Jewish and democratic, 
explaining that if Jews are a people then a Jewish state is not a theocracy. All 
those texts are posted on the Troycott page.Let’s stop being defensive. 
Let’s seize this moment to take back the night from the campus ideologues and 
totalitarians. Let’s restore a thoughtful, respectful dialogue about what 
Zionism – and Israel – was, is, and can be.The author is professor of 
history at McGill University and the author of eight books on American history, 
including Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight Against Zionism as Racism, recently 
published by Oxford University Press. His next book will be on Bill Clinton and 
the 1990s.
Watch the new Moynihan’s Moment video!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: Yes, Minister Lapid, Israel can be both Jewish and democratic</title>
<date>5/11/2013</date>
<content>
Something about Israel prompts even sophisticated people to make simplistic 
statements. Last week’s most sophisticated simpleton was Finance Minister Yair 
Lapid.While pleading eloquently for Arab equality at the “Prime 
Minister’s Conference on Arabs in the economy” at Tel Aviv University last 
Tuesday, Lapid claimed a Jewish democratic state posed an impossible 
contradiction.




As a columnist, Lapid’s job was to provoke controversy, 
occasionally. As a statesman, Lapid should be less inflammatory and more 
accurate, especially regarding his country’s character and democracy’s 
meaning.Most of Lapid’s speech was courageous and constructive. True, 
Israelis frequently rely on tokenism, pretending “that if there’s a successful 
Arab soccer player, then we don’t have a problem.” Lapid’s admirable solutions 
include implementing local policing – which would protect all citizens better – 
integrating women into the labor force, national service for all, and 
“education, education, education.”He spoke movingly about Jews’ “moral 
obligation” given our unhappy past as the oft-oppressed people “to always 
remember what it is to be a minority... to feel alien in the land you were born 
in.”Nevertheless, Lapid stumbled when claiming Israel cannot be 
democratic and Jewish because “significant parts” of the democratic idea “stand 
in contradiction to Judaism.”Addressing the Arab participants, he 
reasoned: “The meaning of democracy is equality before the law. How can Israel 
say that everyone is equal before that law – that you’re equal before the law – 
when the law defined Judaism as the cultural, national and legislative basis for 
the state?” Lapid made three fundamental mistakes. First, he offered a 
reductionist, one-dimensional definition of a complicated phenomenon. Democracy 
involves majority rule not just equality and minority rights. Even American 
democracy is rife with contradictions.In any democracy, a minority can 
call any majority expression anti-democratic while a majority can override any 
minority claim. Healthy democracies try to balance majority rule with minority 
rights, popular rule with equal protection for all.Second, Lapid has 
been listening to too many reactionary rabbis. “Judaism” is not the unchanging 
monolith countering democracy he described. Traditionally, rabbis described 
Judaism as an “etz chaim,” a Tree of Life but also a living tree, growing 
imperceptibility yet steadily.Thus, Judaism can welcome democracy today 
more than it did 3,000 years ago. In fact, many theorists root democracy in 
Judaism and the Bible.So, again, we are talking creative tension, not 
contradiction.Say a finance minister, using his legitimate democratic 
power, imposed a harsh Value Added Tax on basic staples like vegetables. In a 
healthy Jewish democracy, critics could invoke Jewish values promoting 
sensitivity to the poor to challenge said minister to seek less Grinchlike 
approaches in balancing the budget.Finally, Zionist history, including 
Israel’s Declaration of Independence, proves that “Judaism” is not the basis for 
the state – “Jewishness” is. In Israel’s governing DNA the peoplehood aspect of 
Jewish identity trumps the religious aspect.If Judaism were just a 
religion, then a Jewish state could not be democratic; it would be a theocracy. 
Because the Jews are a people with a particular religion, Jews can establish a 
Jewish democratic state, just like the British, the French and others have 
established states expressing their particular national identity which includes 
a religious heritage, while following democratic processes.Examine the 
cross-laden Crown Jewels in the Tower of London. Salute the flags of Greece, 
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom – with their 
crosses.Even visit the United States and Canada on Christmas Day. All 
these democracies have different degrees of Christian influence woven into their 
governing and social fabric.So, yes, Minister Lapid, Israel should treat 
its Arabs equitably.But that can happen in a Jewish democratic state, 
which, like all pluralistic democracies, must navigate in a complex world and 
calibrate different dimensions of that miraculous messy mechanism called 
democracy.Absolutist statements misreading democracy, Judaism, and 
implicitly Zionism, from a government minister, make this noble work of 
bridge-building harder.Lapid’s caricature is particularly problematic 
because he launched it into an atmosphere already polluted by the 
delegitimization of Israel.His rhetoric reflects that noxious nexus 
wherein Zionist perfectionism, Jewish self-criticism and Israeli bluntness meet 
global antagonism, creating a destructive multiplier effect.The 
“Israel’s-an-oppressive-apartheid-state” folks will quote his inflammatory 
remarks to “prove” Israel’s perfidy.Their contempt makes most Israelis 
defensive. Tragically, precisely where they need to be expansive, in dealing 
with Israeli Arabs – and the Palestinians – Israeli Jews are 
pilloried.Especially given the Jewish history Lapid knows so well, the 
attacks send most Israelis into a rigid clinch.That is why Lapid also 
erred in disputing Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s demand that Palestinians 
recognize Israel as a Jewish state. The Palestinians have spearheaded this 
delegitimization campaign for decades, inflaming tensions. There will not be 
peace until both peoples respect each other’s legitimate national 
rights.Next time, rather than making sweeping simplifications that spur 
stalemates, Lapid should toast Israel’s kooky contradictions that reflect the 
kind of creative tension which could help Israel’s Arabs.In Israel, 
supposedly “anti-democratic” ultra-Orthodox Jerusalemites vote in greater 
numbers than the supposedly democratic “Zionist sector.” In Israel, the head of 
the supposedly democratic Labor Party, Shelly Yacimovich, dodges her rival Isaac 
Herzog’s debate challenge – and resists his demand that she open enough polling 
places in development towns, kibbutzim, moshavim and Arab villages, even if they 
oppose her.And, in Israel, both the non-populist Supreme Court and 
popularly elected Israeli governments have advanced Arab rights; not enough yet, 
but much more than there was half a century ago.In short, Israel, like 
all democracies, is a constructive hypocrite – at least articulating ideals it 
should fulfill.Israel, like all democracies, is in formation. Israel, 
like all democracies, is awash in tumultuous tensions, which may look like 
impossible contradictions to simpletons or enemies, but often trigger creative 
and inspiring leaps forward.The author is professor of history at McGill 
University and the author, most recently, of Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight 
Against Zionism as Racism, published by Oxford University Press.
Watch 
the new Moynihan’s Moment video!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Church of Scotland’s chutzpah debases interfaith trust</title>
<date>1/7/2013</date>
<content>
Helen Keller, one of Alexander Graham Bell’s deaf students, once said that his 
goal was to penetrate the “inhuman silence which separates and estranges.” By 
declaring that the Jewish people has no biblical claim to the land of Israel, 
the Church of Scotland (COS) has reversed the work of the great Scottish 
inventor of the telephone.The Inheritance of Abraham? A Report on the 
‘Promised Land,’ wraps an extremist anti-Israel agenda in toxic medieval 
theological anti-Semitism. It besmirches ancient Judaic teachings and seeks to 
demonize and delegitimize the Jewish state. Indeed, it has succeeded in 
separating and estranging two faith communities.




Here are some of the 
reasons why Jews are so furious: The report questions the notion that the Bible 
“supports an essentially Jewish state of Israel.” “Possession of any land is 
clearly conditional,” Jews are lectured. “The question that arises is this: 
Would the Jewish people today have a fairer claim to the land if they dealt 
justly with the Palestinians?” Biblical promises about the land of Israel were 
never intended to be taken literally, or as applying to a defined geographical 
territory, the report argues. Instead, it declares: “They are a way of speaking 
about how to live under God so that justice and peace reign, the weak and poor 
are protected.... This ‘promised land’ can be found – or built – 
anywhere.”“The desire of many in the state of Israel to acquire the land 
of Palestine for the Jewish people is wrong. The fact that the land is currently 
being taken by settlement expansion, the separation barrier, house clearance, 
theft and force makes it doubly wrong to seek biblical sanction for 
this.”“There is guilt among Western Christianity about centuries of 
anti-Semitism that led to discrimination against the Jews, culminating in the 
total evil of the Holocaust.”The implication? That Israeli “crimes” 
cancel out earlier Christian sins.Could it be that COS’ real problem is 
with the fact that there is today an empowered Jewish state? COS alleges that 
Israel’s lack of a constitution is the source of its “limiting civil liberties.” 
But civil liberties are zealously protected and expanded by Israel’s very 
activist Supreme Court based on its enforceable Basic 
Laws.Meanwhile,minorities in Syria and Egypt find no protection under 
the law—literally being slaughtered in Syria and under siege in 
Egypt.And by the way, neither Scotland nor the UK has a 
constitution.On May 14, 1948, Israel became an independent nation. In 
response, five Arab armies sought to erase the UN vote recognizing the Jewish 
state. One percent of the entire Jewish population, among them Holocaust 
survivors, perished in that defensive war for survival. COS describes that 
struggle as “violence used to deprive 750,000 Palestinian people from their 
homes.”COS goes on to propagate the evil canard that Israel – which 
extends to its Arab citizens voting rights, seats in the Knesset and on the 
Supreme Court – is an “apartheid” state.Its understanding of Exodus 
19:3-6, “You shall be to me a kingdom of priests, my holy nation,” as creating 
an “interpretation of the covenant,” that constitutes the “final difficulty... 
Jewish ‘exceptionalism’” is, simply put, theological anti-Semitism.Which 
theological wizard guided COS Elders in their interpretation of the Bible? First 
we thought of Stephen Hawking, who recently canceled a trip to Israel to 
celebrate Shimon Peres’ 90th birthday to satisfy Palestinian protests. Then we 
remembered: Hawking is an atheist, and hardly a likely instructor in Biblical 
exegesis.COS must have gotten its inspiration from a fellow Christian, 
like Rev. Dr. Naim Ateek, founder of the Sabeel Liberation Theology Center. 
Ateek, who is cited approvingly in the document, said in an April 2001 homily, 
“In this season of Lent, it seems to many of us that Jesus is on the cross again 
with thousands of crucified Palestinians around him.... The Israeli government 
crucifixion system is operating daily.”Ateek, and the 2009 Kairos 
Palestine Document (KPD) broke the taboo against turning biblical language into 
politics, which is a tested recipe for producing extremism and violence. KPD 
denies Jewish connection to the Holy Land. It denies a covenant with the Jewish 
people. It serves as a stealth delivery system for a return to the medieval 
replacement theology, wherein Jews are replaced by Christians as the new 
Jews.While it is true that many Christians reject the notion of a land 
covenant based on their understanding of passages in the Christian Bible, they 
do not deign to tell Jews how to read their Scripture. Sadly, the decades of 
Protestant- Jewish dialogue have taught the COS only one word from the Jewish 
lexicon: chutzpah.It was Christians who sought interfaith dialogue in 
the aftermath of World War II, when they realized Christendom’s contribution to 
the anti-Semitism that powered the Holocaust. Decades of fruitful dialogue were 
based on principles of mutual respect and genuine understanding of the core 
beliefs and self-definition of the other. COS and its ilk, however, have 
understood nothing about the centrality of Israel in Jewish life, or about the 
3,500-year connection of the People of the Book to its Torah.COS’s 
brazen plunging of a dagger into interfaith understanding does not improve the 
lot of a single Palestinian.Other denominations, including COS’s US 
sister, Presbyterian Church (USA), are achieving that through economic 
investment in the region.In response to condemnation from many circles, 
COS has reportedly said that it recognizes Israel’s right to exist.
That 
does nothing to change the substance of the report, and further substantiates 
that they disrespect Jewish history and beliefs. What chutzpah.Rabbi 
Abraham Cooper is associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Rabbi Yitzchok 
Adlerstein is the director of Interfaith Relations for the Simon Wiesenthal 
Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Moral relativism and jihad</title>
<date>11/4/2013</date>
<content>
Two events happened on Wednesday which should send a shiver down the spine of 
everyone concerned about the future of the American Jewish community. But to 
understand their importance it is important to consider the context in which 
they occurred.On January 13, The New York Times reported on a series of 
virulently anti-Jewish comments Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi made in 
speeches given in 2010. Among other things, Morsi said, “We must never forget, 
brothers, to nurse our children and our grandchildren on hatred for them: for 
Zionists, for Jews.” He said that Egyptian children “must feed on hatred; hatred 
must continue. The hatred must go on for God and as a form of worshiping 
him.”




In another speech, he called Jews “bloodsuckers,” and “the 
descendants of apes and pigs.”Two weeks after the Times ran the story, 
the Obama administration sent four F-16 fighter jets to Egypt as part of a 
military aid package announced in December 2012 entailing the provision of 20 
F-16s and 200 M1-A1 Abrams tanks.The Anti-Defamation League, AIPAC, the 
Jewish Council for Public Affairs and other prominent American Jewish groups did 
not oppose the weapons transfer.With the American Jewish leadership 
silent on the issue, Israel found its national security championed by Sen. Rand 
Paul. He attached an amendment to a budget bill that would bar the US from 
transferring the advanced weapons platforms to Egypt.Paul explained, 
“Egypt is currently governed by a religious zealot... who said recently that 
Jews were bloodsuckers and descendants of apes and pigs. This doesn’t sound like 
the kind of stable personality we [sh]ould be sending our most sophisticated 
weapons to.”Paul’s amendment was overwhelmingly defeated, due in large 
part to the silence of the American Jewish leadership.The Times noted 
that Morsi’s castigation of Jews as “apes and pigs” was “a slur for Jews that is 
familiar across the Muslim world.”Significantly the Times failed to note 
that the reason it is familiar is because it comes from both the Koran and the 
hadith. The scripturally based denigration of Jews as apes and pigs is legion 
among leading clerics of both Sunni and Shi’ite Islam.It was not a 
coincidence that the Times failed to mention why Morsi’s castigation of Jews as 
apes and pigs was so familiar to Muslim audiences.The Islamic sources of 
Muslim Brotherhood Jew hatred, and indeed, hatred of Jews by Islamic leaders 
from both the Sunni and Shi’ite worlds, is largely overlooked by the liberal 
ideological camp. And the overwhelming majority of the American Jewish 
leadership is associated with the liberal ideological camp.If the Times 
acknowledged that the Jew hatred espoused by Morsi and his colleagues in the 
Muslim Brotherhood, as well as by their Shi’ite colleagues in the Iranian regime 
and Hezbollah is based on the Koran, they would have to acknowledge that Islamic 
Jew hatred and other bigotry is not necessarily antithetical to mainstream 
Islamic teaching. And that is something that the Times, like its fellow liberal 
institutions, is not capable of acknowledging.They are incapable of 
acknowledging this possibility because considering it would implicitly require a 
critical study of jihadist doctrine. And a critical study of jihadist doctrine 
would show that the doctrine of jihad, or Islamic holy war, subscribed to by the 
Muslim Brotherhood and its affiliates, as well as by the Iranian regime and 
Hezbollah and their affiliates, is widely supported, violent, bigoted, evil and 
dangerous to the free world.And that isn’t even the biggest problem with 
studying the doctrine of jihad. The biggest problem is that a critical study of 
the doctrine of jihad would force liberal institutions like the New York Times 
and the institutional leadership of the American Jewish community alike to 
abandon the reigning dogma of the liberal ideological camp – moral 
relativism.Moral relativism is based on a refusal to call evil evil and 
a concomitant willingness to denigrate truth if truth requires you to notice 
evil.Since pointing out the reality of the danger the jihadist doctrines 
propagated by the likes of the Muslim Brotherhood involves the implicit demand 
that people make distinctions between good and evil and side with good against 
evil, moral relativists – that is most liberals – cannot contend with 
jihad.This is why the American Jewish leadership refused to join Rand 
Paul and his conservative Republican colleagues in the Senate and demand an 
immediate cessation of US military aid to the Muslim Brotherhood-controlled 
Egyptian military even after the evidence of the Brotherhood’s genocidal Jew 
hatred was splashed across the front page of the Times.It is the 
dominance of moral relativism in liberal institutions like the New York Times 
that make even the most apologetic expose of the Muslim Brotherhood a major 
event. And it is the dominance of liberal orthodoxies in the mainstream Jewish 
community that makes it all but impossible for Jewish leaders to speak up 
against the Muslim Brotherhood, despite the manifest danger its genocidal hatred 
of Jews poses not only for Israel, but for Jews everywhere.It is bad 
enough that liberal Jewish leaders won’t speak out against the Koranic-inspired 
evil that characterizes the ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood. What is worse is 
what their own morally relative blindness causes them to do.On 
Wednesday, we saw two distressing examples of the consequences of this 
self-imposed embrace of ideological fantasies.First, on Wednesday, 
Yeshiva University’s Cardozo Law School’s Journal of Conflict Resolution gave 
its annual International Advocate of Peace Award to former president Jimmy 
Carter.Carter’s long record of anti-Israel, and indeed anti-Semitic, 
actions and behavior made the decision to bestow him with the honor an affront 
not only to the cause of peace, but to the cause of Jewish legal rights. As an 
advocate of Hamas and a man who castigates Israel as an illegal “apartheid” 
state, Carter has a long record of outspoken opposition to both Jewish human 
rights and to viable peace between Israel and its neighbors.For 
outsiders, the Orthodox Jewish university’s law school’s law journal’s decision 
to honor Carter was shocking, but as it works out, the Cardozo Journal of 
Conflict Resolution confers its prize almost exclusively on people active in 
pressuring Israel to make concessions to Palestinian terrorists who reject 
Israel’s right to exist. Past winners include Dennis Ross, Bill Clinton, Richard 
Holbrooke, George Mitchell, John Wallach and Seeds of Peace and, perhaps most 
astoundingly, the outspoken Jew hater Archbishop Desmond Tutu.In other 
words, Carter wasn’t chosen for the honor despite his anti-Israel record. He was 
selected because of his anti-Israel record.In a similar fashion, New 
York’s 92nd Street Y invited virulent Israel hater Roger Waters to perform a 
concert on April 30. Given Waters’s outspoken opposition to Israel, his call for 
total economic and cultural warfare against the Jewish state and his leading 
role in the BDS movement, it is not possible that the 92nd Street Y was unaware 
of his radical, anti-Semitic sentiments.And so, the only reasonable 
explanation for his invitation to perform at the Jewish institution is that the 
Y wanted to invite this openly anti- Semitic musician to perform. A public 
outcry by pro-Israel activists forced the Y to cancel his 
performance.The day that Carter was embraced by the Orthodox Jewish 
establishment, Jewish author and activist Pamela Geller was silenced. Geller is 
the nightmare of the liberal Jewish establishment.She is a beautiful and 
articulate speaker and writer who has risen to prominence in the US for her 
steadfast commitment to exposing the deadly pathologies of Jew hatred, misogyny 
and other prejudices inherent to jihadist ideology.Geller’s website, 
Atlas Shrugs, is a clearinghouse for information on Islamic persecution of 
women, Christians and apostates and hatred of Jews. She also showcases the 
documented ties between mainstream American Islamic groups and the Muslim 
Brotherhood.An indefatigable defender of Israel, Geller recently ran a 
highly controversial, and successful ad campaign in the New York and San 
Francisco public transportation systems in response to an anti-Israel ad 
campaign. Her billboards read, “In any war between the civilized man and the 
savage, support the civilized man. Support Israel, Defeat Jihad.”Geller 
was scheduled to speak on April 13 at the Great Neck Synagogue in Great Neck, 
New York. The topic of her talk was “The Imposition of Shari’a in 
America.”Last month, after learning of her talk, a consortium of Islamic 
and leftist activists in Nassau County led by Habeed Ahmed from the Islamic 
Center of Long Island launched a pressure campaign to coerce the synagogue into 
cancelling her speech. Members of the group telephoned the synagogue and 
castigated Geller as a bigot, and likened her to the Nazis in the 
1930s.In short order liberal rabbis Michael White and Jerome Davidson 
took over the opposition to Geller and launched a media campaign attacking her 
as a bigot and demanding that the Great Neck Synagogue cancel her 
speech.Rejecting the distinction Geller makes between jihadists and 
their victims – Muslim and non- Muslim alike, White and Davidson claimed that 
she opposes all Muslims and so her speech must be canceled. By hosting her, they 
intoned, the Great Neck Synagogue would be guilty of propagating hate speech. 
Liberal Christian and Jewish activists and their Muslim associates threatened to 
protest the speech.On Wednesday the synagogue caved in to their massive 
pressure. Citing “security concerns” the synagogue board released a statement 
saying that while “these important issues must be discussed, the synagogue is 
unable to bear the burden” of the pressure campaign surrounding Geller’s planned 
speech. Her event was canceled.Surveys of the American Jewish community 
taken in recent years by the American Jewish Committee demonstrate that the vast 
majority of American Jews are deeply supportive of Israel, and their views tend 
toward the Right side of the political spectrum in issues related to Israel, the 
Palestinians and the wider Islamic conflict with the Jewish state.On the 
other hand, the AJC’s surveys show that for the vast majority of American Jews, 
Israel is not a voting issue. This state of affairs was reflected by a comment 
that Yeshiva University student Ben Winter made to the media regarding the 
absence of student protest against Carter on Wednesday. In Winter’s words, 
“While many students at YU feel strongly about their Zionism, few have the 
courage to publicly express their opinions.”The danger exposed by the 
cancellation of Geller’s speech and the conferral of honors on the likes of 
Carter and Waters by mainstream Jewish institutions is daunting. If moral 
relativism remains the dominant dogma of the American Jewish establishment, the 
already weakly defended, but still strongly rooted, support for Israel among the 
rank and file of the American Jewish community will 
dissipate.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: NGOs vs those who serve</title>
<date>9/5/2013</date>
<content>
In 2010, Cpl. Eleanor Joseph became the first female Arab combat soldier in the 
IDF.Joseph, a Christian Arab told Ma’ariv that her good luck charm is a 
drawing of the Star of David with the caption: “I have no other land, even when 
my ground is burning.” Her commander drew it for her.




Joseph explained, 
“It is a phrase that strengthens me. Every time I experience hardship, I read 
it. Because I was born here. The people I love live here: My parents, my 
friends. This is a Jewish state? Yes, it is. But it’s also my country. I can’t 
imagine living in any other place. I think every person should serve in the 
army. You live here? You make your home here? Then go defend your country. What 
does it matter that I’m an Arab?” Joseph’s story represents an incipient trend 
of integration among Israel’s Arab community.Among other things, this is 
manifest in the consistently rising number of Israeli Arab students who elect to 
study in Hebrew-language schools and in the rising number of Israeli Arabs who 
elect to serve in national service, the civilian equivalent of military 
service.A poll of Arab youth carried out in late 2007 made clear how 
widespread this integrationist impulse has become. Seventy-five percent of Arab 
youth aged 16 to 22 supported voluntary national service.And yet, 
despite these sentiments and developments, Arab Israelis who seek to integrate 
into Israeli society and reject the separatist messages of their political 
leaders are forced to contend with extraordinary social pressures and even 
coercion to prevent them from acting in accordance with their wishes.A 
study completed this week by Im Tirtzu exposes the vast array of NGOs generously 
funded by the supposedly pro-Israel New Israel Fund as well as by foreign 
governments which are running a campaign to oppose Cpl. Joseph and her comrades 
– Arabs and Jews alike. Since 1999, these groups have been conducting a campaign 
to undermine Arab integration into Israeli society specifically and to 
demoralize and reduce the social standing of those who serve in the IDF, 
national service and IDF reserves generally. The campaign is being carried out 
on a dual track of discouraging Israeli Arabs from serving in the IDF or 
national service, and of opposing government benefits to IDF veterans, 
reservists and those who undertook national service by claiming that these 
benefits unjustly discriminate against Israeli Arabs.Im Tirtzu’s report 
argues that the dual nature of the campaign, underwritten by the same funders, 
shows that the goal “is to prolong irredentism or non-integration of the Arab 
sector in order to encourage it to act as a sector demanding national 
recognition and advance the aim of transforming the State of Israel from a 
Jewish, democratic state into a bi-national state.”As the report notes, 
it is common practice in many countries to give government benefits and 
preferential treatment to military veterans and reservists. The US government 
provides massive assistance to veterans in employment, education, housing and 
other areas. The purpose of these benefits is to raise general motivation to 
serve and to reward those who have because the American people believe that 
their personal service advances the interests of American society as a 
whole.To substantiate its claims against these NIF- and foreign 
government-financed Israeli NGOs, Im Tirtzu’s organized its report as a timeline 
of efforts undertaken by various NGOs to advance the goals of Arab separatism 
and reducing the morale and social status of IDF and national service veterans 
and reservists across the board.Although the Hebrew-language report is 
worth reading in its entirety, a few examples will suffice to show the scope of 
these efforts.In 1999, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel 
published a report which claimed it was discriminatory for workplaces to make 
military service a qualification for employment. The report went so far as to 
insinuate that Israel could be likened to South Africa’s apartheid regime due to 
workplace preference for veterans.That report was followed by a series 
of petitions to the High Court beginning in 2002 submitted by ACRI, Adalah and 
other groups to overturn laws and government decisions that give preferential 
treatment to IDF veterans and those who served in national service. The 
petitions have not led to outright court victories. But in a number of cases, 
the lawsuits were dropped after the government canceled the benefits under 
challenge.These groups have opposed every sort of benefit, including 
tuition discounts for students, differential reductions on government child 
allotments for those who served in the military and national service and those 
who did not, preferential treatment in state land tenders and grants and other 
housing benefits.Some of these court cases directly targeted benefits to 
Arab IDF veterans. For instance in 2005, Adalah petitioned the court against the 
Israel Lands Authority for making military service a requirement for receiving 
ILA land grants in Beduin villages. And in 2009, Adalah petitioned the court to 
revoke preferential treatment to Cirassian veterans in an ILA tender for 
homesteads in Kfar Kama, a Cirassian village in the Galilee.ACRI 
receives nearly a million dollars every year from the NIF, and receives funding 
as well from the EU, the UK, Sweden, Norway, Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, the 
Ford Foundation and Christian Aid.Adalah similarly receives massive 
funding from the NIF, the EU, Switzerland and Scandinavian governments through 
their joint foreign aid organs. It also receives funding from George Soros’s 
Open Society Institute.Some of the organizations involved are both 
funders and participants. For instance, the Abraham Fund has participated in 
High Court petitions against benefits to those who have served.And it is 
also a donor to Mossawa, an Israeli Arab group involved in the campaign. Mossawa 
was co-founded by NIF’s Shatil organization.According Im Tirtzu’s 
report, active NGO campaigning against Israeli Arab national service and 
military service began in 2007. That year Baladna, which receives funding from 
the NIF, spearheaded what has become a continuous campaign to discourage Israeli 
Arabs from participating in national service. Baladna claims that national 
service is just military service in disguise.In its words, “National 
service is a direct arm of the Israeli Occupation Army and of security 
frameworks that act and always have acted against the Arab population and the 
Palestinian nation generally. And so, all attempts to present the notion of 
civilian service as service for society are founded in a deliberate distortion 
directed at society generally and against the Arab sector in 
particular.”Following this line of reasoning, in 2010 Omar Nasser, the 
head of the Araba Local Council, kicked two Arab women serving in national 
service out of the local school. Defending his actions Nasser said, “I object in 
principle to the national service project because I view it as a means of paving 
the way for male and female volunteers to serve in the military in the future, 
and I strenuously object to that.”As the Im Tirtzu report indicates, the 
NGO-led campaign against Israeli Arab military and national service has 
contributed to a situation in which Israeli Arabs who support such service are 
subjected to physical abuse, social ostracism, humiliation and 
harassment.In October 2012, the Forum for Military Service in the 
Christian Sector held a conference in Upper Nazareth whose purpose was to 
encourage Christians to serve in the IDF and national service. Three hundred 
people participated in the conference. One of the heads of Mosawa wrote a widely 
distributed article accusing the Christian leadership of collaborating with the 
IDF. She suggested blacklisting the communal leaders involved.When word 
of the conference got out, one priest who participated was banned from the 
Church of the Annunciation. Another priest had his tires slashed and a 
blood-stained rag placed at his doorstep.The children who participated 
in the conference were singled out for abuse. Their photos were disseminated on 
Facebook and in the Arab media. They were humiliated by their teachers and 
classmates.Soldiers like Eleanor Joseph feel compelled to take off their 
uniforms before they return home, because when they have worn them home, they 
have faced harassment. One female IDF soldier reportedly was severely beaten by 
her neighbors.The general campaign against benefits for IDF veterans and 
those who served in national service also involves a similar campaign to 
demoralize high school students and encourage them not to serve. For instance, 
in 2008, Social TV, which is supported by the NIF and the US government, 
broadcast a propaganda film targeting Jewish Israeli youth. Its aim was to 
discourage them from serving in the IDF.In 2009, 22 self-proclaimed 
feminist organizations, many of which are financed by the NIF, launched a 
campaign to support seven members of New Profile who are under police 
investigation for launching websites instructing young people how to dodge the 
draft – a felony offense.But the main thrust of the anti-military 
campaign has been to prevent and undermine Knesset and government action to 
provide benefits for those who serve – Jewish and non-Jewish alike. According to 
Im Tirtzu, the campaign has intimidated Justice Ministry officials into 
obstructing bills still before committee hearings.For instance, in May 
2012, at a Knesset Economics Committee hearing on a bill to provide housing 
benefits for IDF reservists, MK Miri Regev said the bill was being held up 
because the attorney-general feared legal challenges in the High 
Court.This week, the Ministerial Committee for Legislation approved a 
bill that would allow IDF soldiers to sue for libel those who wrongly accuse 
them of having committed war crimes during their military service. Justice 
Minister Tzipi Livni opposed the bill. Her opposition indicates that the bill 
may face a similar fate as the Knesset’s attempt to provide benefits to 
reservists.Military and national service are vital national 
institutions. Integration of the Israeli Arab community is a vital national 
interest. It is obscene that a handful of well-funded radicals are able to 
undermine them both – while paralyzing our representative 
institutions.Im Tirtzu’s report concludes with a list of recommendations 
the Knesset and government ministries should take to help those who serve the 
country, and to protect Israeli Arabs who serve and those who support them. 
While they are all correct, and should be followed, they do not go far enough. 
The time has come for the government and the Knesset to rein in the twin forces 
– the NGO sector and the legal fraternity – which in the name of “democracy” 
undermine our democracy.Every election we send our representatives to 
the Knesset. And every election the vast majority of our elected representatives 
share our desire to support those who serve in the IDF and national service 
without reference to their religion, race or gender. We want to support them 
because they contribute to the general good of all of Israel.But due to 
a handful of NGOs that receive their funding from outside Israel from 
governments and groups that do not share our values and interests, and due to 
the cooperation they receive from activist judges and radical Justice Ministry 
attorneys, the will of the people is stymied again and again and 
again.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: The Left against Zion</title>
<date>19/12/2013</date>
<content>
In the 1960s, the American Left embraced the anti-Vietnam 
War movement as its cri de coeur.In the 1970s, the Left’s foreign policy 
focus shifted to calling for unilateral nuclear disarmament by the US and its 
Western allies.




In the 1980s, supporting the Sandinista Communists’ 
takeover of Nicaragua became the catechism of the Left.In the 1990s, the 
war on global capitalism – that is, the anti-globalization movement – captivated 
the passions of US Leftists from coast to coast.In the 2000s, it was 
again, the anti-war movement.This time the Left rioted and demonstrated 
against the war in Iraq.And in this decade, the main foreign policy 
issue that galvanizes the passions and energies of the committed American Left 
is the movement to delegitimize Israel’s right to exist.This week has 
been a big one for the anti-Israel movement. In the space of a few days, two 
quasi academic organizations – the American Studies Association and the Native 
American and Indigenous Studies Association – have launched boycotts against 
Israeli universities. Their boycotts follow a similar one announced in April by 
the Asian Studies Association.These groups’ actions have not taken place 
in isolation. They are of a piece with ever-escalating acts of anti-Israel 
agitation in college campuses throughout the United States.Between the 
growth of Israel Apartheid Day (or Week, or Month) from a fringe exercise on 
isolated campuses to a staple of the academic calendar in universities 
throughout the US and Canada, and the rise of the boycott, divestment and 
sanctions (BDS) movement to wage economic war against the Jewish state, 
anti-Israel activism has become the focal point of Leftist foreign policy 
activism in the US and throughout the Western world.Every week brings a 
wealth of stories about new cases of aggressive anti-Israel activism. At the 
University of Michigan last week, thousands of students were sent fake eviction 
notices from the university’s housing office. A pro-Palestinian group 
distributed them in dorms across campus to disseminate the blood libel that 
Israel is carrying out mass expulsions of Palestinians.At Swarthmore 
College, leftist anti-Israel Jewish students who control Hillel are insisting on 
using Hillel’s good offices to disseminate and legitimate anti-Israel 
slanders.And the Left’s doctrinaire insistence that Israel is the root 
of all evil is not limited to campuses.At New York’s 92nd Street Y, 
Commentary editor John Podhoretz was booed and hissed by the audience for trying 
to explain why the ASA’s just-announced boycott of Israel was an obscene act of 
bigotry.Many commentators have rightly pointed out that the ASA and the 
NAISA are fringe groups.They represent doctorate holders who chose to 
devote their careers to disciplines predicated not on scholarship, but on 
political activism cloaked in academic regalia whose goal is to discredit 
American power. The ASA has only 5,000 members, and only 1,200 of them voted on 
the Israel- boycott resolution. The NAISA has even fewer members.It 
would be wrong, however, to use the paltry number of these fringe groups’ 
members as means to dismiss the phenomenon that they represent. They are very 
much in line with the general drift of the Left.Rejecting Israel’s right 
to exist has become part of the Left’s dogma. It is a part of the 
catechism.Holding a negative view of the Jewish state is a condition for 
membership in the ideological camp. It is an article of faith, not 
fact.Consider the background of the president of the ASA. Curtis Marez 
is an associate professor in the Ethnic Studies Department at the University of 
California, San Diego. His area of expertise is Chicano Film and Media 
Studies.He doesn’t know anything about Israel. He just knows that he’s a 
Leftist. And today, Leftists demonize Israel. Their actions have nothing to do 
with anything Israel does or has ever done. They have nothing to do with human 
rights. Hating Israel, slandering Israel and supporting the destruction of 
Israel are just things that good Leftists do.And Marez was not out of 
step with his fellow Leftists who rule the roost at UCSD. This past March the 
student council passed a resolution calling for the university to divest from 
companies that do business with Israel.Why? Because hating Israel is 
what Leftists do.The Left’s crusade against the Jewish state began in 
earnest in late 2000. The Palestinians’ decision to reject statehood and renew 
their terror war against Israel ushered in the move by anti-Israel forces on the 
Left to take over the movement. And as they have risen, they have managed to 
silence and discredit previously fully accredited members of the ideological 
Left for the heresy of supporting Israel.This week, Harvard Law Prof. 
Alan Dershowitz retired after 50 years on the law faculty. His exit, the same 
week as the ASA and the NAISA announced their boycotts of Israeli universities, 
symbolized the marginalization of the pro-Israel Left that Dershowitz 
represented.For years, Dershowitz has been a non-entity in leftist 
circles. His place at the table was usurped by anti-Israel Jews like Peter 
Beinart. And now Beinart is finding himself increasingly challenged by 
anti-Semitic Jews like Max Blumenthal.The progression is 
unmistakable.The question is, is it irreversible? Must supporters of 
Israel choose between their support for Israel and their affinity for the Left? 
Certainly it is true that the more the issue of support for Israel splits along 
ideological and partisan lines, the more reasonable it is for supporters of 
Israel to move to the ideological camp and the party that supports Israel, and 
away from the ones that do not support Israel.The average voter is not 
in a position to change the positions of his party or the dogma of his 
ideological camp. He can take it or leave it. With rejection of Israel now 
firmly entrenched in the Left’s dogma, and with the Left firmly in control of 
the Democratic Party under President Barack Obama’s leadership, for those who 
care about Israel, the Republican Party is a more natural fit.So, too, 
the ideological Right is far more congenial to the Jewish state than the 
Left.While the most sensible place for supporters of Israel to be today 
is on the political Right, it is also true that it is neither smart nor 
responsible to abandon the Left completely. Jews should be able to feel 
comfortable as Jews, and as supporters of Israel everywhere. Ideological camps 
that castigate Jews for their pride in the accomplishments of the Jewish state, 
and for their support and concern for its survival and prosperity, are camps in 
desperate need of fixing.But we should not fool ourselves. Challenging 
the likes of Marez, or the Swarthmore students, or Max Blumenthal or Peter 
Beinart to a reasoned debate is an exercise in futility. They do not care about 
human rights. They do not care that Israel is the only human rights-respecting 
democracy in the Middle East. They do not care about the pathological nature of 
Palestinian society. They do not care about the Jewish people’s indigenous 
rights and international legal rights to sovereignty not only over Tel Aviv and 
Haifa, but over Hebron and Ramallah.Being hypocrites doesn’t bother them 
either.You can talk until you’re blue in the face about the civilian 
victims of the Syrian civil war, or the gender apartheid in Saudi Arabia and the 
absence of religious freedom throughout the Muslim world. But they don’t care. 
They aren’t trying to make the world a better place.Facts cannot compete 
with their faith. Reason has no place in their closed intellectual 
universe.To accept reason and facts would be an act of 
heresy.Marez may be a hypocrite, and even a servant of evil. But he is 
no heretic.The only real way to mitigate the hard Left’s devotion to 
Israel’s destruction is by changing the power balance on the Left. For the past 
decade, donors like George Soros have been open in their commitment to elect 
Democrats who oppose the US’s alliance with Israel. A decade ago, Soros and 
fellow Jewish American billionaire Peter Lewis funneled hundreds of millions of 
dollars into Moveon.org. Moveon.org became a clearinghouse for 
anti-Israel and anti-Jewish messages that became the stock in trade of the 
ideological Left, and of Democratic candidates in need of campaign 
funding.It was due to then-Democratic senator Joe Lieberman’s refusal to 
get on the Soros- and Lewis-funded anti-Israel bandwagon in the 2004 elections, 
that they turned Moveon.org against Lieberman in the 2006 Democratic primary for 
his seat in the Senate. His Democratic challenger, Ned Lamont, who won the 
primary, ran a campaign laced with anti-Israel and anti-Jewish 
propaganda.There are Democratic funders, like Penny Pritzker, Lester 
Crown and Haim Saban, who support Israel. If they were so inclined, they could 
use their considerable funds to change the power equation in the Democratic 
Party. They could cultivate and support pro-Israel Democratic candidates. They 
could take the Democratic Party back.This week ended with Democratic 
Sen. Charles Schumer finally breaking his silence on Obama’s Iran deal and 
joining forces with his fellow Democrat Sen. Robert Menendez and Republican Sen. 
Mark Kirk to defy Obama on Iran’s nuclear weapons program. Given Obama’s 
floundering popularity, it is possible that Schumer’s move will open the door 
for a change in the Democratic Party.In truth, there is no reason for 
the Democratic Party to remain in place. It isn’t ordained that the Democrats 
must cleave to the hard Left.The rejection of Israel is not a natural 
component of leftist dogma. It’s just that for the past decade, the smart money 
and the rising power on the Left has been with those who oppose Israel’s 
existence as a strong, independent Jewish state.While the ASA and its 
comrades are on the fringes of academia, they are not fringe voices on the Left. 
The Left has embraced the cause of Israel’s destruction. And its financial power 
has made it difficult for pro-Israel Democrats to act on their convictions, and 
those of their voters.The combination of an exodus of supporters of 
Israel – Jews and non-Jews alike – from the Left and from the Democratic Party 
on the one hand, and generous funding for pro-Israel Democratic candidates on 
the other, can change the equation.
America lost the Vietnam War. The 
Sandinistas are back in change in Nicaragua. But if people are willing to stand 
up now and be counted, America need not harm 
Israel.caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Criticize me as a friend, not as Roger Waters</title>
<date>22/8/2013</date>
<content>
This week we heard that Roger Waters, the legendary bassist of Pink Floyd, wrote an open letter to musicians calling for a cultural boycott of Israel.The letter led to the expected reactions on all sides. Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions supporters consider Waters a hero, while supporters of Israel have responded defensively. And of course, there has been no shortage of name-calling on both sides.




Is Roger Waters simply an anti-Semite whose criticism is easily dismissed? Is there any truth to his criticisms? The shouting match is so intense that decent people reasonably wonder what to do. The leaders of the BDS movement have noted that they are calling for nonviolent protest.Why do Israelis and Jews generally react so defensively against BDS? Here’s why: Calls for boycott will not solve the problems between Jews and Palestinians. Simply calling for boycotts and making blanket accusations not only will fail to solve the deep issues separating the groups, but will hinder the dialogue and understanding needed to address them.Despite accusations to the contrary, Israel is not an apartheid state. Israel’s Declaration of Independence promises that the state “will ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants; it will be based on freedom, justice and peace as envisaged by the prophets of Israel; it will ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants irrespective or religion, race or sex.”The Supreme Court, particularly, has protected the rights of the country’s minorities for decades.However, despite even the court’s efforts, the reality is that many Muslim and Christian Palestinians do not experience equality in Israel. There are historical and practical explanations for the differences in treatment, and there are many Arab-Israeli Palestinians who have benefited from Israeli citizenship. Still, Israelis know that there is a long road ahead before achieving both justice and peace.So what is wrong with calls for boycott? The problem is that many of those calling for boycott appear to be more interested in condemning the entire State of Israel rather than addressing specific cases or policies. They are not friends of Israel. Jews and Israelis understandably hear these calls as having an agenda that extends beyond honest criticism.For many outside Israel, there is generally a sense that one must choose sides in arguments about the conflict: I must unconditionally support my friend, and corresponding to this, I am expected to condemn the other side.This model is severely flawed.It only increases the number of enemies in the world; it does nothing to further peace and understanding.Jewish tradition has a model of friendship that goes deeper than a simple, “you’re with me or against me” approach. The Mishnah teaches that one should “Make for yourself a teacher; acquire/buy for yourself a friend.” (Mishnah Avot 1:7) Maimonides, like many readers of the Mishnah, wondered why the imperative to find a friend is so much stronger than the need to find a teacher. Even in the 12th century, Maimonides knew that true friends could not be bought. Why then does the Mishnah use the term kene (“acquire/buy”)? According to Maimonides, we have many kinds of friends.Some provide a service we need. Some make us feel good about ourselves. We trust these friends with all of our secrets, knowing that they will never betray us.A third category of friend is so important that s/he should be acquired by all means. This is the friend with whom we share the idea of “the good,” who can criticize us and make us better versions of ourselves.We trust that this friend cares first and foremost about our well-being. For this reason we are willing to risk some vulnerability, believing that we will become better and stronger in the process.If a person who is critical truly wants to help me change, s/he must care about my well-being. If I trust that is so, then I will be able hear and accept the criticism. Selfexamination by the critic is important here. What is motivating the criticism? In the case of Israel, is the criticism about a particular policy or about something broader? Is the goal of the criticism (for example, making life better for Palestinians) best accomplished through such statements? Is the policy in question unique to Israel? Do I challenge problems such as racism elsewhere? Do I speak out against attacks on Christians in Syria and Egypt, for example? The rabbis in the Talmud recognized that criticism is a tricky business. Rabbi Tarfon wondered if there was anyone in his generation who knew how to accept criticism, and Rabbi Eleazar ben Azariah retorted that he wondered if there was anyone who knew how to (properly) criticize.(BT Arachin 16b)Almost two millennia later, we are all still challenged to accept criticism, but also to give criticism in a way that can effect change.Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur with their season of repentance are part of our yearly cycle. We repent every year, because we are all flawed. While attacks by Roger Waters and others are not innocent or righteous, let us move beyond the automatic reaction of defensiveness.Let us resolve to recognize the inequities in Israeli society and policy and to make life in this land a fulfillment of the promises in our Declaration of Independence.
Dr. Marcie Lenk is a member of the iEngage Project and codirector of New Paths: Christians Engaging Israel. Learn more about New Paths at newpaths.org.il.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Dangerous decoy: Ignoring human rights abuses</title>
<date>20/4/2013</date>
<content>
Anti-Israel activists spin tales about alleged Israeli human rights abuses to instill hostility against the Jewish state. They have had an impact, but not one desired by most fair-minded people.The false allegations have served as a decoy, distracting the UN, NGOs, churches, students and the wider public from the real human rights abuses occurring in the Middle East.




The activists invoke and misapply human rights principles to accuse Israel of abuses that are rare in pluralistic, democratic Israel, but are rampant elsewhere in the region. Their hostility to Israel trumps their commitment to the very human rights values they claim to uphold, and gives a pass to real human rights violators in the region.Consider the ongoing subjugation of women throughout the Middle East.“Honor killings” – the barbaric murder of women who “shame” their families through unapproved relations with males, by violating codes of behavior or dress, or by being victims of rape – are the most egregious example of women’s oppression. Honor killings are prevalent in Iraq, Jordan, Turkey, the Palestinian Authority (Gaza and the West Bank), Yemen and elsewhere in the region. In Israel, honor killings are outlawed and treated as murder.Women face other injustices, including lack of laws to protect them from domestic violence, family law that requires “obedience” to husbands, and forced acceptance of arranged marriages. A woman’s testimony in court is worth less than a man’s. In several countries, women cannot travel to foreign countries without approval from a male relative.Saudi Arabian women must have a male escort when they go outside their homes.The rising incidence of mobbing, sexual assault and gang-rape has made many Egyptian women fearful of walking in public without a protector. Women throughout the Middle East “suffer from unequal citizenship and legal entitlement [and] inequality of opportunity.” Their “political and economic participation remains the lowest in the world,” according to the 2002 UN Human Development Report. Yet, rather than calling for reform of these unacceptable conditions, anti-Israel activists clamor for international denunciation of Israel, where all women, including Arabs and Jews, enjoy legal and institutional equality.Consider the oppression of gays in the region. While Israel is among the world’s most progressive nations on gender and sexual issues with the military’s gay policy of “don’t ask, don’t care,” and Tel Aviv has been identified as the world’s top gay tourist destination, gays elsewhere in the Middle East face severe persecution.Homosexuality is a crime with punishments ranging from imprisonment in Syria, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, and Morocco to flogging, stoning, hanging, or beheading in Iran, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Yemen.Though homosexuality is not illegal everywhere, gays are often arrested under laws against “lewd conduct” in Egypt, and they experience police harassment and torture in Egypt and the Palestinian Authority. In Iraq, a campaign of extrajudicial executions, kidnappings and torture of gay men began in 2009. Gays may also be the victims of honor killing.Palestinian society “has no mercy for sexual diversity,” according to a gay Palestinian website. Gay Palestinians know that Israel is a haven for them, and many have fled to Israel where they seek asylum with the help of Israeli human rights groups.But far too many anti-Israel activists and their supporters don’t seem to care.Instead, they want to defame the only gay-friendly, progressive country in the Middle East.Consider another injustice that should claim our attention: Middle Eastern countries’ lack of freedom and tolerance for religions other than Islam. Saudi Arabia does not permit the public practice of any non-Muslim religion. Conversion from Islam is punishable by death in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Sudan, and is illegal in the Palestinian Authority, Gaza, Jordan, Egypt, Oman, Qatar and the UAE. The Baha’i are oppressed in Iran and unwelcome elsewhere, except in Israel where they built their international religious center.In the past 60 years, Jews have been forced to flee North African and Arab countries where they had lived for millennia.Virtually no Jews remain in Arab countries where they were once an integral part of the social tapestry.Today, Christians face increasing persecution in the region though Christianity was born and developed in the Middle East and was once a dominant religion.This increasing persecution has led to the flight of Christians. In Iraq, the Christian population has plummeted to 500,000 from an estimated 1.4 million just a decade ago. In Syria, more members of the small, ancient Christian community are fleeing from the rebel Islamists. Last month, Libya arrested over 50 Christians for allegedly proselytizing to Muslims. They could get death sentences for their crime.In Gaza, Hamas has persecuted the small Christian population whose numbers have dropped by almost 60 percent since Hamas took over in January 2006. Under the Palestinian Authority, the percentage of Christians in Bethlehem dropped from 74% in 1945 to 28% in 2007. In Egypt, Coptic Christians face increasing intimidation and brutality with violent attacks and burning of their churches.Yet, the pseudo-human rights activists demand that attention be focused on Israel, where religious freedom is protected and where 15 different religions enjoy official status.Yet, the anti-Israel campaigners consider championing these groups or protesting the region’s gender, religious and political apartheid politically less important than maligning Israel. When people call attention to these abuses, they are often silenced with accusations of Islamophobia.People across the Middle East pay a high price for this misdirection. Their needs are forgotten. The human rights groups who should champion them because they appear to care about the Middle East, are too busy demonizing Israel and simultaneously ignoring the human rights abuses of the PA and the reactionary Hamas regime in Gaza. The most dangerous outcome is that these principles, distorted beyond recognition, could cease to be useful moral yardsticks for bringing desperately needed reforms to the Middle East.
Roz Rothstein is the CEO of StandWithUs, Roberta Seid, PhD, is the educationresearch director at StandWithUs and teaches at UC Irvine.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 10: Mourning Mandela</title>
<date>9/12/2013</date>
<content>
Mourning Mandela Sir, – With regard to “World mourns death of anti-apartheid 
hero Mandela” (December 8), in April 2000, Nelson Mandela addressed a special 
meeting of the Board of Deputies of British Jews in London. He devoted part of 
his speech to the hopes for peace in the Middle East.




After referring to 
recent meetings with various national leaders, Mandela declared that in his 
opinion, Israel should cede territories gained in the Six Day War, but that 
equally and crucially, Israel could not be expected to withdraw from the 
territories it legitimately conquered when the Arabs wanted to wipe it off the 
map.Therefore, the Arab states must make a clear and unequivocal 
declaration that they recognize the existence of the State of Israel within 
secure boundaries, and must establish diplomatic relations that reflect real 
peace, not a cold peace.Mandela could see that it was unreasonable for 
Israel to leave territory without realistic guarantees.He also 
understood that the whole Arab world was involved, and it was not what is too 
often described as the “Israeli-Palestinian dispute.”He looked forward 
to a time when Israel would “play an important role in transforming the 
economies of the Middle East,” and “use its skills for the entire 
region.”RONA L. HARTHaifaSir, – Not to be outdone with all the 
accolades for Nelson Mandela, during the years after Mandela’s release, my 
pharmacist husband, Bernard, held the fort in the Johannesburg city center for a 
cousin named Basil.One day, Bernie found himself face-to-face with the 
man, who had come in solo to pay his account.Mandela held out a wad of 
notes and said, “Good morning, please take what I owe Basil.”Bernie 
counted out some notes and started writing the receipt.Mandela brushed 
it off, saying, “Don’t worry. I trust you.” And off he went, smiling at all on 
his way out.So be it. A blessed memory.JUNE LEVY Netanya What’s 
not said Sir, – US President Barack Obama’s appearance on TV with US-Israeli 
media tycoon Haim Saban (“Obama: Diplomacy better than military action with 
Iran,” December 8) added nothing new to enlighten my mind.One of the 
most important questions that should have been put to Obama was: Why did not the 
Palestinians claim for the land or their independence before the 1967 Six Day 
War? We all know they would have been butchered by the ruling Jordanians 
(similar to what we witness in practically all Muslim countries), and that the 
world would have been silent.N.E. SAMUELYavneTaking in childrenSir, – 
The legislation on foster care in Israel (“Knesset passes bill regulating foster 
care system in Israel,” December 8) is a welcome change to a system that, while 
well intentioned and staffed with amazing people, needs some fixing. The 
additional value of this bill lies in raising awareness of the need for foster 
parents who will continue to open their home to the many children who need 
support and love.As parents of both biological and foster children, we 
have been blessed with the love and warmth that each brings to a home. While it 
has not always been easy (and working with the system can be frustrating at 
times), the rewards clearly outweigh any bumps along the way.We 
encourage anyone with the ability to be a foster parent to take advantage of the 
resources they can offer to those who are less fortunate. As is always the case 
with love, it is a gift in which you get so much more then what you are giving, 
and yet what you give is so precious.LISA and YISRAEL ZEITCHIKHashmonaim Honesty in quotes Sir, – It is most lamentable that Thomas L. 
Friedman and The New York Times, for which he is the Middle East sage/poster 
boy, cannot avoid anti-Israel vitriol even in a column that otherwise provides 
objectivity and good sense. I refer to “The other Arab awakening” (Comment & 
Features, December 8), in which he avers that the winds of evolution – as 
opposed to revolution – are blowing in countries such as Saudi Arabia and 
various other Gulf states.In it Friedman alludes to leaders who are 
trying to be judged by how they help their citizenry rather than how they 
“resist Israel.”Resist? What, is Israel waging aggressive war against 
the Gulf? Is it undermining Saudi Arabia? Is it hanging Arabs in public squares? 
Would not the word “vilifying” or “hating” have been more accurate? Or, at the 
very least, could not Friedman or the Times have exercised basic intellectual 
honesty by putting resist in quotes? JAC FRIEDGUT Jerusalem We’re your neighbors 
Sir, – Reader Jonathan Danilowitz (“Louts and noise,” Letters, December 8) must 
not realize that 41 percent of Tel Aviv’s residents are under 30. Many of us pay 
municipal taxes, just as he does, and deserve services that cater to our 
interests, too.My wife and I, along with our friends, live in the center 
of Tel Aviv because we are interested in night life and culture.And yes, 
I call it “culture.”Whether one likes electronic music or not doesn’t 
make it a less legitimate form of music.The idea that the municipality 
should care only about the writer’s demographic strikes me as selfish. The event 
was on a Friday afternoon, probably out of respect for Shabbat, allowing 
religious and secular residents to enjoy the music together and targeting more 
than one group in Tel Aviv’s diverse population.As for noise and mess, 
when my wife and I walked to synagogue a few short hours after the party ended, 
all of the litter had been cleared. It was the same kind of litter one sees 
after any outdoor event, like the Nike Night Run. When I took part in the run 
last month, there was loud music and litter everywhere, yet the event seemed to 
be universally praised in the press.Finally, the idea that one can tell 
which people are from out of town just by looking at them sounds elitist and 
exclusionary.Perhaps my kippa would make Mr. Danilowitz think I’m from 
Gush Etzion, although I’m actually his neighbor.NATAN LEVINETel AvivWho’s sorry now?Sir, – I was impressed by the Norwegian Christian leaders who 
are headed here to make amends (“Norwegian group coming to ‘apologize for 
Oslo,’” December 4).Perhaps now the Israeli perpetra tors of the Oslo 
Accords will have the moral courage and integrity to acknowledge their 
disastrous mistake, apologize to the Israeli public and ask for 
forgiveness.Such an apology is long overdue.Yet I feel sure it 
will not happen.The hubris that characterizes those who were behind Oslo 
will not permit them to admit they were mistaken and that their actions were 
detrimental to the State of Israel and its citizens.ELLA BERKOVITSHaifaSmart gameSir, – What Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is doing in his ongoing 
Iranian fixation is actually a very smart political strategy.He is using 
the same strategy that even US presidents have used when domestic conditions are 
not the greatest. He is diverting the public’s attention from very serious 
issues, such as the ever-increasing cost of living, unaffordable housing (even 
for people earning a decent wage), the economic downturn spearheaded by a 
measurable fall in exports, the threat that labor strikes will begin spreading, 
continuing strife between the secular and religious, and the wave of gangland 
activity, including numerous car bombings.Netanyahu is actually playing 
a smart political game. The question is, how long can the act last before the 
curtain falls? 
MITCHELL RADOV Ashdot Ya’acov
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 12: Mandela’s legacy...</title>
<date>11/12/2013</date>
<content>
Mandela’s legacy...Sir, – With regard to “Obama: Nelson Mandela was ‘a 
giant of history’” (December 11), the former South African leader courageously 
guided the elimination of apartheid for his people. He obtained peace between 
blacks and whites by forming a government of national unity with F.W. de 
Klerk in 1994. The two also shared the Nobel Peace Prize.




In matters of 
foreign policy, however, Mandela’s principles were compromised by maintaining 
warm relations with rogue nations and leaders responsible for numerous human 
rights violations.They included Libya’s Muammar Gaddafi, whom Mandela 
called his “friend,” and Cuba’s Fidel Castro, with whom he was often 
photographed. He called trials in Iran “free and fair” despite a history of 
innocents being put to death. And he often sided with the Palestinians, naming 
Yasser Arafat “one of the outstanding freedom fighters of his 
generation.”US President Barack Obama spoke at Mandela’s memorial, 
comparing him to George Washington.The difference, though, is that 
Washington would have aided the world’s oppressed rather than seeking the 
counsel of dictators.ANTHONY LEVATINO Rochester, New York Sir, – US 
President Barak Obama hailed former South African president Nelson Mandela as a 
“giant of history,” and expressed how inspired he was by Mandela’s attitude 
toward forgiveness.I urge President Obama to pardon Jonathan Pollard. He 
will give real honor to the memory of Mandela by emulating that 
attitude.AARON SWIRSKI Netanya Sir, – Abundant thanks are due Nelson 
Mandela for his successful stand against apartheid. Now, what about the 
apartheid politics of our peace partner against Jews living in any future 
Palestinian state? RUTH BLOCK Jerusalem Sir, – Thankfully, among the far-too-many articles praising Nelson Mandela, Michael Freund (“Misrepresenting 
Mandela,” Fundamentally Freund, December 10) portrayed the truth. Simply put, he 
hit the nail on the head.This was a clear and honest review about 
Mandela, who was no supporter of Israel.ORA LESHEM Tel Aviv ...and a 
flight too far Sir, – With regard to “Edelstein leads delegation to Mandela 
memorial” (December 10), the response of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to 
the invitation to attend the memorial service for Nelson Mandela was demeaning 
to Israel, damaging in many respects, and unbelievably short-sighted and 
non-diplomatic.HERTZEL KATZ Herzliya Sir, – In not going to South Africa 
for Nelson Mandela’s memorial service, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu missed 
the point.He should have represented us.We did not even look at 
the cost of such a trip the way we do his wasteful expenses. He could have used 
one plane for himself and maybe two or three representatives of the government. 
He could have explained that he was not bringing his wife, Sara, as a personal 
sacrifice to reduce costs.He could have arranged the flight so that he 
would return home immediately after the service.Netanyahu wastes many 
thousands of shekels on personal, often frivolous, things, and then sacrifices 
our interests to “save” money.On his next visit to America he should use 
a scheduled flight and take just two or three advisers.He should leave 
the press and his family here. Then we will believe he is serious about reducing 
costs.Bibi, for your actions I give you an F.REUVEN YAGIL 
Beersheba Election fraud Sir, – With regard to “Court order could be setback in 
Beit Shemesh election appeal” by Yona Jeremy Bob (December 11), the recent Beit 
Shemesh municipal elections were probably the worst case of election fraud we 
have experienced.The fraudulent steps were many and very 
sophisticated.One included an almost invisible cut in the challenger’s 
ballots; this probably would not be noticed by voters but would certainly 
disqualify their votes.The biggest problem in our electoral system is 
the inability of voting station representatives to ensure without any reasonable 
doubt that the ID cards in fact belong to the people requesting to vote. The 
appearance of many of the voters in Beit Shemesh is very similar, and ID photos 
are often from years ago. Only an ID card that includes the bearer’s fingerprint 
can be relied upon.With all due respect to the demands of the judges, 
there is no reliable ruling other than to declare new elections. If the mayor 
and his list are so sure they were legally elected, there would be no need for 
them to invest millions to stop a new election.In a fraud of such great 
proportions in which the police have no chance in the short term to investigate, 
the best solution would be for the court to instruct the interior minister to 
appoint a temporary mayor and require all citizens of Beit Shemesh to be issued 
with the sophisticated ID cards now being offered to the public.When 
this is done, hold a new election.DAVID GOSHEN Kiryat Ono ‘Deja Jew’
Sir, – Reading Daniel Tauber’s “The hunting season” (For Zion’s Sake, December 
11) evokes a powerful and tragic sense of “deja Jew.”Now as then, 
leftist elements, in a desperate rush to ingratiate themselves with powers that 
do not have Jewish interests at heart, betray those of us who are steadfast in 
our beliefs and our rights to our homeland.Nowadays, however, when the 
ideological descendants of the old Labor yishuv have moved on to post-Zionism, 
the treachery is greater still.No amount of empirical evidence showing 
how right the Irgun and Stern Gang were can deter a newspaper like Haaretz, 
parties like Meretz and foreign- funded NGOs like B’Tselem and Machsom Watch 
from championing ideas that can only spell our demise.Indeed, had David 
Ben-Gurion and Chaim Weizmann prevailed in the saison there would be no Israel 
today.As the Pslamist said, Al tivtehu b’nedivim (Don’t put your trust 
in princes). For those with a bit more faith, Yisrael, b’tah beHashem (O’ 
Israel, trust in the Lord).J.J. GROSS Jerusalem Perpendicular logic Sir, 
– Regarding “The ‘stupid Israeli’ within me” (Comment & Features, December 
10), I am aware that parking in Jerusalem has its difficulties, but I have 
always parked my car upright on its four wheels.“Vertical” parking? Is 
this a new space-saving idea, like books on a bookshelf? JOSH FEINGOLD Jerusalem 
Capable of anything Sir, – “Yadlin: Scope of Iranian retaliation to potential 
strike is ‘exaggerated’” (December 5) addresses the assessment by ex-Military 
Intelligence chief Amos Yadlin and Institute for National Security Studies 
researcher Avner Golov of Iran’s possible reaction to an Israeli strike on the 
country’s nuclear sites.I believe Yadlin and Co. still think in the 
manner I call the “pre-Yom Kippur War syndrome,” whereby we presume our logic is 
the same as that of our enemies.Nearly all the response scenarios Yadlin 
discusses use very Judeo-Christian, Western reasoning.But we are dealing 
here with a fanatical Islamist regime that had no compunction in the Iraq-Iran 
war, for instance, against sending to their deaths hundreds of children bearing 
golden keys to heaven, by walking them through minefields, thus clearing a path 
for soldiers.I can think of several responses not covered by Yadlin that 
would have a devastating effect not only on Israel but on Jews around the 
world.The bottom line: Never underestimate your enemy.
I. SRUL 
ZUNDER Ramat Hasharon
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 15: Bunch of gangsters</title>
<date>15/12/2013</date>
<content>
Bunch of gangsters Sir, – Kol hakavod to Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina 
(“Palestinians slam Guatemalan president for visiting east Jerusalem,” December 
12).




Why the Palestinian Authority leadership thinks it can act like a 
bunch of gangsters and dictate to the world who can or cannot visit what it 
considers Palestine under its self-created conceptions of international law is 
quite beyond comprehension. It is even farther beyond comprehension why the 
leaders of major nations, starting with US President Barack Obama, adhere to its 
diktats.I hope the next step will be that the brave Guatemalan 
government moves its embassy to whichever part of Jerusalem it thinks fit, 
something that might just spur Congress to force the recalcitrant Obama to 
adhere to the will of the American people.It might also be a good time 
for the Palestinian Authority to explain how, if no Jew is allowed to be in its 
conception of a Palestinian Jerusalem, the city can ever remain 
open.PETER SIMPSON Jerusalem Let him go Sir, – Once again, Esther 
Pollard, in her impassioned and heartfelt plea that justice prevail (“Pollard’s 
Nightmare,” Comment & Features, December 12), brought tears to my eyes. So 
should it be to any normal, fair-minded human being who sees Jonathan Pollard’s 
sentence as probably the biggest scandal of the century.As Esther 
Pollard points out, the White House soon will be announcing its holiday 
clemencies.I sincerely hope the fact that her husband is not Filipino, 
Chinese, African or Spanish will not hinder the decision to let him out for time 
served, as in the well known plea to the Pharaoh, “Let my people 
go.”NAOMI FEINSTEIN Nordiya Tergiversation Sir, – Sometimes I read with 
amusement, other times with exasperation, the Pollyannaish Encountering Peace 
columns of Gershon Baskin. Most recently, I read “They got it right, they got it 
wrong” (December 12) with incredulity.Baskin’s statement, “the Oslo 
process totally crashed… when it became apparent to the Palestinians that 
Israeli had ceased withdrawing from territories that in their understanding were 
to become part of the Palestinian state,” is completely false. The truth, which 
I am sure (or at least I hope) Baskin also knows, is that Ehud Barak, at Camp 
David in July 2000, offered to give up practically all the territories that the 
Palestinians demanded, but Arafat just got up and started preparing the second 
intifada.Baskin should not tergiversate on history.DAVID MANDEL 
Savyon Chump change Sir, – The legislation to raise the property tax on homes 
that stand unused most, if not all, of the year (“Finance Committee approves 
doubling property tax on ‘ghost apartments,’” December 10) is extremely 
ill-conceived.When a Jew from abroad purchases a second home here, he is 
helping Israel. His money creates construction jobs. He and his family will 
spend more time in Israel, providing more tourist-industry jobs. Furthermore, he 
and his family strengthen their ties with Israel and may someday even make 
aliya.However, doubling his property tax, though he receives far less in 
public service benefits than residents, tells our Zionist from abroad that he 
“hurts the market” and prevents young people from staying in Jerusalem.A 
well-off person from abroad who pays $200,000 to $2 million to buy a home in 
Israel is certainly not going to rent it out, and be unable to use it when he 
wants, just so he can save a few thousand shekels a year in taxes. He will be 
left with a bad taste from being made a chump, possibly dropping the whole 
Zionist project and getting rid of his home.Politicians should stop 
promoting ineffective solutions to the housing-price problem and concentrate on 
measures that will truly increase housing supply, such as changing zoning laws 
and freeing-up stateowned land.MAYER BASSAN Jerusalem Farewell, South 
Africa Sir, – In bidding farewell to Nelson Mandela (“Thousands queue to bid 
farewell to Mandela,” December 12), I also bid farewell to South Africa in 
general, for though I was born near Mandela’s ancestral home, I recognized early 
on, while growing up there, that I did not really belong. And so, in 1961, I 
went away in search of my own ancestral home, and found it in Israel.I 
worry today about what will happen to the Jewish community that stayed behind, 
for it seems to me that no matter how hard these people have tried to become 
part and parcel of the rainbow nation forged in the post-apartheid era, they 
have not really been accepted. I worry what might happen to them during the 
forthcoming general elections, when an angry generation of young South Africans 
born in the post-apartheid era will be looking for someone to blame for the 
country’s poverty, crime, unemployment and poor economic growth.If I 
were Israel’s leader I would give out a clarion call to South African Jewry to 
gather at Cape Town harbor, where a ship will be waiting to bring them 
home.LILY POLLIACK Jerusalem Sir, – Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is 
being berated for his failure to attend the memorial service in South Africa for 
Nelson Mandela.Perhaps citing cost was a poor choice. But I ask: Of the 
world leaders in attendance, how many had enemies calling for their 
extermination who were warmly embraced and supported by the South African 
government under Mandela? Israel is accused by this government of being an 
apartheid state, while never have the Palestinian leaders been condemned for 
stating that a Jew would never be allowed to live in a Palestinian state. Should 
not this have been the stated reason for not attending? IRVING POLL Netanya What 
a waste Sir, – To clear snow, the Inbal Hotel in Jerusalem uses the method shown 
in the photo, taken Thursday. Does it seem efficient? Economical? Or is it a 
waste of resources? 
BEATRICE SAMUEL Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Duplicity as the UN secretary-general visits Auschwitz</title>
<date>18/11/2013</date>
<content>
Today, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will pay a visit to Auschwitz where he will make a show of concern for the demonization of Jews in the past century. However, at the very same time his UN staff is actively discriminating against Jews at UN Headquarters in the here and now.On Friday, November 15, 2013, an official UN-accredited Jewish non-governmental organization had its security clearance to attend an open UN meeting in New York revoked at the behest of the UN Division for Palestinian Rights.




The group of 18 Birthright Israel alumni had been invited to witness the annual offensive “UN Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People” by the UN-accredited Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust.The annual event marks the anniversary of November 29, 1947, the day that the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution which partitioned Palestine into a Jewish and an Arab state. It was a resolution accepted by Jews and rejected across the Arab world. It was also a day celebrated by the victims of the Nazis and the Jewish people in their ancient homeland and around the world.But not by the modern United Nations. Former secretary-general Kofi Annan characterized it as “a day of mourning and a day of grief,” and every year under UN auspices, member states and NGOs gather to mourn the creation of the Jewish state.This year, the admission passes of the Jewish group had been officially approved, security clearance had been granted, and the passes were scheduled to be picked up. That is, until UN security official Lt. Paul Jankowsky reversed course and unilaterally decided that the chief of the UN Palestinian Rights Division, Wolfgang Grieger, had a veto over who could attend.The November 15 message sent to the Touro Institute from Jankowsky reads: “The Division for Palestinian Rights... are the meeting organizers.... The organizers instruct me not to issue additional passes that they did not request.”Jankowsky and Grieger’s interference occurred despite the fact that the meeting was clearly advertised on the UN’s own website with the simple statement:  “NGOs are invited to attend.” Furthermore, an open invitation announcing the date, time and place had been advertised with no restrictions of any kind in the UN’s Daily Journal of the very same day, November 15.The campaign to exclude Jewish groups which support Israel from attending UN meetings is only the latest affront to the UN Charter’s promise of “the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small.”In 2005, the UN marked Palestinian Solidarity Day by displaying a map of the region which was missing the UN member state of Israel. After the embarrassing map was photographed, and a letter of objection sent from American UN ambassador John Bolton to then secretary-general Annan, the map was not shown again.But instead, every year the UN meeting room holding the event is decorated with only two flags – the flag of the United Nations and the flag of “Palestine.” The flag of Israel is never flown, notwithstanding that the 1947 resolution commits the UN to a two-state solution.Palestinian Solidarity Day is a major event in the UN calendar. Speeches in New York are given by each of the president of the general assembly, the president of the Security Council and the secretary-general.Also in attendance, and welcomed with open arms, are selected NGO extremists and representatives of so-called “civil society” who are prepared to contribute to the ritual demonization of Israel.An example of the kind of person who makes the cut of the UN Division for Palestinian Rights is Roger Waters, who represented civil society at last year’s event. He accused Israel of “ethnic cleansing,” voiced his support for boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) campaigns, claimed “Hamas is open to permanent peace with Israel,” and even demanded the General Assembly terminate the membership of Israel in the UN until its “illegal apartheid regime” ends.Undoubtedly, the Division for Palestinian Rights will have hand-picked another such “civil society” representative to grace this year’s event, which will take place on November 25 because of Thanksgiving in the US.Today in Poland the secretary-general will pose for the cameras at Auschwitz and the UN media machine will move into high gear. One week today in New York, the secretary-general will bar selected Jews from attending a public UN meeting and deliver a statement marking the partition vote absent the flag of the Jewish state. The duplicity could not be clearer.
The author is director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Decision-making time</title>
<date>19/6/2013</date>
<content>
Naftali Bennett’s “the idea of a Palestinian state has come to a dead end,” if 
true, should be restated as “the idea of the Zionist movement has come to a dead 
end.” That is the only logical conclusion of the ideology of Bennett and his 
followers. If the idea of the partitioning of the land between the river and sea 
into a “Jewish state and an Arab state” is finished, then the idea of a 
democratic state of the Jews is also kaput.There is no possibility for 
Israel to have it both ways – we can either have a Jewish nation-state on that 
territory or a democratic state. Continuing to deny the Palestinian Arabs living 
in that territory – 1.2 million inside of Israel proper (who will be included in 
the total number of Palestinians), 2.5 million in Judea and Samaria, 1.6 million 
in Gaza – full political rights, full equality, not just under the law, but in 
reality, means that Israel will become the new form of apartheid in the 21st 
century.




There is no way to avoid this, even if Bennett’s demographers 
argue with the numbers above – it is not a matter of numbers, but of 
principle.I don’t usually use the “A” word (apartheid) when talking 
about Israel. I have argued with those who use it, such as the founders of the 
global BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) campaign, that the root 
justification for them using the “A” word is the de-legitimation of Israel’s 
existence. They claim that the Jews have no right to a state of their own. While 
some of that is based on legitimate criticism of Israel’s policies that preserve 
and entrench its control of the Palestinian people and the denial of their 
liberation, others make the claim out of sometimes veiled 
anti-Semitism.As long as there remains a possibility for the two-state 
solution, the use of the “A” word is not appropriate and exposes the real 
motivation of those who use it. If Bennett, Danny Danon and even Moshe Ya’alon 
are proven correct, that a Palestinian state will not be established, they with 
their own words and actions can only be named the fathers of Israeli apartheid. 
Those who attempt to discredit this assertion by comparing South African 
apartheid with Israel’s reality are missing the point.Israel’s 
apartheid, if allowed to emerge, will be a new form of the ideology which denies 
millions of people their basic political rights, denies them basic freedoms, 
usurps their land and resources, controls their movements and locks them into a 
dependent economic system of ongoing poverty and 
dis-enfranchisement.Bennett and his ilk talk about annexing Area “C” – 
62 percent of Judea and Samaria – and leaving the Palestinians in the islands 
that make up areas “A” and “B” which, by the way, also remain fully under 
Israel’s control, even if we fool ourselves into believing the Palestinians are 
in control of these areas.Israel controls these territories in reality; 
it enters them at will, controls their population registry, the movement and 
access of the people and goods in those areas, the airspace, water and even the 
quarrying of the stones which we use to build our own homes.Israel has 
merely rid itself of the nuisance of having to directly provide the millions of 
people there services such as health, welfare and education. Until now, in 
exchange, we allow the international community and some Israelis and 
Palestinians to continue to believe that someday Israel will consent to 
Palestinian freedom and liberation in a state of their own. But if Bennett is 
correct, the charade of two states is over and the likes of Binyamin Netanyahu 
(and me, in this case) are finished, and the reality of a nondemocratic Israel 
stares us in the face.Likud coalition chairman MK Yair Levin stated that 
he believes that what Bennett said is true. Likud Deputy Foreign Minister Ze’ev 
Elkin conferred that he, too, agrees with Bennett. Likud Defense Minister Moshe 
Ya’alon also says Palestinian independence is not on the agenda – because the 
Palestinians don’t want it, he claims, surely one of the most outrageous 
statements made to date, so much echoing those white South Africans who said 
that the blacks of South Africa don’t want majority rule because they know that 
the whites rule so much better than the blacks would be able to do.This 
camp in the Likud and its coalition partners includes many 
others.Interestingly, though, they have also all stated that in Israel 
foreign policy on this question is determined by the prime minister. The prime 
minister continues to declare that he supports the two-state solution.It 
is actually quite easy for the prime minister to prove what he says. The way to 
actualize the vision of the twostate solution is quite easy. One major policy 
speech on the issue that would clearly paint the vision would be sufficient to 
lay the foundations for implementation.The claim that we should not 
expose our negotiating positions on the issue is absurd, not only because it has 
been already negotiated for years, but also because the “price for peace” is so 
well known and will not change. The idea that the Palestinians are going to 
modify the “price” because they are sitting across the table from Netanyahu 
instead of Olmert is utterly ridiculous. The deal for Israeli-Palestinian peace, 
for establishing a Palestinian state next to Israel, for enabling Israel to be 
the state of the Jewish people and a real democratic state is on the table and 
has been there for years.Despite Bennett et al, there is a majority of 
about 70 votes in this Knesset for Israeli-Palestinian peace. There is even a 
Jewish majority in this Knesset for the deal.True, the current coalition 
will fall to pieces if Netanyahu were to bring it to a vote, but he will get the 
majority in the Knesset and he will get the majority of Israelis in a referendum 
or in new elections. There is no time to wait. The entire future of the Zionist 
enterprise called the democratic Jewish nation-state is on the table.
The 
author is co-chairman of IPCRI, the Israel Palestine Center for Research and 
Information, a columnist for The Jerusalem Post and the initiator and negotiator 
of the secret back channel for the release of Gilad Schalit. His new book, 
Freeing Gilad: the Secret Back Channel, has been published by Kinneret Zmora 
Bitan in Hebrew.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Our celebration of democracy</title>
<date>21/1/2013</date>
<content>
Today is the holiest day in the calendar of democracy.It is also the 
holiest day in the calendar year for the future of Israel. On this day we stand 
before ourselves, our values in hand, our world views and visions for our shared 
future, and we add our voice to those of millions of our countrymen and women in 
determining what will happen here over the next years.




For many it is not 
an easy choice, and it should not be taken lightly. Too many of us make our 
decision with “gut feelings” rather than deep contemplation and investigation. 
The political propaganda designed to influence us with sound bites and slogans 
doesn’t really offer us an understanding of the issues and the candidates’ 
positions on them.Democracy is hard work. Democracy demands 
responsibility from citizens. These elections, more than most in the past have 
focused on the parties’ leaders, as if our vote only decided which of them would 
lead the country.The real work of government is conducted by a lot of 
individuals. The real work of the Knesset takes place in committees and behind 
the scenes where the job of law making is undertaken on a daily basis. The work 
of the committees requires intelligence, probing scrutiny of issues, researching 
solutions and together with legal advisers and experts writing laws that provide 
the basic rules for how we conduct our lives in this country.ONE OF the 
main tasks of our parliamentary system is for the Knesset to oversee the work of 
the executive branch, but other than using the “vote of no confidence” in the 
government, the Knesset has no real oversight powers. The Knesset cannot 
subpoena a government official to appear before a committee.Even a 
non-elected civil servant cannot be subpoenaed – they can be invited, they 
cannot be ordered to appear.The government is assembled from members of 
the Knesset. In the past years about one third of its members have served as 
ministers or deputy ministers, thereby significantly decreasing effective 
committee work. Large governments do not reduce the amount of Knesset work; in 
fact the work of the Knesset is increased with more ministries and 
ministers.In some countries, ministers who are members of parliament 
have to resign their seats in parliament to maintain the separation of 
authorities and allow for real parliamentary oversight of the executive. But a 
seat in the Knesset is more of a real, secure job than one in the government 
alone and therefore our elected parliamentarians do not want to voluntarily give 
up their job security.ISRAEL IS a great democracy, but Israel’s 
democracy has many flaws. For one, we have many political parties which are not 
democratic. Yisrael Beytenu, headed by Avigdor Liberman, is not a democratic 
party, nor is Yesh Atid, headed by Yair Lapid. The religious parties of Shas and 
Degel Hatorah are also not democratic.There is no electorate that 
decided who the MKs from those parties will be. The party members on the list 
who will serve in the Knesset owe their allegiance only to the party head who 
selected them.The haredi parties have no women on their lists – how can 
that be allowed in the only democracy in the Middle East? When we hear about the 
lack of rights of women in our neighboring countries we ridicule them for their 
abuses against half their population.Our country is a very active 
democracy, it seems. We are all involved in debating the issues. Israel has an 
unusually high rate of news consumption. The issues compel us to be informed and 
engaged. To a greater extent than in most other countries, the decisions made by 
those we elect to represent us are matters of life and death.There are 
so many issues of profound importance being contested in these elections. Peace, 
security, economics, social gaps, inequality and discrimination against various 
sectors, women’s rights, environment, equal service, the role of religion in the 
state, land use and planning, and more – issues that touch on the very soul of 
who we are as a country.FOR ME the most central issue with the fastest 
ticking clock is making peace with the Palestinians. For me this is the issue 
that will define all of the others. This is the question that will determine if 
Israel will be the democratic nation-state of the Jewish people or an apartheid 
state. Peace with the Palestinians will determine if we have security and see an 
end to the terrorism threat that we have faced for too long.Our 
relations with our Palestinian neighbors will determine the quality of the 
relations we have with all of the other states in the region. It will also 
determine whether or not we will reach our economic potential.The 
continuation of the conflict continues to draw the bulk of our economic 
resources into the machine of war and defense. The conflict limits foreign 
investment and decreases the country’s enormous tourism potential as 
well.We cannot resolve the social-economic issues if the conflict 
continues. The continuation of the conflict blackens our name among the nations 
of the world and will increasingly bring about our isolation in the 
international community.The next government will have to face these 
issues, and will have to make decisions. This is the most important leadership 
decision since the founding of the state. The consequences for us all are not 
about the future of a few thousand houses in isolated communities deep in the 
heart of Judea or Samaria. In any peace agreement, the overwhelming majority of 
Jews in the West Bank will remain under Israeli sovereignty.It is not 
about dividing Jerusalem either, because Jewish Jerusalem will remain under 
Israeli control and we will continue to have access and control over Jewish holy 
places. Most of the issues that will be under negotiations have already been 
determined. There are solutions to this conflict and our elected leaders must 
find the courage and the vision to put them on the table.These elections 
are most definitely crucial to our future. We citizens do not have the privilege 
to take casting our vote lightly. With our vote we participate in selecting our 
representatives. After the elections, our civil responsibility is to ensure that 
they do what is best for us. We must continue to remind our MK and government 
that they work for us – we employ them on our behalf and they owe their loyalty 
to us, the electorate.We are the citizens, and we have spoken! 
The 
writer is the co-chairman of IPCRI, the Israel Palestine Center for Research and 
Information, a columnist for The Jerusalem Post and the initiator and negotiator 
of the secret back channel for the release of Gilad Schalit.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>From Richard Wagner to Roger Waters</title>
<date>17/11/2013</date>
<content>
Fyodor Dostoevsky received a strange letter in the early months of 1877. The 
celebrated Russian author was scolded by a Jewish journalist for the 
anti-Semitism that permeated Dostoevsky’s novels and short stories.The 
Jewish journalist – Abraham Uri Kovner – confessed his own past sins to 
Dostoevsky in a bizarre fashion. But toward the letter’s end, Kovner arrived at 
the reason why he wrote to Dostoevsky: “I would like to know why you are against 
the Jews and not against exploiters in general. I hate the deficiencies of my 
people no less than you and I have suffered enough under them, yet I would never 
concede that unscrupulous exploitation is in their blood.”




Dostoevsky 
appreciated the letter and praised Kovner as a “highly educated Jew.” But his 
response could not have pleased the Jewish journalist. The Russian author simply 
dismissed the Jews as killers of Christ and exploiters of the Russian peasant. 
Not surprisingly, Kovner turned to apostasy toward the end of his 
life.This particular letter to an author I greatly admire has always 
interested me. One of the books that influenced me most as an undergraduate 
student was Dostoevsky’s early classic Notes from Underground. This is one of 
the Russian master’s shorter works – but it is simply brilliant, especially the 
first half of the book in which Dostoevsky produces a damning criticism of 
modernity through the lens of a loser on the margins of St. Petersburg 
society.Yet, like Kovner, I am troubled by Dostoevsky’s embrace of the 
hatred of Jews. How can it be possible that I admire a man who has so influenced 
me but who, had he met me, would have despised me? How can genius – literary or 
artistic – be permeated with anti-Semitism? How can such “creativity” be 
defended or simply dismissed as “free artistic expression”? These questions are 
not simply academic or intellectual – they go to the heart of our attempt to 
understand the role of Jews as the subjects of hatred in the intellectual and 
social history of the civilization of the West. These questions also lead us to 
the anti-Zionist attempts to delegitimize Israel that permeate our popular 
culture.The cultural icon who I both admire and detest is Roger Waters, 
a founding member and driving force behind the creation of one of rock’s 
legendary bands, Pink Floyd. In a recent letter to other popular rock musicians, 
Waters – one of the most outspoken advocates of condemning Israel through the 
movement to boycott the Jewish state – called on fellow artists not to perform 
in Israel.WATERS’ MOTIVATIONS are highly suspicious. He claims he is 
defending the human rights of Palestinians under Israeli occupation. But Waters 
has performed in China and Russia, flagrant abusers of human rights.No, 
this is not Waters’ protest against “Israeli apartheid.”What this is all 
about is good old-fashioned anti-Semitism dressed up in modern 
garb.Waters has incorporated unusual – and very insulting – images into 
his concert tours around the world. Playing on the phrase “when pigs fly,” 
Waters trots out a floating image of a pig that is covered with a variety of 
symbols – the dollar sign, the Soviet hammer and sickle, corporation logos and, 
of greatest interest to me, a Star of David.What message does Waters 
want to convey to his audience? Is it the idea that Jews are greedy capitalists 
or oppressive Communists? I really have no idea. This is truly bizarre. And 
offensive.In fact, Waters’ placement of the Star of David on an image of 
a pig is not far removed from the medieval Judensau – the iconic image 
portraying Jews sucking at the teats of a female pig and eating her 
excrement.This disgusting image was a staple of medieval and early 
modern art in Europe. Often, it was associated with the “blood libel” – the 
false and outrageous charge that Jews ritually murdered Christian children to 
siphon their blood for the baking of matzah.Waters is tapping into 
popular images of Jew-hatred that permeate Western culture, and promotes a 
modern “blood libel” in which Jews are accused of “ethnic cleansing” and 
genocide. His placement of a Jewish symbol on an animal repugnant to most Jews 
is meant to send a message to the world – divest from Israel because the Jewish 
state is an apartheid and racist entity that has no right to 
exist.Waters’ blatant anti-Semitism leaves me uncomfortably 
numb.Waters is a rock genius. But musical or artistic genius and 
creative expression are no excuse for anti-Semitism.No opera lover would 
deny the brilliance of German composer Richard Wagner. But Wagner’s hatred of 
Jews was notorious. He was, without doubt, an inspiration to Hitler and to 
Nazism. His anti-Semitic screed – Jewry in Music – was as much a part of the man 
as was his musical genius.To this day Jews, and survivors of the 
Holocaust in particular, still debate whether Wagner’s music should be preformed 
publicly in Israel. This is not about denying his genius. This is a condemnation 
of his racism and his successful attempt to legitimize hatred of Jews.Is 
Roger Waters any different from Richard Wagner? His leadership in the movement 
to isolate Israel as a pariah state is not about his criticism of a particular 
Israeli policy. It is all about the Star of David on the floating image of a 
pig.It is about legitimizing hatred of Israel and Jews. He teaches 
through his musical presentation, in a way similar to Wagner, that branding Jews 
as pariahs is acceptable and should be welcomed by his fans and fellow 
musicians.It is as much an expression of hatred of Jews as was the icon 
of Jews eating the excrement of the Judensau.
The author is rabbi of Beth 
Ami Congregation in Boca Raton, Florida.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>From truth denied to truth be told</title>
<date>30/3/2013</date>
<content>
Like President Barack Obama’s visit to Israel, the 9th annual Israel Apartheid 
Week (IAW) in March has come and gone. There has been a plethora of assessments 
on the President’s visit, so what was the score at UCT (University of Cape 
Town), an annual hotbed during IAW of vitriol and hate? All reports confirm 
a resounding victory not only for the inspired supporters of Israel but far more 
important – “the truth.”For those unfamiliar with Israel Apartheid Week 
– this “free-for-all” assault on the legitimacy of the Jewish state – IAW is 
an annual international series of events (including rallies, lectures, 
cultural performances, film screenings, multimedia displays and boycott of 
Israel actions) held in over 215 cities and campuses across the globe. It is as 
about as visually compelling as American wrestling with the most cerebrally 
dislodged throwing their weight into the ring.




They spin their spectacle 
“to raise awareness about Israel’s apartheid policies towards the 
Palestinians,” with the aim to support a global boycott, divestment, and 
sanctions against Israel. This motley lot with a skewered sense of selective 
morality – that high- lights the inconvenience of Israeli check- point security 
but ignores murder, mayhem and massacre perpetrated by Arabs – refers to itself 
as BDS.While the BD stands for “boycott” and “disinvestment,” it could 
just as easily stand for “bias” and “distortion.”The central strategy of 
this globally orchestrated anti-Semitic assault is to brand Israel an apartheid 
state. If achievable, than Israel, like the old apartheid South Africa, is 
morally beyond the pale and any hostile verbiage or action against it, is 
perfectly acceptable. It’s the same old tried and tested nefarious battle plan 
perfected in the Middle Ages – “Demonize the Jews and they are easy 
prey.”A template for today’s anti-Semites, it has morphed like a 
Machiavellian chameleon into – “Demonize Israel and it will inevitably crumble.” 
The aim practically is to prepare a global mindset to accept the call for sanctions against the Jewish State, like was implemented against the old apartheid 
regime. Elements in South Africa today – both in the ruling ANC party and 
government are like Haman of Purim infamy – at the forefront of this fiendish 
plot.However, this March at UCT, the IAW and BDS battle plan – mostly a 
repeat of the previous year – found less traction with a more enquiring and 
discerning public preferring to step into “Abraham’s Tent” on the central 
plaza before the monumental steps leading to the famous Jameson Hall. Welcomed 
in, they enjoyed ancient patriarchal Israeli hospitality. They also heard for 
the first time, another narrative where truth countered fiction.They 
heard about Israel’s desire and overtures for peace. They met successful 
Israeli Ethiopian students from the IDC Herzliya, exposing the myth about 
apartheid. They heard how an Arab Judge convicted and sentenced to jail an 
Israeli State President and were asked: “Would this have happened in apartheid 
South Africa?” They heard about an Arab being the captain of the Hapoel Tel 
Aviv soccer team and asked: “Would a black have been captain of the famed 
Springbok rugby team under apartheid?” They heard that an Ethiopian as black as 
many of the students standing before them, was the 2013 Miss Israel and asked: 
“Could a black girl, no matter how pretty, ever have been a ‘Miss South Africa’ 
during the old apartheid regime?” And had the IAW taken place two weeks later, 
they would have learned that the victor of the popular Israeli TV program, The 
Voice was won by an Arab girl from Acre. She was voted by millions of ordinary 
Israelis, who judged on merit not through the blinkered eyes of prejudice. They 
would have been asked: “Could that have ever happened in apartheid South 
Africa?” What changed at UCT this year? In the north of the country IAW was a 
different story – ugly and scary. The Israeli-born pianist, Yossie Reshef was 
escorted off stage by Wits Campus Control as students protested his presence by 
jumping on the stage and blowing their vuvuzelas. The con- cert was instantly 
cancelled before people had a chance to hear the first note. Members of the 
Wits Student Representative Council (SRC), Muslim Students Association (MSA), 
Palestinian Solidarity Committee (PSC) as well as Progressive Youth Alliance 
(PYA), called for the protest as “We did not want the concert to happen during 
international Israel Apartheid week.”As SRC Vice-President Tokelo 
Nhlapo told the press, “This guy,” who incidentally lives in Berlin, “is trying 
to undermine Israel Apartheid week.”However, nothing more so captured 
the mood and prevailing venomous mindset than the chilling words of student 
activist Mbuyiseni Ndlozi who addressed the crowd after they stormed the hall 
saying – excuse the speaker’s English – “Our visitors must understand that we 
are Wits students in good standing. They must understand that in this 
university, Zionism will not enjoy anymore. They will not bring anything 
related, sponsored, corroborating with Israel and will expect it will be 
romantically accepted.”How come there was not sufficient protection 
for the overseas guest artist? How come this blow not only to person but to the 
image of the university was absorbed with hardly a public outcry? Down in Cape 
Town IAW did not have it so easy!! Three months earlier, the Cape Town Jewish 
community sent out three students to Israel to prepare for IAW.“We 
were appalled at what we saw and heard during the Israel Apartheid Week the 
previous year,” said Luigi Bonfig one of the UCT students, who together with 
Carla Frumer, organized Israel Peace Week. “However, we were even more 
appalled at what we did not see and hear.“Where were the voices 
countering the lies and distortions? The demonizers and delegitimizers of 
Israel had a free reign. Halls were denied availability for any pro-Israel 
presentations, and wherever attempts were made to speak in hurriedly found 
alternate premises, speakers were drowned out by riotous behavior.”For 
the few valiantly struggling to present the case for Israel, it felt like 
“intellectual apartheid” – there was only one “truth” – all other narratives 
were crushed.“Never again,” emerged as their battle cry and in January, 
sponsored by the Western Province Zionist Counsel, the three students arrived in 
Israel for five weeks where they were exposed to Israel and its conflicts in its 
entirety. A third student, Ilse, who is not Jewish, represented the Cape Town 
colored com- munity, who are the predominant population group in the Western 
Cape. What she had to say was most revealing.“My community knows only 
two things about Israel. One, it’s where Jesus Christ was born and this is 
important to them as Christians, and secondly, what they read daily in the 
local papers criticizing Israel. Two thousand years of history in-between is a 
blur.Their ignorance of the issues is so basic that I intend taking 
photos of public benches to show that there are no signs that say, for ‘Jews or 
Arabs only,’” an iconic image of the old apartheid regime.“It is this 
level of ignorance that we are dealing with and presents such fertile ground for 
the purveyors of lies to create the illusion of a similarity between apartheid 
South Africa and Israel today,” explained Ilse.The three students met 
many former South Africans in Israel, attended an advocacy workshop organized 
by Telfed and members of the new group Truth be Told (TbT) which sets out to 
correct false reporting on Israel in the foreign press as well as accurately 
presenting Israel’s case abroad.TbT participated in the sending out of 
the five IDC, Herzliya Ethiopian students to South Africa and ran seminar 
sessions in preparing them for South Africa.The student delegation 
passed with flying colors, enveloped by the local Cape Town Jewish community as 
instant family – “we were unhappy to see them go,” was the general consensus. 
But the job of work they did there was superlative in exposing the apartheid 
accusation. Nothing could best illustrate this than when a young woman student 
at UCT from Saudi Arabia - all modestly covered up – entered ‘Abraham’s Tent’ 
and began berating Israel for its apartheid policies and saying, “please 
understand, I’m pro- Palestinian.” “There is nothing wrong in being 
pro-Palestinian, we’re all for it,” replied one of the Israeli Ethiopian 
students.“However, before we continue, I have just one question to ask 
you, just one,” emphasizing her point.“Yes,” replied the Saudi 
student.“Can you as a woman drive in your country?” The Saudi was 
speechless.”So you are not permitted to do as basic a thing as drive a 
car in your country, which every man or woman, Jew, Christian or Muslim can do 
in mine and you speak to me about apartheid. It appears it is you and not I that 
live in an apartheid state.” The Saudi student left the tent failing to avail 
herself of a complimentary pita with falafel and humous. Fed on a diet of lies 
and distortions, she was unprepared how to digest a cuisine of truth. A black 
Ethiopian living free in Israel held a mirror to her that reflected that her 
gender in Saudi Arabia was treated as inferior, and there was no hiding away 
from that - even behind her burka! Like the organizers of IAW at Wits 
complaining about the Jewish pianist performing on campus, so too the organizers 
at UCT complained: “You could have held your ‘Israel Peace Week’ before or 
afterwards, why at the same time?” It amounted to an admission of defeat that at 
week’s end was all too evident when the organizers of IAW and BDS decided to 
hold an off-campus panel discussion against Israel at the large squatter camp in 
Hout Bay, an affluent suburb of Cape Town. The disparity between the “haves” and 
“have-nots” is so visually glaring and so it was with such arrogance and lack 
of sensitivity that the squad of Israel-bashers as panelists, entered the squatter camps local town hall, ready to spew their venom. The audience would have 
none of it.“We need fresh running water, we need housing not tin shacks 
that leak throughout winter. We need electricity and jobs so we can feed our 
families and you speak to us about the Palestinians an Israel. What are you 
going to do for us to remove the misery of our lives before you talk to us about 
issues that we know nothing about?” The panelists had no credible answer. The 
final indignity came when someone in the audience cut the meeting short asking 
the panel to leave, “as we need the hall for our next meeting.”Let me 
leave you with the words of Luigi Bonfig, the organizer of Israel Peace week, 
who wrote the following: “Today I was reminded how often Jews are told: to 
forget about the Holocaust, to forget about the past and move on.to 
understand that the Holocaust is no justification for Israel to be a state, to 
know that Jews are safe to live anywhere in the world.“Today, on the 
steps of Jammie Plaza, at UCT, a university that stood as a bastion of equality 
and free speech in the height of apartheid, an African student leading the voice 
of students under his organization announced to the university that: ‘It is okay 
for Palestinians to kill Israelis because they have the devil inside them.’ 
“Today, I say as a South African, I am ashamed that a fellow South African 
sought to justify the destruction of another people.“Today, I was 
reminded why Israel exists and must continue to exist.Today, I realized 
I can no longer be silent.And neither should you.”
David E. 
Kaplan is an editor and correspondent of a number of English magazines in Israel 
and Co-founder of Truth be Told (TbT).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Fundamentally Freund: A bit of hasbara heresy</title>
<date>18/3/2013</date>
<content>
Complaining about Israel’s hasbara, or public diplomacy, has become a favorite 
national pastime of pro-Israel activists.Whenever I speak to Jewish or 
Christian audiences in Israel and abroad, there is inevitably someone who feels 
it necessary to launch into a harangue about just how terrible the Jewish state 
is at explaining itself.




Jews are among the most successful marketing and 
public-relations executives worldwide, the questioner might ask, and excel at 
promoting a variety of consumer products. Why, oh why, can’t Jews do as good a 
job at selling the Jewish state? Having been involved in hasbara in one form or 
another for more than two decades, I certainly share the sense of 
frustration.I remember well how, in the mid-1990s, when I served as 
deputy communications director in the Prime Minister’s Office during Binyamin 
Netanyahu’s first term, we devoted countless hours to tackling just this 
issue.Is it the hostility of the media that stands in the way? A lack of 
appreciation on the part of various government bodies for the importance of PR? 
Or perhaps it is Israel’s fractious politics, and the mixed messages that often 
emerge, which truly complicate things.Whatever the true cause of our 
troubles, there is no doubt that our standing in the eyes of international 
public opinion remains a matter of grave concern. Amid rising calls for boycotts 
and sanctions from radical anti-Israel forces, and the hurling of slurs such as 
“apartheid,” it seems imperative to redouble our efforts at explaining the 
justness of Israel’s cause.Nonetheless, I am beginning to wonder if 
perhaps our heightened focus on what is wrong has led us to overlook a lot of 
what is right.Consider the following. As President Barack Obama prepares 
to arrive in our region and snarl traffic over the next few days, Israelis 
received some good news regarding our oft-maligned international public 
image.According to a survey conducted by Gallup, US support for Israel 
is at the highest level seen in nearly a quarter-century, with 64 percent of 
Americans saying they sympathize more with Israel than with the Palestinians. A 
mere 12% said they favor our foes.The last time the Jewish state enjoyed 
such levels of support was back in 1991, when Saddam Hussein was firing SCUD 
missiles at Tel Aviv and the Palestinian intifada was raging.And in the 
past decade alone, US backing for Israel has surged by 18 points from its 2003 
level of just 46 percent.The support is also broad-based, cutting across 
various demographic groups from young to old, men and women, and from the 
uneducated to those with advanced degrees.To put this in perspective: a 
similar Gallup poll taken at the same time found that a majority of Americans, 
53% to 40%, hold an unfavorable view of Egypt. In the case of Saudi Arabia, the 
numbers are even worse: 58% of the US public views the desert kingdom 
unfavorably versus just 36% with a positive opinion.So when compared 
with the two countries which the media often portrays as America’s most 
important Arab allies in the region, Israel finds itself in a far better public 
position.What makes these numbers all the more impressive is the fact 
that the Jewish state has been on the receiving end of unprecedented media bias 
and partiality. Just check out the important work being done by groups such as 
Honest Reporting or CAMERA (the Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting 
in America) to expose and counter anti- Israel slander and you will see how 
twisted the coverage of our region can often be.But this raises an 
important question: if the mainstream media is so profoundly against us, then 
why are we doing so well in the arena of American public opinion? If the image 
being conveyed of Israel is so consistently negative, then why do people there 
seem to like us so much? To be sure, there are a number of possible answers, 
ranging from the groundswell of evangelical Christian support for Israel to the 
penetration of the Internet and its ability to circumvent traditional media 
outlets. Either way, the fact remains that we must be doing something right in 
how we explain ourselves if our public standing in America is so strong and 
resilient.Some may view this as a bit of hasbara heresy, a form of 
violating the nearly sacred belief that our public diplomacy is simply putrid. 
But I prefer to think of it as a healthy dose of reality. After all, in order to 
put together an effective communications strategy, the first thing one must do 
is assess the playing field and get a good sense of what one’s position is in 
the eyes of the public.Telling ourselves that everything stinks, even 
when it doesn’t, is neither helpful nor truthful.Yes, we have to roll up 
our sleeves and keep fighting the good fight to defend Israel and its 
image.
But in the process, let’s make sure to savor and learn from our 
successes, rather than downplay and ignore them.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Gay rights are human rights</title>
<date>19/5/2013</date>
<content>
The invitation was so unexpected, and email scams are becoming so sophisticated, that I was sure this was one of the latter: “The Ambassador of the United States of America... a reception in honor of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Community in Israel.”Well really! How stupid did the sender think I was? Except that it wasn’t a scam, and the US ambassador to Israel, Daniel B. Shapiro, really did “...request the pleasure of [my] company” at the reception at his elegant Herzliya Pituah home last Thursday.




It was in 1976 that I responded to an ad in the “Personals” of The Jerusalem Post, suggesting support for the gay community. I needed help to escape from the stifling and frightening prison, aka “the gay closet.”The Society for the Protection of Personal Rights had recently been established – the very first gay-rights association in Israel, probably in the entire Middle East, and then still one of the few in the world outside of the US.It was there that I took my first tottering steps as an openly gay man. It was there that for the first time in my life I met gay men and women who were already comfortable with who they were. It was there that I discovered that I wasn’t alone, wasn’t sick, wasn’t a criminal and wasn’t destined for a life of despair. I learned that I too was entitled to human rights, even though I was one of the mostly-still-hated 10 percent.Did I mention the stifling closet? Only 12 years later I was already ready to sue my employer for workplace discrimination against me simply because I am homosexual. My partner and I (we’ve been a couple now for 33 years) discussed strategies before I went to court: first the Tel Aviv District Labor Court, then the National Labor Court and finally the Supreme Court. My employer lost at each level and today my name stands on one of 10 most important Supreme Court cases (at least the last time I checked at the Supreme Court Museum). Talk about gay pride.But that’s not the reason Ambassador Shapiro invited me.PFLAG (Parents & Family of Lesbians & Gays) is a US-based self-help organization I once encountered on a trip to the US. My own family was ultimately very supportive, even though their Orthodox religious background had placed them in a quandary. But I knew from many friends that many families struggle and suffer terribly when a child/sibling finally comes out of the closet. I saw the necessity for, and was instrumental in, founding Israel’s version of PFLAG, called TEHILA, a Hebrew acronym for Support for Parents of gay/lesbian children. It is no exaggeration to say that the now 20-something volunteer-based organization has saved countless families from collapse, not to mention lives. (Over 30% of teenage suicides are gay, even though they comprise about 10% of the population.) I was deeply honored to be able to accept the invitation on behalf of the hundreds of TEHILA volunteers, nameless they shall remain, and I was deeply honored to be at the reception last Thursday, rubbing shoulders with parliamentary dignitaries from a range of political parties, representatives (including at least two ambassadors) from other embassies, religious leaders, and some of the great movers and shakers of Israel’s vibrant LGBT community.The theme of the ambassador’s words as he addressed the guests resonates: “Gay rights are human rights; human rights include gay rights.”I asked the ambassador why the US embassy had initiated the event. He said, “Today is the eve of IDAHO – the International Day Against Homophobia. It is an appropriate day to fulfill a new US State Department policy of outreach, worldwide, to the LGBT community.Military policy in America followed Israel’s, after President Barack Obama cancelled the pernicious ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ policy that forced gay military personnel into the closet. Israel is a world leader in gay rights, thanks to the vibrant, active LGBT community, and we are delighted to host you to honor your human rights activism.”In his eloquent speech the ambassador reminded us that in almost 80 countries around the world, homosexuality is still considered illegal and that “throughout the world, human rights defenders are fighting for these very rights, and it is a credit to Israel and to all of you that here those rights are secure.”Being gay itself is not a matter of pride. I did nothing to “achieve” that status – it was bestowed upon me; I don’t know how or why. But coming out of the closet is a matter of pride and dignity. “Gay pride” is simply the opposite of gay shame, of gay fear, of the gay closet. Being gay really is not a matter of “pride,” just as being tall, having red hair or being able to wiggle one’s ears is not either.Your own neighbor, sister, father, daughter or boss might be homosexual, but you just don’t know it...yet. Ambassador Shapiro and his gracious wife, Julie, marched in Tel Aviv’s pride parade last year “...and we intend to support the community and march again this year,” he added.The party was a ball. I’m 68, and this is the first time I’ve ever been invited to an embassy reception in my own right. I hope to live to see the day the US recognizes the right of single-sex couples to marry. Israel is far, far ahead of most states in the US, and even of most Western nations as far as protecting the human rights of the LGBT community. I might even live to see civil and single-sex marriages become legal in Israel.Then it will have all been worth it. That will be our gift to coming generations. In the meantime, TEHILA’s volunteers do marvelous work in restoring the dignity, pride and self-respect of LGBT people and their families, and in helping LGBT persons to belong, proudly, to civilized society.
The writer is the author of a new book, “Flying Colors” (Books.at.Basel, 03-5467405) about his youth in apartheid South Africa and his experiences as an El Al flight attendant. He also established TEHILA – a self-help organization for parents and families of gay men and lesbians.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Germans lurching toward anti-Semitism</title>
<date>27/2/2013</date>
<content>
In the 
aftermath of the Holocaust, successive German governments have meticulously 
upheld their obligations to the Jewish people. Study of the Holocaust is a 
mandatory component of the German state education curriculum, Holocaust denial 
is classified as a crime and restitution commitments were honored and even 
exceeded.Chancellor Angela Merkel is a genuine friend of the Jews and 
despite intense political pressures and occasional minor vacillations has 
consistently supported Israel, describing its security as “part of my country’s 
raison d’être.” However, in recent years, as in other European countries, German 
public opinion has turned against Israel, perceiving it as the principal threat 
to global stability and peace. This hostility has increasingly assumed overt 
anti-Semitic tones.




There is growing resentment against Jews, who are 
blamed for imposing excessive emphasis on collective German national guilt for 
the Holocaust. Anti-Jewish hostility is often expressed in the more “politically 
respectable” demonization of the Jewish nation state, allegedly not related to 
anti-Semitism although the “Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe” 
(OSCE) explicitly defines such behavior as anti-Semitic.The German Left has 
accused Israel of war crimes, occupation and racism and also engages in inverse 
Holocaust imagery, enthusiastically condemning Israel for allegedly behaving 
toward the Palestinians as its Nazi forebears did to the Jews.When 
reproached for engaging in anti-Semitism, the Left condemns the “global Zionist 
propaganda machine” for seeking to deny Germans the right to criticize Israeli 
government policies. These trends are fortified by the sizable Islamic migrant 
community – now numbering over four million – which aggressively agitates 
against Israel, utilizing obscene placards at demonstrations, chanting “gas the 
Jews” or “death to the Jews.” Muslims are at the forefront of violence directed 
at identifiable Jews in urban areas, especially in Berlin, where some Jewish 
communal leaders are now recommending Jews avoid wearing kipot in 
public.Yet, the government has welcomed the immigration of almost 
200,000 former Soviet Jews and invested major funds to resurrect a vigorous 
Jewish communal life and foster Jewish education. Despite receiving state 
subsidies, the Jewish leadership displays its independence and frequently speaks 
out if it thinks the government is not fulfilling its obligations to the Jewish 
community, or failing to act evenhandedly toward Israel.However, the 
intensification of extreme anti-Israeli hostility combined with a recent spate 
of disconcerting incidents has created angst within the Jewish 
community.Last year, there was a traumatic national debate which assumed 
ugly anti-Semitic overtones after a judgment in Cologne ruled that male 
circumcision causes “bodily harm” and declared the practice illegal.The 
matter was only resolved following the direct intervention of Chancellor Merkel, 
who initiated the passage of legislation legalizing circumcision. In April 2012, 
in a provocative outburst, 84-year-old Nobel laureate Gunter Grass bitterly 
accused the Israeli government of seeking to obliterate the Iranian 
population.He warned that the Jewish state, which he considers “insane 
and unscrupulous,” represents the principal obstacle to peace in the region and 
called on his government to cancel delivery to Israel of the last Dolphin 
submarine.Despite being discredited for having initially concealed that 
he had served as a member of the Nazi Waffen SS, Grass’s vicious attack on 
Israel, while condemned by numerous politicians and journalists, was 
enthusiastically endorsed by many Germans.Shortly after that incident, 
the state-sponsored Berlin Jewish Museum invited Judith Butler, a notorious 
Jewish promoter of BDS against Israel, as a guest lecturer. Butler received 
enthusiastic applause from the 700-strong audience when, purporting to act in 
accordance with the highest Jewish moral values, she renewed calls to boycott 
Israel and “abolish political Zionism” in order to create a bi-national 
Palestinian state. To provide a platform for such an outspoken anti-Israeli 
activist at a state-sponsored Jewish museum in Berlin is surely obscene, but not 
unprecedented.Former Israeli communist Felicia Langer lives in Germany, 
where she condemns the German government for supporting Israel, constantly 
equates Israelis with Nazis, calls for Israeli leaders to be tried as war 
criminals, describes Israel as an apartheid regime and even praises Iranian 
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. In August 2009, German president Horst Kohler, 
who four years earlier had addressed the Knesset, shocked the Jewish community 
by honoring Langer with the Federal Cross of Merit, Germany’s most prestigious 
award.In 2010, despite protests from the Israeli Embassy, Frankfurt’s 
mayor, Petra Roth, invited Alfred Grosser, a German-born Jew known to be 
frenziedly hostile to Israel, to give the annual Kristallnacht oration in the 
Paul’s Church. He used the occasion to draw parallels between the behavior of 
Israelis and Nazis and was lauded by the media.Another ongoing scandal 
prevails at the German Center on anti-Semitism in Berlin, considered the most 
important German institute engaged with the subject. Until last year it was 
headed by Professor Wolfgang Benz, who received his PhD from Professor Karl 
Bosl, a former Nazi stormtrooper who maintains an ongoing association with 
right-wing extremist groups.To this day, Benz continues defending his 
mentor.Benz equates Islamophobia with anti-Semitism, alleging that 
critics of Islamic practice are reminiscent of Nazi anti-Semites attacking the 
Talmud. He recently challenged the fact that the Muslim terrorist murders in 
Toulouse had an “anti-Semitic dimension.” He dismisses concerns about the Muslim 
Brotherhood as being reminiscent of anti-Semitic phobias like The Protocols of 
the Elders of Zion and bizarrely complains that drawing attention to the fact 
that Muslims comprise 70 percent of Berlin prison inmates is comparable to 
Hitler’s ravings over “the fact that 89% of Berlin pediatricians in the 1930s 
were Jews.”The Center focuses on right-wing extremism and largely 
ignores or understates left-wing and Islamic anti-Semitism. Yet, despite 
protests, no effort has been made to redirect the activities of this government 
funded institute. The most recent upheaval erupted in response to a list 
compiled by the US-based Simon Wiesenthal Center, purporting to identify the 10 
worst anti-Semitic statements of 2012. It included President Ahmadinejad, the 
Muslim Brotherhood, Nation of Islam founder Louis Farrakhan, and European 
antiSemites. Ninth on the list was Jakob Augstein, publisher of the magazine Der 
Freitag, who also provides columns to Der Spiegel, Germany’s leading weekly, 
founded by his father.I have an aversion to simplistic lists 
prioritizing bigots and having reviewed some of Augstein’s outbursts, I consider 
that bracketing him with Ahmadinejad or Farrakhan absurdly magnifies his 
standing and impact. But nevertheless, his outbursts, by any benchmark, warrant 
describing him as an anti-Semite.Augstein alleges that when “Jerusalem 
calls, Berlin bows [to] its will”; that US presidents were obliged to “secure 
the support of Jewish lobby groups”; that American Republicans and the Israeli 
government profit from violence in Libya, Sudan and Yemen; that “the Netanyahu 
government keeps the world on a leash with an ever swelling war chant”; that 
“Israel incubates its opponents in Gaza”; that the recent Prophet Mohammed video 
provoking riots was initiated by Israel; that ultra-Orthodox Jews are like 
Islamic fundamentalist terrorists and “follow the law of revenge.”Even 
the broadest interpretation of the OSCE definition would qualify such 
demonization of Israel and allusions to Jewish global power as 
anti-Semitic.In response, Augstein shamelessly claimed that being 
opposed to Jew hatred and “deeply respecting” the Simon Wiesenthal Center, he 
was distressed to be defamed as an anti-Semite.Prominent German Jewish 
writer and commentator Henryk Broder was sufficiently outraged to describe 
Augstein as “a pure anti-Semite... who only missed the opportunity to make his 
career with the Gestapo because he was born after the war.” The president of the 
Jewish Central Council of Jews, Dieter Graumann, while condemning his “horrible, 
hideous” articles on Israel, criticized his placement on such a list. His vice 
president, Salomon Korn, went further and foolishly defended Augstein against 
charges of anti-Semitism.Juliane Wetzel from the German Center on 
antiSemitism was among those who rejected suggestions that Augstein was 
disseminating hatred of Jews. Overall, the bulk of the German media, as well as 
both leftist and CDU politicians defended him, insisting that he was merely 
expressing legitimate criticism of Israel.It was significant that in 
2010, two Bundestag leftist representatives were aboard the Turkish Marvi 
Marmara and that for the first time, the Left and the Right united in parliament 
to carry a unanimous resolution censuring Israel for the Gaza flotilla episode. 
This in itself may not represent anti-Semitism, but reflects the atmosphere of 
increasing hostility against Israel which would have been inconceivable in 
Germany only a few years ago.For Jews, the positive side of Germany is 
the evident abundance of pro-Israeli and even philo-Semitic rank-and-file Germans 
in all walks of life. Yet simultaneously, the intensifying efforts by left-wing 
activists uniting with Muslim extremists, and occasionally even Nazis, to 
demonize Israel and promote anti-Semitism, provide valid grounds for concern 
about a future for Jews in Germany.The situation is likely to further 
deteriorate drastically after the culmination of Angela Merkel’s term as 
chancellor.
The writer’s website can be viewed at 
www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at ileibler@leibler.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Grumpy Old Man: Tell the truth</title>
<date>15/3/2013</date>
<content>
I received an email last week from an organization calling itself Americans for 
Peace and Tolerance. The email warned about Israel Apartheid Week, a 
concerted effort by the country’s harsher critics (and, yes, enemies) to 
solidify their claim that we are no better than white South Africa used to be, 
and even worse. It’s become an annual event throughout the United States, Canada 
and some other countries, primarily on campuses.“What can our side do?” 
the email said in part. “Tell the truth: that this is a lie and that the real 
apartheid in the Middle East is Arab Apartheid, where women, gays, Christians, 
Jews and other minorities are subjugated, humiliated, raped, and 
slaughtered.” 




Can’t argue with that.“We need the Jewish students 
on campus to use THIS argument – not to say, as some of our feckless leaders are 
telling them to say: ‘We are not so bad as they say we are.’” With that approach 
I can argue.Although the organization includes in its email a link to an 
article that can help students counter the apartheid charge, it will take far 
more if we are to be truly effective purveyors of hasbara, the much-used Hebrew 
word for public diplomacy, because the problems begin when we throw around 
accusations. We tend to generalize. We lack or ignore precise facts and figures 
to back up our assertions. We also succumb to our prejudices. And sometimes we 
act as if we ourselves have no shortcomings, so when someone else brings them 
up, we are totally unprepared with a counter-argument or absolutely unwilling to 
say that our interlocutor is right.AFTER FIGHTING as a reservist in 
Lebanon in 1982, I joined a Jewish Agency project called the Zionist 
Caravan. The Caravan was an annual undertaking that sent young North 
American immigrants (and, later, young immigrants from elsewhere) back to the 
old country for a few weeks of traveling from city to city, campus to campus, to 
explain what life in Israel was really like. The idea was that if this could cut 
through some of the misconceptions and perhaps even plant thoughts of aliya, 
terrific.In November 1982, considering the Lebanon fighting and the bad 
press Israel had received (much of it due to shallow and sloppy foreign 
reporting, but some of it entirely justified and even understated), the Caravan 
spent the majority of its time trying to repair the damage. As the “war veteran” 
among its members, it fell to me to talk about what really had 
transpired.We were on a campus in Michigan, a state with a sizable Arab 
population, and had set up a table at the student center. A lot of the young 
people seemed to ignore us, but some wanted information and others stopped to 
debate. A few among the latter were loud, vehement and ugly in their arguments. 
One brought to my attention a pamphlet on our table that had been prepared by 
the Foreign Ministry.A photo in the pamphlet showed an installation on 
the roof of a building. The installation had a large, gun-barrel-like protrusion 
reaching out horizontally over the edge of the roof. The caption said the 
building was a hospital in Beirut and that the installation was a large-caliber 
anti-aircraft gun.The message was clear: The Arabs do their fighting 
while hiding not only behind civilians, but behind ailing and injured civilians. 
What’s more, they do so in the hope that either the IDF will refrain from firing 
back or that it will indeed shoot, launch missiles or drop bombs and kill so 
many wretched, harmless people that the world will recoil in revulsion and come 
down firmly on the Arab side.As a soldier I knew that this reflected a 
great measure of truth. But the student said this was no gun. When I 
looked closely I saw he was right: It was a mechanized winch designed to lift 
heavy loads, and was identical to winches on roofs I had seen just about 
everywhere in Israel.Not entirely grasping for a way out, I agreed and 
said that perhaps it had been placed there to draw Israeli fire. Perhaps, the 
student agreed. But it clearly was not a weapon, and if we were saying it was, 
what else were we lying about? That one caption nullified everything we might 
have gained with our arguments on that campus.IT IS true that this 
country is not nearly as bad as the Israel Apartheid Week people and their ilk 
insist we are. But we can be bad, well beyond the bad of numbskull public 
relations, and even disgusting. And in so doing, self-defeating.Take 
those separate bus lines for West Bank Palestinians. Whoever thought them 
up clearly doesn’t understand – as the activists at Americans for Peace and 
Tolerance do – that a good part of the war for our survival is being waged on 
the battleground of public relations. Israel Apartheid Week, after all, is a PR 
campaign nonpareil. Look how it’s got us all atither.Wrongly, however, 
the organization is recommending that students (and, by extension, the rest of 
us) basically ignore what the people behind Israel Apartheid Week say about the 
Jewish state and instead simply tell everyone that the other side is worse – as 
if anyone cares, considering all the double standards with which we and our 
supporters must contend. Even worse than that, it’s as if the group is saying 
that doing bad or stupid things to a lesser degree than our enemy makes it all 
right.I say there is nothing “feckless” in confronting our own mistakes 
and shortcomings, even in public, as long as it’s put in the proper perspective 
and given the necessary context. Further, there is nothing wrong in standing up 
for contentious policies, as long as they can be justified. I personally believe 
our settlement policy is unwise, primarily because of the cost, whether in 
treasure or public perceptions. But someone who is willing to pay the price can 
point to more than a few powerful and compelling reasons why Jews cannot be 
barred from living in the heartland of their heritage.Just know your 
arguments. And don’t obfuscate.That goes for you, too, Americans for 
Peace and Tolerance.You describe yourself as being “dedicated to 
promoting peaceful coexistence in a [sic] ethnically diverse America by 
educating the American public about the need for a moderate political leadership 
that supports tolerance and core American values in communities across the 
nation.”I’ll forgive your grammar. Yet a more than cursory stroll 
through your website shows that your ire is reserved mostly, if not solely, for 
extreme Islam. This is fine. But what about Christian extremists and Jewish 
extremists? Granted, they don’t fly airliners into skyscrapers or blow 
themselves up on city buses, but they are out there and they make their views 
known and felt. They have their haters, too. And many are in 
America.So just as I say to Israel supporters everywhere, I say to 
Americans for Peace and Tolerance: Tell the truth. Call yourself 
Americans for Peace and Tolerance among Islamists. Nothing wrong with that. You 
do good work. Or leave the name and go after all dangerous fundamentalists. Were 
I the joining type, I would join. But tell the whole truth.
We all should 
tell the whole truth, even about our beloved Israel – smartly, without fear and 
without shame. Like we say in Hebrew, call the child by its name.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Harvard, Jewish values – and Israel</title>
<date>27/3/2013</date>
<content>
Going to Harvard was my childhood dream. The culprit: the Harvard Club in New 
York City. The place is awe-inspiring, full of high ceilings and stuffed animal 
heads. There’s even a woman who sits at the entrance to make sure visitors are 
dressed appropriately.Behavior is governed by rules that are difficult 
to master. These days, when I head to the Club for an event or to interview 
prospective students, I dread unwittingly violating a rule! My dad was a Club 
member. He took my family there when I was a kid. If the Club is awe-inspiring 
for adults, imagine the effect it had on a little girl. When I was six, during 
dinner at the Club, I informed my mother that I would be going to Harvard for 
college.




Thrilled is not a big enough word for what I felt when I was 
accepted to Harvard over 10 years later. It was a benediction. My confidence 
soared. From the day I opened my acceptance letter in December until the 
following August, when freshman year started, I floated on a cloud of eager 
anticipation.My parents drove me up to the campus in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. When they dropped me off at my dorm, my mom gave me a handwritten 
note with words of wisdom to guide me now that I was on my own. In addition to 
advising me that “hot showers always help when you’re sad,” and “men like women 
who listen,” the note exhorted me to “find the Jews.”This confused me. 
Like New York City, Harvard is 25 percent Jewish. It seemed that I would stumble 
upon a lot of Jews without having to seek them out. I was aware of the 1920s-era 
“Jewish quota,” an Ivy League admissions policy that limited the number of 
Jewish students. As Jerome Karabel explains in his book The Chosen: The Hidden 
History of Admission and Exclusion at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, the policy 
was based on a conviction that “‘character’ was... in short supply among 
Jews....” I knew those days were over. In 1999, when I was a freshman, Harvard 
welcomed Jews.Yet Harvard’s history is not defined by Jewish cultural 
influence. The name of my freshman dorm, Wigglesworth, attests to that. I didn’t 
have to do research to figure out that Mr. Wigglesworth was not 
Jewish.Ivy League social clubs (which look like the Harvard Club 
inside), too, are not in the Jewish tradition. These private “final clubs” were 
still open only to men in 1999.Becoming a member was a rigorous process 
that involved many “comp (audition) rounds,” consisting mostly of cocktail 
parties at which hopeful members showed off their social graces. Just as 
suburban high school cheerleaders make the rest of the (less blond, less 
cheerful) girls feel bad, many of the male Harvard students felt inferior in the 
presence of socially adept final club members.Most Harvard men wanted 
(secretly or not-so-secretly) to be final club members. At the very least, both 
of my serious college boyfriends did. Though these two men were different in 
many respects, both were Jewish and funny. You never knew what either of them 
would say.Both endured the pride-swallowing comp process at a final club 
called the Delphic. Neither made the cut. Being rejected by these clubs cast 
each man’s awkwardness and even Jewishness in stark relief.I was prone 
to awkwardness and funny but inappropriate comments myself, but I was a girl. 
Final clubs had looser standards for women (or at least looser standards for 
getting into parties). For women, good looks trumped awkwardness and a tendency 
to tell socially inept jokes.For me, getting into parties was easy. 
(Talking to people once inside was another story).Then my turn came. I 
joined the Harvard Lampoon, a different kind of social club, and a co-ed one. 
Lampoon members wrote and published a humor magazine. They also spent a lot of 
time mocking suave final club men and concocting plots to attract pretty girls. 
The Lampoon had a “comp” too. One member assured me that “it was not a social 
comp,” meaning that the Lampoon comp tested humor writing skills, not social 
ones.Social or not, the Lampoon comp was emotionally 
grueling.The boyfriend I was dating during the miserable and humiliating 
process made an astute comment about the Lampoon: “It’s not for Jews.” (If only 
he had been so self-aware about the Delphic!) At the time, I didn’t know what he 
meant.Now I understand.It’s not that Jews are excluded from 
final clubs. The Lampoon in particular has quite a few Jewish 
members.The bottom line is that “social comps” clash with Jewish values. 
Testing a person’s willingness to humiliate himself (or herself!) to gain 
membership in an exclusive club tends to be low on our list of priorities. 
Jewish tradition prizes intelligence above social grace, authenticity above 
pretence.I take great pride in being a Harvard alumna. I am so very 
lucky I had the chance to go to this intellectually exhilarating school. It was 
a great match for me. I tolerated the Lampoon comp because I knew being a member 
would be fun, and it was. To this day, some of my dearest friends are from 
Harvard. I am delighted that, as a full-fledged Harvard Club member, I no longer 
need to wait for my dad to take me to dinner there! Yet I know the mismatch 
between Harvard’s values and Jewish values extends to campus animosity toward 
Israel.That is a difficult pill to swallow.The recent “Israeli 
Apartheid Week” highlighted the tension. Held annually for the past few years, 
mostly on college campuses in the US and Canada, its goal is to depict Israel as 
an apartheid state. During Israeli Apartheid Week this year, the Harvard 
Palestine Solidarity Committee posted mock eviction notices on student dorm-room 
doors.This was a shrewd way to attract attention. And the Harvard 
administration did not respond aggressively. If it had, it would have been 
viewed as allying itself with Israel. There may have been a pull toward 
resisting this perception.Harvard is a bastion of liberal political 
convictions.Politically conservative students are in the minority, and 
they are marginalized. Being anti-Israel is subsumed under the umbrella of 
“liberalism.” At Harvard, if you are pro-choice and pro-gay rights – as most 
students are, or hold themselves out to be – it seems to follow that you are 
anti-Israel. Meeting opposition and hostility when I voiced pro-Israel ideas 
made me feel like an outsider.I wish liberalism could be divorced from 
anti-Israel sentiments at Harvard. I wish Israel was not held to more stringent 
standards than are other counties. These are modest goals. Israel’s policies are 
not unassailable, but blind devotion to them is no more necessary than it is 
warranted. I simply wish it wasn’t cool to be anti-Israel at Harvard.
The 
writer is an attorney in New York.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hawking, Goldstone and political warfare</title>
<date>12/5/2013</date>
<content>
When renowned physicist Steven Hawking canceled his participation in President 
Shimon Peres’s annual conference in Jerusalem, he gave the worldwide campaign to 
delegitimize Israel a major battlefield success. This well-financed political war 
was launched in September 2001, at the NGO Forum of the UN’s Durban Conference 
on Racism, and exploits false allegations of war crimes, “apartheid,” and 
“ethnic cleansing” as its principle weapons. The final text called for “the 
complete international isolation” of Israel, which is tantamount to the 
elimination of nation-state of the Jewish people.The Durban campaign and 
its abuse of human rights claims was the central factor in Hawking’s action. He 
had previously been a supporter of Israel, but in 2009 denounced the military 
operation in Gaza, referring to the response to Palestinian rocket attacks 
against Israeli civilians as “plain out of proportion....




The situation 
is like that of South Africa before 1990 and cannot continue.”This 
language is an accurate summary of the infamous Goldstone Report, which copied 
texts from hundreds of condemnations from the network of political NGOs that had 
previously authored and endorsed the Durban statement.Goldstone’s report 
and the NGO publications on which it was based have since been thoroughly 
discredited, and Goldstone himself disowned the allegations after the absurdity 
of the claims and contradictions in his report were too obvious to 
ignore.Although a highly respected judge, Goldstone failed to look 
beyond the NGO political façade when he took on this role, and when he belatedly 
acknowledged his own failures, it was too late to reverse the impact on the 
delegitimization campaign.Similarly, although Hawking is a scientist, 
when it comes to politics, he has violated all of the tenets of independent 
inquiry in examining the evidence (or its absence), instead succumbing to the 
propaganda campaign of the Durban process. The professor acknowledges relying on 
leaders of the anti- Israel campaigns to mold his assessments, explaining, “I 
have received a number of emails from Palestinian academics. They are 
unanimous that I should respect the boycott. In view of this, I must withdraw 
from the conference.”This is hardly the result of a rational or moral 
decision.At the same time, the Israeli government shares much of the 
blame for the failure to rebuff these repeated attacks in the political war. The 
campaign to delegitimize Israel began with its founding, and has not stopped 
since. In the early decades (before the pretext of occupation after the 1967 
war), the Arab League boycott office, located in Damascus, persuaded many firms, 
including Pepsi and American Express, not to do business with Israel. And anyone 
with an Israeli visa in their passport was barred from entering Arab 
countries.Israel’s leaders during that period did a good job of 
defeating the first boycott, but for more than a decade, they have failed to 
grasp the impact of the digital-age version, in the form of the Durban 
strategy.In this crucial political combat, Israel is scarcely on the 
battlefield, and officials are surprised whenever the delegitimization campaign 
scores another victory, as exemplified by Goldstone and now Hawking. This 
incompetence stands in sharp contrast to the activities of groups like 
Electronic Intifada, (led by Ali Abunimeh), the Palestinian Campaign for the 
Academic and Cultural Boycott (Omar Barghouti) and scores of powerful 
politicized NGOs such as Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and Oxfam, as 
well as their Israeli and Palestinian affiliates.This NGO network has 
learned how to extract vast sums from European governments, and use these 
resources to bombard churches and academic institutions, such as Cambridge 
University, where Professor Hawking works, with pseudo-academic speakers and 
publications repeating the mantras of war crime and apartheid.In the 
long term, and in order to prevent more Hawking-like defeats and the wider 
exploitation of moral principles for immoral objectives, an aggressive, 
proactive approach and far more resources are required. Twelve years after the 
Durban NGO declaration, the Israeli government has no excuse for treating this 
assault and the ongoing process of demonization as a minor irritant.
In 
the short term, it is important to show Professor Hawking the contradiction 
between the moral language of the delegitimizers and the immoral substance of 
their campaigns. In this process, perhaps Hawking will follow the Goldstone 
precedent, and recognize that he has been used as part of the ongoing war 
against Israel. Until he does, the moral stain caused by his actions will 
continue to spread.The author teaches international diplomacy at 
Bar-Ilan University and is the president of NGO Monitor, a Jerusalem-based 
research institute.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hezbollah meets the IRA at the European Union</title>
<date>26/6/2013</date>
<content>
During the Northern Ireland “troubles,” two versions of a checkpoint joke were 
circulating, the one humorous, the other foreboding: 1. Masked men stop a car 
outside Belfast and ask: “Are you a Catholic or a Protestant?” Driver: “I’m a 
Jew.”Masked men: “Yes, but are you a Catholic Jew or a Protestant Jew?” 
2. Same scenario, different punchline: the masked men answer the Jew with “and 
I’m the Hezbollah liaison to the IRA.”




Ireland could end its EU 
presidency, on 30 June, with a grand gesture in leading the move to register 
Hezbollah on Europe’s terrorist list. Why then is this so unlikely? Following 
the 1290 expulsion from England, a few hundred Jewish refugees found welcome in 
Ireland. The tiny community prospered until a bloody pogrom in Limerick in 1904 
led some to return to England. Sinn Fein (the “Self” party) was founded in 1906 
by the openly anti- Semitic Arthur Griffith to fight the British yoke, but 
Griffith’s prejudice was not to greatly influence the party.Indeed, 
Israel’s first chief rabbi, Isaac Herzog, had earlier served as chief rabbi of 
Ireland. A close confident of Eamon De Valera, he was known as the “Sinn Fein 
Rebbe.”Yet, on the basis of “my enemy’s enemy is my friend,” many 
Feiners opportunistically became pro-Axis. The Irish Nazi party was founded in 
1939 by Adolf Mahr, an Austrian who had been invited to Dublin in 1927 to be 
Keeper of Irish Antiquities at the National Museum.Mahr spent the war in 
Berlin, broadcasting to neutral Ireland and drawing up lists of Irish Jews for 
deportation following an eventual German invasion, designated “Operation Green.” 
In 1940, IRA chief of staff Sean Russell also arrived in Berlin, returning home 
on a U-boat to overthrow the De Valera government.Suffering a fatal 
burst ulcer on the way, the plot was stillborn.In 1950, a statue to his 
honor was erected in Fairview Park, Dublin. It was destroyed in 2004 by 
anti-Nazis and rebuilt by Sinn Fein in 2009.Post-war Ireland was also 
the focus of Nazi looted-art controversy. This author was involved in the 1980 
investigation of Dutch SS murderer and art thief Pieter Menten, who housed his 
collection of looted Jewish assets in his Waterford mansion.President 
Mary McAleese set the calendar by awarding it Ireland’s Museum of the Year 
Prize. We urged that the Prize be suspended pending an independent investigation 
into the collection’s provenance.Certain Irish media hysterically 
treated the Wiesenthal probe as akin to “a Mossad conspiracy to punish Ireland 
for its Palestinian support.”Our Shadow Report, compiled by the 
respected Irish archaeologist Erin Gibbons, pointed to the Hunts’ ties with 
Adolf Mahr and a string of dealers in looted art, as also their attempts to 
reside in Foynes, the departure point for trans- Atlantic sea-planes, which 
triggered the concern of both Irish and British intelligence.Much of the 
media trashed our argument for transparency to encourage younger generations to 
study the implications of Irish neutrality in World War II, the Holocaust, the 
establishment of Israel and the universal threat of terrorism.From its 
inception in 1964, the PLO enjoyed generous support from the Irish government, 
which turned a blind eye to the IRA’s growing relationship with Palestinian 
terrorist groups. Ireland also played a major role in the UNIFIL peace-keeping 
force on the Lebanon-Israel border, creating tensions between Dublin and 
Jerusalem – especially when an Irish UNIFIL soldier on home leave reportedly 
firebombed the tiny synagogue of Cork.The 1998 Good Friday Agreement 
bringing peace to Northern Ireland was viewed in Dublin as a model for the 
Israel- Palestine conflict. When the Oslo Accords proved an illusion and that 
Arafat was, sadly, no David Trimble, Ireland squarely blamed the 
Jews.Another Irish president, Mary Robinson, as UN Human Rights 
Commissioner and secretary-general of the 2001 anti- Jewish hatefest in Durban, 
showed sympathy for the Jewish victims of the UN World Conference Against 
Racism.Robinson, today, is an “Elder,” a member of the group of former 
politicians and UN officials that includes Jimmy Carter and Desmond Tutu, and is 
now chaired by Kofi Annan.The Elders met last month in Dublin with 
current Irish President Michael Higgins to launch an anti-Israel boycott 
campaign, euphemized as “labelling produce of the settlements.”Higgins’ 
record is unambiguous: mourned for Arafat; denied Hamas is a terrorist 
organization; in 2007 shared a platform with Ibrahim Mussawi of Hezbollah’s Al 
Manar TV; in 2008 spoke at a march surrounded by Hezbollah banners; and in 2010 
proclaimed in Parliament his support for the Gaza flotilla.Forget 
Hezbollah’s threats to Israel. Its current participation in Assad’s mass murder 
of Syrian Sunnis, or its seeding of terror- sleepers from Latin America to 
Africa do not faze Dublin.It is ironic that the “peace walls” in Belfast 
keeping Catholic and Protestant apart are praised, while their Israeli 
counterpart, the security barrier that has almost eliminated the influx of 
suicide bombers, is reviled as “apartheid.”There may be no longer 
roadblocks on the Emerald Isle at which an Irish Jew may be asked his identity. 
But it is no joke that Hezbollah has once again met the IRA at the EU’s Irish 
presidency.
This is great cause for concern, for, as a sincere friend of 
Ireland, I am convinced that there is so much in common between the Irish and 
Jewish natural liberation struggles to regain our sovereignty, that we should 
stand united against the scourge of terror that threatens us all.The 
author is director for international relations of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, 
based in Paris.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In My Own Write: Where to draw the line</title>
<date>29/1/2013</date>
<content>
Gerald Scarfe told Britain’s Jewish Chronicle this week that he “very much 
regrets” the timing of his cartoon captioned “Israeli elections – will cementing 
peace continue?” published in this past weekend’s Sunday Times. Scarfe says he 
was unaware that January 27, the date the cartoon appeared, was International 
Holocaust Memorial Day.Maybe so. But when he drew our prime minister as 
a hulking figure, trowel raised menacingly, cementing a brick wall with the 
dripping blood and crushed bodies of agonized Palestinians, is it possible he 
was unaware of the classic blood libel invoked against Jews across two millennia 
of anti-Semitism? And if he was aware of it, did he really seek association with 
his virulently anti-Semitic counterparts in today’s Arab world who delight in 
splashing Israel’s image with Palestinian blood at every opportunity? Or to risk 
mention in the same breath as the illustrators of Julius Streicher’s notorious 
Der Stürmer? After gazing at the Sunday Times cartoon for some minutes, I took 
the time to leaf through a portfolio of the Stürmer’s offerings, and was led to 
the unhappy conclusion that the racist Nazi newspaper would, mutatis mutandis, 
likely have included a cartoon similar to Scarfe’s.




It’s hard to believe 
that any self-respecting contemporary artist would invite such wretched 
comparisons. The paper’s claim that Scarfe’s cartoon was aimed only at Binyamin 
Netanyahu and his policies feels disingenuous, given the perfidious and 
widespread history of the blood libel and the untold numbers of innocent Jews 
slaughtered throughout history on account of it.WAS SCARFE in his 
cartoon opining on Netanyahu’s stated plans for future housing construction in 
the E1 zone between Jerusalem and Ma’aleh Adumim, and their effect on 
Palestinians; as well as/or referencing Israel’s security barrier (“the 
apartheid wall”)? If it was the former, placing building on a level with murder 
is, or ought to be, beyond the pale for any honest commentator, his political 
sympathies notwithstanding. And if it is the latter, the security barrier – most 
of which is a fence, not a wall – has saved many Arabs as well as Jews from the 
horrors of terrorist infiltration and the resultant suicide and other bombings. 
Scarfe’s gory depiction sounds much like a case of his not wishing to be 
confused by the facts.Or, just perhaps, the temptation to portray 
Israelis as “the new Nazis” – so trendy among modern Europeans, while usefully 
helping to absolve them of guilt connected to the Holocaust – was simply too 
strong for the cartoonist to resist.THAT SAID, as a former Jerusalem 
Post editorial staffer who held one or two responsible positions over a number 
of years, I know only too well where the buck stops when a blunder is made. It 
stops first with the section editor, and finally with the editor-in-chief. Thus 
the fallout generated by the Scarfe cartoon has, rightly, been directed at the 
top of the editorial hierarchy.Initially, the newspaper brazened it out, 
staunchly defending the cartoon as a “typically robust” example of Scarfe’’s 
work. As for its timing, the paper told the German Algemeiner, the cartoon 
“appears today [on Holocaust Remembrance Day] because Mr. Netanyahu won the 
Israeli election last week.”Never mind that his win was a narrow one, 
and the results far from a victory for the right wing – which make the cartoon’s 
monstrous Netanyahu-figure, the blood and the tortured Palestinian faces an odd 
response to our recent polls.The paper invoked the hallowed concept of 
journalistic balance as evidence that “The Sunday Times condemns anti-Semitism, 
as is clear in the excellent article in today’s magazine which exposes the 
Holocaust-denying tours of concentration camps organized by David 
Irving.”A day later, however, the powers that be were clearly 
discomfited by the reaction to the cartoon, with media baron Rupert Murdoch, 
publisher of the Sunday Times, writing on Twitter that while Scarfe did not 
reflect the paper’s editorial line, “nevertheless, we owe (a) major apology for 
[the] grotesque, offensive cartoon.”“The last thing I or anyone 
connected with the Sunday Times would countenance would be insulting the memory 
of the Shoah or invoking the blood libel,” Editor-in-Chief Martin Iven told The 
Jerusalem Post. How sad, then, and how clumsy of the paper, to have succeeded so 
well in doing both.In a tacit admission of having done wrong, Iven is 
slated to meet with British Jewish community leaders later this week in an 
effort to repair the damage.WHAT IS striking about this whole incident 
is how it highlights the knee-jerk, uninformed, unintelligent way in which 
Israel – and can anyone who saw the Scarfe cartoon really think Netanyahu 
himself was the sole target? – is denounced, again and again, by the media and 
others in the “enlightened” international community who studiously ignore the 
challenging realities of our existence.It’s the stark, black-and-white 
nature of the condemnation, with no shades of grey in between, that gets 
me.There seems to be virtually no desire to comprehend our history and 
the enormous complexity of our relations with the Palestinians; no care for the 
delicate, incredibly nuanced manner in which we must maneuver in the face of a 
proven, all-tooactive Arab enmity, and only grudging lip service paid to our 
country’s imperative to defend its population from rocket and missile 
attack.Does this blithe disregard of our side of the conflict by the 
“Christian” world lie, as I once surmised in these pages, in a deeply rooted, 
often subconscious conviction that we are guilty of an original sin of biblical 
proportions – The Occupation – that cannot be wiped out except by our utter 
humbling and submission? Much of the West no longer practices Christianity. And 
modern Westerners do not go around openly blaming Israel for the Crucifixion. 
Yet the age-old belief that the Jews are culpable for the original Original Sin 
– the killing of Jesus – and thus doomed forever to wander the earth, stateless, 
may well lie buried deep in many people’s psyches and mold their inflexible view 
of the Israel-Palestinian conflict in which Israel is forever 
damned.“Could this ingrained conviction of the Jews’ ‘preordained 
condition’ as perpetual wanderers – a notion turned on its head by the 
flourishing State of Israel and its outstanding achievements – help explain why 
a near-cosmic level of Evil has been attributed to it?” I asked in a column 
titled “Original Sin” (April 4, 2011).Can it help explain the 
viciousness of the Scarfe cartoon – and others of its ilk – and the fact that it 
saw the light at all, in a mainstream publication, never mind on a solemn day of 
Holocaust remembrance? So thoroughly has the world bought into the perception 
that Israel “stole the Arabs’ land” that virtually nothing Israel concedes to 
the Palestinians will earn it lasting approval, and almost everything the 
Palestinians do will be excused on the grounds of their 
“victimization.”Amid the enormity of this perceived Original Sin, the 
documented facts surrounding Israel’s birth, the history of Arab-initiated wars 
and rejectionism, and the fact that the Palestine Liberation Organization was 
founded in 1964, well before the West Bank came under Israeli control, all fade 
into irrelevance. The only “fact” that resonates loudly is the sin of Israel’s 
existing within any borders at all.‘YOU KNOW, outrage against the Scarfe 
cartoon has come mainly from Jewish organizations,” remarked a 
friend.“Yes,” I responded, “that’s how it was immediately after 
publication of the cartoon, and perhaps that is natural.”But I was glad 
to read, as reported by The Jerusalem Post on January 29, that 25 “shocked” 
Conservative MPs had signed a letter to Sunday Times editor Ivens the day before 
saying the paper’s decision to publish the cartoon was “objectionable enough” on 
its own, without the fact that it was done on Holocaust Memorial Day, and 
calling for a printed apology in the upcoming edition.They were joined 
by Labor MP Louise Ellman, who talked about “gross insensitivity” and rejected 
the excuse that the cartoon “was somehow a reference to Israel’s 
elections.”Quartet envoy Tony Blair “also expressed strong reservations 
about the cartoon and the timing of its publication.”
LET US, here in 
Israel and in the wider Jewish world, value every expression of sanity and 
honest, outspoken appraisal of Israel’s situation. And let us continue to 
believe in the justice and morality of our being in this land, even while we do 
our utmost to respect human life – ours and others’.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In the new academic year, what will student activists’ priorities be?</title>
<date>16/9/2013</date>
<content>
Sociologically, we can learn a good bit about the future moral compasses of 
Americans as we look upon the causes they embrace while in college. Since the 
mid-2000’s student activists have been preoccupied with anti- Israelism and 
anti-Semitism based on the propaganda of those wishing for the destruction of 
Israel, claiming it is a “colonialist,” “racist and apartheid” 
regime.Anti-Israel demonstrations and the BDS campaign struck 
aggressively at vulnerable colleges both great and minor in an unsuccessful but 
costly battle to sway young, impressionable minds that Israel was simply a bully 
colonialist power picking on the poor unfortunate Palestinians. This is likely 
to continue and although there may be some successes, clearly the movement has 
been overall a failure.




Nevertheless, with the new year young students 
are at a crossroads in terms of their social awareness and moral development. 
They are going to have to make a declarative choice as to whether they are going 
to continue to demonize Israel for its efforts to exist in a hostile 
neighborhood or address the real moral outrages occurring in her Arab neighbor’s 
countries where dictators, misogynistic sheiks and military leaders fight off 
even more misogynistic and intolerant fundamentalist rebels, with all parties 
only agreeing on the genocidal destruction of Israel.Will the new crop 
of students come to understand that regardless of who is doing the bombing and 
gassing of civilians (either the regime or the rebels), it is wrong and deserves 
protest and condemnation, and that those responsible must be held accountable as 
called for in international agreements? Or will they continue to drink the 
Kool-Aid of anti-Israel propaganda being pumped out by the very same forces 
engaged in these war crimes? Students are young and impressionable and 
anti-Israel forces know this. It is much easier to play into old anti-Semitic 
canards in order to divert from their own internecine deadly struggles for 
control and domination. Al Jazeera America reports on the injustices of American 
policy regarding Guantanamo, while not quite examining the real internal issues 
among Muslim factions seeking control of an ever-increasing caliphate, or their 
complete disregard for human life, whether civilian or military.In 
Sudan, Ethiopia, Syria and other countries, hundreds of thousands, if not 
millions, of people are being slaughtered, oppressed, starved or forced from 
their homes by warring factions seeking to dominate and enslave the 
citizenry.These are not fights between democratic and totalitarian 
forces. These are fights between totalitarian and even more totalitarian forces. 
Will students remain quiet on these issues, while focusing on boycotting Soda 
Stream and Ariel University? Although I am retired, I do hope my colleagues in 
the academy, if they have any vestige of dignity and morality left, will look to 
these comparisons critically this year as now they are in our collective faces 
and conscience and must be addressed with moral clarity.
In the past, the 
youth have pointed out when our moral compasses are off. That has not been the 
case in recent years and it is my hope that this new academic year brings some 
sanity, intelligence, reason and refocus on these issues of war and peace, human 
rights, freedom and democracy. In this ever-increasing multicultural world, we 
must look to universal precepts of morality, religion and law to guide us 
morally, and not to scapegoat those who are being victimized by the real forces 
of domination and totalitarianism.The writer is a retired counselor and 
psychologist educator, cofounder and president emeritus of Scholars for Peace in 
the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the Fray: ‘The New York Times’ versus the Jews</title>
<date>21/3/2013</date>
<content>
There is an unavoidable conflict between being a Jewish state and a democratic state. – Joseph Levine, “On Questioning the Jewish State,” The New York Times, March 9There are some ideas so absurd that only an intellectual could believe them.                                                                                                                       — George Orwell




 Last week I cautioned that a crucial intellectual battle has been launched to strip the Jews of their political independence and national sovereignty. As promised, in this week’s column I will elaborate on the inanity and iniquity of this Judeophobic initiative.Pernicious, perverse, paradoxicalThe Times – together with several other major mainstream media entities – has chosen to throw its weight decisively behind this patently pernicious, perverse and paradoxical endeavor.But over the last fortnight, the so-called “paper of record” has ratcheted up its bias and bile a notch or two. This prompted the following comment from Commentary’s Seth Mandel in his “A New Low for the Times” (March 18): “The bias against Israel in the press, and especially the New York Times, has become so steady and predictable that it can be difficult to muster outrage.Since the paper flaunts, rather than attempts to disguise, its hostility to Israel, it can be easy to miss when the Times crosses yet another line. And the paper and its editors have done so again this weekend.”I have not designated this drive to denigrate, delegitimize and demonize the conduct of the Jewish state — and of late, the very idea of a Jewish state – “pernicious,” “perverse” and “paradoxical” without reason.Should this unholy crusade achieve its declared objectives, it will precipitate a reality that reflects a total negation of the very values invoked for its promotion, and the antithesis of those allegedly cherished by its propagators.Escalating enmityUntil relatively recently, the bulk of the Times’s censure of Israel’s actions focused on its policy regarding the status of the territories beyond the pre-1967 Green Line, and the fate of the Palestinian Arabs resident there.But with the emerging realization — indeed, perhaps resignation — that the previously preferred outcome of establishing a Palestinian state in these territories, is becoming increasingly unworkable, emphasis has shifted and enmity escalated. It now seems that the paper has begun to channel condemnation less against what the Jewish state does, and more against what it is — i.e. Jewish.This is a line that it is apparently pursuing with increasing virulence, frequency and prominence on its pages, last week touting it on both the front page of its Sunday edition and the cover of its weekly magazine.Barely a week previously, a lengthy opinion piece by University of Massachusetts professor of philosophy Joseph Levine appeared, advancing contrived and contorted claims disputing the conceptual validity of the Jewish people’s right to national self-determination and political sovereignty, now even within the Green Line.To recapReaders will recall that in my column last week, I pointed out the conceptual fallacies and faults in Levine’s approach to statehood, which seems to postulate that no state can be considered “democratic” if the conduct of its public life reflects the sociocultural dominance of the major ethnic group — even if it comprises a “vast majority.”Accordingly, we are asked to believe that majority rule is an intolerable moral anathema for democratic governance. Indeed, unless the majority surrenders — or, at least, substantially dilutes – the expression of its identity, while the minority is allowed full expression of its identity — no matter how incompatible or adversarial it might be with that of the majority — the resulting sociopolitical reality is allegedly so disastrously impaired that its continued existence cannot be countenanced.Thus, in Levine’s eyes, a “people” only merit the right to self-determination if they comprise a segment of humanity whose members are bound together by nothing more substantive than their equality before the law of the land and the accident of their physical location within the borders of that land. This is, as I showed, a position severely at odds with those of leading philosophers of liberal political theory over the past two centuries. It is one which fails to capture the most elemental essence that drives aspirations for national self-determination and that comprises the primal conditions for stable democratic governance: A sentiment of political allegiance born of a spiritual compatibility — which may arise because of ethnic homogeneity, or despite ethnic heterogeneity.Silly or sinister?In the absence of such communal cohesiveness, as John Stuart Mill tells us, “Free institutions are next to impossible.” Indeed, “in a country made up of a people without fellow-feeling the united public opinion, necessary to the working of representative government, cannot exist.”Recent history bears eloquent, if tragic, testimony to the enduring validity of this perceptive insight. Wherever attempts have been made to weld inimical ethnicities together in a single political entity, if it is not bound by the iron grip of tyranny, the results have almost invariably been reminiscent of a Hobbesian nightmare of anarchy, chaos and bloodshed — as the examples of Lebanon and the Balkans starkly underscore.Clearly, then, proposing policy prescriptions that not only disregard, but directly contravene, both the theoretical rationale and the empirical evidence regarding the attainment of the purported goal of sustainable democracy is either silly or sinister.But whether dumb or deceptive, it is an approach that harbors huge hazards for Jews and Arabs – and for the hopes of liberal democracy — in the Holy Land.“Israel was a mistake”Yet despite its clearly calamitous consequences, it appears that this is the approach the Times has opted to adopt and advance both by publications of explicit endorsement (such as Levine’s opinion piece) and by implicit insinuations (such as last week’s 8,000-word magazine cover story by one Ben Ehrenreich, warmly embracing the Palestinian “resistance”).Thus for example, flying in the face of facts, the latter misinforms Times readers by implying that the recent Operation Pillar of Defense was an unprovoked Israeli initiative that began when “in mid-November, Israeli rockets began falling on Gaza,” conspicuously omitting any mention of the fact that it was hundreds of Palestinian rockets falling on Israel that precipitated the fighting.But, perhaps more significant — and revealing — than the blatantly biased and manifestly misleading content of the Times cover story, was the choice of its author. For as veteran pundit Jonathan Tobin tersely remarks: “Ehrenreich’s bias is so deeply embedded in the piece that it is pointless to criticize anything but the decision to employ him to write it.”And that is precisely the point. For it is more than implausible to assume the Times was unaware of Ehrenreich’s strong anti- Zionist predilections. Indeed, these were unambiguously laid out in a Los Angeles Times op-ed titled, “Zionism is the problem” (March 15, 2009). In it Ehrenreich unfavorably compares the Jewish state to apartheid South Africa, stating: “If two decades ago comparisons to the South African apartheid system felt like hyperbole, they now feel charitable.”He goes on to advocate what in effect is the abolition of the nation-state of the Jews, pontificating: “The Zionist ideal of a Jewish state is keeping Israelis and Palestinians from living in peace. Establishing a secular, pluralist, democratic government in Israel and Palestine would of course mean the abandonment of the Zionist dream. It might also mean the only salvation for the Jewish ideals of justice.”This appears then to be the kind of journalist/ journalism that the New York Times is promoting.As to the public sentiment it is liable to arouse, this might be gauged by the tenor of one of the talkbacks to Ehrenreich’s cover story — rerun in abbreviated form as an interview with him posted on the New York Times site today (March 21) — from Molly in Costa Rica: “Israel was a mistake, and they must leave.Israel is a transplanted organ that the Middle East is rejecting. It will never fly.”Perilous, preposterous prescriptionThe New York Times-propagated prescription, that in effect promotes the dismantling of the Jewish nation-state and replacing it with an un-Jewish secular state-of-all-its- citizens, is preposterous and perilous — in both principle and practice. Supporting it puts you firmly on the wrong side of history — and for self-respecting New York Times readers, what could be worse? For the concept of “multiculturalism,” once so fashionable, that underpins the rationale of the state-of-all-its-citizens idea, is rapidly being discredited. It has been tried — and has failed.As I pointed out in an earlier column, “Nakba nonsense,” May 17, 2012, harsh and explicit declarations have come from the leaders of nearly all major European countries – including France, UK and Germany – acknowledging its disappointing failure. For example, Angela Merkel lamented: “The tendency had been to say, ‘Let’s adopt the multicultural concept and live happily side by side.’ But this concept has failed, and failed utterly.” Moreover in democracies as far-flung as Australia and Canada, the media have begun to publish expressions of exasperation and frustration at the deleterious effects of trying to absorb cultures incompatible with the host culture.Even against a far less adversarial national- political background, incompatible social-cultural and religious disparities are causing increasingly unacceptable societal consequences for the host societies.It is thus entirely unclear why anyone — unless motivated by malice — could possibly propose the application of such a failed formula in the far more daunting circumstances prevailing in Israel.Anti-Zionism is anti-SemitismDespite the protestations of anti-Zionists, such as Levine and Ehrenreich, that opposing Zionism “does not manifest anti-Semitism,” it does.No amount of academic acrobatics or intellectual sophistry can blur the truth in the words, widely attributed to Martin Luther King Jr.: “When people criticize Zionists, they mean Jews, you are talking anti-Semitism. And what is anti-Zionist? It is the denial to the Jewish people of a fundamental right that we justly and freely accord all other nations of the globe. It is discrimination against Jews because they are Jews. In short, it is anti-Semitism.”It is anti-Semitic (i.e. Judeophobic) to denigrate every coercive action undertaken by Israel — whether military or administrative, proactive or reactive, preemptive or punitive — intended to protect Jews from attacks merely because they are Jewish, as racially motivated, disproportionate crimes against humanity.It is anti-Semitic to peddle dangerous delusions, designed to deprive the Jews of their national independence and political sovereignty, and the purveyors of such poisonous merchandise must be forced to bear the burden of shame that plying their ignominious trade so richly deserves.Fatal flaw in post-Zionist logicI realize I have not fulfilled all my promises made last week, and several issues I undertook to deal with have been left unaddressed, particularly the significance for the non-Jewish minorities living in a Zionist Jewish nation-state. Regrettably, I have let my indignation at the New York Times distract me and that – together with new editorial constraints – preclude further discussion.However, as my credibility is everything, I P-R-O-M-I-S-E to take up these topics soon in a forthcoming article – which I can already inform you will be titled, “The fatal flaw in post-Zionist logic”. Until then, “Happy Passover.”
Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder and executive director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Irish boycott</title>
<date>10/4/2013</date>
<content>
Marking Holocaust Remembrance Day last week, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu 
said that “murderous hate against Jews... has not gone away, it has simply been 
replaced by murderous hate against the Jewish state.”This undeniable 
truth does not only apply to outright genocidal enemies. Anti-Israel obsession 
inexplicably permeates very distant societies, divorced from our 
reality.




Four days before the most heartbreaking date on our calendar, 
Irish teachers presented us with a new expression of unfathomable animus. At its 
annual congress in Galway, the Teachers Union of Ireland unanimously approved a 
boycott that obliges “all members to cease all cultural and academic 
collaboration with Israel, including the exchange of scientists, students and 
academic personalities, as well as all cooperation in research 
programs.”The TUI made unsavory history – it became Europe’s first 
academic union to arbitrarily blacklist all Israelis.Moreover, this 
questionable precedent was set without a single dissenting voice, a fact which 
must raise more than a few eyebrows in all democracies.Such lack of 
independence ought to be rare among supposed freethinkers, especially among 
educators whose task should be to foster critical judgment in their young, 
impressionable students.But that goal is obstructed by the solid wall of 
bias that more than 14,000 TUI members (who teach in secondary and higher 
educational institutions) had erected. Those they instruct are unlikely to be 
exposed to more than one doctrinaire perspective.The biggest losers will 
be the Irish students whose worldview has just been substantially narrowed by 
the very teachers charged with broadening their outlooks.This is all the 
more so considering that Israel is a powerhouse of learning, science and 
technology from which ordinary Irish citizens unknowingly benefit daily. 
Whatever academic exchange existed pre-boycott was certainly one-sided, having 
benefitted the Irish significantly more than it did 
Israelis.Academicians are expected to rise both intellectually and 
morally above vested political interests, revere truth, and know history and 
learn from it. We expect them to realize that boycotts are an antithesis to a 
free exchange of ideas.Their anti-Israel boycott is every bit as liberal 
as Nazi book-burning. It stifles dialogue via an imposed creed of unabashed 
discrimination and hostility.This is where we get back to Netanyahu’s 
caution about the new, perhaps more politically correct disguise that 
Judeophobia dons these days. We suspect that the TUI’s aim was not to deny 
Israelis the benefits of Irish scholarship but to kick-start a process whereby 
Israel would be banished from the halls of academe throughout Europe, if not 
further afield.Our suspicions are bolstered by the union’s choice of 
pretext. Its boycott was imposed because the TUI had pronounced Israel an 
“apartheid state.”It may be that the TUI chiefs knew this is a calumny 
but intentionally decided to exploit the fraud. It may be that many TUI members 
do not realize how much of a calumny this is. It is hard to decide which is the 
sadder – brazen fabrication or ignorance. Neither alternative enhances the image 
of Irish teachers or bodes well for Irish education.Israeli society is 
one of the most liberal on earth and nothing remotely resembling apartheid would 
be countenanced by our autonomous and ultra-interventionist courts. The TUI had 
targeted the only Middle Eastern country where genuine academic freedom reigns 
rather than indoctrination and dogmatic homogeneity. Indeed, some of the most 
vituperative opponents of Israel’s selfpreservation hail from its own 
universities.The TUI’s boycott is particularly reminiscent of the UN’s 
infamous “Zionism is racism” resolution of 1975.Both the UN and the UTI 
insulted our intelligence and fundamental sense of justice.Both 
disgracefully distorted truth, and delegitimized the struggle for survival of 
the world’s most persecuted nations. Both resolutions reflected far worse on 
their proponents than on Israel.
The first had to be repealed – not so 
much for our sake, as for those who collaborate so avidly and blindly with the 
Arab world’s greatest hate-mongers. We hope the TUI’s misguided resolution too 
will one day be rescinded with contrition and in shame.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Apartheid Week and Abraham’s Tent</title>
<date>11/3/2013</date>
<content>
Israel Apartheid Week (IAW), that takes place in South Africa this year from 
March 11-17, is an annual series of events in over 250 cities across the world. 
The professional and wellfunded activities in support of the Boycott, Divestment 
and Sanctions movement (BDS) include huge, expensive billboards, rallies, 
lectures, cultural performances, music shows, films and workshops that are 
superlative examples of the scientific marketing principles practiced by 
international commercial institutions. Highly skilled, the purveyors of these 
defamatory products are rapidly churning out offensive propaganda – and getting 
away with it.The no-expenses-spared nature of the events, and the 
extensive professional organization involved, are mind-boggling.




It 
reminds one of the frenetic activities of the recent US election campaign with 
the difference that IAW is international and occurs every year.BDS 
offers people around the world a hard-to-resist opportunity to feel good by 
enrolling in the global IAW campaign. And to make it easy, it says contact an 
IAW representative in your city, community or university and if there is no 
representative there, they will instruct you how to become the local 
organizer.Popular music is politicized to mobilize the masses. As part 
of IAW, the Mavrix Music Band with the “South African Artists Against Apartheid” 
is launching a new political music album, Amandla Intifada II.It will 
even be available for free download, and members of the public are urged to 
assist in launching the album in their various cities.Street artists are 
recruited to join “Paint for Palestine” with “Israeli Apartheid” as the theme. 
They are rewarded by public showing of their photos and videos.BDS 
provides eloquent speakers to any person wishing to arrange an event or a 
protest against a store selling Israeli products and the public is urged to 
build mock Israeli walls and checkpoints, organize flash mobs, host music 
concerts, arrange poetry readings, erect posters and distribute 
flyers.But this year in Cape Town, opponents of BDS have decided to show 
another side to the coin. Although totally outmatched by the well-financed and 
professionally organized BDS movement, these Capetonians have adopted a 
proactive, imaginative approach with an “Israel Peace Week.”AT THE 
center of this inspiring initiative is an enormous “Abraham’s Tent” on the main 
plaza of the University of Cape Town campus. There, visitors will enjoy the 
patriarch’s hospitality – falafel, pita, Israeli salad, coffee and 
juices.Exhibits will emphasize coexistence and religious freedom in 
Israel with photos of various religions, holy sites etc. (Christian, Bahai, 
Druse and Muslim) and a history of Israel and the peace process in a media 
presentation.Visitors to Abraham's Tent will learn about gender equality 
and tolerance of homosexuals in Israel and that Tel-Aviv is the gay capital of 
the Middle East. With Cape Town being South Africa’s “Pink City,” 
pro-Palestinian Capetonian gays will have to face the truth that Israel is the 
only area in the Middle East they could safely visit openly. It’s not Israel 
saying this but a world-wide survey hosted by GayCities.com and American 
Airlines, that voted overwhelmingly in favor of Tel Aviv, pushing it way ahead 
of strong contenders New York, Toronto and London “as the world’s best gay 
travel destination.”Should gays cross the borders of Israel to any of 
its Arab neighbors, only ridicule and persecution would await them. They have 
only to meet the many Palestinian gays who have found arefuge in Israel. And if 
gays face persecution under the Palestinian Authority, in Gaza under Hamas it 
would mean death row.And in Abraham’s Tent visitors will be welcomed to 
seek refuge from the lies and deceit of the IAW organizers and their minions, as 
described in one article, “What the BDS organizers should have told us but 
didn’t.”ISRAEL’S ATTACKERS, quick to label the country with the 
nonsensical and libelous appellation of “apartheid,” will be met in Abraham’s 
Tent by five Israeli Ethiopian university students who will expose the apartheid 
lies.The students are all from IDC Herzliya, and their trip has been 
sponsored by the university, the South African Zionist Federation in South 
Africa, and duly assisted by Truth be Told (TbT), a new group in Israel 
committed to presenting the truth to the endless false accusations leveled 
against the Jewish state.Warned before they left what to expect from a 
hostile student body in South Africa, these delightful, educated and bold 
students are more than ready to “tell their stories” and talk about life in 
Israel. About apartheid, they will be able to speak from 
experience.‘SURE, WE know about apartheid. We heard all about it from 
our parents who experienced it not in Israel, but in Ethiopia, where they were 
treated as second- class citizens – today in Israel, after our rescue by Israel, 
we are free.”And if there is any disbelief, the Ethiopian students will 
ask of the perplexed to give some thought to the question: “Why if Israel is an 
apartheid state do thousands of black Africans risk life and limb to travel 
through Egypt and the hazardous Sinai desert to reach it? Why do they not seek 
refuge in neighboring Egypt?” Maurice Ostroff is a retired 
industrialist.
David Kaplan is a lawyer and freelance journalist.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Inspired: Our story must be told</title>
<date>11/7/2013</date>
<content>
Have you ever heard of an organization called QUIT? It’s a lovely organization – 
Queers Undermining Israeli Terrorists. I’m not joking. Imagine for a moment that 
the social activists of QUIT decide to relocate their San Francisco offices to 
Ramallah or Gaza City. How many days (or maybe hours) would pass until their 
offices burn to the ground and their staff are murdered? What makes QUIT 
intriguing is that it knows this about Gaza City. Nonetheless, it chooses to 
side with those who would hang them in the public square over siding with Tel 
Aviv, the gay capital of the Middle East. “Professors for Palestine” are not 
much different – they’re a group of “openminded” academics who oppose the only 
liberal democracy in the Middle East.It’s bizarre and counterintuitive 
but it’s undeniable, the people that seemingly should be our greatest allies are 
our worst enemies.




The question is begging to be asked: Why does the 
liberal Left globally, universally oppose Israel? On college campuses, the 
anti-Israel activists aren’t isolating the settlements or demanding peace talks. 
They’re calling for the end of Israel. At rallies they march and chant “From the 
river to the sea, Palestine will be free.” Just to be clear, Tel Aviv and 
Netanya are as much between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea as Hebron 
and E1.The anti-Zionists are waging a fullfledged ideological war 
delegitimizing the Jewish state and the right for Jews to live anywhere in 
Israel.For years I dismissed these people as classic anti-Semites who 
found attacking a Jewish state more politically available than attacking Jews. 
Although I’m sure that there are a lot of good ol’ -fashioned Jew haters in the 
mix, after speaking with many of these left-wing activists, I realize that their 
orientation, aimed at undermining Israel, is rooted in a basic flaw. The sad 
news: the flaw is our fault. The good news: we can fix it.For example, 
the State of Israel has a protocol when distinguished guests visit Israel. If a 
senator, diplomat or foreign president comes in an official capacity, the first 
destination they are directed to is Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial museum. 
The context is clear – the Jewish state is a result of the Holocaust.And 
therein lies our essential mistake and conveys a deficient, even damaging 
message to the world that ultimately harms the State of Israel.Time and 
time again, we lean on the Holocaust, even if only implicitly, to justify 
Israel’s existence. Laying on guilt and pulling on heart strings may have been a 
useful tactic when the Holocaust was still a vivid image in world consciousness. 
Today it’s not only ineffective, it’s harmful.In an interview with Larry 
King a few years ago, now-outgoing Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
challenged, “Let’s say that there was a Holocaust. Why does a tragedy in Europe 
justify the suffering of the Palestinian people? A European problem should be 
solved in Europe, not the Middle East.”Although I’m not keen on agreeing 
with Iranian leaders of late, his logic is more than compelling – what does a 
European problem have to do with the Middle East? The current narrative on 
Israel is that a group of Jewish Europeans savagely suffered under Nazi 
domination with little concern or attention from the Allied forces. To 
compensate and perhaps avoid that moral failure, the Jews were relocated by the 
West to British-controlled Palestine, allowing for the establishment of the 
State of Israel. In that narrative, the Jewish connection to Israel is 
historically shallow and almost random. Israel is seen a foreign occupying force 
oppressing the indigenous people of the land. In that narrative, “settlements” 
and “apartheid” (loosely defined) fit right in. It is through that lens the 
liberal Left sees Israel, and as we continue to confirm that narrative, we lose 
the battles for public opinion.THE TIME has come for a total overhaul of 
Israel’s messaging to the world. Our story must be told. The world must hear the 
story of the Jewish people.Jews are not a European people; we are a 
Semitic people from the Middle East. Jews are not occupying foreign soil, we 
have returned to our ancient homeland. We are called “Jews” not because of 
Judaism, but because we once lived in Judea and Jerusalem was our capital. We 
lived as a people in our land for millennia. We saw the fall of the great 
pharaohs of Egypt and the rise of mighty Assyria. We suffered under the rule of 
Babylonia and our people defeated the Syrian-Greek Empire.While Socrates 
delved into the depths of the human mind and Alexander the Great conquered the 
entire world, the Jews continued to live as a free people in their land, Judea 
and Jerusalem.Our story must be told now more than ever. The Jewish 
people alive today are another link in a 4,000-year-old chain that began with 
Abraham and Moses, and continued through the biblical era of judges and kings. 
The warrior priests known as the Maccabees and students of Rabbi Akiva aligned 
with Bar Kochba fought for our freedom in Israel. And it was imperialist Rome 
that ultimately conquered our land, destroyed our Temple and exiled us from our 
homeland, scattering Jews to all corners of the world – including 
Europe.We lived through 2,000 years of exile, persecution and prayer. 
Every force known to humanity tried to extinguish the flame of our people and 
our hopes to return to Zion. Against all adversity and all odds, the Jewish 
people hoped to return to our land and rebuild Jerusalem.No matter what 
happened the night before, whether a pogrom or crusade, Christian or Muslim 
oppression, the next morning the Jew dusted himself off, wrapped himself in a 
tallit, faced Jerusalem and prayed to come home.Our people never lost 
hope.Today we are living the prayers of our fathers and mothers as we 
walk through the land of our ancestors. Our connection to Israel began long 
before the atrocities of the 1940s. It is time to transform the dialogue around 
the Jewish claim to the Land of Israel. If we hope to win the hearts and minds 
of people around the world, we must speak not only as modern Israelis but as 
Jews.It’s time for the world to hear our story. 
The writer is a 
filmmaker, Israel advocate, educator and journalist. He is the deputy director 
of the World Mizrachi Movement.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israelis shouldn’t honor delegitimizers!</title>
<date>15/5/2013</date>
<content>
It is awards and honorary doctorate season, a time for contemplating who should 
– and should not – be honored. In Washington, Cliff May, president of the 
Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, is justifiably threatening not to 
hold his organization’s annual policy summit at the Newseum, which in honoring 
journalists killed in 2012, included two cameramen for Al- Aqsa TV – Hamas TV – 
thus saluting terrorists masquerading as journalists.In Israel, news 
that Cherie Blair received an honorary doctorate and that David Landau is 
receiving a lifetime journalism award originally alarmed me doubly. After 
further research, I applaud Blair’s honor – yet remain appalled by 
Landau’s.




Initially, on reading that Ben-Gurion University honored Cherie 
Blair, the British attorney and wife of former Prime Minister Tony Blair, I 
winced. “There they go again,” I thought, knowing BGU’s occasional blind spot 
regarding intellectuals who delegitimize Israel. I remembered that in 2002 Mrs. 
Blair rationalized the suicide bombing of Bus 32a at Pat Junction, in which 19 
people were murdered, saying: “As long as young people feel they have got no 
hope but to blow themselves up, you are never going to make 
progress.”Blair implicitly blamed the Israelis and treated the mass 
murder of innocent civilians as a reasonable tactic, not an evil abomination. 
This foolishness encouraged others, like David Clark, to claim in The Guardian: 
“Only a collective trauma outside our national experience could have brought an 
entire people to this point.”This ethical vertigo 
continues.Rather than criticizing Palestinian political culture – and 
Islamism – for producing so many totalitarian perpetrators of such crimes 
against humanity, these amoral relativists assume Israel must be committing 
particularly heinous crimes to provoke such behavior. Palestinian fanaticism is 
seen as our fault, not theirs. This helps explain why some Europeans falsely 
compare Israelis to Nazis (especially when you add traditional anti-Semitism, 
too).However, Blair quickly repudiated her remarks. Since then, her 
impressive Cherie Blair Foundation for Women (CBFW) has empowered women 
entrepreneurs worldwide.Thanks to CBFW’s northern Israel project, 19 
Arab and Jewish women completed a unique three-year BA Economics and Management 
program.Moreover, although Mrs. Blair earned the honor on her own, Tony 
Blair has eloquently opposed Israel’s delegitimization, fighting its subtle and 
crass forms. At Herzliya in August, 2010, Blair denounced the “conscious or 
often unconscious resistance, sometimes bordering on refusal, to accept Israel 
has a legitimate point of view.” Blair observed that the harsh, sweeping 
language, distorted frameworks, and obsessive, disproportionate attacks against 
Israel have prevented many people from “acknowledge[ing] that Israel has a 
point” or recognizing the issue’s complexity.UNFORTUNATELY, DAVID Landau 
has been one of the Israeli journalists whose language demonizes Israel and 
helps alienate many Diaspora Jews from the Jewish state. This is a man who as 
editor-in-chief of Haaretz’s English edition from 1997 to 2004 helped mainstream 
the far Left’s tendency to compare Israel’s policies to the nefarious 
“apartheid” policies of South Africa and to call Zionism racism. “After all,” 
many have said, “such accusations are made regularly in Haaretz.”This is 
a man who, when meeting former US secretary of state Condoleezza Rice, used a 
vulgar sexual expression to illustrate how happy he would be if Israel were 
“raped” by the United States to achieve a Middle East settlement, while calling 
Israel a “failed state” that wanted to be brutalized. This is a man who admitted 
to soft-pedaling news hostile to Ariel Sharon, including corruption allegations, 
to protect Sharon during the Gaza disengagement fight. And this is a man who 
recently described Israel as sliding “a long way down the slope that leads to 
McCarthyism and racism,” and to a place where “nationalism, xenophobia and 
Judaism blur and merge.”I am proud that Israeli democracy does not jail 
reporters for using such sexist and crude language, degenerating into blatant 
partisanship, or editorializing against their country so aggressively. We are 
free. I appreciate the Jewish penchant for selfcriticism that helps trigger 
democracy’s self-corrective mechanisms. But we Jews tend to escalate 
constructive self-criticism into destructive self-flagellation, internalizing 
our enemy’s criticisms rather than proudly and democratically striving to 
fulfill collective dreams.And I am dismayed that an organization whose 
work I esteem, B’nai Brith, would be in the awkward position of giving this 
polemicist “a lifetime achievement award... for his contribution to extended 
Diaspora reportage during his tenure at” Haaretz, and before that, at The 
Jerusalem Post.I understand that an independent jury of leading Israeli 
journalists and academics chose Landau to honor his role in pushing’s Israel’s 
infamously insular press to be more worldly, covering the Diaspora as a real, 
richly Jewish place rather than simply a site that supports (or does not 
support) Israel. But the jury reflected its own Israeli provincialism in failing 
to recognize how toxic Landau’s words have been – and how embarrassing such an 
award could be for the sponsoring organization, B’nai Brith. This noble, 
worldwide Jewish community service organization accurately calls itself “a 
national and global leader in the fight against antisemitism and anti-Israel 
bias,” and so heroically advances Jewish-Christian relations, organizes missions 
to Israel, facilitates humanitarian aid, and mounts educational 
programs.Forgiving Cherie Blair moves us beyond today’s fashionable 
“gotcha” journalism, wherein one mistake ends up being defining for life. I 
salute her for learning to recognize the Middle East’s complexity – and working 
to help out where she can. But in 2010, Tony Blair warned of critics who “wear 
Nelson’s eye patch when they lift the telescope of scrutiny to the Israeli case” 
and fail to see their biases – or the damage they cause.David Landau 
does not deserve a B’nai Brith lifetime achievement award because he has 
repeatedly undermined the Diaspora’s ties with Israel by encouraging this 
delegitimizing myopia, no matter how much he expanded his newspapers’ Diaspora 
coverage.The author is professor of history at McGill University and a 
Shalom Hartman Engaging Israel Research Fellow in Jerusalem. His latest book, 
Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight Against Zionism as Racism, was just 
published.
Watch the new Moynihan’s Moment video! www.giltroy.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel, the un-apartheid state – a comparison with Australia</title>
<date>21/8/2013</date>
<content>
The anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment & Sanctions Movement justifies its 
racist persecution of Jewish Israeli businesses in Australia, the UK, Europe and 
North America with the accusation that Israel is an apartheid state.They 
like to imagine that their campaign of aggressive protests around tiny retail 
cosmetics stands and chocolate shops is comparable to the mass protests against 
the Springbok rugby team that characterized the campaign against South African 
apartheid in the 1970s and ‘80s.




But the analogy between Israel and 
apartheid South Africa is false on every level. A comparison of Israel with 
Australia, a country generally admired for its freedom and successful 
multiculturalism, reveals this clearly.As will be demonstrated below, 
Israel is one of the most un-apartheid states in the world, with a record of 
successful multiculturalism, protection and integration of minorities that puts 
most western countries, including Australia, to shame.APARTHEID SOUTH 
Africa had a system of strictly enforced laws that enshrined racial 
discrimination against “blacks” and “coloreds” in every aspect of South African 
society. This was similar to, but more extreme than, the system of racist laws 
that Australia had in place prior to the recognition of indigenous Australians 
as equal citizens in 1967 (by Constitutional amendment).In contrast to 
Australia and South Africa’s foundational racism, Israel’s declaration of 
independence in 1948 guaranteed “complete equality of social and political 
rights to all its inhabitants irrespective of religion, race or 
sex.”Unlike South Africa and Australia, Israel has never had laws that 
overtly discriminated between citizens on the basis of race.Today, just 
like Australia and most western countries, Israel has strong anti-discrimination 
laws that prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, nationality, 
land of origin, sex, sexual orientation, political views, personal status or 
parenthood in a broad range of contexts. Israeli law also prohibits incitement 
to racism.These laws are more stringently enforced in Israel than in 
Australia because of the plethora of NGOs, well funded by the EU, that 
specialize in searching out and bringing to court any cases of indirect racism 
against Arabs or Muslims. Unlike Australia, Israel allows NGOs to bring such 
cases directly to its Supreme Court.But there is more to the elimination 
of racism in a society than repealing racist laws and passing laws outlawing 
racial discrimination. Practical outcomes of successful multi-culturalism and 
integration of minorities at all levels is the true measure of the elimination 
of racism in a society.And it is by this measure that Israel puts 
Australia and much of the western world to shame.The practical reality 
in Israel is that minorities achieve prominent positions at a far higher rate 
than in Australia.This is true in all areas of society: • Politics: In 
Israel, 10 percent of Israel’s Knesset are from Arab minority groups (Christian, 
Muslim and Druse).This includes over 4% from parties with racially mixed 
composition. This large representation of minorities has been a consistent 
feature since the early days of the state.Three members of religious and 
racial minorities, Nawaf Massalha (Muslim Arab), Salah Tarif and Raleb Majadele 
(both Druse) have served at ministerial level in the Israeli government, 
including the later two as Cabinet ministers.By contrast, only 1.3% of 
Australia’s current federal Parliament are from religious minorities (one Muslim 
and two Jews) and this itself is a huge increase from previous Parliaments that 
often featured less than 0.5% non-Christian representation. While there have 
been a similar number of Australian Jews who have served as ministers, no other 
religious minority has been so represented.• Judiciary: Israel has a 
judge from the Arab minority serving on its highest court (Salim Joubran). 
Sadly, Australia has not had a single High Court judge from a racial or 
religious minority for over 80 years, since Sir Issac Issacs! • Military: Israel 
has three Druse generals currently (or recently) serving in its defence forces 
(Major-General Yusef Mishleb and brigadier-generals Imad Fares and Hasson 
Hasson). Disturbingly, it appears Australia has not had a single general from a 
religious or racial minority for over 80 years, since Sir John Monash! The 
legislature, judiciary and military are the key sources of hard power in any 
society and the success of racial and religious minorities reaching these 
corridors of power is a litmus test of the true openness and lack of racism in a 
society. Australia’s scorecard on this test compares very poorly to 
Israel’s.But success of minorities in areas of soft power is an equally 
important measure, and here, too, Israel outclasses Australia.• 
Socio-Economic Statistics: In Israel the life expectancy, educational attainment 
and earnings of the Arab minority are on par with, if not better than, that of 
Arab minorities in virtually all Western European countries, and far above that 
of other Arabs in the Middle East. In Australia the life expectancy, educational 
attainment (including basic literacy) and earnings of indigenous Australians is 
nothing short of appalling, worse than many third world countries.• 
Popular Culture: An Israeli Christian Arab, Lina Makhoul, won The Voice Israel 
this year. In contrast, not a single person from a minority religion has won the 
equivalent Australian Idol.Salma Fiomy-Farij, a hijab-wearing Israeli 
Muslim Arab, came second in this year’s Israeli Master Chef (the winner was a 
German convert to Judaism).In Australia Master Chef has not had a single 
winner from a religious or racial minority.THUS BY both legal and 
practical measures Israel is a less racist country than Australia and as far 
from apartheid South Africa as any country could possibly be. Israel truly is an 
un-apartheid state, one of the freest, most open and non-racist societies in the 
world.
The false accusations and Israeli Jew-targeting protests of the 
Australian BDS movement are not only racist and anti- Semitic, they are also 
completely hypocritical when Australia has so far to go to overcome its own 
racist past.The author is an Australian solicitor working for Shurat 
HaDin – The Israel Law Center in Tel Aviv. He recently brought a complaint under 
Australia’s Racial Discrimination Act against one of the leaders of the BDS 
movement in Australia, Prof. Jake Lynch of Sydney University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 13: Election matters</title>
<date>12/1/2013</date>
<content>
Election matters Sir, – Your January 11 article “‘Post’ poll: Likud Beytenu 
gains support, Bennett loses” cites the Likud Beytenu campaign’s view, which 
attributed the increase in support to voter disappointment in the Center 
parties. However, the article does not explain why Naftali Bennett’s Bayit 
Yehudi lost seats.




It seems to me that there is a correlation between 
Likud Beytenu’s gain and Bayit Yehudi’s loss, and that it is related to those 
who had considered voting for Bennett but have now reverted back to Likud 
Beytenu. The reason lies in the fact that Bennett’s party platform smacks too 
much of South African apartheid policies.I remember well the year of 
1948, when the Nationalist party led by D.F. Malan won the general elections, 
thereby achieving the “democratic right” to call South Africa the Afrikaaner 
home based upon the implementation of apartheid. I also remember the day Malan’s 
victory train stopped at our railway junction in Worcester. The white farming 
community had gathered from miles around, chanting in unison geluklik 
(congratulations) so much it seemed to me that even the horses were trotting to 
the sound of Afrikaaners overbrimming with joy.We got an Afrikaaner home 
and apartheid for 46 years, but then in 1994 it all came to an end, leaving a 
forlorn and wasted land.I believe there is a lesson for Bennett in the 
South African apartheid story. Those of us who lived through it do not want to 
do so again.LILY POLLIACK Jerusalem Sir, – We are constantly bombarded 
with polls that appear to be pushing Tzipi Livni, Shelly Yacimovich and Yair 
Lapid.We all know that polls ordered by the particular candidates lord 
their advancement.Wouldn’t it be most interesting to poll our media 
concerning their personal preferences? Might we discover that we are being 
manipulated into believing that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is losing 
ground and that Livni represents a moderate-centrist approach? We resent the 
assumption that the media are actually giving us facts in an objective manner 
since we know there is no objectivity whatsoever. Let’s drop these pretentions 
and publicize the media’s personal opinions so that we can accept or discount 
their analyses of events and personalities.BLOSSOM and JOSH WIESEN Haifa 
Sir, – UK Prime Minister David Cameron answers questions, however hostile or 
probing, every week in Parliament and holds wide-ranging press conferences, as 
does US President Barack Obama, whose exposure to the public during the recent 
election was boundless.But our prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, 
cowers in a bunker, terrified of responding to the Israeli electorate’s 
questions, preferring to rely on artificially enhanced applause before friendly, 
handpicked meetings while boasting about Israeli democracy.Why should 
anyone vote for somebody who pathetically refuses to engage the nation and 
explain his policies, his plans to tackle Israel’s many issues, or even to 
outline his vision for the future of the state? RAYMOND CANNON Netanya ‘Kvelling’ for Lew Sir, – We have subscribed to the Post since long before our 
aliya 45 years ago, but might be accused of having a ghetto mentality because 
your January 11 editorial (“Mazel tov, Jack Lew!”) drips syrup.Why is a 
tribal feel-good session in order on Lew’s appointment as Treasury secretary at 
such a perilous time? Might a historic gevalt show greater common sense when the 
policy- makers of both our nations try to avoid being seen as meddlers in each 
other’s political discourse? It is crucial for an appointee to share the values 
and ideology of his boss. While “Lew appears to have won Obama’s faith to an 
unusual degree,” your editorial might have questioned the wisdom of his being in 
the wrong job at the wrong time, rather than kvelling over it. His Jewish 
identity should be irrelevant to the enormous task he has – perhaps mistakenly – 
accepted.ESTER ZEITLIN Jerusalem Sir, – As is well known, there has been 
an outpouring of humanitarian appeals to US President Barack Obama for the 
pardon of Jonathan Pollard.However, Obama stands transfixed, sphinx-like 
and uncaring, about the continuing cruel and unusual punishment being inflicted 
on Pollard. Moreover, there is a perception that he has an anti-Semitic bias 
against Pollard.On this issue, Jack Lew also stands transfixed, 
sphinx-like and uncaring about a fellow Jew. Thus, he lacks credentials as a 
caring Jew.I. GENDELMAN Jerusalem Dershowitz’s concern Sir, – Alan 
Dershowitz is toying with self-delusion in calling for the employment of 
military force “if necessary” to prevent Tehran from producing an atomic bomb 
(“US president’s nomination of Hagel may encourage Iran’s nuclear ambitions,” 
Comment & Features, January 9).A militant, messianic Iran is not 
about to do an about-face on its proclaimed right to nuclear independence with 
the entire Muslim world watching, no matter how hard the Great Satan tightens 
the financial strings. Former senator Chuck Hagel’s nomination as defense 
secretary indicates that unplugging Ahmadinejad’s centrifuges is nowhere near 
the top of President Barack Obama’s second- term agenda.A massive, 
combined USIsrael air force strike against Iran’s nuclear complex could put this 
long-running nightmare to rest in 24 hours without risking a single boot on the 
ground. The fact that it has not been even seriously suggested is clear evidence 
of the growing distance between the White House and Israel’s 
“back.”WILLIAM MEHLMAN Efrat Sir, – Alan Dershowitz’s wholehearted, avid 
support of Israel is undeniable. However, this is the same Dershowitz who, 
together with Dennis Ross only two months ago, tried to convince us to vote for 
Barack Obama’s reelection, and some time prior to that had to publically 
repudiate his friendship with and support for Jimmy Carter.I have the 
greatest respect for Dershowitz as a fellow Jew and for his preeminence as an 
astute authority on American law, but I think he should be more selective and 
circumspect in his political choices.RICHARD JACOBS Haifa Sir, – After 
shilling shamelessly for President Obama in the last US election, Prof. Alan 
Dershowitz now points out what the rest of us already know: Obama is the most 
hostile president toward Israel since Jimmy Carter, and because he won a second 
term he may be able to do even more harm.If Dershowitz were more honest, 
rather than penning an “analysis” of the potential danger to Israel of Chuck 
Hagel as secretary of defense, he could simply say he’s sorry.CHAIM A. 
ABRAMOWITZ Jerusalem Sir, – Alan Dershowitz is concerned that President Obama’s 
choice of Chuck Hagel as defense secretary will send the wrong message to Iran 
and encourage it to build a bomb.He hopes Hagel will make it clear at 
the Senate hearings for his appointment that he will not allow Iran to get the 
bomb.Dershowitz supported Obama for president because Obama said “I 
don't bluff.” Hagel should know that repeating these magic words at the hearings 
will be the best bluff. It fooled America’s best defense attorney and it should 
fool the senators as well.
AVIGDOR BONCHEK Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jerusalem cannot handle another five years of left-wing policy</title>
<date>20/10/2013</date>
<content>
Let’s start by acknowledging the facts. Both Jerusalem’s current mayor and 
myself care deeply about Jerusalem and want to do the job to the best of our 
ability. Having worked closely with Nir Barkat for the past five years, I can 
attest to his good intentions, and judging by the complimentary content of a 
letter he sent to the prime minister saying that he had “full faith” in me 
because of my “extraordinarily good work on behalf of the development of 
Jerusalem,” he can attest to mine.However, apart from the reversal of 
the order of priorities for Jerusalem and its residents, meaning less champagne 
events costing tens of millions and more investment in education, sanitation, 
transportation and employment, the greatest differences between us are in our 
ideological outlooks.




In Jerusalem, perhaps more than any other city in 
Israel, political outlook and worldview has a very great bearing on a mayor’s 
activities and decisions.Our beloved, eternal and indivisible capital 
city is in danger.While claiming to be in favor of a united and 
sovereign Jerusalem, over the past five years, Jerusalem’s current mayor has 
acted against these interests. Unbeknown to most, the extreme Left has been 
allowed to gain control over east Jerusalem.The Jerusalem municipal 
portfolio for east Jerusalem is in the hands of none other than Meir Margalit, a 
prominent member of Meretz, and was awarded to him by Barkat 
himself.While his name may not be familiar to many, Margalit, who openly 
and proudly advocates a return to the pre- 1967 lines, is also a founder and 
leading member of The Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions 
(ICAHD).ICAHD, funded heavily by the European Union, is a prominent 
member of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against the State of 
Israel, participating in anti-Israel events across the globe, accusing Israel of 
“ethnic cleansing,” “genocide,” “collective punishment,” and “apartheid.” 
Furthermore, Margalit’s ICAHD cofounder, Jeff Halper, has said “I think it is 
impossible to have a Jewish state.”Margalit’s extreme positions are not 
theoretical. In 2010, he and his Meretz cocouncilors signed a letter addressed 
to Adidas executives calling on them to withdraw their sponsorship of the 
Jerusalem Marathon because part of its route passed over the “Green 
Line.”What was Barkat’s reaction to such a blatant attack on Israel’s 
sovereignty? A few months later, Barkat handed Margalit responsibility for east 
Jerusalem.For the past few years, we have had the absurd situation of 
the mayor investing power in someone who not only rejects Israeli sovereignty in 
over half of the city, but is part of an international network working to 
boycott our state.This might seem strange behavior for a mayor who tries 
to position himself as right wing. However, this is merely a political façade 
maintained to garner votes.Barkat has always been on the Left of the 
political spectrum, and came as little surprise when, immediately after the Gaza 
Disengagement in 2005, Barkat, at the behest of Ehud Olmert and Omri Sharon, 
became the official Kadima representative in Jerusalem. While those expelled 
from Gush Katif were left homeless and unable to restart their lives, Barkat was 
busy lobbying on behalf of the party responsible for the Disengagement, claiming 
that “Kadima is a worthy party to lead the country at this time.”It is 
this concessionist attitude which is creating facts on the ground in Jerusalem 
in a very worrying manner.The number of demolitions of illegally built 
houses in east Jerusalem has been dramatically reduced under the Barkat-Meretz 
alliance. While Barkat seemingly supports the removal of Jews from their legal 
homes, he appears to be far less sure about upholding the law and demolishing 
illegal homes in the Arab sector, and thus provides encouragement for more and 
more illegal Arab building, further upsetting the already delicate demographic 
balance.Furthermore, in 2011, during a speech at the National Defense 
College, Barkat suggested a plan to divide Jerusalem and give parts of it to the 
Palestinian Authority.The plan was lauded by the extreme Left, and in 
particular by Oslo-architect Yossi Beilin, who wrote a whole article 
congratulating Barkat on coming clean on his views to divide 
Jerusalem.Under Barkat’s tenure, the Arabs of east Jerusalem – who 
according to polls wish to remain under Israeli sovereignty – have become 
infiltrated by the PA and other extremist organizations, which have gained a 
stronger foothold in the city in recent years.In 2011, according to 
Haaretz, Barkat met with a group of radical Islamists dedicated to Israel’s 
destruction, including the brother of a terrorist involved in the Mercaz HaRav 
massacre in which eight yeshiva students were killed. This was against the 
advice of the Shin Bet and the Jerusalem Police, who made their concerns known 
to Barkat’s office before the meeting.These are just some of the many 
ways in which Jerusalem is being changed, a situation which should be of deep 
concern to all those who care about our beloved capital city.This is 
also seemingly why Meretz, and Labor Party leader Shelly Yacimovich, are 
strongly endorsing Barkat for another term.For there to be change in 
this policy, Jerusalem needs to be led by someone with strong roots in the 
national camp, which is solidly behind me and has given me its strongest 
endorsement.I know what needs to be done to return Jerusalem from the 
dangerous course it has taken in the last five years.This is why, as one 
of my first acts as mayor, I will immediately strip Meretz of its control over 
east Jerusalem and give that portfolio to someone with a clear Zionist vision, 
who has no qualms about Israel’s control over every inch of Jerusalem. I will 
not give power to those who want to relinquish Jerusalem, meet with terrorist 
sympathizers or talk about conceding land in our capital city to the 
PA.This is the clear difference between Barkat and myself.The 
choice is clear: vote for Barkat and his Meretz partners, and another five years 
of the creeping disengagement from Jerusalem, or together we can make the 
sweeping changes necessary to maintain the unity of Jerusalem under full and 
unequivocal Israeli sovereignty.
The writer is the Jerusalem mayoral 
candidate for Likud Beytenu and the former chairman of the Jerusalem Development 
Authority.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 26: Selective morality</title>
<date>25/6/2013</date>
<content>
Selective morality Sir, – Israel’s legions of foes abroad are quick to castigate 
our treatment of Palestinian prisoners, most of who are incarcerated for serious 
offenses relating to security.




Many of those released over the years have 
– within months of their release – become active again in their murderous 
activities.What do these critics with selective morality have to say 
about Hamas executing two Palestinians allegedly found guilty for spying for 
Israel (“Hamas executes two by hanging over ‘collaboration’ with Israel,” June 
23)? There was no right of review by PA President Mahmoud Abbas, since Hamas 
does not recognize Abbas as having authority in Gaza.This barbaric 
“execution” of justice influenced by considerations of nation or race by the 
highest levels of Gazan government is so much worse than the old apartheid South 
Africa, that used to hang blacks murdering whites but never the other way 
around.Hamas is not only following in the worst ways the old South 
African apartheid regime, but finetuning it – Gaza style.DAVID E. KAPLAN 
Kfar Saba Nothing new Sir, – In regard to The Jerusalem Post article “The 
nation, religion and state – what’s new?” by Joel H. Golovensky (Comment and 
Features, June 23) – there really is nothing that’s new on this subject! Our 
ancient Jewish culture is an intertwining of nationality, religion and now 
(thankfully) state. Each one of these entities is dependent upon the other. Can 
nationality really be defined without the state? Can the state be characterized 
as Jewish without religion and nationality? And though the religion was 
practiced for two millennia without the state or clearly defined nationality, 
was it really as authentic as it should, or could be? Only time, patience, and 
brotherly love will eventually give us the answers.HAIM M. LERNER Ganei 
Tikva Tennis temerity Sir, – In regard to “An Israeli-less main draw at 
Wimbledon,” (Sports, June 21) – it is difficult to understand why Israel, with 
such wonderful tennis centers and facilities all around the country set up by 
Dr. Ian Froman (himself a former Davis Cup competitor from South Africa) is not 
producing some world-class tennis stars so that we do not have to such a 
headline.There is, however, a underlying reason which is unlikely to 
change, and that is the strong resistance of Jewish parents to children 
dedicating themselves to a life career in tennis from a very young age. There is 
some justification for the parents’ concern.The major reason is the need 
to make all school and higher learning studies secondary to tennis 
training.Tennis, like all sports, has become highly professional, 
requiring outstanding physical and mental excellence and prowess and spending 
the majority of the tennis player’s time overseas.If we as a country 
really want to succeed in sport internationally, our government should find ways 
to compensate those who take great risks to do so.If such a “safety net” 
did exist, parents might be prepared to consider. Failing that, we will continue 
to drop out of the international sport of tennis.DAVID GOSHEN Kiryat Ono 
Cheap and green Sir, – If ever an Israeli entrepreneur received massive support 
from investors, government and even the president it is Shai Agassi (“Agassi: 
Green future inevitable – it’s cheaper,” June 20).It ill behooves him to 
imply a conspiracy of “today’s interests” as a justification for the failure of 
Better Place. If Agassi is so much convinced of his “green tomorrow,” let him 
buy Better Place now – at a small fraction of the original huge investment – and 
prove his point. In the process he will be providing employment for loyal 
workers and protecting the interest of the customers who had faith in him and 
bought the electric cars he so much believes in.ALFRED INSELBERG 
Ra’anana Dual decisions? Sir, – Gershon Baskin’s latest article is headed 
“Decision-making time” (Encountering Peace, Comment and Features, June 
20).Wow, I thought to my surprise – I agree with Mr. Baskin! Reading 
further, however, I kept looking for a possible decision, give, gesture, 
anything from the side of the Palestinians.Nada. The whole article 
jumpstarts (without negotiations) to what Israel is obliged to 
do.“Decision-making time” is up the proverbial brick wall. So it’s up to 
the peace-loving leader of the Palestinians: Decide to loudly proclaim Israel is 
a Jewish State.Decide to stop emphatically insisting on the return of 
all refugees. Decide to refrain from the ridiculous request that all terrorists 
should be released from Israeli prisons. Decide to swallow the fact that 
Jerusalem is the eternal capital of the Jewish people.Unless and until 
these difficult decisions have come to pass, only unilateral action on the part 
of Israel will dent the status quo.Somehow I think most of the world 
won’t pat us on our back for our outrageous temerity! NAOMI FEINSTEIN Nordiya A 
place to start Sir, – Whatever the shortfalls of gatherings such as the G8 or 
G20, however shackled by vested interests they may be, we need 
them.Conflicts and economies are internationalized.The discord 
at the G8 over the increasingly complex conflict in Syria questions our ability 
to continue to shape the future of the Middle East (“Putin torpedoes G8 nations’ 
efforts to push out Assad,” June 19).It was all sadly redolent of the 
Cold War. Waning power does not mean abandoning our responsibilities but can 
tit-for-tat arming bring peace? There is no military solution to Syria; 
Afghanistan and Iraq should have taught us that lasting peace cannot be imposed 
by force. Wellorchestrated and persistent diplomacy, multilateral agreements, 
equity of rights, UN peacekeeping with teeth and economic development are our 
best hope.Lacking at the G8 was recognition that resolution to the 
Israeli- Palestinian conflict remains core to regional stability. Former US 
president Bill Clinton rightly describes the conflict as a microcosm of the 
challenges facing the whole world. As long as the United States and Europe are 
seen as complicit with Israel, we will continue to have enemies across the 
Middle East and Israel’s subjugation of the Palestinians will fuel 
anti-Semitism.The final communique of the G8 failed to mention Israel is 
occupying Palestinian land. The duty of the international community should be to 
adopt diplomatic means to force Israel to abide by international resolutions. If 
we want to get something right in the Middle East, resolving the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict would be a very good place to start.KATE 
THICK Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK Fortifying food Sir, – Recently, Health Minister 
Yael German discussed the possibility of fortifying milk and white cheeses with 
vitamin D, flour with folic acid, and salt with iodine (“German doesn’t rule out 
fortifying food with nutrients to improve health,” June 17).Deficiencies 
in these nutrients are unfortunately common, and adding them to these foods, as 
is done in some other countries, would help improve the population’s health. 
This might be a good effort to help mitigate preventable diseases, but like many 
other nutritional and medical interventions, it will in no way cure the problem. 
In this case, a good part of the problem is the substandard food that comprises 
the Western diet, and a good deal of the Israeli diet.Processed foods, 
like white flour, white rice, white sugar, and table salt were once whole foods 
but were robbed of their nutrients in the manufacturing process.Attempts 
to add a few vitamins back into these foods in no way replaces all the nutrients 
that were lost.I would suggest that German also consider promoting whole 
foods, including those that naturally contain iodine, vitamin D, folate, and all 
the other nutrients we are lacking.
CARYN LIPSON Rehovot
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 4: Classifying terror</title>
<date>3/6/2013</date>
<content>
Classifying terror Sir, – I am seriously concerned about the reported initiative 
of Justice Minister Tzipi Livni and Public Security Minister Yitzhak 
Aharonovitch to classify “pricetag” incidents as terror attacks (“Lapid: 
Price-tag attacks are terror,” News in Brief, May 31).




Any attempt to 
equate the undoubtedly shocking and reprehensible anti-Arab or anti-Christian 
vandalism with the murder or attempted murder of innocent civilians cheapens the 
value of human lives. Moreover, it creates a grave double standard whereby arson 
attacks against synagogues and Jewish holy places, the desecration of Jewish 
Torah scrolls and holy books, anti-Jewish graffiti and swastikas on the walls of 
Jewish holy sites, the smashing of gravestones, defacing or urinating on 
gravestones in Jewish cemeteries – events that unfortunately occur quite 
frequently in Israel, and are disgracefully under-reported by the media – will 
officially be regarded as of less importance and subject to lesser penalties 
than “price-tags.”NAOMI SCHENDOWICH Jerusalem Sir, – Lapid and Livni 
continue to call so called “price-tag” attacks acts of terrorism without even 
considering the underlying causes. Recent articles in The Jerusalem Post have 
pointed out that the IDF sits back and does nothing to stop the repeated stoning 
and fire-bombing of vehicles in Judea and Samaria.This lack of response 
only emboldens the Palestinians to continue in their ways and is a direct cause 
of the retaliation by the citizens that live there. It is called 
self-preservation.The way to stop the “pricetag” acts for is for the IDF 
to actively protect the citizens of Israel by any means necessary to stop the 
unlawful and murderous actions of the Palestinians. It is time we stopped 
worrying about what so-and-so might say and do the right thing.We put up 
protective walls when necessary. We bombed the transfer of weapons from Syria to 
Lebanon when necessary. We erected checkpoints when necessary.It is now 
necessary to stop the stoning.VEL WERBLOWSKY Jerusalem Unforgivable 
languageSir, – Will Alice Walker ever learn the meaning of the word apartheid 
(“Walker urges Keys to boycott Israel,” News in Brief, May 31)? Last year I 
suggested that she visit Israel and see this thriving, integrated country for 
herself.She would see the thousands of Arab students, the nurses, 
doctors, and the wonderful care that children with heart problems from all over 
the Arab world receive here, and the care that the families who accompany the 
patients are given. She forgets the young Jewish men and women who marched in 
Mississippi and Alabama and even died for the cause of desegregation.The 
language that Alice used to discourage Alicia Keys from coming here to sing is 
unforgivable.Kudos to Alicia for still planning to come here. I hope to 
send my children and grandchildren to hear her perform. Anti-Israel is the new 
cover-up for anti-Semitism.ANNETTE UNGERLEIDER MARTIN Kfar Shmaryahu A 
new Somalia Sir, – In regard to the report “South China Sea tension mounts near 
Filipino shipwreck, (May 31) I wish to bring to your attention the fact that a 
Philippine government vessel used automatic weapons to spray an unarmed and not 
provocative Taiwanese fishing boat on May 9, which killed a fisherman in cold 
blood and severely damaged the 15-ton glass-fiber boat, operating in the 
overlapping exclusive economic zones (EEZ) of the two countries.The 
Philippine government vessel left the scene without rendering any assistance, a 
violation of the International Law and humanitarian obligation. The Philippine 
government later said that they fired at the boat in selfdefense, claiming the 
15-ton glass-fiber fishing boat was trying to ram the 115-ton ship. The fishing 
boat refused their inspection and tried to flee.After a parallel 
investigation by both sides, the crews on the Philippine government ship 
admitted after interrogation that there were eight people who fired weapons 
under the order of the commander. There was no attempt of ramming by the fishing 
boat and they opened fired just because the fishing boat wouldn’t leave the area 
at their request.The government of Philippines has repeatedly tried to 
cover up the crimes committed by its crews. Taiwanese fishing boats have often 
been boarded and inspected by Philippine vessels operating in these waters. 
There were Taiwanese fishermen killed, most recently in 2006. This brutal 
killing has to be punished by law, otherwise a new Somalia is forming in this 
area.RAY CHAO Tel Aviv The writer is the first secretary in the Taipei 
Economic and Cultural Office in Tel Aviv.Turkish treacherySir, – We 
learn from “Power in Unity,” (Energy, Frontlines, May 31) that one of the 
options being considered in the exploitation of Israel’s natural gas fields in 
the Mediterranean is a pipeline through Turkey.Whoever dreamt up that 
idea completely overlooked the nature of that country.Just a few of the 
obvious signs of Turkey’s perfidious nature: the Armenian genocide which, 
according to Turkey, did not take place; Turkey’s annexation of part of Cyprus 
(which Turkey now calls “the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,” the rest 
being “Greek Cyprus”); and the Turkish demand that Israel apologize and pay 
damages for blocking the Mavi Marmara flotilla.One can understand that 
repeated attempts by the Post to contact the Turkish Energy and National 
Resources Ministry went unanswered: They were too busy working out what 
treachery they could get away with, if such a pipeline through Turkey were 
constructed! GERRY MYERS Beit Zayit Wasted efforts Sir, – I am a great admirer 
of Sarah Honig, whose op-eds are so instructive and written in an outstanding 
manner. Her most recent article exceeds even her own high standards. (“The light 
from London,” Another Tack, Observations, May 31).The clear elucidation 
of the history of anti-Semitism makes it clear that there is really nothing that 
the State of Israel can do to remedy the situation. Previous editions of the 
Post have featured articles criticizing the Israeli government for not acting 
appropriately to counteract world anti- Semitism. Honig’s article indicates that 
any effort will fail and money would be wasted.ROBYN ROTBERG Kfar Saba 
Sir, – Anyone who still has Friday’s paper (May 31) shouldn’t throw it away just 
yet. It contains a pair of magnificent matching articles that possibly belong 
side by side in a picture frame.The first is Alexander Zvielli’s “From 
our Archives,” which is always fascinating. In his piece for May 31, 1948, he 
says, “the Jewish forces also captured the important Ras al-Ain railroad 
station, a former British Air Force base, and a British Army camp.”Ras 
al-Ain is today’s Rosh Ha’ayin. One can still see some of those distinctive, 
humpbacked Quonset huts – still in use – lurking around parts of Rosh Ha’ayin 
today.And in case we were wondering from whom the Jewish forces captured 
these assets, we can turn to Sara Honig’s brilliant piece, “The light from 
London.”She describes how the British turned over strategic assets to 
the Arabs. Even before World War II, the British were against us. Even as far 
back as the massacre at York in March 1190. So we shouldn’t be 
surprised.Sara Honig points out that even if we follow Alexander Haig’s 
advice and give up all the “settlements,” we will not magically become popular 
in the world. She uses the rest of her space to clearly state why this is not 
so. The State of Israel must therefore resist all the peculiar foreign advice we 
are receiving, and just do what we have to do to survive.Thanks and 
blessings to Alexander Zvielli and Sara Honig.
THELMA JACOBSON Petah 
Tikva
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 9: Lying about land</title>
<date>8/6/2013</date>
<content>
Undivided nation Sir, – I am writing with much frustration and tears over the 
results of the poll conducted of the Israeli attitude to the two-state solution 
and the division of Jerusalem (“‘Post’ poll: 72% of Jewish Israelis view 
Jerusalem as divided, 8% support Arab League plan,” June 5).




We must not 
allowed to once again become a small Canaanite enclave in the Middle East 
dominated by so many Arab goliaths.We cannot divide the nation of 
Israel. We cannot allow the Jew in Tel Aviv to be so far apart from another Jew 
in Jerusalem, Beit Shemesh, Nahariya or Karmiel.Jerusalem was divided in 
1948 and in Abu Tor there was a Jordanian battalion that kept shooting at 
people. Why must a Jew in Ramot live in desperation because the neighborhood was 
built after 1967? How can we go to the Kotel when the Arabs claim with vigor the 
Holy Basin to be completely theirs? Does anyone in Tel Aviv understand that the 
entire city of Jerusalem is very special in its atmosphere and unites Jews from 
all over the world? Nothing in Israel will be left untouched if God forbid we do 
not comprehend that this nation of Israel is one and indivisible. If we took a 
poll of these Israelis and rephrased the question and asked if we should give up 
the land of Tel Aviv University for the sake of peace, probably the same number 
of respondents to the question about dividing Jerusalem would be happy to give 
up part of Tel Aviv and certainly Jaffa. The battle for education among Israelis 
has just begun. We cannot afford to lose our identity as Jews for the sake of 
being able to live in ghettos in the Land of Israel.THELMA SUSSWEIN 
Jerusalem Will peace pay? Sir, – US Secretary of State John Kerry says “Quite 
simply, peace pays” (Jerusalem expresses opposition to int’l forces as part of 
any peace deal,” June 5).That is of course true. Israelis need no 
convincing on that score.I think I can safely say that everyone in 
Israel would prefer peace to perpetual conflict.But that is not the 
issue. The only relevant issue is whether or not the creation of a Palestinian 
state on Israeli territory will actually bring peace to Israel.From 
so-called moderates in the PA (when they speak in Arabic), to terrorist groups 
that surround our borders, to state actors like Iran, to international movements 
such as BDS, the answer to that question has been a resounding no.RANDI 
MELLMAN OZE Jerusalem Invented problems Sir, – In regards to “Abbas threatens to 
dismantle PA if peace talks don’t start,” (June 5) – PA President Mahmoud Abbas 
is basically threatening: “If the game doesn’t start soon, played by my rules, 
I’m going to lie on my back, and scream and kick my feet in the air. And what’s 
more I’ll take my ball away, so there!” I’m sure we’re all impressed by this 
masterful example of Arab statesmanship. Maybe John Kerry has nothing more 
important to do then play around in the one country in the Middle East that is 
not going up in flames, but he is wasting his time and I’m sure that he and 
everyone else knows it too.Perhaps he should change tracks and solve the 
Syrian crisis, or do something about the riots in Turkey, or worry about holding 
Egypt together, to say nothing about the imminently impending Iranian atomic 
bomb.There are enough genuine acute problems in this neighborhood, he 
doesn’t have to invent new ones about which he can do nothing.STEPHEN 
COHEN Ma’aleh Adumim Lying about land Sir, – So the “US [is] unconcerned with 
Hamdallah appointment” (June 4). Well, so am I.Nor do I believe that 
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is the only one responsible for the 
stalemate.Just as long as our government refers to the West Bank and the 
Gaza Strip as “disputed” or “occupied” territories – not that either word should 
carry negative connotations – the settlement of this problem will continue to 
elude us. Why? Until and unless the legal status of the lands in question are 
recognized in international law, both sides will refuse any 
compromise.Israel must concern itself with security issues and the 
Palestinians with regaining all “the occupied Arab lands” lost in the Six Day 
War.However, if the lands in question belong to either one of the 
parties, the matter can be easily settled through negotiations. These words: 
“disputed” and “occupied” are getting in the way.So what, then, is the 
legal status of the lands? In 1920 at San Remo, the whole of Palestine east and 
west of the Jordan River was granted to us.This was ratified by the 
League of Nations and later by the United Nations. It is too late to haggle 
about Eastern Palestine, but all of the land west of the Jordan is Jewish land. 
No other country owned it and no United Nations division of the land can change 
it.So it is about time our government made this clear and stopped 
referring to it as “disputed land” or “occupied territory.” Any government 
official who persists in using the term should be warned that it is a lie and 
treasonable.EDMUND JONAH Rishon Lezion Tempered triumph Sir, – In her 
article “The triumph of the working mother,” Stephanie Coontz lays out a few 
statistics that appear to show that it is beneficial for women, and mothers in 
particular, to be employed (Comment and Features, June 4).But 
statistics, as everyone knows, can be deceptive and cherrypicked.The 
real results of women’s “liberation” are clear when we look at the bigger 
picture of society: We are more depressed and more stressed than we were several 
years ago, and divorce rates are higher and families less cohesive.Ms. 
Coontz herself admits that marital quality is lower for wives who “do not want 
to work but are forced to out of economic necessity.”Social pressure, 
not just economic necessity, forces more women to work than she 
realizes.JOSEPH MCCARTHY Jerusalem Preventing tragedy Sir, – It is very 
commendable for Sarit and Avi Noar to donate their son’s kidney to someone who 
needed it (“Bereaved parents donate son’s kidney to Bethlehemarea child,” June 
3). But where were the window bars to keep their four-year-old son safe inside? 
Tragically, children do fall out of higher floor windows. Even with window bars 
installed, (sirugim) the practice of placing toddlers on window sills in higher 
floor apartments with their feet dangling over the ledge is courting 
disaster.BLOSSOM AND ISRAEL RUBIN Beit Shemesh Countering assaults Sir, 
– I welcome the suggestion of Gideon Meir, director-general of the Foreign 
Ministry, for public diplomacy as I do any practical programs that counter the 
offensive assaults on our legitimacy (“Birthright-style program proposed for 
non-Jews,” May 31).Overseas governments should be encouraged to send 
students on organized visits to Israel and to meet fellow students here. Nothing 
can best dispel the fraud of Israel being an “apartheid” or “racist” state than 
have visiting students witness reality and truth here.I hope, Mr. Meir, 
that this is not mere lip-service, but is anchored in an adopted campaign with 
adequate funding and contacts sufficient, at least, to launch the first pilot 
tour.A successful first visit should generate interest and funding from 
foreign governments that, apparently, do not lack the resources to promote the 
activities of NGOs whose centerpiece, it seems, is the criticism of 
Israel.These countries have a domestic problem which includes the 
growing radicalization on their campuses and disruptive forces within their 
societies.Cooperation and coordination between Israeli and overseas 
faculties of higher education can do much to isolate the extremists and reduce 
tension by having the mainstream students link up with Israeli students and see 
for themselves the true face of Israel, rather than surrender to radical 
propaganda.They could become our future advocates on overseas 
campuses.
BARRY SHAW Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lessons on hypocrisy from Syria</title>
<date>10/11/2013</date>
<content>
The fighting in Syria once again proves the sad old adage that human rights 
organizations and their advocates in the mainstream Western media are 
essentially anti-Israel. There is no other way to explain the fact that all 
these high-and-mighty moralizers are ignoring the frightening plight of 
Palestinians and Christians in the Syrian civil war.You see, there is no 
anti-Israel angle to the story of Palestinian or Christian suffering in Syria. 
That suffering can’t really be blamed on the Jews. So nobody cares.




The 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
reports that approximately 250,000 Palestinians have been displaced inside Syria 
since the beginning of the conflict two years ago. In May, for example, some 
6,000 Palestinians were expelled from their homes in Ein al-Tal, a refugee camp 
near Aleppo in northern Syria.The response from the world: 
Nothing.Silence.In addition, more than 55,000 Palestinians have 
been forced to flee Syria to Lebanon and Jordan over the past two years. In 
Lebanon, the Palestinian refugees join more than 500,000 other Palestinians who 
live in refugee camps and are subject to apartheid laws that deny them work, 
social and health benefits, and freedom of movement.But of course, there 
has been no international uproar about this.Now imagine if six (never 
mind 60, 600, or 6,000) squatting Palestinian families were forced to move two 
kilometers out of an IDF firing zone in the southern Hebron hills.There 
would be UN investigations, international tribunals, condemnations from Western 
capitals, and much handwringing and moralizing by Amnesty, Human Rights Watch 
and more.Actually, this has happened exactly. A grand total of 10 
Palestinian families were forced out by an IDF evacuation order. And the world 
went berserk.It gets much worse. At least 2,000 Palestinians have been 
killed in Syria, by both the rebels and the Syrian army.But of course, 
you wouldn’t know about this from the Western press.Now imagine if IDF 
troops killed 150 terrorists, and inadvertently also killed a few civilians 
behind which the terrorists were hiding, during a raid meant to destroy enemy 
missile launchers. There would be UN investigations, international tribunals, 
condemnations from Western capitals, and much handwringing and moralizing by 
Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and more.Actually, this has happened 
exactly.The two Palestinian governments – Hamas in the Gaza Strip, and 
Fatah-led Palestinian Authority in the West Bank – have said or done nothing to 
draw global attention to the plight of their brethren in Syria. Neither the 
Palestinians nor Arab countries nor Arab League foreign ministers have asked for 
an emergency UN Security Council session to discuss the new Palestinian tragedy. 
They are more worried about construction of a few homes in Israeli settlements 
in the West Bank than the lives of thousands of Palestinians in Syria.IT 
IS NOT ONLY Palestinians suffering from Arab and Western disinterest. It is also 
Syria’s Christians, more than 600,000 of whom have been displaced or fled Syria 
since the rebellion began, according to Patriarch Gregorios III Laham, spiritual 
leader of the Melkite Greek Catholic Church. It seems that their fate will be 
similar to that of the Christians in Iraq, half of whom emigrated, fled or were 
killed.In March 2012, Islamist militants went door to door in 
neighborhoods of Homs, expelling local Christians. Of the more than 80,000 
Christians who lived in Homs prior to the uprising, approximately 400 remain 
today. In May 2012, Christian residents of Qusayr received an ominous warning: 
Either join the opposition against Bashar Assad or leave.Soon after, 
thousands of Christians fled the town.Christians who have fled to Egypt 
or Jordan tell of harassment, fictitious marriage proposals designed to traffic 
their daughters, and curses and beatings for being Christians.In 
September, the rebel Al-Nusra Front (an affiliate of Al-Qaeda) took control for 
several weeks of the ancient Christian town of Maaloula, northeast of Damascus, 
and desecrated all the churches. A grisly video has been posted online of the 
public beheading of a Syrian priest and two youths by Al-Nusra 
fighters.Similar attacks on churches have been documented over the past 
month in Raqqa, Sadad and Tel Abyadh. The most recent video out of Syria shows 
Islamist Sheikh Omar Raghba smashing a statue of the Virgin Mary in Yakubiya, as 
he declares that “Allah alone will be worshipped in the Levant.” But of course, 
you wouldn’t know about this from the Western press or Western 
leaders.The Vatican News Agency Fides and Catholic Online magazine 
reported this week that 45 Christians were recently massacred and thrown into 
mass graves by Islamists in Sadad, a town of 15,000 mostly Syriac Orthodox 
Christians located 160 km north of Damascus.The 4,000-year old Assyrian 
town’s 14 churches and monastery were defiled and looted. According to 
Archbishop Selwanos Boutros Alnemeh, Syriac Orthodox Metropolitan of Homs and 
Hama, about 2,500 families have fled from Sadad. “What happened in Sadad,” he 
says, “is the largest massacre of Christians in Syria and the second in the 
Middle East, after the one in the Church of Our Lady of Salvation in Iraq, in 
October 2010, when 58 were killed… We have shouted aid to the world but no one 
has listened to us.Where is the Christian conscience? Where is human 
consciousness? Where are my brothers?” But of course, you wouldn’t know about 
this from the mainstream Western press or from Western leaders.Now 
imagine that a few Jewish hooligans were to vandalize a monastery or two in 
Israel.There would be howls of protest worldwide.The attack 
would be covered extensively in just about every newspaper in the world, with a 
lot of buzz about the supposed brutalization of Israeli society and a 
radicalization of religious Jewry. There would be UN investigations, 
condemnations from Western capitals, and much handwringing and moralizing by 
Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and more.Actually, this has happened 
exactly.In short, the world is quick to jump on the rare cases of 
shameful Jewish hooliganism against Christians in Israel, or measured Israeli 
actions against Palestinians, but gives short shrift to the rampant and deadly 
persecution of Christians and Palestinians in the Arab and Islamic 
world.When persecution against Palestinians and Christians doesn’t come 
from the Jews, nobody cares. And this tells me that international howls of 
protest against Israel related don’t stem from real concern for Palestinian or 
Christian “victims” of Israel’s heavy hand.
Might it be possible that 
they stem from ancient hatreds of a different kind?
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Letters: Lau is no cheat</title>
<date>6/8/2013</date>
<content>
Sir, – We were shocked to read in your distinguished newspaper false and prejudiced publicity against Chief Rabbi David Lau without having been contacted for a response (“Rabbi Lau accused of cheating on 1993 exam,” August 6).The JTA article relates to an incident alleging that Rabbi Lau cheated on one of his tests over 20 years ago, something that simply never happened. It is a false blood libel.




For the past 20 years, a person who cheats on a test and is caught cannot continue in his studies toward the rabbinate, receive ordination or serve as chief rabbi of a city, as Rabbi Lau has done. Your paper rehashed baseless accusations that different parties who had competed with Rabbi Lau tried to market to the media during the race for chief rabbi in order to blacken his good name and hinder his chances of winning. Fortunately, these parties were unsuccessful.Rabbi Lau passed all his written tests as required by law and with the greatest of success, and was never disqualified from any test.YERACH TUCKER Jerusalem The writer is media adviser to Chief Rabbi David Lau Another lesson Sir, – Regarding “10 lessons for the South African ambassador to Israel” (Comment & Features, August 5), I disagree respectfully with my good friend Barry Shaw.Ambassador Ngombane has shown a deep understanding of the relationship between Israel and South Africa and is interested in promoting technological exchanges between our countries, which would be of great mutual benefit. During an interview for The Jerusalem Post Magazine (“‘For us, Hamas is a national liberation movement,” Feature, August 2), he said: “Of course relations can be worked on and improved and we do our best to do this.”While Shaw’s article correctly states that Ngombane said Hamas had “legitimate grounds to exist,” it incorrectly suggests that the ambassador said he supports the armed struggle. His actual words were: “We think that they [Hamas] have got legitimate grounds to exist and this to a certain extent was confirmed by their election.” Moreover, he said: “I’m saying that Gaza under Hamas is a work in progress and I’ve said we condemn violence.”I don’t suggest that I agree with the ambassador’s views of Hamas, but differences of opinion should be discussed in civil discourse. I believe that Hamas deserves universal condemnation not only for the content of its charter, but also because of its actions and the statements by its leaders.It is insulting to the ANC to compare its noble Freedom Charter to the Hamas charter, which declares in Article 13 that peaceful solutions contradict its principles. A few days after the UN resolution granting Palestine non-member status, Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal declared publicly that Jihad and armed resistance was the only way.MAURICE OSTROFF Herzliya Sir, – I wish to dissent from Barry Shaw’s “10 lessons for the new South African ambassador,” especially Lesson No. 6, concerning the ambassador’s comment in his interview with The Jerusalem Post Magazine that when it comes to the ownership of property “there are very strong signals that [Israel] is going down that route” of apartheid.Indeed, Israel already has discriminatory real estate policies not really different from those practiced in South Africa’s apartheid era.I remember well that when I inherited a property in Cape Town from my late father, the deed had stamped on it “WHITE PROPERTY AREA,” and when I used the proceeds of the sale to buy a property in Israel it was obvious to me that to all intents and purposes Arabs would not be welcome to buy a house in Jerusalem’s Ramot neighborhood.So I stand here today, high on a hilltop, and salute you, Mr.Ambassador, for exposing Israel’s hypocrisy.LILY POLLIACK Jerusalem Critiquing criticism Sir, – I cannot agree with Isi Leibler’s touchy assertion in “Distinguishing between critics and adversaries” (Candidly Speaking, August 4) that some of us have lost the ability to differentiate.Why should “well intentioned” critics be insulated from robust criticism of their views? This is the hallmark of a healthy, vibrant democracy.Take the case of Alan Dershowitz.I find it demeaning for anyone to uniquely defend the Jewish right to exist as a nation state, and deplore the self-aggrandizement of an American lawyer who thinks it appropriate for a foreigner to publicly express what Leibler describes as “controversial views about the peace process that he had formulated in talks with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas.”I was not present at the conference where Dershowitz was heckled over these views, but if he saw fit to undermine the policy of the democratically elected government of Israel, in which he plays no part, he cannot complain that those present vocally registered their disgust and disapproval in the customary manner of a lively debate.ROSLYN PINE London Freeing Raoul Sir, – In “The Knesset and Raoul Wallenberg” (Comment & Opinion, August 4), Max Grunberg provides examples of the bureaucratic hurdles he faces in his attempts to find a proper interlocutor at the Knesset to deal with the Wallenberg case.Last year, we bestowed upon him the Centennial Raoul Wallenberg Medal for his lifelong efforts to try and bring Raoul home. While we don’t always see eye-to-eye on how to achieve our common goal, which is to shed light on Wallenberg’s fate, we really appreciate his devotion.We believe the Russian authorities have the answers to this mystery, but at the same time we should not forget that the Swedish authorities, as well as other governments and influential individuals, have done almost nothing. This is both heartbreaking and mind-boggling.EDUARDO EURNEKIAN BARUCH TENEMBAUM New York The writers are chairman and founder, respectively, of the International Raoul Wallenberg Foundation It’s in the stars Sir, – With regard to “Leiderman withdraws candidacy for Bank of Israel governor position” (August 4), there were damaging reports elsewhere that Leiderman had been in regular touch with an astrologer.This reminded me of a statement I heard none other than Jacob Frenkel say some years ago: “Economic forecasting makes astrology look good!” MAYER BASSAN Jerusalem Sir, – To ensure that the next Bank of Israel governor does not consult with astrologers, I suggest a Libra be appointed. We Libras tend to be skeptical and therefore are unlikely to believe in astrology.YONATAN ZLOTNIKOVICH Jerusalem No flub there Sir, – At least one of your readers (“Haggadah flub, Letters, August 4) has seemingly upgraded The Jerusalem Post from a secular newspaper to a holy document.There are several responses as to what constitutes shemot (pages that have God’s name written in Hebrew). The questions that arise include: 1. Is newspaper print considered writing, as it is usually composed of a series of dots? 2. Does the name of God in a secular publication still carry an element of holiness? 3. If the publisher is not an Orthodox Jew, must the publication in question require burial when no longer fit for use? By the way, the pages did not offend me. In fact, they encouraged me to purchase the Dry Bones Haggadah! LEONARD BOOK Ashkelon
The writer is a rabbi
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Letters: The prisoner release</title>
<date>12/8/2013</date>
<content>
Sir, – Living as I do in the reality of Israel’s precariously fragile security situation, I must admit to being nonplussed when reading in “Mexico releases drug lord behind 1985 DEA agent killing” (August 11) the statement: “The move angered the US government.”What was the move that incurred the wrath of the United States? It was the fact that Mexico released a drug lord who had been behind the murder of an agent of the US Drug Enforcement Administration.




Ordinarily, as a good citizen who tries to act with the guidance of a moral compass, I, too, would have felt a sense of outrage and the feeling that justice had been betrayed. After all, this villain was responsible for the death of an American law enforcement official, and the fact that he spent 28 years in prison should not and does not absolve him of the guilt of this heinous crime.When, however, I am left acutely aware and completely heartbroken by the pressure brought to bear on Israel by the United States for the release of 104 terrorist murderers of innocent civilian women and children, I remain completely unmoved by the US discomfort concerning the Mexican drug lord.It is about time that Washington and the non-backboned Israeli leadership learned about the infinite value of a single life and the infinite evil of terrorism.ZEV CHAMUDOT Petah Tikva Sir, – The die has been cast.Arab prisoners with blood on their hands will be set free. Let’s see if we can grasp the lessons that will be learned by young Arabs and Jews from this repulsive act.1. Arab youths will learn that if they are looking for a sure shortcut to becoming heroes in the Arab world, all they have to do is kill Jews in cold blood. If they are captured, in the course of time their actions will be put aside by the Israeli government and they will be let free before justice is served.2. Jewish youth will learn that the Israeli justice system is flawed. It is no wonder that the so-called price-tag movement, as despicable as it is, has taken hold in this country. Will we be seeing a rise in vigilante groups in the future? Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu must surely understand that the advice from the Americans will always be: “Do as we say, not as we do.” There has never been a large-scale release of terrorists by any US president for the sake of luring anyone to the negotiating table.It would be truly insane to contemplate such a ridiculous move.I cannot think of any other single act that could lower the morale of the Jewish people than the one the prime minister has advocated. He is going to have a very busy day come Yom Kippur.P. YONAH Shoham Sir, – Let’s admit it – we are an apartheid state. If you are an Arab murderer our government laughs at our judges and after a slap on the wrist you go free. A Jewish murderer? Forget it! You will pay the full price.R. ABT Jerusalem Sir, – What is strange is that the US is still maintaining prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay facility. The crimes against mankind by these prisoners are identical to those of the 104 terrorists held by Israel, whose release was demanded by US Secretary of State John Kerry on behalf of his client, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.Guantanamo Bay was supposed to be closed down according to an order signed by the American president in January 2009. To my mind, what is sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander! JUDITH BARNET Jerusalem Sour on Obama Sir, – Emily Schrader (“Peace is more than a piece of paper,” Comment & Features, August 11) mentions how the US government ignored Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s statement to the Egyptian press that a Palestinian state will be judenrein.The mere suggestion of ethnic cleansing by Israel would be condemned by US President Barack Obama. As a law professor, he taught reciprocity in first-year contract law. Accordingly, he most certainly must support an equal number of Arabs in Israel to those in Palestine.ELIAHU WEINSTEIN Kfar Adumim Sir, – Can anyone explain why US President Barack Obama is so chummy with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who puts political opponents, generals and journalists in jail and is destroying the country’s secular heritage by implementing Islamist extremism in its place? Or why Obama defends ousted Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi, who was in the process of copying Erdogan’s program of Islamization? JOSHUA J. ADLER Jerusalem Meat of the matter Sir, – Jews debate over whether laboratory-grown meat is kosher (“The kosher conundrum,” August 11). Muslims debate whether it’s halal.For the person with true love in his heart, there is no need for debate. It’s obvious that if meat is going to be eaten, eliminating the need to inflict pain and terror on other sentient beings is the right and ethical thing to do.JENNY MOXHAM Monbulk, Australia Great treatment Sir, – With regard to “Netanyahu leaves hospital after successful hernia surgery” (August 12), I would like to wish the prime minister a complete recovery.I would also like to know which health plan he belongs to. The doctor came to him.The surgeon came to him.There was apparently no need for a referral by his personal physician, and no need to obtain a promise of payment by the health plan. He was operated on immediately.I would like to be treated this way. You can wait a very long time to see a doctor in this country, and the wait in an emergency room can be very long, too.Let us all be treated as Netanyahu was. We would be healthier and happier.MADALYN SCHAEFFER Jerusalem A sad Catch-22 Sir, – Ira M. Sheskin (“In the US, a strong Jewish presence,” Comment & Features, August 7) takes the temperature of the American Jewish community and declares it still to be in relatively good health. I believe his thermometer requires recalibration.Yes, there are pockets of quality Jewish education and other cultural activities in many American Jewish communities, and these should be praised and increased in number. But unfortunately, they are the exceptions to the rule.In a sense, the plethora of American Jewish organizations serves as a kind of smokescreen for the true paucity in Jewish life.So many of the organizations cited by Sheskin are devoted to retaining merely a subsistence level of Jewish identity. As one Jewish educator told me, “Anything is better than nothing.”Should these organizations give up and close their doors? Absolutely not! However, if the reported monetary and membership crisis of the Conservative Movement is any harbinger, the very organizations that Sheskin takes pride in are certainly in jeopardy.The increasing diminution of strong Jewish identity throughout the United States is already taking its toll. Most Jewish philanthropic dollars already support charitable programs and institutions outside the Jewish community.The loss of a sense of Jewish people-hood is rather quickly turning into a loss of personal loyalty and fiscal support for the very institutions that help foster Jewish commitment. This is the sad Catch-22 of American Jewish life at the beginning of the 21st century.
ARDIE GELDMAN Efrat
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mandela and Israel</title>
<date>6/12/2013</date>
<content>
As I introduced myself, feeling the strength in his large hand, he smiled and 
said, “Shalom!” I was dumbstruck by the powerful presence of Nelson Mandela, the 
legendary leader of the country in which I had grown up, the man credited with 
ending the brutal apartheid regime.




But there he was, his large frame 
cutting a regal figure, choosing his words carefully in his distinct African 
accent, sitting opposite me and several other journalists and photographers 
around a table at the Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem on October 19, 1999.Holding hands as he walked out of a meeting with foreign minister David Levy, 
Mandela agreed to answer a few questions, and – as a reporter for Israel Radio’s English News – I recorded his answers.Asked why he had 
finally decided to visit Israel, he replied, “To the many people who have 
questioned why I came, I say: Israel worked very closely with the apartheid 
regime. I say: I’ve made peace with many men who slaughtered our people like 
animals. Israel cooperated with the apartheid regime, but it did not participate 
in any atrocities.”Mandela voiced his vehement opposition to Israel’s 
control of the territories it had “occupied” in the Six Day War, and he urged it 
to concede land to the Palestinians and Syrians, just as it had done with the 
Egyptians, for the sake of peace.“My view is that talk of peace remains 
hollow if Israel continues to occupy Arab lands,” he said.“I understand 
completely well why Israel occupies these lands.There was a war. But if 
there is going to be peace, there must be complete withdrawal from all of these 
areas.”He did, however, acknowledge Israel’s legitimate security 
concerns, declaring: “I cannot conceive of Israel withdrawing if Arab states do 
not recognize Israel within secure borders.”One of Mandela’s greatest 
strengths was his ability to bury, but not forget, the bitterness of the past 
and actively work for a fairer future.He did so when, upon his release 
from 27 years in jail, he emerged without exhibiting any signs of anger, 
reconciling with president F.W. de Klerk (earning them both Nobel peace prizes) 
and even sipping tea with Betsie Verwoerd, the 94-year-old widow of apartheid’s 
architect, Dr. Hendrik Verwoerd.He did so when he became president of 
the new democratic South Africa in 1994 and set up the Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission, pitting perpetrators of apartheid crimes against its victims and 
their families.He did so when he went to watch the Springboks team beat 
the All Blacks in the Rugby World Cup in 1995, depicted in the Clint Eastwood 
film Invictus.And he did so when, at the age of 81, he paid what was 
termed “a private visit” to Israel for two days after completing his five-year 
term as president and handing over the reins to his deputy, Thabo Mbeki, in 
June, and choosing to fly first to Iran, Syria and Jordan.The peace 
overtures of thenprime minister Ehud Barak had paved the way for Mandela – a 
devout Christian – to make his first and only pilgrimage to the Holy 
Land.After taking a jab at the Jewish state for being the only nation 
not to invite him when he was appointed president, and then refusing several 
invitations to travel here, Mandela said this trip was aimed at burying the 
hatchet – or, in his words, “to heal old wounds” both with Israel and South 
African Jews.Mandela had an ambivalent, almost love-hate relationship 
with Jews and Israel. Like Mohandas (Mahatma) Gandhi before him, his first job 
had been with a Jewish law firm in Johannesburg, and some of his closest 
friends, political advisers and business associates were Jewish.When he 
needed advice or money, they were the first people he called upon.Many 
South African Jews had supported him, but others had openly backed or implicitly 
endorsed apartheid. One of his close Jewish friends, Arthur Goldreich, provided 
refuge to Mandela and other ANC leaders at his farm in Rivonia, later made aliya 
and became a professor at the Bezalel Art School.On the other hand, 
Percy Yutar, the chief prosecutor at the infamous Rivonia treason trial at the 
end of which Mandela was given a life sentence, was Jewish, too.Mandela resented Israel’s military relationship with apartheid South Africa and 
passionately supported the PLO, which he saw as a liberation movement similar to 
his own ANC.He supported Israel’s right to exist as a democratic Jewish 
state, yet felt closer to its enemies: the PLO’s Yasser Arafat, Libya’s Muammar 
Gaddafi, Cuba’s Fidel Castro, Iran’s Mohammed Khatami and Syria’s Hafez Assad. 
Nevertheless, he praised his Israeli hosts for their warm reception and 
peace-making efforts. Mandela received a red-carpet welcome at the King David 
Hotel, where South African chief rabbi Cyril Harris, together with leaders of 
the South African Jewish Board of Deputies and Israel’s ambassador to South 
Africa, Uri Oren, greeted him.Hugging Harris, a good friend, he quipped: 
“Now I feel at home – my rabbi is here.”At a luncheon hosted by 
president Ezer Weizman and attended by cabinet ministers and other dignitaries, 
Mandela chose to thank the South African Jewish community. “One of the reasons I 
am so pleased to be in Israel is as a tribute to the enormous contribution of 
the Jewish community of South Africa. I am so proud of them,” he 
said.After a guided tour of Jerusalem’s Old City and Yad Vashem, he 
wrote in the Holocaust museum’s visitors’ book: “A painful but enriching 
experience.”After an upbeat meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office, he 
described Ehud Barak as “a man of courage and vision.”“The people of the 
world and Israel should support Barak. He has aroused our hopes,” Mandela said. 
“What has emerged from all my conversations is that the yearning for peace is 
very intense.”During the meeting, Mandela was thrilled to see Rabbi Dov 
Sidelsky, a South African immigrant and the son of Lazar Sidelsky, who had given 
Mandela his first job as a law clerk.Whites hiring black professionals 
was “almost unheard of in those days,” said Mandela, who remembered Dov as a 
young boy in Johannesburg.“I have found Jews to be more broad-minded 
than most whites on issues of race and politics, perhaps because they themselves 
have historically been victims of prejudice,” he wrote in his autobiography, 
Long Walk to Freedom.In his talks with Levy at the Foreign Ministry, 
Mandela shared his impression during his visit to Iran that the country had 
become more “moderate” under then-president Khatami.He said he had 
received assurances that the trial of 13 Iranians Jews arrested earlier that 
year on charges of spying for “the Zionist regime,” which was of great concern 
then, would be “free and fair.”Levy protested politely against Mandela’s 
reading of the situation, telling him that Iran, which backed terrorist groups 
targeting Jews and the Jewish state, was certainly not giving the 13 Jews a fair 
hearing.In July 2000, after a closed trial that violated international legal norms, 10 
were given harsh sentences, while three others were acquitted. Levy had been 
right, Mandela wrong.Following his visit to Israel, Mandela flew to 
Gaza, where he enthusiastically embraced Arafat and endorsed Palestinian 
statehood but made a point of urging Arab acceptance of Israel.“The Arab 
leaders must make an unequivocal statement that they recognize the existence of 
Israel with secure borders,” he stressed.Mandela was undoubtedly one of 
the greatest leaders of the 20th century and an iconic symbol of hope and 
freedom in his beloved South Africa.While he supported Zionism in 
principle, he believed that if there was to be peace in the Middle East, Israel 
must negotiate a two-state solution with the Palestinians and avoid becoming a 
binational “apartheid state” – or risk becoming an international pariah like 
apartheid South Africa.A humble hero, Mandela was the first to 
acknowledge that he wasn’t always right, but as an advocate of justice for all, 
he was always ready to stand up and fight for what he believed was right, even 
when his views were not popular.During my youth in South Africa, Mandela 
was portrayed by the “white media” as the enemy, the jailed leader of a 
terrorist insurrection against the Afrikaner government.They labelled 
him “the Black Pimpernel” before he was arrested.But the seemingly 
impossible occurred: the Black Pimpernel became the beloved leader of “the 
Rainbow Nation,” affectionately called “Madiba” (the name of his Xhosa clan) by 
South Africans of all colors and creeds.Mandela once said, “It always 
seems impossible until it’s done.”
May you rest in peace, 
Madiba. Shalom!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mandela and the Jews</title>
<date>3/7/2013</date>
<content>
Shortly before Shabbat last week, South Africa’s chief rabbi, Dr. Warren 
Goldstein, spoke to Dr. Makaziwe Mandela, daughter of former president 
Nelson Mandela, to convey to the family the Jewish community’s prayers and 
support.In thanking Rabbi Goldstein, Dr. Mandela asked him 
specifically to convey to the Jewish community that her father cherished “the 
special and warm relationship” he had had with South African Jews” and that he 
deeply appreciated how throughout his life he had enjoyed the warmth, kindness 
and support of the Jewish community.




With the life of this extraordinary 
man now inexorably drawing to a close, South Africans of all races and creeds 
are preparing with heavy hearts to bid a final farewell to their country’s 
greatest son. It is not a time for recriminations and finger-pointing, nor is it 
a time for any individual or group to presume to share in the light of his 
legacy.South African Jews, notwithstanding Mandela’s generous 
acknowledgment of the support he received from members of their community, are 
well aware that in these sad times, it is to Mandela alone that all tributes 
belong.Nor should it be forgotten that while many Jewish individuals did 
indeed play a valuable part in his life and career, the majority of Jews chose 
not to confront the apartheid system in any meaningful way.In 2011, the 
South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD) partnered with the Umoja 
Foundation in bringing out Jewish Memories of Mandela, a history telling the 
Mandela story from the perspective of the various Jewish individuals who were a 
part of it. For me, as the author of this book, it was an inspiring project, one 
that brought to light as never before the extent to which Jews were involved in 
the cause of black liberation while providing many fresh, and often deeply 
moving insights into the kind of man and leader that Mandela became.Jews 
have been a part of Mandela’s life from his arrival in Johannesburg in the early 
1940s to the present.The law rather than politics was what he initially 
chose to go into, and it was Lazer Sidelsky that gave him his start as an 
articled clerk in his law firm at a time when it was unheard of for young blacks 
to be taken on in such a capacity. His fellow clerk, Nat Bregman, became his 
first white friend in Johannesburg and, as a member of the Communist Party at 
the time, also played a part in his early political education.Mandela 
went on to study law at the University of the Witwatersrand, where he 
established enduring friendships with fellow students Jules Browde and Harry 
Schwarz, both of whom were prominently involved in liberal politics 
thereafter.As he moved increasingly into political activism, Mandela 
came more and more to be associated with members of the Jewish community who 
were likewise confronting the apartheid system. Thirteen of his fellow 
defendants in the 1956-1961 Treason Trial, for example, were Jews, among them 
such Struggle stalwarts as Lionel Bernstein, Joe Slovo and Ruth First. Among the 
founders of the underground military wing of the African National Congress, 
Umkhonto we Sizwe, were Dennis Goldberg, Harold Wolpe and Arthur Goldreich (a 
volunteer in the War of Independence who later settled in Israel).Jewish 
lawyers were prominently involved in defending Mandela in the various political 
trials in which he was involved, among them Isie Maisels (later a member of the 
governing body of the Jewish Agency), Arthur Chaskalson, Joel Joffe and Sidney 
Kentridge. He also worked closely with the journalist Benjamin Pogrund, who 
later made aliya and in addition to promoting Israeli- Palestinian dialogue has 
been a staunch defender of Israel in the propaganda war against it.After 
Mandela’s release from prison in 1990, he and the mainstream Jewish leadership 
forged a cordial relationship and many leading Jewish businessmen were brought 
on board to assist in addressing the legacy of poverty and inequality left by 
the apartheid system.He became especially close to Chief Rabbi Cyril 
Harris, a charismatic leader who whole-heartedly embraced the new democratic 
dispensation and encouraged the greater Jewish community to do 
likewise.The SAJBD met with Mandela regularly, and its leadership, along 
with Rabbi Harris, accompanied him on a visit to Israel shortly after he had 
stepped down as president in 1999.On the Israel-Palestine question, 
Mandela was deeply committed to the attainment of Palestinian statehood, but at 
the same time recognized that this had to be pursued through a process of 
peaceful negotiations and never deviated from his belief in Israel’s right to 
exist within secure borders.Following his meeting with Mandela in 1996 
the Dalai Lama, the revered world symbol of the Tibetan independence struggle, 
commented that when he met with prominent personalities from around the world, 
for the most part, they did not live up to their reputations. Nelson Mandela’s 
reputation was the largest in the world, he said, and only in Mandela’s case did 
he find the person larger than the reputation.Nelson Mandela has been a 
true colossus on the stage of history.
World Jewry can take pride in how 
many of its members ultimately contributed to what he was able to achieve, for 
his own people and for humanity at large.The writer is the associate 
director of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies and author of the 2011 
book Jewish Memories of Mandela.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mandela’s road to reconciliation: The next stop on the journey</title>
<date>23/12/2013</date>
<content>
In 2003, I traveled to South Africa with my dear friend, Martin Luther King III, 
at the invitation of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, where we spoke 
at their centenary celebration on the state of black-Jewish relations in the 
United States. During the civil rights struggle, no segment of American society 
provided as much and as consistent support to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and to 
African-Americans, as did the Jewish community.Martin and I believed we 
had something unique to share with our South African hosts. Yet, we were both 
overwhelmed and humbled by the enormity of what had been accomplished in South 
Africa in the few short years since the collapse of apartheid. One could only be 
impressed by the authentic process of reconciliation launched by Nelson Mandela, 
which had been embraced by millions of South Africans, black and white. I 
returned home inspired to apply the South African model of black-white 
reconciliation to further improving black-Jewish relations in 
America.




Mandela challenged blacks and whites to transcend political and 
ideological differences for the betterment of South African society – the 
process of reconciliation despite differences.That same model – 
reconciliation despite differences – needs to be applied to the task of bridging 
the divide between two of South Africa’s most significant faith communities; the 
country’s 75,000 Jews and nearly 750,000 Muslims. Just as South African blacks 
and whites were able to reconcile despite differences on many profound issues, 
South African Jews and Muslims must find a way to agree to disagree on the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict while working together for the betterment of both 
communities and the multi-racial society in which they live side by 
side.This conflict was exacerbated in a recent exchange in which South 
African International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane said her 
government had agreed to “slow down and curtail senior leadership contact with 
the [Israeli] regime,” after which Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman commented 
in an ominous Facebook posting that things might get “so extreme as to lead to 
actual pogroms” and therefore South African Jews should leave for Israel “before 
it is too late.”In response, South African Jewish leaders roundly 
denounced both Nkoana-Mashabane’s comments as counter to prior assurances, as 
well as Liberman’s remarks, which they portrayed as misguided and 
irresponsible.In June 2013 the Foundation for Ethnic Understanding 
sponsored a Mission to Washington of Jewish and Muslim Leaders from South 
Africa, Australia and New Zealand. During their visit, they were hosted at the 
South African Embassy by Ambassador Ebrahim Rasool, a protege of Mandela and one 
of South Africa’s most important Muslim leaders. In his remarks, Rasool said 
that Muslims and Jews need to rediscover shared history and traditions extending 
back more than a millennium, as well as “the finest values in the Abrahamic 
tradition.”In the aftermath of Nelson Mandela’s passing, I suggest that 
to build a Muslim-Jewish coalition in South Africa, leaders of both communities 
need to embrace Madiba’s prescription of reconciliation despite 
differences.This approach to Muslim-Jewish relations has been pioneered 
by FFEU, and successfully adopted by Muslims and Jews in many countries around 
the world. While acknowledging very real differences over the Middle East 
conflict, we nevertheless resolve to work together to build ties of 
communication and cooperation. We are working to build a common agenda based on 
standing together against Islamophobia and anti-Semitism and supporting the 
other community when it is wrongfully attacked.
Ten years ago, I was 
inspired with the knowledge of how Nelson Mandela’s formula for reconciliation 
between South African blacks and whites led to the successful transformation of 
his country. That model must certainly be upheld by South African Muslims and 
Jews, who, as they mourn Mandela’s passing, should adopt the paradigm of 
reconciliation despite differences that he so powerfully championed.The 
writer is a rabbi, president of the Foundation of Ethnic Understanding and the 
author of Shared Dreams: Martin Luther King Jr. and the Jewish Community (2000) 
and co-author with Imam Shamsi Ali of Sons of Abraham: A Candid Conversation 
About the Issues that Divide and Unite Jews and Muslims (2013).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Mandela the mensch</title>
<date>8/12/2013</date>
<content>
Although it is still too soon after Nelson Mandela’s death to define his legacy, 
it is clear that he will remembered in the annals of the history of South Africa 
and the world as a great man – and as Jewish writer Lionel Slier remarks, one 
worthy of the Yiddish term “mensch,” a person of true integrity.Despite 
Mandela’s ambivalent attitude toward Israel, exemplified by detesting its ties 
with apartheid South Africa and what he called its occupation of Arab 
territories, he well-deservedly has been lauded by Israeli leaders, the Jewish 
community of South Africa and Jews in the Diaspora.




Developing close 
relations with South African Jewry over the years, Mandela was ready to forgive 
Israel in the spirit of reconciliation, and urged the Arabs to accept the 
existence of the Jewish state. “I cannot conceive of Israel withdrawing [from 
territories] if Arab states do not recognize Israel within secure borders,” he 
said during his visit here in October 1999 after stepping down as 
president.The warm statements issued by Israeli and Jewish leaders 
following Mandela’s death nicely reflect their respect for and appreciation of 
the man and his legacy.President Shimon Peres declared: “The world lost 
a great leader who changed the course of history...Nelson Mandela was a fighter 
for human rights who left an indelible mark on the struggle against racism and 
discrimination,” Peres added. “He was a passionate advocate for democracy, a 
respected mediator, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate and, above all, a builder of 
bridges of peace and dialogue who paid a heavy personal price for his struggle 
in the years he spent in prison and fighting for his people. Nelson Mandela’s 
legacy for his people and for the world will forever remain engraved in the 
pages of history and the hearts of all those who were touched by 
him.”Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu called Mandela “the father of his 
country, a man of vision and a freedom fighter who disavowed violence...He was 
never haughty,” said Netanyahu. “He worked to heal rifts within South African 
society and succeeded in preventing outbreaks of racial hatred. He will be 
remembered as the father of the new South Africa and a moral leader of the 
highest order.”Jewish Agency chairman Natan Sharansky recalled his 
meeting with Mandela. “Nelson Mandela was able to transform an armed campaign 
into a peaceful struggle for human rights,” Sharansky said. “In so doing, he 
succeeded in building bridges and fostering cooperation where such ties had 
previously been unimaginable. When we met in 1990, several months after his 
release from prison and several years after mine, I was struck by his ability to 
see beyond the immediate goals of his efforts, pursuing the brighter future he 
wished to see for all South Africans.”World Jewish Congress president 
Ronald Lauder said Mandela was “unquestionably the most inspiring human rights 
advocate of our times...Nelson Mandela was one of those very rare leaders who 
were revered not just by their own people but universally, across all political 
and communal divides,” Lauder said. “As a builder of bridges, he was second to 
none, and with his huge charisma, wisdom, democratic convictions and tremendous 
determination he ensured that the transition of his country from an apartheid 
state into a free and democratic nation was successful.”One of Mandela’s 
closest friends was the late South African chief rabbi Cyril Harris, whom 
Mandela called “my rabbi.” For his part, Harris once wrote: “Of all the 
friendships I have been fortunate enough to enjoy, the most special is with 
Nelson Mandela.”South Africa’s current chief rabbi, Warren Goldstein, 
noted that Jews had “a long, close and meaningful relationship” with Mandela. 
“It was a friendship that involved every stage of Mandela’s life, from his 
earliest days as a law student and an attorney’s articled clerk in 
Johannesburg.South African Jews were with Mandela as fellow liberation 
fighters and as lawyers defending him at the Rivonia trial, as visitors during 
his long and lonely years on Robben Island, and then in assisting in the 
exciting years of building the new South Africa,” Goldstein said. “And so we 
mourn his loss together with our fellow South Africans and with all people 
across the world. Our hearts are, however, filled with gratitude for the unique 
blessing of his great life which we in South Africa were especially privileged 
to experience so closely.”
We can only add: “Amen.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 17: Waiting for Obama</title>
<date>16/3/2013</date>
<content>
Waiting for Obama Sir, – One of the finest things US President Barack Obama can 
do for Israel while on his visit here is quite simple.




When he meets 
Yityish Aynaw, the new Ethiopian-born Miss Israel and a former IDF officer as 
well (“Miss Israel tells ‘Post’ she is ‘very excited’ to meet Obama,” March 14), 
all he has to do during the photo op is point out that they are both there at 
the personal invitation of the Israeli president, and be publically quoted as 
asking: “Does this look like an apartheid state?” Afterward, he ought to write 
this across the photograph and send autographed copies to Nobel laureates 
Desmond Tutu, Jimmy Carter and others of their ilk, saving one more for The New 
York Times, daring the paper to print it on the front page.GERALD 
FLANZBAUM Givat Olga Sir, – Poor Barack Obama.What ignorant advisers he 
must have. We hear that all the universities in Israel will be sending 
representatives to hear the US president speak later this week – except for 
those who study at Ariel University (“Ariel students protest their exclusion 
from Obama speech,” March 14).I assume that no one among the president’s 
entourage (including Obama himself) knows that there is a large group of Arab 
students at the university.So who is being punished? Who is being 
boycotted now? They might as well not have invited the students from Hebrew 
University’s Mt. Scopus campus. Albeit, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem is 
much older, but still, our ownership of the land it’s on is questioned by some 
people.Many years ago, in 1925, my father attended the festive opening 
ceremony of Hebrew University.Of course, he was a child and was not 
officially invited. He had climbed a tree to watch.So Mr. Obama and 
company: My family’s connection to this land goes back more than 100 years. The 
connection of the Jewish people to this land goes back thousands of years. Don’t 
try to take away any more pieces of it.THELMA JACOBSON Petah Tikva Sir, 
– With the imminent arrival of US President Barack Obama, I call on each and 
every one of us to create a united front and demand the immediate release of 
Jonathan Pollard.Behind the hugs and smiles of Obama lurks a cruel 
paranoia due to which Pollard is rotting in jail.Let us sanctify the man 
we recruited to deliver information on Arab states, and who sacrificed 
everything for us. His health is not good, and we bear full responsibility for 
bringing him home, now.GIDEON BEN-YA’ACOV Ra’anana Friend of ‘agunot’ Sir, – The many hundreds of civilly divorced but “chained women” whose lives are 
on hold because their husbands refuse to grant them a get (religious divorce) 
may feel cautious optimism in finding the name of their most important champion 
on the list of cabinet ministers in the upcoming government (“The 33rd cabinet,” 
March 14).For more than 20 years, Eliyahu Ben-Dahan, the incoming deputy 
religious services minister, with responsibility for conversions, the Chief 
Rabbinate and yeshivot, has been at the forefront in the fight to ease the 
plight of agunot.In the matter of divorce and remarriage, Halacha can 
certainly appear to be restrictive – and yes, even cruel. Yet Ben-Dahan can be 
expected to work hard within the bounds of Halacha to unchain these 
women.FRED GOTTLIEB Jerusalem Grading education Sir, – Despite the 
retraction by Judy Shalom Nir-Mozes of her Twitter posting about MK (and 
apparent education minister-designate) Shai Piron (“Yesh Atid’s Piron condemned 
property sales to Arabs in 2002,” March 13), her message was quite clear: No 
religious person should have any influence over the education of her children or 
that of any children of modern-thinking Israelis.Well, allow me to 
disagree, and I base my disagreement on the achievement records of the more 
outstanding education ministers, such as Shulamit Aloni, Amnon Rubinstein and 
Yossi Sarid. (I am unable to mention the late Zevulun Hammer, since his hands 
were effectively tied to ensure his impact would be kept to a minimum.) Today we 
reap the achievements of the more enlightened ministers: overall low grades for 
almost all elementary and high schools; student violence and even violence 
against teachers; theft; drugs and alcohol; promiscuousness leading to rape and 
teenage pregnancies. All are signs of social illness.In addition, I must 
sadly mention lack of patriotism and selfhate.To his credit, outgoing 
minister Gideon Sa’ar has shown that good education and grades are 
possible.RAFI ROSENBAUM Kiryat Ono Road to anarchy Sir, – Is it now okay 
for members of Knesset to not only violate Israeli law, but protect others who 
do so. Has Israeli democracy come down to this? On March 13 you reported that 
three female MKs joined the Women of the Wall in violating the ruling of 
Israel’s Supreme Court, which outlawed the group from congregating at the 
Western Wall in inappropriate religious garb and creating a provocation at the 
holiest place in Judaism (“MKs join group’s prayers, no arrests,” March 
13).Did not these MKs violate their oath of office to uphold the laws of 
the State of Israel? Engaging in these illicit activities violates not only the 
ruling of the Supreme Court, but also the directives of the 
attorney-general.Are they sending a message that people can do whatever 
they want, the law be damned? Like all civilized countries, Israel is a “country 
of laws, not of men” (nor of women). Don’t these legislators realize they have 
now given cover to haredi protests that are sure to come over moves to force the 
enlistment of ultra-Orthodox men into the IDF – moves that are based upon the 
Supreme Court’s overturning of the Tal Law, which previously exempted them from 
such service? If the three MKs saw fit to intentionally violate one Supreme 
Court ruling, how do they not thereby encourage others to violate other such 
rulings? This is the sure road to anarchy.HARVEY SCHWARTZ Jerusalem Test 
tube kashrut Sir, – The production and consumption of meat violates basic Jewish 
teachings on preserving human health, treating animals with compassion and 
helping the hungry. A shift by Jews to plant-based diets would show the 
relevance of Judaism’s eternal teachings and help move our imperiled planet onto 
a sustainable path.Another important reason for a dietary shift is that 
the 65 billion animals raised for slaughter annually around the world are a 
major contributor to climate change, deforestation, soil erosion, loss of 
species, desertification, water pollution and other environmental 
problems.Kashrut authorities should consider whether producing meat and 
fowl with great cruelty on factory farms violates the prohibition against 
cruelty to animals, and whether such meat can be considered kosher. It might be 
kosher by dint of shechita (ritual slaughter), but the ongoing cruelty that 
inevitably precedes the cut renders the meat and fowl unkosher and unpalatable 
to many Jews, both observant and non-observant.The future lies in “in 
vitro” meat; that is, meat grown in a factory lab from a single cell of a living 
kosher animal. The meat would be exactly the same as regular meat and not entail 
any cruelty at all. Steak and chicken parts in a test tube, if you 
will.Slaughter could declared to be against Jewish law, as there would 
be no more need to kill animals. This would be true “mehadrin” kosher, top of 
the kosher line.
MARK J. FEFFER Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 31: Turkey and apologies</title>
<date>30/3/2013</date>
<content>
Turkey and apologies Sir, – Is it normal to apologize for a defensive action 
even if death results (“Official: If apology to Ankara doesn’t work, all will 
see it was not Israel’s fault,” March 28)? Yitzhak Shamir would never have caved 
in.




There is also reason to believe that Menachem Begin would not have 
accepted an ultimatum.MK Haneen Zoabi, who aided and abetted the 
rebellious action against Israel, should have been indicted for treason – and 
would have been in any normal country. So much for Prime Minister Binyamin 
Netanyahu’s interpretation of democracy.But then it’s no surprise, given 
that he failed to seek public opinion prior to agreeing to apologize.One 
more gain for Shari’a Law over international law.ALEX ROSE Ashkelon Sir, 
– Naftali Bennett’s assessment (“Erdogan making Israel regret its overture,” 
March 28) is right on the mark. But the problem goes deeper than just the 
Turkish prime minister’s stubbornness.Our rabbis say that the Egyptians 
chasing the Jews during the Exodus were racing after them as “one man with one 
heart.” They were united and focused in their hatred for the 
Jews.Erdogan and others, such as Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi, are 
vigorously leading the battle to destroy the Jewish state because their hatred, 
like the hatred of their people, is complete and unfazed by anything we might do 
to allay their rush to annihilate us.At Shavuot, when the Jews 
surrounded Mount Sinai, the exact same language – “one man with one heart” – is 
used in the Torah. We were at the time totally united in our belief that God 
would stand by us.And of course God destroyed our enemies: the 
Egyptians, the Amalekites, et al.We can fight the Erdogans and Morsis of 
the world in a cataclysmic battle, God forbid, or we can reconnect to each 
other, as we do on Passover, and know that our unity, and only our unity, will 
counteract and overcome the hatred of those who surround us.YERACHMIEL 
PUR Lawrence, New York Sir, – Ephraim Inbar, in “Israel’s apology to Turkey was 
a mistake” (Comment & Features, March 28), says that Turkish Prime Minister 
Recep Tayyip Erdogan is an anti-Semite. Why can’t we shout it from the rooftops 
so that we all know to whom Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu was apologizing? 
US President Barack Obama’s love plan moving Erdogan and Netanyahu into the same 
hopeful political atmosphere has begun to lose momentum. Why do we have to do 
business with a hater of Jews? Peace and hope ring eternal in the human breast, 
but Israel’s relationship with Erdogan has already proven to be another 
deceptive folly. Are we so in love with Obama that we become blind to our real 
enemies? MICHAEL TAL Jerusalem No apartheid Sir, – With regard to “Billboards 
call to end US aid for Israel in New York, Connecticut” (March 28), Michael 
Letwin of the group Jews for Palestinian Right of Return should note that more 
than 75 percent of said funds are returned to the US to purchase military items 
of all kinds, from airplanes to army boots. These funds, therefore, are actually 
keeping plants open and American people working.Letwin should also note 
that Israel is anything but an “apartheid” state, as he claims.We have 
Arabs in our Knesset, as well as Arab judges, doctors, teachers and professors. 
We do not have separate buses or restaurants, as was the case in Apartheid-era 
South Africa.MURRAY JOSEPH Kiryat Motzkin Kerry and letters Sir, – We 
owe our deepest thanks to US Secretary of State John Kerry for having sent, as a 
senator, the following letter to Mikhail Gorbachev in March, 1987 (“Edelstein 
thanks Kerry for letter urging his release from Soviet prison,” March 24): “We 
members of Congress respectfully request that you intervene on behalf of Soviet 
prisoner Yuli Edelstein. Soviet law authorizes relief from a prison sentence 
because of illness.Yuli’s medical condition is critical and satisfies 
the conditions for granting medical clemency. We request that you intervene on 
Yuli’s behalf so that he may seek the proper medical care he so desperately 
needs.”We should hope that Kerry exercises the same trait of humanity 
and send the same letter to US President Barack Obama to gain the release of 
Jonathan Pollard, whose medical condition is critical and hopefully satisfies 
the American condition for granting clemency.MARVIN SILVERMAN Jerusalem 
Earn that respect Sir, – Gary Ackerman (“Israel and the dignity of the 
Palestinians,” Comment & Features, March 21) insults our 
intelligence.We Israelis, Ackerman says, do not give the Palestinian 
Arabs sufficient respect. This causes a loss of dignity and discourages them 
from coming to the negotiating table. It’s our fault, you see, and he thinks we 
should give more respect to their “political culture.”Last I looked 
respect was something that had to be earned.The political culture of the 
Palestinian Authority is about as corrupt as it can get. Mahmoud Abbas is 
referred to as “president” of the PA, but his term ran out in 2009 and there has 
been no election. Respect this? Far more outrageous still is Ackerman’s claim 
that the Palestinian Arab mother allows her son to strap on “a vest full of 
explosives” because she is “steeped in desperation.... Her mother’s hope [is] 
gone. Her dignity [is] gone.”Studies consistently show that terrorism is 
a function of ideology and not hopelessness. Surely, in his tenure as chair of 
the House Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia, he encountered the 
Arab saying, “Just as they [Jews] love life, we love death.”Ackerman 
claims, outrageously, that “generations of statelessness and occupation have 
reduced too many Palestinians to that sense of total 
desolation....”Condescendingly, he fails to hold them accountable for 
their own bad decisions regarding all the times they could have had a 
state.Does the retired congressman not wonder why we Jews – subject over 
the course of our history to infinitely more disrespect and desolation than the 
Palestinian Arabs have ever known – never embraced the practice of killing 
innocents that is still celebrated within the PA? ARLENE KUSHNER Jerusalem Makes 
his day Sir, – Reading your “From Our Archives” section has always been a 
highlight of my day, and Alexander Zvielli deserves our endless thanks for his 
sterling efforts. Right now the column is especially valuable as it chronicles 
the political, diplomatic and physical struggles in the days immediately 
preceding the birth of our country 65 years ago.In these snippets of 
historical record we can see how true is it that “the more things change, the 
more they stay the same.”American politicians and the US president 
preach, from the safety of their Washington offices, how the battling Jewish 
people should adjust their lives to suit foreign interests. The ineffective (at 
best) and usually hostile UN tries to find a way to adjudicate the conflict 
without showing its natural inclination toward the Arabs.The March 28 
“From Our Archives” spoke of a heavy battle around Gush Etzion, reminding us 
that this part of the country, always Jewish, was lost in battle, to be 
rightfully reclaimed in 1967 after 19 years of Jordanian occupation.Kol 
hakavod, Mr. Zvielli. May you go on with this wonderful work for many more 
years.
HENRY KAYE Ashkelon
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 22: Cruelty and deceit</title>
<date>21/5/2013</date>
<content>
Cruelty and deceitSir, – Thanks to Isi Leibler for his reports and outrage at 
the embezzlement of millions of dollars earmarked for food, medicine and basic 
necessities for Holocaust survivors by Claims Conference employees, and the 
failure of the management responsible for overseeing these funds to accept any 
responsibility (“Exposed: A devastating new Claims Conference Scandal,” Candidly 
Speaking, Comment and Features, May 19).




His articles make clear not only 
the incompetence of the leadership, but their persistent efforts to conceal 
their negligence and accountability. We are all shamed by this injustice and 
cruelty to those survivors whose lives were finally to have been made more 
comfortable and dignified. I wholeheartedly support Leibler’s call for major 
legal challenges to right this wrong perpetrated against our most defenseless 
elders.Our sense of justice, compassion and truth demand rectification 
of this cruelty and deceit.R. EHRLICH Jerusalem Militants vs. activistsSir, – It is time to stop lumping together the vast majority of the passengers 
on the Mavi Marmara – who were peacefully protesting the partial blockade of 
Gaza – with the 50 or so fighters with military training who who were placed on 
board at a separate location without identity documents or passport control, who 
told the protesters that they were armed with knives, numerous hand-to-hand 
fighting instruments and circular saws to cut piping to be used as weapons with 
which to fight any boarding party (“A Turkish firm’s end run to the ICC, 
Analysis, May 17).They stressed to the peaceful protesters that they 
would fight to the death and hoped to die as martyrs. It is not possible to call 
all who were on board “activists.” All the peaceful protesters were confined to 
their cabins by the fighters when the boarding started and were not permitted to 
be on deck.Those killed were from the fighters and not from the peaceful 
protesters. There were no fighters on the other ships in the convoy and no 
deaths or injuries occurred when they were boarded.Fighters who pledged 
to fight to the death were sadly killed. It is to the credit of the boarding 
party that only nine of the 50 or so militants lost their lives.DAVID 
GOSHEN Kiryat Ono Not laughingSir, – Uri Savir’s “Humor in Conflict” column 
(Savir’s Corner, Observations, May 17) left me wondering whether I should laugh 
or cry.In the context of arguing that humor helps us let go of our 
“dangerous delusions and illusions,” Savir credits Archbishop Desmond Tutu, “a 
symbol and example to all,” as “one of the great peacemakers of our time,” and 
someone “who knows... how to tell the truth.”Comparing him to the 
Dalai Lama, he describes Tutu as similarly “filled with humanism, never with 
vengeance and with honest forgiveness.” Note, however, this is the same 
virulently anti-Israel Desmond Tutu who persuaded the University of Johannesburg 
to end its relationship with Ben-Gurion University as part of a boycott against 
Israeli academic institutions; who helped the Australian Marrickville Council 
approve a boycott of Israel’s goods; who urged the Cape Town Opera to cancel a 
planned trip to Israel on the basis of spurious and malicious comparisons of 
Israel to apartheid South Africa; who sponsored a call for an arms embargo 
against Israel; who compared Israel to Hitler and Stalin and prophesied its 
demise on account of its alleged evil; who complained about “the Jewish monopoly 
of the Holocaust”; and who claimed that Zionism has “very many parallels with 
racism.”Is this Uri Savir’s idea of a cruel joke? JEFF DAUBE Jerusalem 
The writer is director of the Israel office of the Zionist Organization of 
AmericaSir, – Uri Savir must be joking if he thinks he can convince us that 
humor can turn evil terrorists into human beings. While Savir was laughing at 
the antics of Arafat’s Oslo negotiators, the bombers dispatched by those 
“comedians” were murdering more than 1,000 Israelis. However, when Savir wrote 
that the vile Desmond Tutu is “one of the great peacemakers of our time” he 
really sent me into hysterics! MICHAEL ORDMAN Netanya Sir, – Uri Savir has 
crossed the line. I am totally convinced that he is really a Palestinian agent, 
as evidenced by his parenthetical remark “(not that on our map there was much 
room for Palestinians).”Our map has always had room for Palestinians. We 
accepted the results of the Peel Committee in 1937, the partition plan of 1947, 
the armistice lines of 1949 and were even willing to give back everything gained 
in 1967.The sole conclusion I have reached is that Savir must have 
represented the Palestinian side at Oslo and that he still represents their 
position today.A few weeks ago, one of your editors expressed pride in 
the fact that the Post presents all sides of an issue. But at least be honest 
enough to include a warning similar to the warning appearing on packs of 
cigarettes: Hazard! When Uri Savir represents Israel in any negotiations with 
the Palestinians, it is like having Yasser Arafat talking to a 
mirror.NACHUM CHERNOFSKY Bnei Brak High vitriol Sir, – In her Column One 
on May 17, “Obama and the 'official truth,’” Caroline B. Glick renewed her 
broadsides against US President Barack Obama, reaching a new level of 
vitriol.With a selection of quotes picked to support her extreme 
right-wing views, she writes: “One can only hope that Obama’s thuggish creation 
and corrupt defense of his ‘official truth’ will anger, disgust and frighten all 
Americans.”One can only hope that such language aimed at the president 
of the United States is not supported by the majority of Israelis, quite a few 
of whom consider him still to be a friend of Israel.PAUL KOHN Herzliya 
Parental honor Sir, – Regarding “BGU presents Lifetime Achievement Award to S. 
Africa’s Bertie Lubner” (May 9) – the Torah teaches us the importance of the 
principle of respect. One of the most important principles instructed in the 
Torah is that a man should teach his children to honor God through the way one 
learns Torah and indeed the way one practices the principles of Torah in 
everyday life.My brothers, sister and I have been blessed to have had 
these principles taught to us by our remarkable parents. My father, Bertie 
Lubner, has taught respect through the very way in which he has lived his life 
and my mother, through the quiet, unassuming role she has played in support of 
him.My family were present at the award ceremony, hosted in Beersheba on 
May 9. What impressed us, humored us and warmed us most of all was to see the 
love and respect shown to him by the faculty and students of the 
university.In his indomitable manner, our father gave credit to his own 
father, to David Ben-Gurion and to the honorable Nelson Mandela as well as gave 
kudos to the management, staff and students of the University. At no stage would 
he allow himself to take credit for the many years of incredible effort he put 
behind promoting Ben-Gurion University in South Africa, despite huge 
anti-Zionist sentiments that made the job so difficult to achieve.My 
father truly practices the principle of respect for his fellow human beings in 
just the humble yet positive way in which he interacts with every human being, 
which is uniform across all population groups, irrespective of financial 
standing.MARC LUBNER Johannesburg 
CORRECTION The place of residence for 
letter writer Avi Raz on May 21 should have said Oxford, and not as written.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>MEDIA COMMENT: Ambassadors of goodwill</title>
<date>3/4/2013</date>
<content>
A theme which has arisen time and again in our column is the harm caused abroad 
by Israel’s media. The Haaretz newspaper is a special case, but it is not alone. 
All too often the Israeli media provides one-sided, damaging reports about the 
country. Just two weeks ago we noted that local journalists use the term 
“apartheid” without justification, thus playing into the hands of the organizers 
of anti- Israel events such as Israel Apartheid Week. Too often anti-Israel bias 
in the foreign media is defended with the claim that it is not any worse than 
the Israeli media. The upshot of all of this is that, especially outside of the 
United States, Israel is perceived negatively.The anti-Israel theme is 
something that we have to deal with, but not something that can be stopped. At 
times it is nothing more than a new facet of the anti- Semitism which has 
plagued us for millennia, and that is quite difficult to stop. However, Israel 
can and should find original ways to create a positive image for itself. 
Arguably, the best way to counter the negative portrayal of Israel is by 
creating positive public opinion about Israel.




We could claim that at 
least one out of every two people visiting Israel for the first time leaves with 
a very different image than expected. The authors of this article frequently 
come into contact with non-Jewish foreigners, and the results are invariably the 
same.Our guests note that their media feeds them misinformation – and 
this is a generous description. When they return home they more often than not 
become ambassadors of goodwill, able to relate their generally positive 
experiences to friends (barring sad mishaps with the – at times – obnoxious 
questioning methods of the Border Police). Israel receives over three million 
tourists a year. With a bit of thought, forward planning, goodwill and 
willingness to innovate, we can turn most of them into ambassadors of goodwill 
for our country.One way of realizing this is analyzing the things that 
bother us when we go abroad. Communication is a real thorn, with the need to pay 
outrageous sums to call home. Even worse are the fees extorted for surfing on 
our smartphones while abroad. These high fees prevent us from using them for GPS 
communications, additionally, we do not use the free Internet phones, since the 
fees for surfing are too high.Let us then consider the average tourist 
who comes to Israel. Suppose our Tourism Ministry were to offer a tender to our 
communications companies, requesting the best possible deal for tourists. While 
still at the airport the tourist, for a modest fee, would be urged to purchase a 
sim card which would provide a week or two of surfing, free of extra charge, in 
one of the major languages. From our own smartphone bills we know that this 
should not come to more than $10 per week, and even this rate is high compared 
to that of a local smartphone user.This small fee would provide the 
tourist with virtually free phone contact with friends and family abroad. Our 
tourist would use Twitter, Whatsapp or Facebook to describe her or his 
experience here in real time. One picture is worth a thousand words. Tourists 
who feel free to involve friends in their adventures here would send pictures 
and even videos, multiplying the goodwill created by their visit. Pictures of 
beautiful Israel might just convince our tourist’s circle of friends that a 
visit here is a good idea, and thus we could also increase the number of 
visitors from abroad without resorting to often debasing and humiliating 
advertisements based on half-nude women.The goodwill does not end here. 
Let us consider the GPS system. First of all, the tourist who rents a car will 
not have to pay exorbitant rental fees for the GPS service. The more tourists 
use GPS the safer they are, and the safer we are. Admittedly, some rental car 
agencies might be upset by the loss of revenue, but others might be wise and 
realize that it is precisely such conditions that will help to turn Israel into 
a competitive tourist destination.The GPS system has more uses than just 
navigation.Suppose our tourists want to visit Acre, and are interested 
in advance information. Our Tourism Ministry, with not too much expense, could 
assure that the GPS system provided for tourists, would, when asked, provide a 
pop-up with a short historical synopsis and information on places our tourist 
wishes to visit.Such historical blurbs might also include reminders of 
the Israeli presence in Hebron, or the suicide bombing which led to the creation 
of the separation fence, or just the history of Habima Theater. They would give 
information about the remnants of armored vehicles scattered along the 
Jerusalem-Tel Aviv highway.If carried out wisely, the GPS system could 
also be used by advertisers, thereby covering costs, as our tourist would at 
times want to know where the closest restaurant is, or the gas station, or the 
cinema, concert hall, etc. She or he might want to order a taxi. The taxi 
driver, knowing that the passenger has use of a smartphone, would be very 
careful in demanding exorbitant fees.We have a new government and a new 
tourism minister, Dr. Uzi Landau. He is also the founder of the highly 
successful Eretz Nehederet NGO whose goal is described on its website as: “Eretz 
Nehederet [A Wonderful Land] is a ‘birthright’ program for Israelis, combating 
the erosion of the Zionist idea by arranging for Israelis to encounter Israel 
through unique local trips aimed at renewing the feeling of a common destiny and 
mutual responsibility, and Zionism.”The funds and resources of the 
Tourism Ministry are somewhat larger than those of an NGO. Landau has the 
opportunity to adapt some of these ideas on a large scale, one which could 
really create change in the perception of Israel abroad. Our tourist would feel 
wanted and go home with a warm feeling toward a society which welcomes tourists 
and makes a real effort to assure a pleasant and rewarding stay.No one 
else has yet provided such communications services to their tourists, so again, 
we would prove that we are an innovative society. We would have created some 
sorely needed goodwill for ourselves at almost zero cost, and circumvented some 
of the negative effects created by media coverage.One only wonders why 
this has not yet been implemented.The authors are vice chairman and 
chairman respectively of Israel’s Media Watch.
www.imw.org.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Media Comment: An ‘apartheid’ journalist</title>
<date>20/3/2013</date>
<content>
Rino Tzror is a much-admired journalist. He has been an editor and has also directed award winning documentary films. He is currently the moderator of the Army Radio station (Galatz) Thursday news show Ma Boer? (What’s Burning?).Two week ago he dealt with the question of the new bus service for Palestinians who are permitted to enter Israel. The Transportation Ministry claims that to alleviate the problem of Arabs resident in Judea and Samaria who wish to wish to work in Israel having to pay exorbitant prices to taxi drivers or other “transporters,” as well for security reasons, it decided to take action. The assistance was in the form of providing bus service into Israel, for a reduced fee of five to 10 shekels, depending on the destination.




Haim Levinson claimed in Haaretz on March 4 that the true motivation for these bus lines was complaints by Jewish residents of Judea and Samaria against the presence of Palestinians on their buses. The residents were afraid of the security consequences of such mingling. The Transportation Ministry heeded their request, according to Levinson, and created the new bus service. Levinson did note, though, that the new service is a “hit” and that thousands of Palestinians are using it.Ido Benbaggi, the “territories” correspondent for Galatz, provided the background to Tzror’s program. He interviewed some Palestinians who were upset with the new bus lines.Benbaggi did not provide any information about Palestinians who were actually thankful for the savings in time and money. In fact, the service, which initially had only 12 weekly buses, was increased by the Transportation Ministry to 40-60 buses per week. The ministry spokesperson claimed that neither Benbaggi nor the editors of the Ma Boer program had requested any ministry response.Tzror continued the item with a long interview with Prof. Yedidya Stern of the Israel Democracy Institute.Stern had only very sharp criticism for these new bus lines. Tzror not only did not even attempt to ask tough questions, or act as a “devil’s advocate,” as a professional journalist would, he “helped” Stern by repeatedly referring to the new bus lines as “apartheid lines.”This is not the first time Tzror has used such terminology. In an Educational TV interview with Anat Zruya, a producer of films on haredi (ultra- Orthodox) society, he referred a number of times to Zruya’s claim that the haredi community is an “apartheid” society. He did not attempt to question Zruya’s choice of language, rather he gave the impression that he identified with her views. In fact, Tzror’s programs are all too often characterized by a onesided choice of topics and by “convenient” guests, who tend to share Tzror’s views on the issues or with whom Tzor identifies.Tzror is not alone when it comes to using the A-word. Akiva Eldar from Haaretz wrote on October 16, 2012: “The government’s acknowledgment that Jews are a minority in the land means one thing only: Apartheid is here.”Gidon Levi, from the same paper, titled his op-ed of November 11, 2012, with: “Apartheid, what else could it be?” Another A-worder is former Meretz education minister Shulamit Aloni, who in an article dated December 31, 2006 lets us know that: “Indeed yes, Apartheid in Israel.”APARTHEID IS a loaded term. It is defined in the Internet “Free Dictionary” as “An official policy of racial segregation formerly practiced in the Republic of South Africa, involving political, legal, and economic discrimination against nonwhites.” It is also defined as “A policy or practice of separating or segregating groups.”It so happens that this year’s annual “Israel Apartheid Week” was celebrated by our enemies in Europe from February 25 to March 10, in the United States and Canada from March 4 to March 8. Zror made his contribution to this “festival” right on time.Interestingly, this same Rino Tzror was chosen this year by the ministerial committee for ceremonies to be one of the 12 people who will kindle a flame on Israel’s Independence Day. The decision to honor Tzror was made prior to March 7. However, one can question such a decision on a few counts. Is Tzror the most worthy journalist for such an honor? Did the ministerial committee consider other journalists? What was so special about Tzror? But more seriously, we believe that there is something wrong with politicians bestowing honors upon active journalists. Can we be sure that the journalist so honored will not be more forgiving or more willing to provide air time to those politicians involved in choosing him? There is though another aspect of this issue which is worth considering.The army radio station received many letters of complaint against Tzror’s usage of the word “apartheid.” Yet, the station did not admit any wrongdoing and was not willing to apologize for such language, or assure that such misuse of the publicly funded airwaves would not repeat itself. We ask, what can be done about such infractions or violations of professional journalism codes and ethics guidelines? Any attempt by either a government agency or civic society associations to suggest formal regulatory institutions or legislation is met with very strong resistance. In an article published on March 18 in the UK Daily Mail, Melanie Phillips takes up the cudgels in defense of the press as “the last bastion of a free society,” arguing against regulation by government. Her view is that “press freedom is the one that guarantees all the rest” and that without it, “... thus uninvigilated, the institutions of a free society would turn rotten and disintegrate.”We agree. Nevertheless, while Phillips is discussing the private press, we would suggest that state sponsored media outlets, that is, the television and radio broadcasting networks, are different. In the first instance, by definition they are funded by the public and so should not be permitted to misrepresent it.Tzror blemished Israeli society as a whole. Public broadcasting should be pluralistic, open to all sections of society as can be practically feasible.There must be a rigid framework to deny a minority – the editors and show hosts and reporters – the ability to dominate the airwaves with their private weltanschauung.Secondly, since they are funded through our tax money, we, the “public,” are the owners and it is our right to demand supervision. Thirdly, Phillips’ concern, that “that the more the press is made accountable to an outside regulator... the more freedom dies,” applies when the readers have a choice. A newspaper can be purchased, or not. In Israel, we have very few options but to listen to and watch public broadcasting. Given the lack of a free market, supervision is necessary.Discussion and debate in Israel are robust and free-wheeling, as they should be in a democracy. On the other hand, irresponsibility, lack of factual information or unfair ethical biases practiced by journalists, especially those in our public broadcasting system, need not be tolerated.Disciplinary regulations should be in place and used.
The authors are vice chairman and chairman, respectively, of Israel’s Media Watch (www.imw.org.il)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Media Comment: A Zionistic media – utopian?</title>
<date>24/9/2013</date>
<content>
No society that values democracy and pluralism can do without a free media. Israel is a country whose media – printed, broadcast and electronic – is powerful and dominant. It should meet professional ethical standards of the highest order to provide the consumer with fair, truly representative and factual news – not views. Moreover, Israel, the Jewish-Zionist state, has by law its heritage and cultural values, which should be preserved and maintained.It is not a secret that Israel’s major media purveyors are dominated by post-Zionist journalists, editors and producers. They set the agenda through the much-too-influential Haaretz and Yediot Aharonot newspapers, as well as via the most popular Israeli Internet news sites – Ynet, Walla and NRG. Even more so, they arguably control the broadcast media.




Theirs is a contrarian narrative. The Channel 2 TV daily news roundup show is Israel’s most popular, yet its host, Yonit Levy, and its leading commentators, such as Amnon Abramowitz, have little contact with the Zionist ethos which led to the creation of the State of Israel.Their weltanschauung is, broadly, that Israel is a pariah country due to the “occupation” of the West Bank.The actions of the Arab world and especially the Palestinians are viewed favorably, or at least neutrally, while anything that Israel or its citizens do which does not conform with their post-Zionist credo receives disproportionate attention, with the “guilty” being called to task.They attempt to present a humanistic liberal exterior. Any hint of racism, such as calls to Israelis not to sell land to Israel’s enemies, who happen to be non-Jewish, is regurgitated ad nauseam. The fact that selling land to Jews in Arab countries, and especially in the Palestinian Authorityadministered areas, may lead to a death sentence, on the other hand, is a non-issue.When Jews are discriminated against, for example by being restricted from entering the Temple Mount and prohibited from praying there even when they are allowed in, the same holier-than-thou-attitude at best keeps silent, and at worst blames the Jews for creating unnecessary provocations.ISRAEL’S POPULATION, however, is not fooled by the media, nor does it follow its advice when it comes to elections. Roughly three-quarters of the Jewish population is Zionist, treats our Jewish heritage with respect and believes that Jews also have rights.Yet the damage to the state caused by its media takes on strategic proportions.Europe is identified today with Israel’s enemies. Its boycott practices put it smack in its historical anti-Semitic role. Israel’s media has done much to contribute to this negative image, by repeating the mantra that Israel is an illegal occupational force, practicing apartheid.It highlights political NGOs who have been caught out, by Israel’s Media Watch and others, time and again fabricating video clips and misreporting events. Yet, these are repeated by the media without proper editorial supervision.Most “cultural” events in the European sphere having to do with Israel contribute to the image of the “ugly Israeli.” It is not surprising then that Europe is using its Horizon 2020 scientific program to discriminate between Jews and prevent those operating from post-1967 territories from taking part. And this is only the beginning.There have been positive changes.Yediot Aharonot has lost much of its monopoly. There is Israel Hayom as a counterpoint. Although the Arutz 7 radio station was closed down, it has been replaced to a large extent by the legal Galei Yisrael radio station. The Educational TV network daily news program has many right-wing journalist hosts. On the Internet one finds influential websites such as News 1, Israel National News (Arutz 7) and The Jerusalem Post, which do not hide their pro-Zionist bias.Indeed, one may argue that we are in the midst of a revolution, though at times we do not recognize it as such. The Israeli public is today well aware of media manipulations.The pioneering editor of this newspaper, David Bar-Ilan, with his weekly column “Eye on the Media,” was the first Israeli who had the inner strength to criticize and expose his fellow journalists.Israel’s Media Watch, established in 1995, was Israel’s first nongovernmental media review organization.Through its reports and public activities, its battles in Knesset committees and the High Court of Justice, it detailed the biases of Israel’s media outlets. Its continuous defense of Zionism, in Israel and abroad, has led to significant changes.Israel’s broadcasting legislation, which specifies that the Israel Broadcasting Authority’s mandate is to promote Jewish heritage and the Hebrew language, is a significant victory of IMW over those who proposed a secular, humanistic ethos.Israel’s Media Watch (IMW) was the pioneer. Nowadays, Israel has a dozen or so media review organizations, most of which promote the Zionist viewpoint.NOT LESS important is the “democratization” of the Israeli public.Israelis are becoming increasingly aware of their power as citizens to create change. At the end of the day, the media lives off the public, which pays for the newspapers, whose taxes fund the public media organizations and who enjoy the services of the advertisers.A prime example of the public’s awareness of its influence is Israel’s Media Watch’s complaint box on its website, which is Israel’s most popular address for public complaints over media infractions. These include among others political bias, discrimination against Jews, the broadcast content of a pro-terror Arab radio station.Facebook, Twitter and the Internet have changed the rules of the game.The decision of the Israel Broadcasting Authority to air an anti-Semitic promo two weeks ago was rescinded almost instantly due to public pressure from the bottom up.A third element is the people in the media. The number of Israelis who have entered the media profession during the past two decades and identify as Zionists has increased noticeably. There is awareness among Zionists that the media and culture are arenas which must not be left only to post-Zionist forces. The social fabric of new recruits to the army’s radio station, arguably Israel’s most prestigious school of journalism, is no longer dominated by the “humanistic” Tel Aviv scene.There is a fourth leg to this revolution, which is still wobbly. Just last week we read in Ecclesiastes that “money will answer everything.”Investment in Zionist media and culture lags far behind the public awareness of the strategic importance of the issue. Jews all over the world should realize that the future of the Jewish state and together with it the Jewish people, is at stake.
The combination of the necessary financial backing with the continued determination of many people will ultimately lead to a Zionist media, which knows how to defend Israel in times of need. The nagging question is whether the revolution will occur on time? The authors are respectively vice chairman and chairman of Israel’s Media Watch (www.imw.org.il).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Media Comment: ‘Educating’ the public</title>
<date>5/6/2013</date>
<content>
If there is any justification for the existence of a public broadcaster, it is 
the need to provide the public with high-quality information, culture and 
entertainment. The litmus test of the public network is whether it provides a 
product which the public cannot receive elsewhere, especially from the 
commercial networks. It is not an accident that Israel’s Knesset has repeatedly 
demanded, and also supplied funding to the Israel Broadcasting Authority 
earmarked for, authentic Israeli programming.Years ago, the IBA supplied 
the goods. Competition was meager and the IBA’s news program was the major 
purveyor of news to the Israeli public.




IBA’s documentaries of that 
period have become classics; Pillar of Fire for example recounted 50 years of 
Jewish and Israeli history leading to the establishment of Israel in 
1948.However, the IBA’s productivity during the past 15 years has been 
disappointing. The 1998 documentary Tekuma, the sequel of Pillar of Fire, 
described the history of the state after 1948. It included one-sided 
descriptions of the Arab “resistance movement.” The present-day IBA documentary 
department, under the direction of Itai Landsberg, excels in purveying material 
which can be used by Israel’s detractors all over the world.A classic 
case is the documentary The Gatekeepers, produced by Dror Moreh and screened all 
over the world as a candidate for an Oscar. As the film’s website has it, “for 
the first time ever, six former heads of the Shin Bet, Israel’s secret service 
agency, agree to share their insights and reflect publicly on their actions and 
decisions. Intimately interviewed, they shed light on the controversy 
surrounding the Occupation in the aftermath of the Six Day War.”The TV 
version is a six-chapter series, funded in large part by the IBA and being aired 
currently on the IBA’s Channel 1 TV station. The first part appeared this past 
Sunday, under the title: The true story – the Gatekeepers.As described 
on the IBA website the subtitle of this first part, “No strategy, only tactics,” 
is a citation from Avraham Shalom.Shalom accuses Israel’s leaders at 
that time of not really knowing what to do with the territories regained by 
Israel in the 1967 war. It also deals with the failures of the security services 
to prevent terror attacks perpetrated by Israelis in the 1980s, known as the 
Jewish underground, as well as the murder of left-wing activist Emil 
Greenzweig.The website does not remind us that Shalom was forced to 
resign his position as Shin Bet head due to his role in the infamous killing of 
two of the perpetrators of the 1984 terror attack on Egged bus No. 
300.Shalom lied in his testimony regarding this affair, accusing prime 
minister Yitzhak Shamir of authorizing the killing, an accusation Shamir 
vehemently denied. Shalom escaped trial as he received a presidential 
pardon.One can summarize Shalom’s stint as head of the service as a 
colossal failure, which to this day hinders the actions of the 
service.The decision to fund this series was made when the chairman of 
the IBA was Moshe Gavish and Mordechai Shaklar was its director. The present 
heads of the IBA, chairman Amir Gilat and director Yoni Ben-Menachem, decided 
that the series should be supplemented with an in-depth discussion of the 
contents after each chapter aired. The panel was balanced and included Yossi 
Beilin from the extreme Left of Israel’s ideological spectrum; Effie Eitam from 
the Right; Professor Ephraim Inbar, arguably right-of-center; Professor Yossi 
Shain, Left; and Chanan Gefen, a former commander of the IDF’s 8200 intelligence 
unit.Moreh was unhappy with this development. As reported in Haaretz, 
Moreh stated: “I’m disgusted over the discussion and the people that Channel 1 
put on after the program. I have no doubt the discussion was a political dictate 
from above. The people chosen to participate were also carefully selected. 
Instead of letting the program and the series and the Shin Bet chiefs speak 
their piece, they chose a foolish and populist discussion that we’ve heard 
thousands of times. I very much hope the viewers fled to another channel!” “In 
this film, six security services chiefs talk for the first time, so please, let 
every Israeli judge for himself. Why politicize this?” Moreh was allowed to 
voice his sharp criticism also on the IDF’s Galatz news radio program, without 
anyone asking him serious, probing questions.Moreh wants us and the 
world to believe he is objective, providing the nonpolitical testimony of these 
six men. The truth is that all six are highly political, and have axes to grind. 
Two of them are serious failures. In addition to Shalom, Carmi Gillon was head 
of the services when prime minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated and in the 
aftermath was also forced to leave his position.Ya’akov Peri is a 
left-wing politician and is presently a minister in the government, coming from 
the Yesh Atid party. Ami Ayalon was a member of the Labor party, and is well 
known for his left-wing political initiatives. Avi Dichter, arguably a centrist, 
is also a politician, who joined the failed Kadima party and served as the 
minister of internal security. The sixth, Yuval Diskin, also joined the 
political fray. After being forced to leave the service and prior to the recent 
elections he stated: “I don’t trust the prime minister or the defense 
minister. I don’t trust a leadership that makes decisions based on 
messianic impulses.”But what about Moreh himself? Consider the following 
pearls of wisdom emanating from him: “I felt during my visit to the United 
States that the majority of Jews in the USA support Israel whatever the 
situation is.” He then adds: “In fact, this harms the State of Israel. They 
don’t understand that we are moving toward an apartheid state.”In an 
interview with CNN’s Christiane Amanpour he said: “This is the major problem in 
Israel. Those people, those extreme right-wing leaders and people in Israel are 
the biggest threat to the existence of the State of Israel because every time 
that you see there is a shift toward movement, slowly toward peace, they are – 
they come inside and they create the greatest havoc.”The head of the 
Documentary Division of the IBA also was not happy with the panel 
format.He agreed with Moreh that it was unnecessary and smacks of 
political intervention.It would seem both Landsberg and Moreh are 
somewhat afraid someone may just pronounce publicly that the king is naked. A 
true professional would have congratulated the present heads of the IBA for 
being willing on the one hand to broadcast a biased and manipulative 
documentary, in the name of artistic freedom, while on the other hand assure the 
Authority’s duty to provide depth and balance. Landsberg’s opposition only 
proves he does not deserve his position at the IBA.On a more personal 
note, Howard Grief passed away this past Sunday evening from complications of a 
blood infection.
In stark contrast to people of Moreh’s ilk, Howard was 
one of those modest but devoted persons to the state and people of Israel. His 
life’s work was a legal defense of Israel’s historic and international rights in 
Judea, Samaria and Gaza. In contrast to Moreh’s, his work was based on 
exhaustive, thorough analysis, documentation and diplomatic records. We extend 
to his family our sincere condolences on the loss of a husband and father and 
regret that his critical review of the media on legal issues has been halted. 
Who knows? Perhaps one day the IBA’s leadership will realize Howard’s life story 
deserves its own documentary, which will not only be interesting but will also 
truly support our beleaguered state.The authors are, respectively, vice 
chairman and chairman of Israel’s Media Watch (www.imw.org.il).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Media Comment: Mandela and snow</title>
<date>19/12/2013</date>
<content>
What is the thread that connects between the funeral of Nelson Mandela and the 
icy weather Israel experienced during the past week? In both cases, the media 
had a ball. Finally there was something significant and well worth reporting. 
But in both cases, part of Israel’s media demonstrated its lack of ability to 
provide the public with an objective and comprehensive report of the 
events.Consider the case of Nelson Mandela. As rightly mentioned by 
Michael Freund in this newspaper, notwithstanding the South African situation, 
Mandela was a terrorist who caused the death of innocent people. His best 
friends were some of the most cruel, vicious and avaricious dictators of the 
20th century. At the same time, for sure, he was the figure identified with the 
termination of apartheid in South Africa and the creation of a modern democracy 
that replaced white-supremacy rule.




Indeed, in this connection, the 
Globes newspaper published an op-ed article by extreme left-wing historian 
Prof.Moshe Zimmermann of the Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem.Zimmermann in his article defends Mandela’s terrorism by 
claiming that Mandela considered Menachem Begin’s career as a precursor to his. 
In other words, in Zimmermann’s view Begin was a terrorist who made good and so 
was Mandela. It just so happens that Begin took pains to prevent innocent 
deaths, but who cares about facts? Zimmermann considers Mandela as a light-tower 
of wise and moral statesmanship and asks how is it that the whole world thinks 
so, yet Israel did not recognize his greatness? TV Channel 2’s reporter Arad 
Nir, sent especially to South Africa to cover the memorial ceremony had this to 
say: “If Prime Minister [Binyamin] Netanyahu would have participated in the 
ceremony... the local Jewish community would have raised its head in pride. But 
Netanyahu is miserly and the South African Jews had to make do with Knesset 
Speaker Yuli Edelstein, a symbol of Israeli rule who resides in Neve Daniel in 
Gush Etzion. Not exactly the flag of the “other Israel” which the local 
community wants to wave against a South African government which is resolutely 
against the occupation.”It doesn’t even occur to Mr. Nir that there is a 
case to be made for limiting Israel’s presence in a funeral that is attended by 
some of the world’s most oppressive rulers. Nir does not take into account the 
case of the Dalai Lama who did not attend because the South African government 
is fearful of Chinese wrath and has refused him a visa twice in the past. Should 
Israel’s prime minister not consider this immoral policy of South Africa? The TV 
reportage was just as shallow. Channels 1, 2 and 10 all had special reports 
whose common theme was the Israeli delegation, and the heads of state and celebs 
attending the ceremony. Channel 10 brought a report from the former jailer of 
Mandela, which was all glowing about the peace loving personality of Mandela. 
None of the channels related to the problematic aspects of his past.Most 
of the Internet sites provided similar bland reportage.A welcome change 
was to be found in Nadav Eyal’s commentary on the NRG website, where he related 
fully to Mandela’s violent past, criticizing it, yet at the same time giving the 
context and the reasons that seemingly led to it.Benjamin Pogrund’s 
article in Haaretz, similarly tried to put Mandela’s history as well as Israel’s 
problematic relationship with the Apartheid regime into context. His conclusion 
is that “the true Nelson Mandela can and should be a lodestar for 
us.”But these are the exceptions. Most of Israel’s journalists have 
colored glasses and find it very difficult to go against the stream.The 
same type of limited reporting was to be found in the coverage of “the storm” 
that preoccupied us for the past week. On Sunday evening’s news, Channel 10’s 
report was about Safed and Jerusalem and its surroundings, west of the Green 
Line. Judea and Samaria were not even mentioned.Channel 2’s news had 
reports from Safed, Jerusalem and the Galilee. Ohad Ben-Hamo reported briefly on 
the isolation of the Gush Etzion region but had a long filmed report on the 
effects of the storm in Ramallah and the Gaza Strip. Only the IBA’s Channel 1 TV 
news gave a comprehensive report on the damage, which included Jewish towns in 
Judea and Samaria.The lack of reportage did not go unnoticed. At 
Israel’s Media Watch we received numerous complaints about the indifference of 
the mainstream media to the actual suffering of many people in Judea and 
Samaria. A typical example is the letter of Daniel Alkalay from Jerusalem who 
complains about the main Saturday night news program on TV Channel 2: “The 
program related to the storm and resulting damage in almost all parts of the 
country except for the settlements in Judea and Samaria. The suffering of the 
residents who have no electricity, news, water since Thursday is hard to 
describe, yet this seemingly does not interest Channel 2 news.”Sadly, 
one can almost divide the news purveyors by ideology.Makor Rishon, 
Israel Hayom, Arutz 7 all had in depth reports on the sad state of affairs in 
Judea and Samaria.Especially Arutz 7 brought some of the hardship of the 
residents to light. On December 15 it mentioned a family evacuated from Haresha 
due to hypothermia. Other websites reported two miscarriages that occurred in 
the Yitzhar area. 100 hilltop families were totally disconnected from water, 
electricity and phone services. Personal blogs of residents describing the 
hardship were also brought to light. But all of this and much more could only be 
found on relatively obscure sites.It was hard to find empathy in the 
“mainstream” purveyors of “news.” They did report that homes were disconnected 
from electricity in the various townships, but the colorful and empathetic story 
that would serve to humanize the settlers was seemingly too hard to swallow. 
Only towards the end, when there was not much other news available, some of the 
mainstream media gave some color to stories emanating from Judea and Samaria, 
such as a birth given on Highway 443 by a woman from Givat Ze’ev, due to the 
blockage of traffic.Sadly, too many of our journalists consider it their 
job to bring all the news that they see fit to print. The idea that journalism 
is a demanding profession whose call is to provide the public with the broad 
picture, irrespective of personal prejudices, has seemingly not yet become part 
and parcel of Israel’s journalistic practices.
The authors are 
respectively vice chairman and chairman of Israel’s Media Watch 
(www.imw.org.il).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>MEDIA COMMENT: Yes, there is left-wing media bias</title>
<date>4/12/2013</date>
<content>
In an op-ed rant published in Haaretz on November 24 entitled “This extreme 
left-wing state,” Gideon Levy angrily asserted that Israel’s “true left has 
disappeared” and that “Israeli society is becoming more and more right-wing and 
nationalistic.”One of his “proofs” was his claim that Israel’s media is 
not leftist.




Levy considers it rightist. It collaborates with the 
occupation, adopting “the language of the occupation and all the false versions 
of its instigators. It represses, deceives, hides, evades and denies,” he 
writes. Moreover, its quality is all wrong for it “provides mostly nonsense and 
entertainment, abuses its position, dumbs things down and blinds.”He 
then makes an astonishingly Orwellian statement: “this is the way of the Right: 
To falsely tag people, to extort, threaten, intimidate and afterward to reap the 
harvest.”Many dozens of our articles in this paper, in addition to other 
monitoring groups, put the lie to Levy’s skewed vision. His newspaper is engaged 
in a crusade against the Jewish presence in Judea and Samaria; a strong defense 
policy; and a proud statement of Jewish religion and culture. This bias 
dominates both its views as well as the news. The bias starts at home, 
Mr. Levy.A former Haaretz editor, David Landau, admitted the 
paper would restrain itself from over-investigating and over-reporting any of 
Ariel Sharon’s peccadilloes so as not to interfere with his disengagement 
project from Gaza. Its reporters have been proven irresponsible with their 
coverage and fined by the courts. Haaretz’s English-language edition has been 
accused of numerous errors of translation and fact stemming not from 
carelessness but from overzealousness to promote a political agenda. These 
include biased terminology, mistranslations, incomplete facts and omission of 
information.For example, on October 14, as noted by the Presspectiva 
website, Haaretz ran an article titled: “West Bank village inhabited for 3,000 
years faces eviction,” referring to the village of Sanuta whose inhabitants are 
illegally perched on an archaeological site. The Palestinian inhabitants have 
not been there 3,000 years. They haven’t even been there for 50 
years.Last year it was Gideon Levy himself who had to retract his false 
accusations, based on a misrepresentation of statistics, that Israel is an 
apartheid state.It was Haaretz reporter Amy Klein who suggested falsely 
that singer Rihanna, performing in Israel, replaced the lyrics “All I see is 
signs, all I see is dollar signs” with “All I see is Palestine.”Haaretz 
is the main offender in this regard, but Yediot Aharonot, its Ynet news site, 
the Walla website, other mainstream news outlets as well as the three television 
channels, 1, 2 and 10, as well as Kol Yisrael and Galatz radio have all 
committed similar “errors” in the past, invariably biased toward a leftist 
agenda. If there is a right-wing media, it is sectorial.A critic of what 
he perceives as left-wing bias in the American media, Warner T. Huston suggests 
that the media sees itself as becoming “a profession increasingly assuming a 
national and ideological agenda.” Some of his American examples echo elements we 
recognize in Israel, which confirm the label of “leftist.”These include 
employing phrases such as “violent rhetoric” or “climate of violence” as a scare 
tactic.The extreme Left is often described as “peace activists,” but it 
is invariably “Jewish extremists” when considering the Right.Relatively 
minor incidents are magnified disproportionately when they involve the 
Right.Reporting on certain social protests that figure high on the 
left-wing agenda, even when violent, become “suffused with a touch of sweetness” 
by the media.Thanks to media over-exposure it is only left-wing 
journalists who become our oracles, and we think of Ari Shavit, who appears with 
no counter-balance as the commentator on IBA’s Friday night digest of the weekly 
program, Yoman Hashavua. His “wisdom” is then magnified by other wise men such 
as Thomas Friedman in The New York Times. Consider the overwhelming majority of 
moderators of the discussion programs on television and radio: Yael Dan, Amnon 
Avramovitz, Moshe Negbi, Natan Zehavi, Rino Tzror, Tal Lipkin-Shahak, Aryeh 
Golan, Keren Neubach, Razi Barkai, Micha Friedman and more, all of whom express 
left-ofcenter to far-left viewpoints. Leftwing think tanks, like the Israel 
Democracy Institute, or advocacy groups like B’Tselem, are routinely referred to 
in a neutral manner whereas a group like Regavim or the Zionist Institute of 
National Strategies are always termed right-wing.The charge of bias is 
not unique to Israel. In England last August, a report produced by the Centre 
for Policy Studies found that the BBC is biased toward the Left; it is twice as 
likely to cover left-wing policy proposals. Left-wing think tank reports are 
termed “independent” while right-wing research is identified ideologically. 
Left-of-center bias is expressed in “both the amount of coverage it gives to 
different opinions and the way in which these voices are 
represented.”There is a second level of media bias bothering Uri Misgav, 
who published his criticism of the cultural “criminalism” he sees in Israel’s 
commercial television programming on November 22 in Levy’s own newspaper, 
Haaretz: “Channel 2 is celebrating... [t]wenty years of public and cultural 
degradation and erosion... [and] a clone channel [10] has flowered in its 
shadow. The dam has burst and both channels have begun sullying their 
professional evening news programs.... The public is exposed to every ill wind. 
Twenty years of corruption, brutalization and pandering to the lowest 
standards...”What we face is not only political- ideological bias. 
Politically the agenda over-emphasizes left-of-center issues, analysis and 
punditry.At the same time in the cultural sphere, we are being dumbed 
down. The media is targeting our minds and numbing them, desensitizing 
them.Last week, singer Arik Einstein died. Without detracting from his 
personality and cultural contributions to Israeli society, one cannot escape the 
fact that his death was used by the media to define what they believe is “the 
ultimate Israeli,” spinning it to the Left. These lines from his song “My Little 
Journalist” are quite a fitting epitaph to Levy’s tirades: “They write in the 
papers / What they want / Twisting, dirtying / Without mercy / Into the beds 
they go / They peek through holes / And there’s nothing to be done / No mercy 
here.... They kill using words / They fooling with a soul / ‘Where to?’ I ask / 
The love has gone.”
Perhaps what really bothers Levy is that the Israeli 
public is no longer willing to accept a leftwing- biased media. Perhaps too, 
nowadays he can no longer get away with his perversions without immediate 
exposure. Whatever the case, we prefer Gideon Levy complaining than Gideon Levy 
complacent.The authors are respectively vice chairman and chairman of 
Israel’s Media Watch (www.imw.org.il).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>More trouble in South Africa</title>
<date>8/4/2013</date>
<content>
The proceedings of the fifth BRICS Summit, that took place from March 26, 2013, 
to March 27 at the Durban International Convention Center (ICC), provided an 
international stage for certain civil organizations to garner limelight for 
their causes.One such organization, which promotes the Boycott, 
Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign against Israel by South Africa called on 
BRICS countries to sever trade with Israel’s “illegal” settlements in the 
“Occupied Palestinian Territories” and to impose an immediate arms embargo on 
Israel. They held a protest attended by about 150 people in Durban as part of 
their awareness campaign about so-called oppression in Palestine.




South 
Africa joined the BRICS (an acronym for the grouping of the world’s leading 
emerging economies, namely Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) bloc 
in 2010, and will hold the chair until the next Summit in 2014.The 
nefarious intervention by the BDS activist group threatened to subvert and 
derail the conference had it succeeded in gaining traction and was reminiscent 
of the infamous 2001 Durban Conference, which inextricably linked Durban with 
the most anti-Semitic rhetoric witnessed in any democratic country since the 
Second World War.The Durban 2001 World Conference against Racism gained 
notoriety and infamy for its vicious attempts to link Zionism and racism. The 
exclusive and obsessive focus on blaming Israel as the main perpetrator of 
slavery, racism and human rights abuses hijacked the agenda of the conference 
and deflected attention from all the other villains. It also frustrated genuine 
victims and prevented them obtaining the attention they 
deserved.Ironically, the two states that most adamantly pursued the 
linking of racism with Zionism were Syria and Iran. Syria has since proceeded to 
murder close to 100,000 of its own people, and not one resolution of 
condemnation of human rights abuses, or of war crimes, has emanated from the 
holy sanctum of the United Nations or the International Criminal Court. Iran, 
which pursues a policy of religious persecution against Bahais, Christians and 
other minorities, regularly executes people in public and suppresses all 
expressions of political opposition, is now the object of international 
sanctions.What made this BDS initiative particularly ominous was the 
powerful groups allying themselves with its objectives and propagating its 
narratives; namely, The Young Communist League of South Africa, supported by the 
South African Communist Party (SACP) and The Congress of South African Trade 
Unions (COSATU).Buti Manamela, South African member of parliament and 
national secretary of the Young Communist League of South Africa, officially 
handed over a memorandum on behalf of several South African organizations 
appealing to Marius Fransman, deputy minister from the Department of 
International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) at the 5th BRICS Summit for 
“decisive action” on Palestine.In Fransman, they have a willing 
collaborator, who through his reckless comments questioning the loyalties of 
South Africa’s Jews to the country and accusations of indifference to the 
wellbeing of “poor” citizens, has become culpable of fomenting divisive policies 
threatening the peaceful co-existence of Jews with other groups in the “Rainbow 
nation.”Resulting from a prior skirmish, the Jewish Board of Deputies 
has taken Fransman to the Human Rights Council for stating that it was not right 
and fair that Jews should be the recipients of tenders to purchase properties in 
areas which he designated as previously “Muslim.”On relations with 
Israel, Fransman and his mentor Ebrahim Ebrahim have pursued a belligerently 
hostile policy. Travel by all tiers of government officials to Israel to gather 
information, or for purposes of promoting economic ties, have effectively been 
halted.South Africa has been at the forefront of countries condemning 
Israel at the United Nations and has actively litigated against Israel at the 
International Criminal Court to have its security barrier declared 
illegal.Assured of widespread support from Zwelinzima Vavi, the general 
secretary of COSATU, Young Communist League (YCL) secretary Manamela and 
widespread sympathy among the upper echelons of the African National Congress 
(ANC), BDS South Africa’s co-ordinator Muhammed Desai had reason to be upbeat 
about his chances of launching his campaign before an international cast of 
leaders.According to Desai, the BRICS group can and should play a 
decisive role by taking “two immediate actions: impose [a] military and arms 
embargo on Israel and secondly to end all and ban all trade with Israel’s 
illegal settlements.” He also called for the suspension of economic, financial 
and technological assistance to and co-operation with Israel and for a severing 
of diplomatic, trade and cultural relations with Israel.Mbuyiseni 
Ndlozi, also of BDS South Africa, echoed these demands. “We now hereby call on 
BRICS to take decisive action against the increasing Israeli Occupation (and its 
illegal Settlement enterprise) as well as Israel’s apartheid policies against 
the Palestinian people. The time has come for progressive countries that seek a 
peaceful and just world to take clear action in the interests of the oppressed 
Palestinians – taking such action would put BRICS on the side of the developing 
countries, on the side of the peoples of the world and on the right side of 
history.”In a region bereft of legitimate leaders and of any functioning 
democracies other than Israel, the moral bankruptcy of the BDS agenda, that 
overlooks all the human rights abuses and deviancies of the Arab regimes, is 
apparent and abhorrent. Its obsession is with pressuring Israel. Once this is 
achieved, the BDSers talk loosely of bringing “justice” to the Palestinian 
people, without spelling out what exactly this entails.They fail to 
posit any clear, positive plan for how Israelis and Palestinians will live and 
share the land.Its partisan agenda blames only one side, and thus 
expects only one side to compromise. They prescribe only punitive measures for 
Israelis and absolve Palestinians of all responsibility or blame. This view sees 
Palestinians only as victims, with no control over their fate. This fatalistic 
view is unhelpful as it circumscribes the role Palestinian leaders can play and 
should be perceived as demeaning to the Palestinian people.It is a 
credit to the leaders of the BRICS group, and particularly to the minister of 
international relations and cooperation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, that they did 
not succumb to pressure from the destructive BDS lobbyists, which would have 
undermined the important work that they gathered together to accomplish. It is 
perhaps time for South Africa to follow the example set by all the other BRICS 
states, which maintain excellent and mutually beneficial relations with Israel, 
undoubtedly contributing to their growing economies.
The author is the 
chairman of the South African Zionist Federation (Cape Council).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My personal recollections of Nelson Mandela</title>
<date>7/12/2013</date>
<content>
As a kid who grew up in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, now part of Nelson Mandela 
Bay Metropolitan Municipality, I remember the politics of the struggle against 
apartheid, having grown up in a home where my father, the late Colin Robert 
Jankelowitz, a lawyer, defended local ANC leaders from 1958 until 
1964.Among his most noted clients were the late Govan Mbeki and Raymond 
Mthlaba, who were later put on trial with Nelson Mandela at the famous Rivonia 
Trial and served many years in jail with Mandela on Robben Island.




I 
remember my father relating how Mandela was responsible for him getting married 
to my mom, the late Salome Jankelowitz nee Horwitz.It was in 1948 that 
my dad was an articled clerk with Nate Bregman in Johannesburg, while Mandela 
was articled with Lazar Sidelsky. Mandela, my dad and other articled clerks in 
the nearby law firms used to hang out together at lunch breaks, and one day 
Mandela inquired when my dad would be getting married.When my dad told 
Mandela that he had not yet even proposed, Mandela told him to hurry up or my 
mom would find somebody else.The next instance of a personal connection 
with Mandela was in 1990 after his release from Robben Island and his historic 
visit to New York City, where the former Mayor David Dinkins feted him with a 
ticker tape parade along 5th Avenue and a public reception at City 
Hall.During that period I was in New York as an emissary of the Jewish 
Agency for Israel working with Jewish students on American College 
campuses.I very much wanted to go to the reception so I called Herbert 
Block, the assistant to mayor Dinkins, and asked if he could secure me a 
ticket.Block laughed me off, but I reminded him that Thabo Mbeki, the 
son of my father’s client, Govan Mbeki, was head of the ANC Mission in New York 
and maybe he would be kind enough to provide me with a ticket.In the 
evening Block called back and told me that Mbeki (who later succeeded Mandela as 
president of South Africa) wanted to know how many tickets I would like! I 
excitedly called my dad in Port Elizabeth and asked him what to say when I shook 
Mandela’s hand.He told me to say in Xhosa “molo umlumzaan Mandela,” 
which means good day, chief Mandela, bearing in mind that Mandela hailed from a 
family of Xhosa tribal chiefs in the eastern Cape.The miracle of the new 
democratic South Africa is that it was made possible without a bloodbath, only 
because of Nelson Mandela’s vision and belief in peaceful reconciliation and 
coexistence.It is almost 20 years since Mandela was elected president of 
South Africa, and today South Africa is an important member of the family of 
nations due to the legacy of Madiba, as Mandela is fondly known by all South 
Africans.
The writer resides in Jerusalem and is the Jewish Agency for 
Israel’s spokesman emeritus to the international media.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Educating Roger Waters</title>
<date>22/8/2013</date>
<content>
You could say I grew up on Roger Waters and Pink Floyd, but it wouldn’t be accurate. I was never a particular fan of the group; living in London of the late 1970s there was huge competition from Queen, ELO and other bands whose music and message caught my imagination and better suited my tastes. But at least you can say I grew up, which is more than you can say of Waters.In 1979, the year Pink Floyd’s seminal The Wall album was released (and, of more historic importance, Ayatollah Khomeini overthrew the Shah in Iran), I moved to Israel.




While I didn’t abandon the “foreign” bands – you try getting ABBA tunes out of your head once they’re in there – I became more intensively exposed to the genius of Arik Einstein, Shlomo Artzi, David Broza, and, of course, Kaveret – Israel’s legendary equivalent of The Beatles. The seven members of Kaveret have aged, as they openly joked at their recent final reunion. Unlike Waters, they have also matured.It was the year when the Village People forever changed the way we would think of the YMCA. There were also songs like Ian Dury’s “Hit Me with Your Rhythm Stick” that are best forgotten.More noteworthy, from my parochial point of view, Elton John first performed in Israel in 1979 and Cliff Richard achieved his 10th UK No. 1 hit with “We Don’t Talk Anymore.”Richard and Waters were never on the same page musically, but Richard could share an important message with Waters – “We need to talk.”For unlike Pink Floyd’s perennial bad boy, Richard last month defied calls to embargo Israel and appeared to enthusiastic audiences here, fitting in a quick visit to the tennis center he sponsors in Nazareth that gives local Arab youths a sporting chance.Waters, on the other hand, this week published an open letter calling on fellow musicians to boycott Israel.In the letter, first posted on the Electronic Intifada pro-Palestinian website and quickly picked up by many media outlets, Waters accuses the country of apartheid and ethnic cleansing – terms also popular in a different era, when they actually meant something.“I write to you now, my brothers and sisters in the family of Rock and Roll, to ask you to join with me, and thousands of other artists around the world, to declare a cultural boycott on Israel,” says the 69-yearold falling star.“Please join me and all our brothers and sisters in global civil society in proclaiming our rejection of apartheid in Israel and occupied Palestine, by pledging not to perform or exhibit in Israel or accept any award or funding from any institution linked to the government of Israel, until such time as Israel complies with international law and universal principles of human rights.”Waters reportedly released his appeal after British violinist Nigel Kennedy called Israel “an apartheid state” at a recent Promenade concert at London’s Albert Hall (and I admit “The Proms,” as the cultural event is known, is one of the few things I miss from the Britain of my past).The BBC announced it would remove Kennedy’s remarks in rebroadcasts of the concert, but the damage was obviously done. Mr. “We don’t need no education” Waters had found his muse and been spurred into action.“It’s not unusual to be loved by anyone,” croons Welsh pop idol Tom Jones, but, proving that being loved is not something Israelis can take for granted, the 73-year-old is coming under intense pressure to cancel a performance scheduled for October 26 at Tel Aviv’s Nokia Arena.The Cardiff branch of the British-based Palestine Solidarity Campaign has launched an online petition telling Jones: “A performance in Israel today is akin to a performance in apartheid South Africa.” It’s the sort of sentence that has become the mantra of those who don’t know what life in Israel is like, and probably aren’t aware of the full horror of apartheid, either.That’s why I’d like to sing the praises of performers like Eric Burdon of The Animals, who earlier this month reportedly canceled his Tel Aviv concert following similar pressure and then, demonstrating true moral courage, reinstated it, and Alicia Keys, who ignored boycott calls to appear at Nokia in July, setting the stage on fire (at least figuratively) with a message of love and peace.Israeli supermodel Bar Refaeli, proving she’s not just a pretty face, demanded Waters remove a photograph of her used in the video art during his performances. “If you’re boycotting – then go all the way,” Refaeli tweeted on Wednesday.THIS IS not the first time Waters has opened his big mouth not to sing but to bash Israel. And it’s certainly not the first time he has failed to strike a chord with Jews around the world.A concert in Belgium last month created a buzz Waters in his perverse way can be proud of when an inflated pig-shaped balloon sporting a star of David among other symbols unexpectedly hit the headlines.The stage prop was not new, but somehow this time it took off.Rabbi Abraham Cooper of the Simon Wiesenthal Center denounced the balloon as a “grotesque display of Jew-hatred” and called Waters an “open hater of Jews.”Waters responded with a statement on his Facebook page noting the other symbols painted on the balloon included a crescent, the Shell Oil logo and a McDonald’s sign, and stating: “Like it or not, the Star of David represents Israel and its policies and is legitimately subject to any and all forms of nonviolent protest. To peacefully protest against Israel’s racist domestic and foreign policies is NOT ANTI-SEMITIC.”The much-troubled Waters refuses to bridge differences, at least when Israel is concerned. Go bang your head against the brick wall of his prejudices, for prejudice and bias it is.Waters fails to realize – or deliberately ignores – the fact that Israel would give him a stage to speak his mind, as it did during his 2006 visit. It is much safer to criticize Israel from a performance hall in Tel Aviv or Jerusalem than to travel to the country’s northern neighbor, Syria, or southern neighbor, Egypt. And, even though I don’t like him, I suggest for his own sake – and the safety of the Western world – that he take great care in which Muslim countries he decides to raise his inflatable pig with the star of David and Muslim crescent.In Israel, bashing the government is a national sport, but unlike Waters, for most of us, the older we get, the more sophisticated our way of expressing our criticism.Like Waters, I hate “The Wall.” It was built because, while he chooses to use the platform of the Electronic Intifada to further his message against peace with Israel, there are others who carried out a real intifada – not inflating pigs but blowing up innocent people.(Incidentally, Waters might think Israel is an apartheid state, but passengers on buses and shoppers at the mall represent a very mixed population of Jews, Christians, Muslims and others whose blood is indistinguishable when splattered on the ground in an act of terror.) By pushing the boycott of Israel exclusively, Waters is strengthening terrorism – those who want to see the country disappear. If he truly supported humane values – peaceful coexistence, democracy and freedom – he’d come and make music. Peace with the Palestinians seems about as likely as a flying pig that’s not a stage prop, but it’s clear that demonizing one side of the conflict while letting the other literally get away with murder is not the way to bring it closer.To use the words of one of his songs, Waters thinks he “can tell heaven from hell, blue skies from pain.” But he can’t – not unless he grows up and looks at what’s really flying. Until then, we don’t need no Roger Waters.The writer is the editor of The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: No offense, but...</title>
<date>31/1/2013</date>
<content>
I don’t want to offend anyone. Especially not in Britain, the country 
where I was born and raised. But I just can’t help it. And it seems to be 
mutual.Something has changed in the United Kingdom during the 33 years 
since I emigrated to Israel. What we used to call “kid-glove 
anti-Semitism” when I was growing up in London is turning into something less 
gentle and more sinister.




During a visit this summer, I was surprised to 
see how much more culturally diverse the society has become. Granted, it was the 
Olympics season and the “We are the world” factor had come out to play. When 
people asked where I was from I went from gingerly testing the waters with a 
noncommittal “Jerusalem” to proudly announcing “Israel,” and my son felt 
comfortable enough to travel on the London Underground wearing a kippa not 
always hidden by a hat.Having had some teachers who always stopped short 
of calling this country anything other than the Holy Land or Palestine, and 
remembering an incident outside a train station in which a group of friends was 
assaulted by skinheads for being identifiably Jewish, I was pleased at what 
seemed like progress.On my return to Israel, a colleague asked me if I 
would “now stop bashing Britain.” And I’d love to be able to do that. But in the 
last few days, I felt like I’d been punched in the stomach – not with kid gloves 
this time, but with boxing gloves. I couldn’t ignore a couple of classic cases 
of anti-Semitism disguised as anti-Israel sentiment.This is the 
fashionable way of turning an old hatred into something modern, close to 
trendy.The first incident was when British Member of Parliament David 
Ward chose the run-up to International Holocaust Remembrance Day to declare: “I 
am saddened that the Jews, who suffered unbelievable levels of persecution 
during the Holocaust, could within a few years of liberation from the death 
camps be inflicting atrocities on Palestinians in the new State of Israel and 
continue to do so on a daily basis in the West Bank and Gaza.”The 
Liberal Democrat MP for Bradford East (I don’t think the word “Liberal” is 
binding when it comes to relating to Jews), told Sky News on January 25, the day 
after his original comments: “It’s just a statement of fact. There is quite a 
lot of evidence that supports that statement.”Ignoring all evidence to 
the contrary, Ward, who has apparently visited Gaza, regularly refers to Israel 
as “an apartheid regime.” I, of course, cannot visit Gaza at 
all. Actually, there are quite a few countries I can’t safely visit as a 
Jew (but I’m not including Britain on the list – yet).The second blow 
was even more familiar: A caricature featuring a lot of blood and a Jew who was 
to blame. This was not a particularly original cartoon – Der Stürmer was running 
images on a similar theme some 80 years ago when Hitler came to 
power.Sunday Times cartoonist Gerald Scarfe predictably also defended 
his depiction of a big-nosed Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu gleefully 
cementing the security barrier with the blood of agonized Palestinian victims. 
The caption reads, “Israeli elections – will cementing peace continue?” It was 
published on International Holocaust Remembrance Day itself, January 
27.What do you think of this, asked a friend on Facebook. I thought that 
it recalled a caricature published a decade ago in the similarly mainstream 
British The Independent which showed then-prime minister Ariel Sharon devouring 
a Palestinian baby. Dave Brown was the recipient of the Cartoon of the Year 
award at the British Political Cartoon Society’s annual competition for that 
sophisticated portrayal of the Jews. Both images, of course, purposely exploit 
the ancient blood libel – the libel paid for in Jewish blood for centuries, ever 
since it was created on Passover 1144 in the English city of Norwich.I 
also thought how much better life here would be not without the security fence 
but without the need for it – without the suicide bombers and other terrorists 
who would rather take the quick route to a “martyr’s paradise” than the harder 
road to creating a stable, peaceful state to exist alongside Israel.The 
fact that Scarfe’s cartoon of the monstrous Israeli leader appeared on 
International Holocaust Remembrance Day did not make it worse – the fact that it 
appeared at all is what I found offensive.Indeed, International 
Holocaust Remembrance Day itself seems to have been so hijacked in the name of 
universalism that I find it hard to relate to it. It seems that any mention of 
the Holocaust must now as a matter of course include victims of wars and 
atrocities everywhere.When it comes to remembering the attempt to wipe 
out the Jewish people and any sign of their religion and culture, I prefer to 
concentrate on Israel’s Yom Hashoah, commemorated appropriately according to the 
Hebrew calendar between Passover and Independence Day.I’m not sure 
there’s any point in noting that if the Jews really do control the world media, 
another seasoned anti-Semitic slander, they are doing a very poor job of 
it.The nasty surprise was finding that the generally respectable and 
respected Sunday Times had fallen in with the bon ton; political correctness – 
or even the truth – be damned when it comes to the Jews, or at least the Jewish 
state.Funnily enough, earlier this week going through the mix of fan 
mail and hate mail that regularly finds its way to my inbox, a letter from a 
reader who definitely does not like Israel, Israelis or presumably me, referred 
me to The Guardian’s site.As chance would have it, I didn’t find the 
link she’d suggested apparently sporting another long list of alleged Israeli 
atrocities, but I did come across an unexpected item. It was almost like 
slaughtering a holy cow, for someone of my age and background.The BBC is 
tampering with the iconic comedy series Fawlty Towers to avoid giving offense. 
Even more extraordinarily, Auntie (as the BBC is known) is not concerned about 
upsetting the eponymous Germans in arguably the series’s most famous episode 
(“Don’t mention the war!”). But the openly ridiculous character of Major Gowen 
can no longer be seen using the words “niggers” and “wogs.”Nobody – I 
hope – would write a BBC comedy series today including those epithets for 
laughs. Basil Fawlty, Major Gowen, and the Spanish waiter Manuel (“Don’t mind 
him, he’s from Barcelona”), however, were characters created in the 
mid-1970s.Nowadays, you can only openly defame the Israelis and not just 
“get away with it,” as John Cleese’s fictional Fawlty might put it, but actually 
be considered to have good taste.Jerusalem Post columnist Caroline 
Glick, currently on leave to write a book, has also noted that the “Great” is 
missing from “Britain” when it comes to its treatment of Israelis. Last month, 
she was invited to participate in a highbrow Intelligence Squared debate over 
Israel’s settlement policy, where she found it so difficult to make her case 
because of the heckling that she wrote on her website a caustic piece titled 
“Bye-bye London.”In it she states: “I can say without hesitation that I 
hope never to return to Britain. I actually don’t see any point. Jews are 
targeted by massive anti-Semitism of both the social and physical varieties. Why 
would anyone Jewish want to live there? As to visiting as an Israeli, again, I 
just don’t see the point. The discourse is owned by anti-Israel voices. They 
don’t make arguments to spur thought, but to end it, by appealing to people’s 
passions.”And I have similarly been reminded of why Britain was such a 
good place to leave. I used to think that I was blessed with a British sense of 
humo(u)r. I don’t think I’m the one who’s lost it. It’s Britain that’s losing 
its chances of having the last laugh.The writer is the editor of the 
International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Obama’s trip</title>
<date>7/2/2013</date>
<content>
I’m pleased President Barack Obama has solved all the domestic problems of the 
US. And those of nuclearizing Iran, its global terrorist tentacles, North Korea, 
and the Arab Spring that left the Muslim world bleeding and vulnerable, perfect 
operating ground for jihadists. It’s good to know that the economy – worldwide – 
is back on track.I should be happy that the president now has time to 
tackle the particular part of the Middle East where I live. Like most of my 
friends, however, I find it hard to be enthusiastic about the news that Obama, 
safely ensconced in his second term, wants to visit next month – unless he wants 
to bring Jonathan Pollard with him, in time to celebrate Seder night in 
Jerusalem.




Colleagues recall with groans the traffic snarl-ups that a US 
presidential visit inevitably entails. For the average Jerusalemite, this is the 
main association: Road Map = traffic jams. Well, there is another association 
but it’s so awful that many try not to think about it. Peace talks = terror 
attacks.That’s how it’s been for roughly the last 20 years. Any time 
there was a concentrated effort to bring about a peace agreement between Israel 
and the Palestinians, lots of people died. Peace negotiations, perceived by most 
of the Western world, as the road to paradise have led us to hell as Palestinian 
“martyrs” commit suicide bombings on buses, in restaurants, in shopping malls 
and other sites where they have a good chance of blowing up as many innocent 
people as possible.Territorial concessions – another demand – have not 
been followed by peace but by missile attacks, be it from the area around 
Bethlehem, Gaza or Lebanon. The vast majority of Israelis – North, South and 
Center – now know the stomach-churning feeling that accompanies a missile 
alert.Settlements, we’ve discovered, are not the main obstacle to peace; 
the presence of Jews anywhere in the region – and perhaps anywhere on the planet 
– is the problem.One hopes Obama will do a bit of homework before he 
comes on his first visit as president. The history and sensitivities of the area 
are hugely complex. They won’t be solved by a presidential photo opportunity and 
a few sound bites, which we’ve probably all heard before.If Obama’s 
visit fails – or more likely, when it fails – we’ll be the ones left picking up 
the pieces; picking them up and putting them in body bags, if experience is 
anything to go on.OBAMA HAS been criticized for not visiting the region 
during his first term in office. “The start of the president’s second 
term and the formation of a new Israeli government offer the opportunity to 
reaffirm the deep and enduring bonds between the United States and Israel and to 
discuss the way forward on a broad range of issues of mutual concern, including, 
of course, Iran and Syria,” said White House spokesman Jay Carney on February 
5.It is hard to imagine what the Obama administration can come up with 
now but it will have to be extraordinarily creative to fix the damage from his 
first term. Then, the president made mistake after mistake regarding the Arab 
world and turned the few issues that Israelis and Palestinians were likely to be 
able to agree on – such as Israel keeping so-called settlement blocs in return 
for land swaps – into subjects so sensitive that it seems hard to see how the 
negotiations can even begin, let alone what good can come out of them.So 
far, the Palestinians have breached agreement after agreement with no 
consequences.No wonder they don’t mind the image-boosting trappings of 
an American presidential visit.The president’s itinerary is set to 
include Israel, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. It will 
not include Gaza, now controlled by Hamas, an acknowledged terrorist 
organization. And herein lies another prickly point that the president will 
probably want to ignore.There is no hope for a two-state solution when 
there are already close to three Palestinian entities: Jordan, the West Bank and 
Gaza.And what will be the value of a piece of paper signed by a 
Palestinian leader whose own political position is so shaky he has extended his 
elected tenure by six years rather than face the likelihood of a defeat in the 
polls? Israel does not cherish the thought of a second Hamas regime on its 
border, but it raises the question of who, exactly, we are meant to be 
negotiating with, and for whom Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is 
speaking when he himself is not free to visit Gaza.Prime Minister 
Netanyahu frequently calls on Abbas to return to the negotiating table and talk 
– in good faith; Abbas repeatedly responds with public speeches demonizing 
Israel as a murderous, apartheid regime. Worse still, Abbas gets away with 
it.Every time Netanyahu mentions he is ready to talk, the international 
community demands to know what Israel will concede in order to return to the 
negotiating table; every time Abbas takes a unilateral step or blasts the 
“Zionists,” the world tries to soothe him with promises and more pressure on 
Israel.Acting Knesset Speaker Binyamin Ben- Eliezer has called on the 
prime minister to invite the American president to address the Israeli 
parliament. As a gesture of friendship, this would work well. It might even be 
better, for example, than giving a powerful speech at the Hebrew 
University.Obama’s 2009 Cairo University address still echoes hollowly 
around the Middle East – a reminder of the president’s complete incomprehension 
of the ways of this region; an attempt at mending fences oblivious to the 
tremors that were already making the ground shake and move.Imagine, too, 
the hazards of the US president trying to get to the Mount Scopus campus – in 
what he officially considers occupied territory, even though the Hebrew 
University was opened there in 1925.Of course, if he addresses the 
Israeli parliament, he will have to similarly speak in front of the Palestinian 
parliament – which to a certain extent negates the whole purpose of the visit. 
If Obama wants to recognize the symbols of the Palestinian state (Abbas’s one) 
from the outset of his trip, there’s no need for more negotiations, which will 
more than likely end in disaster.And what will he tell the Jordanian 
parliament? Talk of the Arab Spring sounds more of a threat than a promise in a 
kingdom struggling against the same revolutionary process, as well as the fear 
of a Palestinian uprising. Perhaps that’s the reason leaders prefer to talk in 
university auditoriums rather than parliaments; the guest list in the former can 
be more easily controlled, while the latter comes with a built-in 
opposition.The tragedy is that even those of us who do want to see a 
two-state solution can’t see it happening in the current 
circumstances.Real peace needs to be based on reality, whereas Obama’s 
grasp of history and Middle Eastern politics are based on dreams, delusions and 
disinformation. A real chance for peace requires constructive and open thinking, 
not the ongoing delegitimization and praise for martyrdom that we are 
witnessing. It also needs a stable economic and political climate.Trying 
to force a peace solution on Israel and the Palestinians won’t solve the 
troubles of the world – even a genuine peace agreement between the two won’t do 
that. Obama’s other problems won’t go away while he makes his presidential trip. 
Sadly, many of the problems might just get worse.
The writer is the 
editor of The International Jerusalem Post. liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: On marathons and talks</title>
<date>7/3/2013</date>
<content>
It resembled “a dry run” for President Barack Obama’s visit later this month – 
most roads in the capital were closed and there was a heavy security presence. 
The atmosphere surrounding last Friday’s third International Jerusalem Marathon, 
however, was festive. Almost all my friends, colleagues and neighbors seem to 
have taken part in some capacity; those not actually running lined the streets 
to cheer on the 20,000 or so participants with genuine affection and admiration. 
I doubt Obama can expect such a show of support.On March 15, Tel Aviv is 
scheduled to hold its Gillette International Marathon, being billed as a nonstop 
party, and also expecting a high turnout. Tel Aviv runners can enjoy the flat 
coast and view of the Mediterranean, whereas the Jerusalem participants had to 
contend with the famous biblical hills but benefited from the scenic backdrop of 
the Old City Walls. Wherever you run in Jerusalem, you run into 
history.




I’m not a marathon woman myself. Swimming is my sport. But I 
recognize the need for different strokes in both senses of the 
phrase.The news this week of a marathon canceled indicated a painful 
step backwards. The marathon in Gaza sponsored by UNRWA (the UN Relief and Works 
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East) had been scheduled for April 10 
but the UN branch decided to call it off after the Hamas government in Gaza 
barred women from participating.In past years, the UNRWA Gaza Marathon 
raised funds for the organization’s summer camps for local children – although 
the camps have also come under fire, sometimes literally, from Hamas 
supporters.UNRWA cannot be seen to condone the gender discrimination 
being enforced by Hamas on religious grounds – especially as the announcement 
came just ahead of International Women’s Day, marked today.I suppose 
members of the Free Gaza movement and its offshoots justify their ongoing 
efforts to support the increasingly Islamist regime there – no matter what it 
means for human rights – as long as they can fool themselves into believing that 
it is Israel that is oppressing the poor Gazans and not the government they 
themselves voted into power.I can’t help but think that the race would 
have continued had Hamas officially said “No Jews or Israelis allowed.” But as 
it is, Gaza has become effectively Judenrein since the Israeli disengagement in 
2005, and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank seems to think this is the 
way it too should go, hence the demands to remove all Jewish presence from its 
areas in the event of a peace agreement.I am not gloating at the turn of 
events concerning the Gazan runners. Given that just a few months ago missiles 
from Gaza hit both the greater Jerusalem and Tel Aviv areas, and only last week 
rockets were again fired on the Israeli South, I would much rather see signs of 
the Gazan government running forward, in step with the times. Unlike marathon 
running, running for shelter during a missile attack is nobody’s idea of 
fun.The difference between the Jerusalem marathon and the event in Gaza 
that did not make it as far as the starter’s gun could not be greater. For all 
that Israel’s detractors like to portray it as an apartheid state and close to 
Iran in its religious attitudes to women, participants of all faiths and both 
genders put their best feet forward in the Jerusalem event, many running to 
raise money for charities including peace projects and women’s causes. And 
whether it was the remnants of Purim spirit, or Jerusalem’s own special effect, 
several were bedecked in outfits that could also serve them at a costume ball. 
The women wore what they wanted – and some didn’t want to wear very 
much.The Palestinian Authority, by the way, called on international 
participants to boycott the event. Apparently running with women dressed as 
fairies and men in Superman costumes could be perceived as a sign of 
“normalization” and the route – which passed such landmarks as the Israeli 
parliament, Supreme Court and President’s Residence, as well as the Old City – 
might legitimize Israel’s rights to call Jerusalem its capital.Despite 
the talk of “time running out” for peace negotiations and the need for 
confidence building steps, double standards abound.Last month there was 
an uproar in the Palestinian street over the death in an Israeli prison of 
Arafat Jaradat, a Palestinian terror suspect – initial forensic signs indicated 
a heart attack, but accusations that he died under torture make a better story 
in a culture where the terrorist martyr is an icon.This week, the 
Palestinian Authority prevented journalists from covering the death of Ayman 
Samarah, a resident of Jenin who was found dead in his prison cell in Jericho 
where he was being held on suspicion of stabbing a man during a fight. The man 
wasn’t Jewish, hence Samarah lacked the hero’s aura.Also off the radar 
of most of the world media were the arrests by the PA last month of 66 Hamas 
supporters in the West Bank, according to the Gaza-based authorities.The 
arrests are a sign that efforts to achieve a reconciliation between Hamas and 
Fatah have failed.Perhaps one of Obama’s envoys would like to tackle 
that breach first so that when Israel is urged to make concessions to the 
Palestinians it will be clear exactly who represents them.Facilitating 
peace among the Palestinians, however, requires marathon talks that are unlikely 
to reach the finishing line – even limping.I’d suggest British or 
European emissaries try to bring the PA and Hamas together, but I’m not sure 
they’d have a better chance of success – particularly in view of the attack this 
week on the car of the British consul-general in Jerusalem, Sir Vincent Fean. He 
was forced to leave Bir Zeit University after Palestinian students protested 
against his presence on campus, claiming, peculiarly to Israeli eyes, that the 
British government is ignoring the Palestinian cause and is biased in Israel’s 
favor.I deplore the violent demonstration of anti- British sentiment, 
and if Sir Vincent wants empathy as well as sympathy, I suggest he sits down and 
chats with any of the Israelis who have recently been chased off university 
campuses in the UK. The Foreign Ministry could provide him with a list, 
including, for example, Alon Roth-Snir, Israel’s deputy ambassador in London who 
was last month forced to flee the University of Essex. Israeli emissaries might 
have the stamina for marathons, but they need to be prepared for a 
sprint.Those thinking peace is going to come any time soon are letting 
their imaginations run away with them. On The Guardian’s website, for example, I 
came across an article on the Gaza event by Nabila Ramdani, “a Paris-born 
freelance journalist and academic of Algerian descent,” who apparently “was 
named a Young Global Leader 2012 by the World Economic Forum.”She 
complained: “Hamas’s decision to ban women – 119 from abroad and 266 from Gaza 
itself – is wrong for all the most basic reasons. It is sexist, discriminatory 
and regressive, but – crucially – it wastes what should have been yet another 
huge blow against Israel’s illegal occupation and blockade of the Palestinian 
territories.”Perhaps I shouldn’t complain that Hamas preferred to shoot 
itself in the foot rather than let men and women run freely 
together.It’s obviously going to be a long time before they’re willing 
to let Israelis and Palestinians compete together for fun. Luckily, we’re not 
running away.The writer is the editor of The International Jerusalem 
Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: The China conundrum</title>
<date>9/5/2013</date>
<content>
The Eastern dragon brings prosperity and good fortune; the Western dragon 
breathes fire. It was a double headed beast that Prime Minister Binyamin 
Netanyahu encountered this week on his official visit to the People’s Republic 
of China. On the positive side, the premier encountered a warm reception and was 
able to make impressive economic ties; on the other hand, his meeting with 
Chinese President Xi Jinping was preceded by the visit of Palestinian Authority 
President Mahmoud Abbas and the announcement of China’s “Four-point proposal for 
peace.”A BA in Chinese studies and international relations does not make 
me an expert. But it makes me more interested than most in what goes on in a 
country so huge that at some points the traveler is closer to Jerusalem than to 
Beijing.




My view of China is also influenced – some would no doubt say 
tainted – by the fact that although I have twice visited Taiwan, the Republic of 
China, I have yet to make it to The Mainland, the People’s Republic.The 
Chinese, a friendly nation wherever they reside, profess great admiration for 
the Jews.There are not many peoples with a history and culture that goes 
back so many millennia.China likes the Jewish emphasis on education and 
family. It is also impressed by Israel’s technological achievements. It’s no 
wonder that Start-Up Nation has been translated into Chinese. There are places 
where The Protocols of the Elders of Zion is available, not as a manifestation 
of anti-Semitism, but as an expression of awe for the perceived power and 
influence of our tiny Hebrew-speaking tribe.Netanyahu, on his trip this 
week, rightly noted China’s role in providing a safe haven to Jews during the 
Holocaust, a time when few countries offered refuge to those able to escape the 
Nazis; a time when Britain turned Jews away from the shores of the promised 
Jewish homeland.And the pace of development in China has been close to 
miraculous.As the premier told his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang at an 
official ceremony in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing: “We admire China. 
We have a connection with Chinese civilization, with the Chinese people. Our two 
peoples are two peoples with a glorious past, a difficult in-between period and 
then soaring to the future...May I add that this is my second visit to 
China. Fifteen years apart, my delegation and I are enormously impressed by what 
we see here, by the spectacular success of China in so many spheres, and 
understand that it’s important for us to discuss with you how we can cooperate 
not only on economic and technological issues but also the pursuit of 
peace.”It is hard, however, for the average Israeli to understand the 
average Chinese – and not just because of the language barrier.Those of 
us living in a country about the size of New Jersey with a total population 
around the eight million mark find it hard to conceive of living in a country 
where the capital city alone has some 22 million.Similarly, living in a 
country where arguing about politics and complaining about the government is a 
way of life, we find it difficult to imagine living under the watchful eye of a 
Communist regime. (I’m sure I’m not the only one who openly cracked jokes this 
week that in Netanyahu’s absence, Finance Minister Yair Lapid declared war – on 
his middle-class voters.) China might have been overtaken by capitalism in 
economic terms, but from a political point of view it remains 
totalitarian.In one of the strangest photos I saw last year – so 
peculiar that Reuters placed it in its “Iconic” category – photographer David 
Gray captured an instructor from the Tianjiao Special Guard/Security Consultant 
Ltd.Co. smashing a bottle over the head of a female recruit “during a 
training session for China’s first female bodyguards in Beijing, January 13, 
2012.”Apparently the best trainee out of the 20 women, most of them 
college graduates, would be “offered a chance to attend the International 
Security Academy in Israel.”I hope she jumped at the chance, whoever she 
was. But I wonder how she would fare in a system where informality and 
familiarity rule and if anyone were to even threaten a recruit with a smashed 
bottle, it would be considered a form of abuse.For here lies the rub of 
a painful problem, as far as I’m concerned.While the whole world berates 
Israel for perceived human rights violations, China is the object of political 
and economic pilgrimages – without any demands for reform.Friends from 
abroad visiting Israel post picture after picture on Facebook – surprised by 
everything they see, so different from what they were led to believe about life 
in the Jewish state.Friends in China email me apologies that they don’t 
have Internet access. Nonetheless, as in places like Iran and Syria, with a 
little ingenuity and a lot of care, people do find a way to be in touch with the 
outside world.The biggest problem facing ordinary people in Beijing, by 
the way, seems to be air pollution, which literally casts a pall over their 
lives and was the subject of much international scrutiny at the time of the 2008 
Olympics when the government made an intense effort to improve the situation for 
the benefit of the competitors and visitors.Energy, according to some 
analysts, could be the source of China’s newfound interest in Middle Eastern 
politics.At a time when the US is growing more independent, China still 
relies on imported oil.Israel wants to develop stronger relations with 
China – the potential of a country this size is self-evident – and Beijing is 
keenly aware of what Israel has to offer. And China is keenly aware that its 
traditional partners in the Middle East are disintegrating in the aftermath of 
the Arab Spring, which could have ramifications for its own large and 
occasionally restless Muslim minority.Anyone who thinks Israel is an 
apartheid state – or an ultra-Orthodox theocracy – clearly has not tried to find 
a seat on Jerusalem’s crowded light rail system where Arabs and Jews – some 
dressed in traditional clothing, others barely dressed at all on a hot day – 
jostle for places as if playing a perverse version of musical chairs.The 
light rail took a decade to build – a decade that seemed to last much longer 
than 10 years to Jerusalemites.As Netanyahu proudly announced at an 
event in January 2012 celebrating 20 years of diplomatic ties, the government 
would like Chinese help in building a railway from the Red Sea to the 
Mediterranean, to bypass the Suez Canal.Given the amazing Chinese 
logistical and technological achievements in building their own infrastructure, 
the actual construction should be much quicker than Jerusalem residents were 
forced to suffer.Despite the disparity in the size of the two countries, 
the cooperation projects should benefit both.Netanyahu’s visit is a sign 
that Israeli-Chinese relations could be heading in a new direction as good 
business partners. But we should remember that whether you're eating with 
chopsticks, silver cutlery or fingers, there is no such thing as a free 
meal.The writer is the editor of The International Jerusalem 
Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Native Americans turning on Israel?</title>
<date>1/1/2013</date>
<content>
In 2008, the Sovereign Nation of the Coushatta Indiana Tribe of Louisiana was 
the first Native American tribe to establish a formal relationship with Israel, 
hosting an affirmation of friendship event with Israeli consular officials and 
issuing a proclamation that May 14 would be “Stakayoop Yanihta Yisrael” or “the 
day to honor Israel.”The following year the tribe took a delegation to 
Israel which resulted in their first Israel-related venture, becoming the 
exclusive distributor of Aya Natural, an Israeli start-up skincare company based 
in the Druse community of Beit Jann in the Galilee. David Sickey, the head of 
the tribe, has made a number of visits here since as well to promote additional 
cooperative business activity.




In late 2009 Virginia Native American 
leader Chief Annie Richardson met with Minister of Infrastructure Uzi Landau and 
told him the American Indians support the State of Israel and its right to the 
land of Israel. In presenting Landau with a traditional Indian headdress at that 
time she said, “We believe that God has given you this land and we want you to 
fight for it.”More recently, Navajo Nation President Ben Shelly and his 
wife Martha visited Israel to learn about issues from agriculture to tourism. On 
his arrival here on December 8 he said, “We set out on this mission to look at 
how Israel has advanced in growth in some of the same areas we face in the 
Navajo Nation.” The trip, funded by Navajo faith-based organizations with 
non-governmental ties, was designed to draw inspiration from Israeli methods in 
agri-tech, tourism, capital infrastructure and offering government services to 
rural areas, according to Shelly’s adviser, Deswood Tome.But the 
criticism of Shelly’s visit and one by Indian literary diva Joy Harjo (who was 
scheduled to speak at Tel Aviv University) was anything but supporting of 
Israel. In truth there has been an upsurge of anti-Israel sentiment by a very 
small but very vocal contingent in “Indian country” within the past two weeks, 
most notably in opposition to both visits.The response has included very 
negative, vitriolic letters to The Navajo Times against President Shelly’s visit 
and a similarly negative and vitriolic op-ed piece in Indian Country Today 
opposing Joy Harjo’s visit, sponsored by supporters of the BDS (boycott, divest, 
sanction) movement.Janene Yazzie, CEO of Sixth World Solutions in 
Lupton, Arizona, writes in the Navajo Times: “It should not shock or surprise us 
that our Navajo Nation President Ben Shelly has taken an unexpected trip to 
visit Israel, a government that has committed itself to carrying out genocidal 
practices against its population of indigenous Palestinian peoples. To hear that 
our president believes the apartheid government of Israel has more to offer than 
the Diné people in his homeland fighting against his policies is hurtful and 
unbelievably ignorant. I stand in solidarity with the people of Palestine and 
those indigenous nations and non-indigenous peoples fighting against continued 
corporate, religious, and political exploitation.”Or how about this 
piece by Dina Gilio- Whitaker in the largest circulation weekly, Indian Country 
Today: “This week Muscogee Creek scholar and literary diva Joy Harjo ignited a 
firestorm of controversy when she announced on Facebook that she was leaving for 
a trip to Israel where she was scheduled to perform on Monday, December 10 At 
Tel Aviv University.The controversy came when friends and fans 
challenged her decision to go in light of the US Academic and Cultural Boycott 
of Israel (USACBI) and the Palestine Campaign for the Academic and Cultural 
Boycott of Israel (PACBI), as part of a larger boycott, divestment and sanctions 
(BDS) movement.“Critics contend that her actions are equivalent to 
crossing a picket line and are tantamount to tacit support of the Israeli 
apartheid state. It is hard to know what Harjo is thinking and where her 
loyalties lie in the Palestinian/Israeli conflict. It is also hard to know how 
President Shelley would justify his alliance with Israel in light of its ongoing 
genocide and theft of Palestinian lands.“The problem with someone as 
high profile as Joy Harjo collaborating with an institution like Tel Aviv 
University (which is built on top of an ethnically cleansed Palestinian village) 
is that it sends a message that she as a Native American represents all Native 
Americans in support of apartheid Israel’s domination of Palestinians. I, for 
one, don’t want to be associated with that.”Dr. Harjo received so much 
vile commentary on her Facebook page that she considered shutting it down. 
However, she did take the opposition into account, writing both an eloquent 
response to her critics and taking an overnight visit to Ramallah. As a result, 
she now opposes the security fence.Oftentimes when the subject turns to 
“the whole world is against us” people tell me that the core problem of 
maintaining such a perspective is that it often becomes an excuse for eschewing 
self-evaluation and introspection.Yet when it comes to self-evaluation 
and introspection, there is probably no nation on earth that engages in these 
two activities more than Israel as these traits are ingrained in us with our 
mother’s milk. After all, most of us grew up being constantly evaluated by our 
parents, encouraged to achieve more, to do better, to be a mensch and to 
remember who we are and where we came from.Internalizing those traits 
has made us question everything we do, both individually and communally, and is 
probably one of the major reasons this society is as dynamic as it is, in spite 
of the continuous threats to our survival. So while there is, of course, always 
a risk that thinking that the whole world is against us will cause us to act a 
bit irrationally, given the facts as we know them, who could blame us? As far as 
American Indians are concerned, that nation certainly knows the risks of 
yielding land for peace. It has itself been discriminated against and confined 
to “reservations” to the eternal shame of both the United States and Canada, 
and, as such, they should be the last ones to accuse Israel of being an 
apartheid state. But then again, why let facts get in the way of emotions? To 
insure against that one also has to think.
The writer, a 29-year resident 
of Israel, is president of Atid-EDI Ltd., a Jerusalem-based economic development 
consulting firm and a former national president of the Association of Americans 
and Canadians in Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: British animus and Anglo-Jewish silence on Israel</title>
<date>11/11/2013</date>
<content>
In what's becoming a regular and predictable occurrence, yet another leading British politician recently attacked Israel and the American Jewish lobby. This time it was former Foreign Secretary and Lord Chancellor, MP Jack Straw. Speaking of Israeli "theft" of Palestinian land and "Germany's obsession with [defending] Israel," Straw lamented the "unlimited funds available to Jewish organizations ... used to divert American policy and intimidate candidates."With this blistering, Protocols-of-Zion-like comment warning the world of Jewish political hegemony, Straw has joined the ranks of a growing number of British leaders who libel the Jewish state with impunity as a matter of course. 




In January Liberal Democrat MP David Ward wrote on his website that he was “saddened that the Jews, who suffered unbelievable levels of persecution during the Holocaust… could be inflicting atrocities on Palestinians.” Later in the year, he called Israel an “apartheid state.” [BBC, July 18, 2013]Labour MP Paul Flynn, in late 2011, suggested that Matthew Gould, the UK’s first Jewish ambassador to Israel, had “divided loyalties.” [Jewish Chronicle, December 1st, 2011]Aidan Burley, a Conservative MP, attended a Nazi-themed bachelor party. [The Guardian, December 18th 2011]In June, one of the UK’s largest trade unions voted to ban its members from visiting Israel and the Palestinian territories on delegations organized by the Trade Union Friends of Israel (TUFI), a London based organization that supports cooperation between Israeli and Palestinian workers. [Jerusalem Post, June 8th, 2013]Former Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament, Baroness Jenny Tonge, said in 2006: "The pro-Israeli lobby has got its grips on the western world, its financial grips. I think they've probably got a grip on our party." [BBC, September 21st, 2006]In May, 23-year-old Chip Cantor was deported from a British airport simply for having Israeli stamps on his passport [Jewish Press, July 2nd, 2013]. And no one can forget the arrest warrant handed out against Tzipi Livni in 2009, [BBC, December 15th, 2009], or the fact that the BBC Olympic profile picture for Israel was originally an Israeli soldier shouting violently at a defenseless Palestinian, before it was removed due to complaint. [Jerusalem Post, July 25, 2012]But equally troubling is how this tsunami of Israel hatred is met with silence on the part of many in the British Jewish leadership. The outrage over Straw’s appalling comments came not from the Office of the British Chief Rabbi or other senior Anglo-Jewish figures but from former Israeli Knesset member Einat Wilf, and Israeli Ambassador to the United Kingdom, the outstanding Daniel Taub.When I arrived in England 25 years ago as emissary of the Lubavitcher Rebbe and established the Oxford L'Chaim Society, anti-Israel bias was of course present, but nowhere near today's levels. The Oxford Union hosted several anti-Israel speakers and we responded with six Israeli prime ministers. Back then it would have been nearly inconceivable for a Member of Parliament to say that the Israeli government is comparable to Nazi Germany, as MK George Galloway does openly and shamelessly. When I was in Oxford, I had never heard reports of Jewish students afraid to publicly identify as Jewish, or wear a Yarmulke, although it has become common at some English universities today. There was also the utterly astonishing proposal to bar Israeli academics at Oxford University in February and, not to be outdone, senior Cambridge University professor Stephen Hawking joined the BDS movement this past May.While Lord Jonathan Sacks was Chief Rabbi of England, he met each of these challenges to Israel's legitimacy with near silence. Worse, he invariably found himself in the company of some of Israel's worst critics, telling The Guardian in 2002 of the Israel Defense Forces: "There are things that happen on a daily basis which make me feel very uncomfortable as a Jew." He added that Israel's posture in the Middle East was "incompatible" with the deepest ideals of Judaism and was slowly becoming "corrupted."I have a long-professed admiration for Rabbi Sacks' eloquence and unmatched articulation of Jewish ideas. But the wave of anti-Semitism that washed over the UK through the more than two decades of his Chief Rabbinate undermined his stature and significantly diminished him as a leader. It appears that even in retirement, where he can no longer cite the limitations of his office to speak freely, he has chosen to remain a neutral observer in the war to delegitimize Israel.In Britain, hesitation often wins out over defense, with the fear that the mainstream can grow even more hostile if antagonized. Moreover, the absurd mentality of being a guest in someone else's country continues to prevail in some Jewish quarters. As in every other democracy in which Jews live, we are no better, nor less, than anyone else.When I voiced these objections, Jonathan Arkush of the British Board of Deputies attacked me as being out of touch, claiming that he knows of not “a single British university” where Jewish students feel fear harassment or bias. Yet Rabbi Sacks himself contradicted him when he said in 2008: “We hope that university vice-chancellors will recognize the feeling of vulnerability that Jewish students have expressed at many university campuses.” (Jewish Chronicle)Arkush praises former Chief Rabbi Sacks for having “spoken up for Israel fearlessly and eloquently.” Yet we in the United States were incredulous when Sacks, an alumnus of Cambridge, uttered not a word of protest to Hawking’s public attack on Israel.Rabbi Sacks was similarly quiet when George Galloway walked out of a debate at Oxford this past February merely because his adversary was an Israeli citizen, even though Sacks is highly respected in Oxford as well. The central quality of leadership is not eloquence, nor even scholarship, but the courage to stand up bravely for one’s convictions and inspire others to follow suit, even if one is hated and vilified for it. In the global battle for its reputation and name, Israel deserves not silence but our courageous and indefatigable engagement.
Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, “America’s Rabbi,” whom Newsweek and The Washington Post call “the most famous rabbi in America,” is the founder of This World: The Values Network, and is the international best-selling author of 30 books. He will shortly publish Kosher Lust: Love is Not the Answer.” Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: Does President Obama hate evil?</title>
<date>9/12/2013</date>
<content>
The greatest moral failure of our time is a refusal to hate evil. Hatred of evil 
implies both the right to make judgments as well as a belief in moral absolutes, 
both of which are anathema to liberalism and modern sensibilities. Many today 
seek to understand, rather than resist, evil. What motivates a Palestinian 
suicide bomber to detonate himself and murder children? Is it degradation at the 
hands of Israelis? Poverty perhaps? Can we find mitigating circumstances that 
might excuse it? President Barack Obama is a moral man with clear moral 
sensibilities. But the pivotal shortcoming of his leadership and foreign policy 
is a failure to revile evil.When he speaks about the worst kind of 
abuses he uses vague, technical language and avoids definitive moral 
terminology. Why the reluctance to make declarative statements of an absolute 
nature? Because moral ambiguity can justify inaction.




At the Saban Forum 
in Washington this past Saturday, the president had this to say about Iran and 
why he made his deal with the devil: “The idea that Iran, given everything that 
we know about their history, would just continue to get more and more nervous 
about more sanctions and military threats and ultimately just say, ‘We give in,’ 
I think does not reflect an honest understanding of the Iranian people and the 
Iranian regime. I think even the so-called moderates or reformers inside of Iran 
would not be able to simply say, ‘We will cave and do exactly what the US and 
the Israelis say.”In the coolness and detachment of the president’s 
pragmatism toward Iran, you might think he was talking about a trade deal with 
Switzerland. You would not know that he was speaking about a regime that 
machine-gunned its own citizens in the streets when they protested a stolen 
election in 2009; stones women to death; and hangs homosexuals from public 
cranes.You would not know the president was speaking about a country 
whose government is the foremost funder of terrorism worldwide.This 
seems to be a pattern.President Obama’s reluctance to use the word 
“terrorism” is notorious. In 2009 his administration formally retired the phrase 
“War on Terror” and replaced it with the evasive and euphemistic “Overseas 
Contingency Operations.”It took him days to definitively describe last 
year’s massacre at the American embassy in Benghazi as a terrorist attack 
against the United States. The Washington Post writes that President Obama had 
spoken generally about “acts of terror” after Benghazi, but “he did not 
affirmatively state that the American ambassador died because of an ‘act of 
terror.’” On September 12, the day after the attack, President Obama was asked 
directly by Steve Croft of 60 Minutes, “Do you believe that this was a terrorist 
attack?” The president’s response: “Well, it’s too early to know exactly how 
this came about, what group was involved, but obviously it was an attack on 
Americans. And we are going to be working with the Libyan government to make 
sure that we bring these folks to justice, one way or the 
other.”Terrorists are not “folks” and Americans were not “attacked,” 
they were murdered in a despicable and cold-blooded act of terrorism.The 
deadly terrorist attack at a Kenya mall this past September followed the same 
pattern. President Obama said, “We stand together with Kenya in our resolve to 
confront and defeat violent extremism.”In February, 2011, President 
Obama, who shook Muammar Gaddafi’s hand at the 2009 G8 Summit in Italy, said 
that Gaddafi had “lost the legitimacy to rule.”Gaddafi never had any 
legitimacy in the first place. He came to power in a 1969 coup and then spent 
decades torturing and killing political opponents, blowing up airliners and 
discotheques, and funding terrorists worldwide. Where was the simple statement 
that Gaddafi is an evil tyrant who has slaughtered his people and must go? There 
was, of course, Syria, where the president found his eloquence and appealed to 
“memories of soldiers suffocated in the trenches; Jews slaughtered in gas 
chambers; and Iranians poisoned in the many tens of thousands.” I was moved by 
President Obama’s moral voice and was sure he would punish Assad for gassing 
children. In appealing to America to strike a tyrant, the president and 
Secretary of State John Kerry were amazing. And then... nothing.With the 
passing of Nelson Mandela it’s worthwhile recalling the apartheid years when 
South Africa was subject to comprehensive international sanctions for its 
abominable treatment of its majority black population, sanctions which did not 
end until the 1991 repeal of the last of the apartheid laws and release of 
Mandela and other political prisoners, followed by the 1994 democratic general 
elections.Martin Luther King did not mince words on apartheid, calling 
it a “classic example of organized and institutionalized racism” and criticized 
the hypocrisy of “the United States... which professes to be the moral bastion 
of our Western world” for trading with South Africa.Then there are, of 
course, the examples of recent presidents who called evil by its name. In his 
2002 State of the Union Address president Bush famously said, “States like these 
[North Korea, Iran and Iraq] and their terrorist allies constitute an axis of 
evil, arming to threaten the peace of the world.”President Reagan said 
in March 1983: “Let us be aware that while they [the Soviet leadership] preach 
the supremacy of the state, declare its omnipotence over individual man, and 
predict its eventual domination of all peoples on the earth, they are the focus 
of evil in the modern world.” He implored his audience not “to ignore the facts 
of history and the aggressive impulses of an evil empire... and thereby remove 
yourself from the struggle between right and wrong and good and evil.”In 
the end, it was King who summed it up best: “He who passively accepts evil is as 
much involved in it as he who helps to perpetrate it. He who accepts evil 
without protesting against it is really cooperating with it.”Tolerating 
the intolerable and forgiving the unforgivable is the surest way to empower 
evil. Iran is run by a brutal regime and even if President Obama believes he has 
to treat with them, let him use his God-given eloquence to state definitively 
that Iran is a bloodthirsty regime.
The writer, whom The Washington Post 
calls “the most famous Rabbi in America,” will shortly publish Kosher Lust: Love 
is Not the Answer. Follow him on Twitter @ RabbiShmuley. Like Rabbi Shmuley’s 
Facebook Page /RabbiShmuleyBoteach.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 20: Friends vs foes</title>
<date>19/10/2013</date>
<content>
Sir, – Help! He’s doing it again! All it took was a smile and cheap words from Tehran to buy time from US President Barack Obama (“White House: Iran offered proposal with ‘seriousness, substance’ at Geneva talks,” October 17). Of course, the Iranians can still proceed with their bomb-making program.Closer to home, Obama unceremoniously threw Syrian citizens into the arms of Vladimir Putin’s Russia. Is President Putin, the KGB graduate, now a friend of the US? As for enemies, Obama finally found one: The Republican Party. For weeks, instead of serious negotiations, he followed a policy of name-calling. “Extortionists.”




“Blackmailers.” This was hardly conducive to solving America’s debt-ceiling crisis.We’ve noticed before that Obama needs help differentiating friends from enemies. Just as military aircraft have a system called IFF (Identification Friend or Foe), I wish we could install something similar in the Oval Office.What a shame.THELMA JACOBSON Petah Tikva Wonderful page Sir, – Kol hakavod and thank you for featuring (on the same wonderful page) Barry Rubin’s “What will happen now with US Middle East policy?’” and Gilad Sharon’s “The stabilizing force in the region” (Comment & Features, October 7).A graduate of South African apartheid, I was understandably euphoric about Barack Obama’s ascent to eminence. However, as his mesmerizing addresses continued to flow with impeccable poetry I began to vacillate between hope and doubt – until reading the aforementioned articles.Writing with his usual knowledgeable and logical intelligence, Rubin won me over to agreeing with his (and the Bard’s) views that Obama’s rhetoric “is a tale told....”(Here, even depleted admiration does not allow the completion of the quotation.) I must confess to a partiality for Sharon’s interpretation of the Israel-bashing of the players in the region – that if we had not obliged them they would have had to invent an Israel as the cause of their grievous ills.ETTIE AMAN GOLDWATER Jerusalem Rabin vs Lincoln Sir, – This year, as every year since Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated, his death is commemorated by many large and small public gatherings, school assemblies and official government memorials (“Netanyahu: Border must remain in Jordan Valley – like Rabin said,” October 17).We are reminded time and again to learn what we can from Rabin’s legacy. And year after year Rabin is compared to Abraham Lincoln, that great American president who was assassinated not far into his second term. In fact, after Rabin’s murder, “O Captain! My Captain!” the poem Walt Whitman wrote after Lincoln’s murder, was translated into Hebrew, put to music and used to mourn Rabin.I believe it is time to see the differences rather than the similarities in these leaders and their murders. Lincoln was killed because he successfully prevented his quite large country from being divided. Slavery was indeed an issue, but not the root cause of the American Civil War. Those who insist we all learn from Rabin’s legacy wish us to give away (not give back) parts of the heartland of the minuscule State of Israel.The leaders of the Confederacy never threatened to attack the US if they were free to declare their independence. On the other hand, Israel has been attacked and its citizens killed and wounded countless times by the people who insist that our country belongs to them and not to us, and that we must concede land to them. Even those Jews who were born here, this writer included, are considered by them to be interlopers and threatened with destruction.Abraham Lincoln would have given short shrift to such behavior.He did not agree that peace accompanied by the destruction of the union would be acceptable.Is there really great similarity between the two? RHEA ISRAEL Rehovot Real guilty party Sir, – With regard to “Rights to the Temple Mount” by David Kirshenbaum (Comment & Features, October 16), I find it unbelievable that the government of Israel, right up to the Supreme Court, continues to address Arab violence against Jews on the Temple Mount by punishing Jews! That the government of Jordan usurps Judaism’s holiest site and forbids Jews from praying there because it will offend Arabs is insane. We cannot continue to allow the threats of violence against Jews who break no laws to cause their banishment and arrest. The police must arrest and punish the Arabs, those who really provoke the violence, verbal or otherwise.Why do we not hear anything about this pressing issue in the Jerusalem mayoral campaign? Why is it not at the top of the agenda for the religious affairs minister? And certainly, not enough Likud cabinet ministers are taking this seriously.Until we stand up for Jewish rights, punish the real troublemakers and bring peace to the Temple Mount, we will never really have a united Jerusalem.GLADYS KARLIN Modi’in Sir, – The city of Jerusalem, like the country’s other local authorities, will be holding elections this week. The parties fielding candidates range from the extreme Left to the Right.The fact that a Jew is arrested for uttering a few words of prayer on the Temple Mount should have the left-wing parties utterly dismayed and concerned about civil liberties.Those who profess the need to protect the rights of every individual should be in the forefront of the battle to change the situation on the Temple Mount. This is a crucial issue of individual rights.BATYA KOENIGSBERG Jerusalem Reckless gamble Sir, – A careful reading of the text of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s and US President Barack Obama’s statements after their September 30 meeting in Washington reveals a fundamental difference in their thresholds for triggering intervention in Iran.The president said Iran must not be allowed to possess a bomb. The prime minister said it must be stopped from making the bomb. Obama, somewhat perilously, permits Iran to advance to being a turn of the screw away. The latter calls for precautionary measures that do not allow Tehran to make that advance and come so close to the finish line.It is highly likely that there will be a lag in time between the point when the technician in the workshop turns that last screw, and the point in which that event is detected, given the ease of concealment and deceit. Worse, there will be a subsequent lag in time between having the information and generating the political will to act.It follows that Obama’s threshold represents a highly reckless – and unnecessary – gamble given Iran’s declared intentions and past record of deception. The highly probable risks from not stopping the Iranians with much tougher sanctions are far greater than the non-existent risks of much tougher sanctions.In environmental epidemiology, the precautionary principle states that when there is uncertainty as to whether a potentially catastrophic outcome might occur, it is prudent not to wait for proof. We do not wait for proof of a hurricane; we board up our houses.If the hurricane peters out, so be it.Using the hurricane analogy, I suggest that the case for applying a precautionary strategy is critical. Better to be safe than sorry. Better now than later. The clock is ticking.
ELIHU D. RICHTER Jerusalem The writer is a physician and teaches at Hebrew University- Hadassah School of Public Health and Community Medicine
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 22: Apology not enough</title>
<date>22/10/2013</date>
<content>
Apology not enough Sir, – Finance Minister Yair Lapid calls the unnecessarily 
long process of finding a governor for the Bank of Israel “shocking” (“In 
surprise turnabout, Karnit Flug nominated as BoI governor,” October 21). He then 
goes on to say: “I don’t mind apologizing to Ms. Flug if it will make everyone 
feel better.”




That’s jolly decent of you, Mr.Lapid! I think 
Karnit Flug deserves more than “I’m sorry,” and the country deserves an 
explanation from Lapid and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu.Why did it 
take so long to appoint the right person – the person outgoing governor Stanley 
Fischer had highly recommended for the job? MARY SHERMAN Tel Aviv Political 
antics Sir, – Prof. Ruth Arnon warns Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu that 
failure to immediately sign an agreement on scientific cooperation with the 
European Union can bring “irreversible damage to Israeli science in particular 
and to the state in general” (“Israel Academy of Sciences president: Government 
must sign Horizon 2010,” October 21).This is the same EU that has 
attempted to force Israeli companies to halt all operations in east Jerusalem, 
the Golan Heights and the so-called West Bank. It should know that this is not 
1933 and that Jews no longer pay attention to “edicts” instructing us what we 
may do and may not do.Water always finds its own level, and Israeli 
science will prevail in the international arena with or without co-operation, 
mutual assistance or collaboration with a so-called scientific body whose agenda 
includes political antics.DAVID S. ADDLEMAN Mevaseret Zion Sir, – Surely 
somebody as scientifically intelligent as Ruth Arnon must know that her argument 
about not signing the cooperation agreement with the European Union equally 
applies to the EU and its scientists.In an ideal world, politics would 
not interfere with science.But the EU (through faceless bureaucrats) has 
come up with a political formula that is to be applied solely in relation to 
Israel and the West Bank when it comes to science, the total opposite of what it 
does with other countries involved in territorial disputes, such as North Cyprus 
and Morocco/Western Sahara.Why is Arnon not at least telling the EU to 
avoid being inconsistent? PETER SCHWEITZER Tel Aviv Sir, – Ruth Arnon’s warning 
is outrageous. She ought to know that the Europeans put a poison pill in the 
accord that makes it more of a political instrument than a scientific 
cooperation agreement.Agreeing to the EU’s terms means accepting its 
notion of what Israel’s borders ought to be – borders that Abba Eban once 
defined as “Auschwitz borders.”Does Arnon forget the age-old oppression 
and persecution of Jews in Europe? This oppression is a tradition that goes back 
1,700 years to Constantine or before. Have the Europeans honestly given up their 
traditional Judeophobia or are they simply hiding their bigotry behind Arab 
grievances against Israel (real, invented or hyperbolic)? Does Arnon wish to 
collaborate with contemporary Europe’s advocacy of an apartheid policy against 
Jews in Judea and Samaria, which the Palestinian Authority promises to implement 
if and when it gets a state in the territories it claims? Israeli science 
flourished before the cooperation accord with the EU, and funds come in from a 
variety of sources. Sales of natural gas are likely to make up for whatever 
money is lost by the rejection of Horizon 2020.I hope that Arnon is not 
being disingenuous and that perhaps she has just forgotten the political and 
historical issues at stake.However, in view of the extreme, often 
fanatic politicization of Israeli academia, one cannot be sure.JACK 
SCHWARTZ Jerusalem Pay for it, too Sir, – “New X ray system at Allenby to 
increase Palestinian exports by 30%” (October 20) describes the updated Allenby 
Bridge crossing between Israel and Jordan, which will allow greater and easier 
transport of people and goods on a daily basis. At the top of the same page you 
describe how upset peace negotiator and Justice Minister Tzipi Livni is (“Livni 
moves to squash bill prohibiting talks on J’lem”).I was a proud soldier 
in the IDF in 1989-1990, stationed in Jericho and involved in daily security on 
the Allenby Bridge. We had a lot of work to do, but we made sure to treat 
everyone crossing in and out of Israel with the proper respect. Well, I think it 
is time that Israel received some respect.It is very nice that the Dutch 
government has already donated all the equipment to upgrade the current system, 
but why are we supplying the remaining NIS 35 million to complete the project? 
Where is the Palestinian money to upgrade a service provided by Israel for the 
Palestinian people? If the Palestinians want the service, why can’t they pay for 
the upgrade? Why must we always bow to everyone else’s needs? If we are giving 
permission for what they want, would it not be fair if they paid for the 
project? So how does this relate to Livni? Very simple. Who made her prime 
minister? She barely crossed the threshold to make it back to the Knesset, and 
now she says that if she is not given authority to negotiate our final status 
borders there can never be peace with the Palestinians.On the same day 
and on the same page in your paper, we learn that anything the Palestinians want 
we should not only give them, but pay for.YECHIEL AARON Hashmonaim 
Falling for propaganda Sir, – I read “Opening a new chapter in the China-Israel 
relationship” (Comment & Features, October 21). This is not the first time 
Israeli media have fallen for propaganda from representatives of the Chinese 
communist regime who are trying to put on a “nice face.”It was also 
disappointing not to find any reference to the harvesting of organs of Falun 
Gong practitioners in China, the transfer of funds to terrorists through the 
country’s national bank, or Beijing’s support for the Iranian nuclear program – 
so hot a topic for us now.I choose not to sit silently in the face of 
organ harvesting and other bad things the Chinese communist regime is doing that 
can affect life in Israel.TAL BABICH Rishon Lezion Trade cooperation 
Sir, – With regard to “Carolina on my mind” (Global Agenda, Business & 
Finance, October 18), New York State signed a memorandum of understanding for 
research and development with the State of Israel back in September 2009. It was 
followed with an implementation agreement for advanced nanotechnology 
cooperation between the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at Albany, 
New York, and the Israeli Industry Center for R&D, known as 
MATIMOP.This agreement has been in the works for months, and dozens of 
Israeli companies are actively collaborating with the college’s engineers to 
produce the next generation of wafers and chips.In addition, the 
Technion–Israel Institute of Technology has connected with Cornell University to 
establish a multi-billion-dollar campus for advanced engineering and computer 
science in New York City.Furthermore, Israel is the state’s 
fourth-largest trading partner, importing over $5 billion of merchandise from 
New York, more than Germany, France or Britain! So, long-term for New York, it 
is science, engineering and stateof- the art manufacturing and 
innovation.
GERRY STOCH Beit Shemesh The writer represents New York 
State’s trade interests in Israel
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 28: Matter of trust</title>
<date>27/10/2013</date>
<content>
Matter of trust Sir, – In his speech delivered to the Jerusalem Post Diplomatic 
Conference last week, Finance Minister Yair Lapid stated he does not trust 
Palestinians when it comes to the peace process (“Lapid: I don’t trust 
Palestinians, but we have to build trust for peace,” October 25). He then went 
on to state that a map with final borders was “necessary” for outlining all 
security arrangements for Israel, and that it would, as you reported, “lead to 
the evacuation of tens of thousands of settlers from the West Bank.”




That 
number of evacuees would treble the number of Gaza evacuees. What a shocking and 
disastrous statement to make so early in a most promising career! Has Lapid 
forgotten the horrific scenes of men, women and screaming children being dragged 
out of their homes and thrust into buses waiting to take them to heaven knows 
where? It is vital to know whether his massive settler evacuation plan was fully 
disclosed in the original political platform of his Yesh Atid party. If this 
highly contentious issue has only now surfaced, one expects Lapid to immediately 
reveal to the Knesset the full details of the plan, as well as his plans for 
peace and security.As a senior politician it is his duty to do so. We 
trust he will.URI MILUNSKY Herzliya Public diplomacy Sir, – Martin 
Sherman’s “Dereliction of duty” (Into the Fray, October 25) was a good 
description of the sad state of some current international Israeli public 
relations.Defenders of Israel often attempt to counter lies about Israel 
with the truth. This is not a winning strategy, because the audience does not 
know whom to believe. A winning strategy would be to point out the Islamic war 
against non-Muslims, which goes on all the time.Major media outlets 
ignore this war.To win neutral minds Israelis must attack their 
detractors. It is not enough to argue that they are lying.PHILIP BRIEFF 
Jerusalem Sir, – Bravo, Martin Sherman! During the height of the first Gulf war, 
when Saddam Hussein was showering Scud missiles on Israel’s cities, deputy 
foreign minister Binyamin Netanyahu served as a beacon of light with his 
inspiring media blitz. We listened in awe to his admirable analysis of the 
Middle East while appreciating his excellent ways of promoting Israel’s 
cause.We hoped to see him change Israel’s dismal public diplomacy, which 
is why we enthusiastically voted for him as prime minister in the mid-1990s. 
Unfortunately, our hopes were dashed when he failed to make the necessary 
upheavals in the many diplomatic conflicts Israel faces in the world.Mr. 
Sherman, we suggest you give hope to the many disenchanted voters, not only by 
your excellent articles but by “joining the fray” of politics and helping to 
revamp Israel’s so-called public diplomacy.TAMAR and YOSI GINAT Yehud 
Ignoring basic facts Sir, – In “Occupation” (Savir’s Corner, October 25), Uri 
Savir conveniently ignores the fact that the West Bank, before it came under 
Israeli rule in 1967, was ruled (occupied?) by Jordan for 19 years, by Britain 
for 31 years and by the Turks for 400 years. He fails to remind us who the last 
king or president of longsuffering Palestine was. He seems to have conveniently 
forgotten that before 1974 the Palestinians were always referred to as “Arab 
refugees,” and not as “Palestinians,” a fact he can easily check in any 
international newspaper archive.Savir uses the term “apartheid,” 
describing how the “settlers” can use their own roads and buses. Which road is 
he referring to? Road 60, which on any day has far more vehicles with PA number 
plates than Israeli vehicles? Or is he referring to the many side roads with 
large red signs forbidding Israelis to enter? Then there are the 
“checkpoints.”Savir again conveniently ignores the reason they are there 
and why. Has he forgotten the Sbarro bombing, the suicide bombers on Ben Yehuda 
Street, the Number 14 bus, the bombs on the Number 18 bus? The butchering of 
innocent Israeli civilians (and many Palestinians) over the past 50 years is why 
the checkpoints are there.As long as our “peace partners” continue to 
incite their young children to murder Jews, the checkpoints must remain, no 
matter how cold and rancid his friend Riad’s coffee becomes.JOE AMINOFF 
Elazar Sir, – Uri Savir quite conveniently ignores contemporary international 
law.First, he claims that “[t]he West Bank is Palestine because the 
great majority of its inhabitants are Palestinians, which makes it an occupied 
territory.”Yet the correct definition of occupation under international 
law is to be found in Article 42 of the annex to Hague Convention IV, which 
stipulates that “[t]erritory is considered occupied when it is actually placed 
under the authority of the hostile army.”While it might be disputed 
whether Article 42 assumes that a condition for occupation is the seizing of 
territory from its legal sovereign (which the West Bank, under Jordanian 
control, wasn’t), Savir’s argument attempts to make its legal status far more 
simple than it actually is.The example concerning his friend ignores the 
rights of sovereign states. As noted by the great international legal scholar 
John Erskine Read, “the State has an unfettered right to refuse admission” to 
foreigners seeking to enter its territory.Unless Savir believes the West 
Bank is part of Israel, a fortiori Israel, as any state, has the right to 
determine under what conditions one, including the instance of Palestinian 
inhabitants of the West Bank, may enter its sovereign territory.Finally, 
Savir abuses the term “apartheid.” As noted in a recent article by Prof, Yaffa 
Zilbershats of Bar-Ilan University, restrictions upon the freedom of movement of 
persons is permitted under international human rights law and international 
humanitarian law, thereby rendering the apartheid analogy false.NIGEL 
THOMPSON Jerusalem Heart of the dispute Sir, – Gershon Baskin asks, “Why is it 
so hard for Palestinians to recognize Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish 
people?” (“This piece is for the Palestinians,” Encountering Peace, October 
24).Baskin does not understand that much of the blame rests with people 
like him who continually mouth the Palestinian narrative without regard to its 
many inconsistencies.He refers repeatedly to the “1967 borders.” He must 
know that this is pure fiction. Both sides recognized that the pre- 67 lines 
were not borders, but armistice lines, with no permanent legal standing 
whatsoever.He also says that “the Palestinian people are native to 
Palestine.” Yet many of the Palestinian leaders were born elsewhere (e.g., 
Yasser Arafat in Cairo, Faisal Husseini in Baghdad and Sari Nusseibeh in 
Damascus).This suggests either an extremely expansive definition of 
“Palestine” or that there is no meaningful distinction between the Palestinian 
people and the greater Arab population of the Middle East.Finally, 
Baskin proposes that the Palestinians promise to recognize Israel’s Jewishness 
once Israel accedes not only to all their demands, but also guarantees 
individual and collective rights to Palestinians in Israel.(He seems 
oblivious to the emphatic Palestinian denial of any future rights for Jews 
currently living in the disputed territories.) His proposal implies that 
Israel’s Jewish character is a mere bargaining chip when, in fact, it represents 
the very heart of the dispute. Recognition of Israel as the Jewish homeland is 
not the last step, but the essential first step toward meaningful 
negotiations.
EFRAIM A. COHEN Zichron Ya’acov
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Only if Israel gives a bit more...</title>
<date>1/8/2013</date>
<content>
Two decades ago they told us that only if Israel agrees to talk directly to the 
PLO could peace become a possibility, despite that organization’s monstrous 
terrorist record. Then we were informed that only if we allow the creation of 
the first self-governing authority in Palestinian history, in Gaza and Jericho, 
could peace ensue.And we said fine – we’ve had enough of the conflict; 
we will live with this, for the sake of peace.




But the Palestinian 
Authority could sustain itself, we were then told, only if Yasser Arafat got 
himself a police force with tens of thousands of rifles and other military 
equipment. Even when this “police” force and other PA security forces mushroomed 
far beyond the numbers permitted by accords with Israel, and even when these 
“police” fired on IDF soldiers and Israeli civilians, we said fine – somehow we 
will live with this. Peace requires us to look the other way.It was 
further explained to us that only if we turn a blind eye to PA human rights 
abuses and virulent anti-Semitic propaganda could the peace process continue. 
And we reluctantly swallowed our bile and said fine – we will live with 
this.Next, it was imperative to give Arafat more land in Judea and 
Samaria. Only if Israel gives him more territory could he “solidify his regime,” 
we were told. So Israel signed the Oslo II accord, handing over more than 30 
percent of the West Bank, despite the fact that the PA had failed to live up to 
its original Oslo treaty obligations.And again we sighed and said fine – 
we will live with this.Unfortunately, the PA’s commitment to fighting 
terror proved spotty and sporadic.Pot-shot shootings at Israeli 
passenger cars and roadside bombing attempts became so routine that these ceased 
to make headlines.Nevertheless, the “only ifs” continued to pile up. 
Only if Israel continued the process of handing over land to the PA could things 
improve, we were told.So the Wye River accord was signed, committing 
Israel to three more staged withdrawals: first an additional 13% of territory, 
then another 9%. This put 98% of the Palestinian population of the territories 
under Arafat’s control, along with about 45% of the land and some important 
mountain aquifer resources. Some Jewish towns became isolated pockets within 
Palestinian-controlled territory. The city of our Patriarchs was handed over to 
the PA, too, with minimalist security arrangements in place for the protection 
of Hebron Jewish residents. Arafat again promised to live up to his original 
treaty obligations.And sheepishly we said fine – we will live with this, 
in the hope that peace will yet come.That wasn’t enough. Only if 
Palestinian prisoners were released could the peace process prevail, we were 
told. So as a gesture of our goodwill, we began freeing from jail Palestinian 
security offenders “without blood on their hands.” Then we released Palestinian 
murderers who had Palestinian blood on their hands. Then we freed terrorists 
whose hands had “indirectly” spilled Jewish blood. Then we freed a few 
terrorists whose hands were indeed smeared with Jewish blood. We gritted our 
teeth and muttered under our breath that we have no choice but to live with 
this.Keeping the so-called peace process alive also meant turning a 
blind eye to the creeping but clear PA takeover of Jerusalem, Israel’s “united 
capital.” Only if we did so, could the process continue. So we stood by 
haplessly as the PA built a “parliament” building on the borders of Jerusalem; 
as PA security men became the real enforcers in the Old City; and as the Wakf 
undertook massive illegal construction on the Temple Mount, along with 
purposeful destruction of Jewish relics and layers of archaeological history 
going back to Temple times.It was hard, but we stomached the insult 
because peace requires compromise.In the summer of 2000, Arafat started 
to huff and puff and threaten Israel, talking about renewed armed conflict and a 
unilateral declaration of statehood. Again, we were supposed to stifle our 
indignation for the sake of peace. But our forbearance began to wear 
thin.We suffered more than two years of terrorist violence and suicide 
bombings before launching Operation Defensive Shield and then beginning to build 
the security fence.Israel had been pushed too far, and people began to 
question and protest the peace process.But the “only if” syndrome still 
held sway. Only if Israel conceded more to the Palestinians was there a chance 
of salvaging the peace process.So at Camp David in 2000, Taba in 2001, 
and 2008 in Jerusalem, Israeli leaders presented offers of statehood that would 
have given the Palestinians a state in virtually all of the West Bank, Gaza and 
eastern Jerusalem. But PA rejected these offers, arguing that only if we gave 
them 100% of everything they were demanding might they be willing to continue 
talking to us.In 2009, the Palestinians set impossible and outrageous 
preconditions for entering any peace talks with Israel. Only if Israel conceded 
every point of contention such as borders and settlements in advance of the 
talks: a state on all of the pre-1967 territories with only “possible minor and 
mutually agreed upon land swaps of equal size and value”: the “right of return 
to Israel for refugees as specified in the Arab Peace Initiative,”; and so forth 
and so on – could talks resume.In 2012, Mahmoud Abbas sought to turn the 
established framework for peace upsidedown; to get his statehood “declared” by 
the international community without having to compromise with Israel; to claim 
the end result of the “peace process” without having to engage in any 
process.Abbas went before the UN General Assembly and called upon the 
international community to “compel the government of Israel to respect the 
Geneva Conventions” and “impose a solution” (a Palestinian state) on Israel. He 
accused Israel of numerous crimes, including ethnic cleansing, terrorism, 
racism, inciting religious conflict, apartheid, house demolitions, 
dispossession, imprisoning “soldiers of freedom,” and settlement 
colonization.He threatened to “criminalize and penalize Israel’s 
presence as an occupying power in all of the occupied Palestinian territory” 
through the International Criminal Court.The UN then “recognized” some 
sort of virtual PA state, against Israel’s objections.Abbas, of course, 
stuck by his refusal to enter direct and unconditional peace talks with 
Israel.Yet the international community insisted that it was incumbent on 
Israel to keep the hopes of peace alive. Only if Israel transferred hundreds of 
millions of shekels to prop up the Palestinian economy, initiated and encouraged 
international development projects in the PA, backed PA requests for mega-loans 
and grants from the IMF and other donor countries, and more, would peace be 
possible. So Israel did all these things. And the world? It continued to demand 
additional Israeli gestures and concessions and withdrawals to prop up the PA 
and the “process.”This year, US President Obama arrived to lecture 
Israel on “justice” for the Palestinians and the need for Israelis to “demand” 
that their leaders push harder for peace.Only if Israel “ends the 
occupation,” Obama said, would our future be secure.And what about 
renewed peace talks? Well, only if Israel implements a de facto (although 
undeclared) freeze on settlement expansion, agrees to discuss borders that 
essentially begin from the Green Line (while weakly denying this to be the 
case), and authorizes in advance a massive release of hardcore Palestinian 
terrorists from Israeli jail – only then could talks commence. So Prime Minister 
Netanyahu agreed to these Palestinian preconditions and American dictates, for 
the sake of peace.What happened then? Well, last night I had a dream. 
And in this dream, this is what happened. An Israeli backlash 
developed.The People of Israel awoke from its slumber and said: Enough! 
One million Israelis turned out for a mass rally in Tel Aviv to declare that no 
amount of Palestinian threats or violence, nor any degree of international 
pressure, would succeed in pushing us beyond our security red lines or strip us 
of our national and religious treasures.We’ll settle with the 
Palestinians, Israelis overwhelmingly declared, only if there will be no return 
to the 1967 borders or anything resembling them; only if an accord protects most 
Israeli cities in Judea and Samaria; only if the PA renounces its demand to 
flood Israel with refugees; only if Israel maintains sovereignty in Jerusalem; 
only if Hamas is neutered, and both Gaza and the West Bank are demilitarized; 
and only if peace education replaces anti-Semitic incitement in the PA. Only if 
the Palestinians truly show they want to live in peace with Israel.And 
faced with a determined Israeli consensus, the PA sued for peace on reasonable 
terms, and quiet reigned in the Land of Israel.
If only this were 
true....
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Opening the door on EU funding</title>
<date>23/1/2013</date>
<content>
Late last year, the European Court of Justice ruled against a petition NGO 
Monitor filed to challenge the European Union’s lack of transparency regarding 
major funding for non-governmental organizations spearheading the 
delegitimization of Israel. The court affirmed our factual claims regarding the 
EU’s refusal to provide the documents under the EU’s Freedom of Information 
statutes. Nonetheless, the court permitted the EU to continue hiding its NGO 
funding procedures.Eleven years earlier, in September 2001, only days 
before 9/11, the UN held its World Conference on Racism in Durban. A major 
component of the conference was its virulent NGO Forum, where some 1,500 NGOs 
embraced a declaration calling on the “international community to impose a 
policy of complete and total isolation of Israel.”




This declaration of 
political war – what we dubbed the “Durban Strategy” – seeks to deny the 
legitimacy of the Jewish peoples’ right to sovereign equality.Five 
months later in February 2002, I covered the first national student conference 
of the Palestine Solidarity Movement at the University of California at 
Berkeley.What I witnessed was a local repetition of the Durban NGO 
Forum.By then terrorists had already killed hundreds of Israelis, mainly 
civilians, in the “al Aksa” intifada. The 250 radical student activists from 
across the US who gathered in Berkeley opted to support the intifada’s carnage. 
True to the Durban Strategy, they used the language of “peace” and “human 
rights” to support violence and war crimes. They declared their “solidarity with 
the popular Palestinian resistance to Israeli occupation, colonization and 
apartheid.” They also resolved to launch a national campus-based anti-Israel 
divestment campaign.At the time, I wrote in the Bay Area’s Jewish 
newspaper that conference organizers “were not seeking peace with Israel, but 
rather ‘peace’ without any Israel.” I predicted that this “divestment movement, 
whose aim is to delegitimize, demonize and dehumanize the State of Israel, will 
make its presence known on college campuses nationally... Jewish and non-Jewish 
students alike will be challenged in their thinking about Israel’s very right to 
exist.”This is the essence of the Durban Strategy: to undermine popular 
acceptance of Israel’s legitimate place in the international community. The 
Durban Strategy has since proliferated throughout the world.We see it 
today in mainline churches, labor unions, university campuses, local and 
national governments, corporate stockholder meetings, and the arts.A 
CENTRAL element of EU foreign policy is its funding of NGOs in Israel, the West 
Bank and Gaza. This is accomplished via the European Instrument for Democracy 
and Human Rights, Partnership for Peace, the Anna Lindh Foundation and other 
structures.In the decade since the Durban conference, NGO Monitor has 
documented the transfer of over one hundred million euros from the EU and 
various European governments to scores of NGOs carrying out the Durban 
Strategy.Some of the NGOs that have received EU funding in the past 
decade include the Israeli Committee Against Home Demolitions (ICAHD), a radical 
Israeli NGO that promotes a “one state” solution; the Democracy and Workers 
Rights Center Association (DWRC), which promotes boycotts, divestment and 
sanctions; and Mada al-Carmel, which was instrumental in composing the Haifa 
Declaration, which calls for a “change in the definition of the State of Israel 
from a Jewish state,” and the implementation of the Palestinian “right of 
return.”Many of these NGOs use human rights as a façade to foster 
political programs contrary to the EU’s official policy for resolution of the 
Arab-Israeli conflict. They promote boycotts, divestment and sanctions, the 
deliberate distortion of international law through lawfare and the exploitation 
and misapplication of human rights principles.The European Court of 
Justice’s ruling favoring secrecy over transparency will not be the final word. 
The door has been opened to expand the “naming and shaming” of European 
governments that secretly fund the Durban Strategy, and their NGO 
clients.In the months to come, NGO Monitor will lead a major political 
and media campaign designed to expose the ways hundreds of millions of euros in 
taxpayer funds are secretly disbursed to promote radical anti-Israel 
NGOs.Eventually the truth will emerge, and when it does European 
taxpayers will learn the details of how their hard earned euros have contributed 
not to peace, but to further conflict and strife between Israelis and 
Arabs.
The author is chief programs officer for the Jerusalem-based NGO 
Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Original Thinking: 10 lessons for the new South African ambassador</title>
<date>4/8/2013</date>
<content>
Sisa Ngombane, the new South African ambassador to Israel, needs to get himself 
an education very quickly.The headline of his Jerusalem Post interview 
published in the Friday Magazine read “For us, Hamas in a national liberation 
movement.”




Wrong, Mr. Ambassador! Lesson No. 1: Hamas is a religion 
liberation movement.Try reading the Hamas Charter, the part that says 
“Oh Muslim! There’s a Jew hiding behind me. Go out and kill him!” The ambassador 
thinks that this Islamic terror organization has “legitimate grounds to exist,” 
because he supports the armed struggle.Mr. Ngombane thinks that “Hamas 
is a work in progress.”Yes, Mr. Ambassador. Hamas is progressing and 
developing its aim of eliminating Israel. This is part of your first lesson. 
Read its charter to understand what Hamas truly stands for. It is not simply a 
state of their own, but a state instead of Israel, free of Jews.Lesson 
No. 2 is understanding what democracy is all about. Legitimacy does not come 
with elections.The Germans voted for Hitler. Palestinians voted for 
Hamas. In both cases Jews were killed by “liberation systems” bent on liberating 
their regimes from Jews.Lesson No. 3 is making the same mistake as the 
European Union made with Hezbollah.You cannot divide a terrorist 
organization into a “military wing” and a “political wing.” That, to us the 
victims, is disingenuous. It smacks of you supporting the aims of Hamas and 
Hezbollah, but wanting to hide the connotation of terror.Your words that 
“some people have managed to stay away from terrorism while conducting an armed 
struggle” are deeply disturbing. It indicates to Hamas, whom you support, that 
there are “legitimate targets” such as members of our IDF or security 
forces.Any ambassador based in Israel who thinks that any Palestinian 
group that practices terrorism against us does not disqualify the whole group as 
being terrorists needs an urgent education.Lesson No. 4 is take a study 
course at the ICT Counter-Terrorism Institute of IDC Herzlia and learn what 
constitutes a terror organization. I will be happy to introduce you to Boaz 
Ganor.Lesson No. 5 is that any group that adopts the policy and practice 
of the BDS Movement, as the ANC has done in your country, automatically becomes 
part of the BDS Movement by definition. You can’t be partly pregnant when it 
comes to boycotting Israel. You either are for it or against it, and the ANC 
have voted against Israel.When asked if he thinks Israel is an apartheid 
state, an allegation falsely made against Israel, the ambassador said he thought 
there are “strong signals that it is going down that route, that there will be 
discrimination, that because you are an Arab you won’t be able to live here or 
buy a property here.”Lesson No. 6, Mr. Ambassador. Not true. In fact 
Arabs constitute over 20 percent of our population and do build and buy houses 
here.Lesson No. 7 follows rapidly. Listen to what Palestinian Authority 
President Mahmoud Abbas is telling anyone who will heed him, that no Jew or 
Israeli will be permitted to live (or have a home) in any future Palestinian 
state.By your own definition, Mr. Ngombane, the Palestinian state which 
you and your government support will be an apartheid state.Why is your 
government not condemning this? In fact, your government is completely silent on 
this racist, anti-Semitic, and apartheid policy adopted, at top level, by the 
Palestinian leadership in both Ramallah and Gaza.And here we come to the 
very important Lesson No. 8: The basic political thinking of your own government 
is colored by your experience in overcoming the previous regime in your country, 
the birthplace of apartheid.You gained a hard-won victory, but not all 
conflicts can be defined by your black liberation theology.The 
Palestinians are not the blacks, and we in Israel are not white. We are, as you 
will discover as you visit our land and meet our people, a rainbow nation. 
Neither are we colonial invaders, as we are described by Archbishop Desmond 
Tutu.The deep, decades-old rift between Israel and South Africa stems 
from your country giving birth to the appalling “Zionism is racism” slogan 
which, like anti-Semitism, once spawned is hard to put back in the womb of 
hatred. South Africa continues to be a hub of anti-Israel thought and political 
action. They remain malevolently on your campuses, and has seeped inevitably 
into your government circles.Lesson No. 9 involves you truly 
understanding the agenda of the Palestinian movement which, sadly, is not to be 
a nation alongside Israel, but a state in place of Israel.Study their 
words to their own people, their charters, their ceremonies. They are replete in 
exhortations to remove Israel and glorify their murderers.Their 
terrorists, Mr. Ambassador, are not freedom fighters.Invite Itamar 
Marcus of Palestinian Media Watch to give you an eye-opening 
presentation.Finally, Lesson No.10 is for you to go out and study the 
rich, 3,000-year-old history of the Jewish People and of the State of 
Israel.Understand our heritage and birthright. You will, I am sure, come 
to the conclusion that we are peaceloving people living in our sovereign 
land.
Barry Shaw is the special consultant on delegitimzation issues to 
The Strategic Dialogue Center at Netanya Academic College. He is also the author 
of Israel Reclaiming The Narrative: Exposing the Big Lie and Its Perpetrators. 
www.israelnarrative.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Oslo and Israel’s red lines</title>
<date>11/9/2013</date>
<content>
This week, we will mark 20 years since the signing of the Oslo Accord. Twenty 
years after this agreement was signed, we must admit that it has been a historic 
failure.The Oslo vision stated that in the New Middle East, there would 
be no more wars, that the conflict was not about the existence of Israel, but 
about territory. It claimed that if we would just give the Palestinians a state, 
there would be peace.




We took Arafat the terrorist and transformed him 
into a partner for peace. The Palestinians are no longer our enemies who want to 
kill us, but our neighbors. And terrorists became “freedom fighters” who were 
protesting the “occupation,” the cause of their terror. The Israeli people were 
told that a peace agreement would bring security, instead of security bringing 
peace. And above all, if no agreement was reached, then we would be the guilty 
party because we did not give up enough. We were promised a day of celebration, 
but instead it turned out to be a day of mourning. Instead of sanctifying life, 
we’ve buried our dead and cared for our crippled and injured.In 
retrospect, the Oslo Accord does not reflect political wisdom or even a 
calculated risk. It was simply a dangerous gamble.Since it was signed, 
we have been subjected to forceful barrages of attacks carried out by 
terrorists.Bombs have exploded on the streets of Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, 
on buses and in commercial centers.More than 1,000 people were murdered 
and the thousands of people who have been injured were witness to this terrible 
mistake.These victims were quickly dubbed by the Oslo Accord architect, 
“victims of peace” instead of “victims of terror.”These semantics have 
not succeeded in making these people less dead and have not brought us any 
closer to peace. All they have done is bolster terrorism. The idea that 
concessions would bring about peace has had disastrous results in the short term 
and bodes poorly for Israel’s long-term strategy.Israel has made many 
concessions: It withdrew from numerous territories in accordance with the Oslo 
Accord; it allowed the PLO to relocate from Tunis to the West Bank; it 
unilaterally withdrew from Lebanon; it made deals in which hundreds of 
terrorists were released from prison; it made ridiculous roadmap concessions; 
and it unilaterally disengaged from Gaza.These actions have not been 
perceived by the enemy as benevolent, but as an expression of weakness, and have 
resulted in a barrage of rockets being aimed at Sderot and the communities 
surrounding Gaza.I cannot, however, recall any concessions from the 
Palestinian side.In addition to the upsurge in terrorism, Israel has 
also paid a heavy economic price. As the internal security minister from 2001 to 
2003 (years of intense terrorism) I witnessed first-hand how terrorism 
negatively affected business, hotels, places of entertainment, entrepreneurship 
and investments.Now, as tourism minister, I see the imprint that years 
of terrorism have left on tourism in Israel, which is now slowly being 
revived.Oslo has also been the cause of heavy damage to Israel’s image 
worldwide.IN THE years before the Oslo Accord was signed, Israelis knew 
what they were fighting for. Israel spoke about and fought in the name of 
justice and against terrorism. The historical justice of the Zionist enterprise 
was not just an important cause that we were following, but a bitter war against 
terrorism, a fight for our very existence.The famous picture of the 
prime minister shaking hands with Arafat at the signing sent a message to the 
world that we no longer consider Arafat a terrorist, that in fact he is now a 
legitimate partner. Yes, he did murder thousands of innocent people, and yes, he 
does brazenly and openly undermine the existence of the State of Israel, but 
let’s put these facts aside for the moment and turn him into a legitimate 
partner. And by turning a terrorist into a legitimate partner, we also gave his 
goals legitimacy.And wonder of wonders: Arafat did not change his ways 
one bit, but they became more and more legitimate in world public 
opinion.“Terrorists” became “freedom fighters,” and the Palestinian 
Charter, which calls for the destruction of Israel, was never amended. The 
number of suicide bombers grew and peace became an idea that was left lying on 
the lawn at Camp David, farther away from us than ever.And so it came to 
pass that Israel, the only country in the Middle East that provided equal rights 
for all minorities by law, became known as an apartheid state.The Oslo 
Accord also put Israel at a disadvantage in future negotiations.Since 
Oslo, blackmail has become the norm in our relationship with the Palestinians, 
where Palestinians require one-sided concessions as a prerequisite for 
negotiations. And even after we give in, if talks do not take place, we are 
always the one blamed.Even during the most recent round of talks, we 
made far-reaching concessions: We released more than 100 despicable security 
prisoners with blood on their hands. I cannot recall any concession from the 
Palestinian side.Another disastrous outcome of the Oslo Accord has been 
the blurring of our red lines. The red lines mark where our vital interests are 
at stake.We fight for the red lines at any price with all our 
might.Before the Oslo Accord, the public was united behind indisputable 
red lines: we would not give up the Golan Heights or the Jordan Valley or move 
the 1967 Green Line.Jerusalem and the return of refugees were not even 
up for discussion. Nor was negotiating with terrorists.And yet every 
single one of these red lines was crossed over the last two decades; the debate 
centered instead on how high a price we would be willing to pay for each 
one.At this point, since we cannot go back in time, we are bound to 
slide down this slippery slope.Negotiations are currently being held 
between Israeli and Palestinian representatives. We must learn from our 
disastrous mistakes at Oslo and implement the lessons we 
learned.Firstly, concessions should never be made without getting 
something in return; there are no free lunches.It’s time for the 
Palestinians to make concessions, too.Secondly, we need to carefully 
examine the partner sitting across from us at the negotiating table: Is he truly 
interested in peace? What kind of authority does he have? If an agreement is 
reached by a leader who lacks a real mandate, it would just be broken. And if 
the partner has backing, but calls for the destruction of Israel – under no 
circumstances should we sit with him at the negotiation table. It was Shimon 
Peres who once said, “The number of agreements that have been violated by the 
Arabs is the same as the number of agreements that have been 
signed.”Thirdly, we should begin a process of returning to the red lines 
that are vital to our security and our future: the refugee issue and division of 
Jerusalem should not even appear on the agenda. Returning to the 1967 Green Line 
is also not an option – we would not be able to defend ourselves from that line. 
The same goes for the Golan Heights and the Jordan Valley.We must go 
back to using terms such as the Zionist enterprise’s historical justice. We are 
building all over Jerusalem because this has been our capital since the days of 
King David, and has never been the capital of any other nation; and throughout 
Judea and Samaria – since they are also part of our homeland, which is in 
accordance with the spirit of the League of Nations’ decision regarding the 
British Mandate.Fourthly, let’s be realistic: There is no “New Middle 
East.” It is still the same old Middle East it’s always been. And in the Middle 
East, the radical Islamic elements are raising their heads. Here there is no 
mercy for the weak and therefore we should not give up land that serves as a 
security barrier under any circumstances.And lastly, a Palestinian state 
should not be allowed to be formed under the current 
circumstances.Nation-states in the region are crumbling before our eyes. 
There have been bloody civil wars and cruel mass murders that no one could have 
imagined in their worst nightmares.In such a situation, where we don’t 
know what the world will look like tomorrow, or who will be in power, no path 
exists that could lead to a true peace. Anyone who talks about peace in the 
Middle East in these troubled times is either living a pipe dream or is a 
charlatan.The best-case scenario would be if we could reach an interim 
long-term agreement that would allow the Israelis and Palestinians to live side 
by side and address any security problems and implement any necessary economic 
improvements. Such an agreement could pave the road for a real peace agreement 
in the future.An interim agreement would also be based on facts on the 
ground, which is quite different from the way the Oslo Accord was 
worded.Now, as we celebrate the Jewish High Holy Days, we need to take a 
good look at these last few years and make a true reckoning.The writer 
is tourism minister. In the past he served as internal security minister, 
national infrastructure minister, as well as the minister responsible for 
critiquing intelligence and strategic dialogue between the US and Israel.
Translated by Hannah Hochner
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinian lies like water</title>
<date>11/7/2013</date>
<content>
It comes back again and again: The canard that Israel is denying West Bank 
Palestinians water rights negotiated under the Oslo Accords.Haaretz 
returns to the issue every once in a while with stories about water supply 
disruptions in the Palestinian Authority, Israeli confiscation of Palestinian 
water tanks in the Jordan Valley, or Palestinian Water Authority reports about 
“disproportionate” water allocations to settlements.




You have to read the 
fine print to discover that illegal Palestinian tapping into Israel’s water 
lines and massive Palestinian water wastage are the causes of the problem. You 
have to study the issue in depth to discover that it is not Israeli “occupation 
policy” but Palestinian political resistance against joint water management and 
cooperation that is responsible for the slow development of the Palestinian 
water sector. The PA considers water and waste as weapons against Israel, not as 
areas of cooperation with Israel.For too long, Israel has failed to 
respond in detail to Palestinian accusations of Israeli “water apartheid” which 
are ubiquitous in the UN and NGO world. Only recently has the civil 
administration and the Israel Water Authority, along with one of Israel’s top 
hydrologists, Prof. Haim Gvirtzman, begun to fight back with properly documented 
counterclaims.The newly released studies show clearly that that Israel 
has fulfilled all of its obligations according to the agreements it signed in 
1995 with the Palestinian Authority (and in fact has exceeded them), while the 
Palestinians are wasting tremendous amounts of water while refusing to utilize 
modern water conservation or sewage treatment methods.In an exceptional 
study (http://besacenter.org/mideast-security- 
and-policy-studies/the-israelipalestinian- water-conflict-an-israeliperspective- 
3-2/>) published by the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies, Gvirtzman 
shows that large differences in per capita consumption of natural water between 
Jews and Arabs that existed in 1967, when the administration of Judea and 
Samaria was handed over from Jordan to Israel, have been reduced over the last 
40 years and are now negligible.He thoroughly refutes Palestinian 
accusations of inequitable and discriminatory Israeli water policies.The 
Palestinian Authority consumes 200 million cubic meters of water every year, 
with Israel providing more than 50 m.c.m. of this – which, under the Accords, is 
more than Israel it supposed to provide a full-fledged Palestinian state under a 
final-status arrangement.Nevertheless, the Palestinian Authority claims 
that it suffers from water shortages in its towns and villages due to the 
Israeli occupation and it cites international law in support of its claims. 
These claims grandiosely amount to more than 700 m.c.m. of water per year, 
including rights over the groundwater reservoir of the Mountain Aquifer, the 
Gaza Strip Coastal Aquifer and the Jordan River. These inflated demands amount 
to more than 50 percent of the total natural water available between the 
Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River.But Gvirtzman, of the Institute 
of Earth Sciences at the Hebrew University (who has for years been part of the 
Israeli team for water coordination with the PA), demonstrates that the current 
division of natural fresh water resources between Israel and the Palestinians is 
fair. Israel’s population stands at 7.2 million, five times the actual West Bank 
Palestinian population of 1.4 million. Proportionately, Israel controls 1,200 
m.c.m. of the available natural fresh water, and the PA 220 m.c.m. In per capita 
terms, this works out to about 160 metric cubes of water per person per annum in 
both Israel and the PA.As for settler water use, well, Israel sends into 
the West Bank for Palestinian usage far more water than settler communities 
use.Statistics released by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics 
and the Palestinian Water Authority for World Water Day this past March, 
according to Gvirtzman, are fabricated.Straight-out lies. In complete 
contradiction of the PA’s concocted data, Gvirtzman shows that every Israeli 
citizen pays more for his or her water – in order to subsidize Israel’s sale of 
water to the Palestinians at discount prices. In fact, residents of Ariel and 
Ma’aleh Adumim (not to mention Tel Aviv and Haifa) pay twice as much for their 
water as residents of Nablus and Ramallah pay for their water – if the latter 
bother to pay anything at all.But most of all, Gvirtzman’s BESA Center 
report accuses the PA of doing almost nothing to preventing massive leaking in 
its domestic pipelines; almost nothing to implement modern water conservation 
techniques; and nothing to recycle sewage water for irrigation.In fact, 
many Palestinian farmers routinely overwater their crops through old-fashioned, 
wasteful flooding methods. Generally, they don’t pay their own water bills, so 
they don’t care to conserve. (The PA uses international donor money to pay for 
this waste.) Moreover, at least one-third of the water being pumped out of the 
ground by the Palestinians is wasted through leakage and mismanagement – by the 
Palestinian Water Authority’s own estimates.The PA euphemistically calls 
this “unaccounted for water.”Worse still, no recycling of water takes 
place in the Palestinian Authority and no treated water is used for agriculture. 
By contrast, in Israel about half of all agriculture is sustained by treated 
waste water. In fact, Israel’s use of treated waste water, its desalination 
activities, and its measures to reduce water losses in the water system add 800 
m.c.m. per year to its water supply, amounting to one-third of Israel’s total 
water usage.At the same time, 95 percent of the 56 m.c.m. per year of 
sewage produced by the Palestinians is not treated at all. Palestinian sewage 
flows untreated into the streams and valleys of the West Bank, and infiltrates 
into the Mountain Aquifer, polluting it for Jews and Arabs alike. Some 17 m.c.m. 
per year of raw Palestinian sewage flows into (pre-67) Israel too.Only 
one sewage plant has been built in the West Bank in the past 15 years, despite 
there being a $500 million international donor fund available to the 
Palestinians for this purpose, and despite the fact that Israel has practically 
begged the PA to build these sewage plants. Only very recently did the PA agree 
to accept World Bank funding for wastewater treatment plants in Hebron and 
Nablus.Even when Israel builds a sewage pipeline, like the Wadi Kana 
trunk line to collect waste water from several communities in the Kalkilya 
district and treat the sewage in Israel, the PA declines to cooperate. It has 
not connected the 11 Palestinian towns in the area to this new sewage 
line.“The Palestinians generally refuse to build sewage treatment 
plants,” Gvirtzman says. “The ugly truth behind all the anti-Israel propaganda 
is that PA is neither judicious nor neighborly in its water usage and sewage 
management.”Unfortunately, the international community has allowed the 
PA to get away with this hostile behavior; to continue its strategy of 
noncooperation with Israel; to flout all logical standards of professional 
conduct.With Israel’s mega-water desalinization plants coming online, 
Israel will soon have more than enough water for its own needs as well as 
sufficient water for sale to the PA. “But first, the PA needs to become a 
responsible actor,” says Gvirtzman. “It must prevent water wastage, collect real 
fees from its citizens for water usage, and deal professionally with its sewage. 
It must also stop stealing from Israel’s wells and pipelines, while running 
around the world falsely accusing Israel of stealing Palestinian 
resources.”Indeed, the PA has violated its water agreements with Israel 
by drilling over 250 unauthorized wells, which draw about 15 m.c.m. a year of 
water, and by connecting these pirate wells to its electricity 
grid.Moreover, the PA has illegally and surreptitiously connected itself 
in many places to the water lines of Israel’s Mekorot national water company – 
stealing Israel’s water. (That’s why the civil administration recently 
confiscated some PA water tanks in the Jordan Valley.) The civil administration 
points out that the PA has barely begun to tap into the Eastern Aquifer in the 
West Bank (which was allocated to PA use by accord with Israel), from which it 
could produce another 60 m.c.m. per year. The Israeli-Palestinian Joint Water 
Committee has approved the drilling of 70 water wells by the PA for this 
purpose, yet more than half of the approved wells have not yet been drilled. 
This would put a grand total of 260 m.c.m. of water per year at the disposal of 
the PA.The Palestinians also have rejected on political grounds a 
proposal which would have created a water desalination plant in Gaza 
specifically to meet Palestinian needs. The US had set aside $250m. for the 
project, which again could have yielded a huge increase in the amount of 
available water for the Palestinians.But hey – it’s much easier to steal 
water from Israel and simultaneously complain that Israel is drying out West 
Bank Palestinians.Which leaves us with the following question for John 
Kerry and the international community that is so earnestly trying to impress 
upon Israel the necessity of establishing a Palestinian state: Can you guarantee 
us that your much-touted Palestinian state will be any more responsible than the 
Palestinian Authority has been in cooperating with Israel in so many vital 
civilian areas, such as water and waste management? Or, might Israel have reason 
for concern that a Palestinian state will be even more nasty and belligerent? 

The writer is director of public affairs at the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic 
Studies and blogs at www.davidmweinberg.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Peace? Follow the children</title>
<date>11/3/2013</date>
<content>
AJewish kid from Kiryat Shmona, a Muslim kid from Rajar and a Christian kid from 
Nazareth are all playing hockey together. Words like respect, unity, peace and 
acceptance spring to mind when we think about this situation. These kids, 
however, are thinking of different words: teammates, winning, fun. These kids do 
not see playing together as a political act. These kids do not discriminate and 
demand segregated teams.These kids do not utter racial 
slurs.




Language is not a barrier to teamwork.Religion is not a 
barrier to teamwork. Customs are not a barrier to teamwork. These kids just want 
to play hockey. These kids are not opponents because some are Jewish and some 
are Arab; they are opponents because some are wearing blue, and some are wearing 
red. To these kids, everyone is just another kid. Just another potential friend. 
Just a human being.Interactions like the one described above frequently 
occur in Israel, the world’s most polarized and condemned country. This 
particular story takes place daily at the Canada Center in Metula, the most 
northern city in Israel. Kids of all ages and backgrounds congregate here to 
experience the peaceful powers of sport. This is not some PR 
project.This is real life. Standing in the dressing room is not so 
different than standing in one in North America; there are shouts, high fives, 
and the smell of effort (not too pleasant a stench, mind you). The rink is not a 
place to make political statements; it is a place to bond with friends and play. 
Ask a kid playing there about the big message they are sharing, and they will be 
flustered. To them, all they are doing is playing sports with other kids. 
Simple, yet it encapsulates the message beautifully.Throughout Israel, 
Muslims, Jews and Christians work together in situations like this all the time. 
Peace is prevalent.Peace in the global sense of treaties and 
deweaponization is extraneous.True peace is not between 
governments.True peace is between individuals who coexist without 
prejudiced hate. The need to categorize and critique each other is killing us 
all. Let us not fear difference, but embrace it.Let us not judge people 
by their skin color or physique, but by their personalities.Let us not 
hate, but love.Peace is a matter of opening one’s heart up to the 
possibility that variance is valuable. Imagine if everyone was the same. What a 
boring world it would be.IN CANADA and the United States, Israel 
Apartheid Week (IAW) is currently in full swing, running from March 4-8. The 
IAW’s goal, according to its website, “is to educate people about the nature of 
Israel as an apartheid system.” UN resolution 194 is what governs their views 
regarding necessary Israeli action (return the Golan Heights, east Jerusalem and 
the Gaza Strip, and the Palestinian Right of Return are the main items). 
Boycotting and condemning Israel is rationalized through lectures and movies; it 
is essentially a public forum of senseless hatred.ISRAEL MAY not be 
perfect, but it is far from an apartheid state. It is a country where people who 
differ from each other unite and build something special. It is a country where 
Jews, Christians and Arabs cheer each other on during hockey games. Yes, there 
is racism in Israel.There is bigotry is Israel. There are certainly 
problems in Israel. But name me a country where there aren’t these things. 
Students on campuses across North America are tragically unleashing 
anti-Semitism and stupidity. Our own democratic rules are counteracting each 
other; freedom of speech is allowing animosity to be spread. Freedom of speech 
is allowing people to act on prejudices.The IAW in itself is 
counterproductive; all it shows is that the Jews need Israel as a Jewish 
homeland. North America may feel safe for Jews today, but no one knows about 
tomorrow.The innocence of kids should teach us all a lesson: look past a 
person’s exterior. Search into their souls.Judge a person not by their 
background, but by their dreams for the future. During this year’s IAW, let us 
make peace between people. Because that’s all we truly are. People.
The 
writer is a gap-year student from Canada living in northern Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Peace negotiations: Parallels with the 1990s</title>
<date>28/7/2013</date>
<content>
It’s hard to get excited about Tuesday’s start of negotiations between Israel 
and the Palestinian Authority in Washington. First of all, we’ve been there, 
done that numerous times – to little positive effect – since the signing of the 
Oslo Accords in the White House Rose Garden two decades ago. And secondly, yet 
again, neither side seems particularly anxious to reach an agreement.The 
Middle East peace process began before Oslo, with the Madrid Conference in 1991. 
Then, Israel’s hardline prime minister Yitzhak Shamir was dragged by a 
determined US secretary of state, James Baker, to an international conference 
where, for the first time, Israel officially met with a Palestinian delegation, 
albeit in the disguise of a joint Palestinian-Jordanian mission.




Shamir 
had no interest in reaching a peace agreement with the Palestinians. In his 
speech to the conference, he made it very clear that the most he was prepared to 
discuss was some form of “interim self-government arrangements with the 
Palestinian Arabs.”Territorial concessions were not part of his 
vocabulary and he made it clear he had little expectations from the Arab 
world.Noting the fact that the conference was jointly sponsored by once 
implacable enemies, the United States and the Soviet Union, and held on a 
European continent that had seen hundreds of years of bitter conflict, Shamir 
said he envied the fact that “now, they are together – former bitter enemies – 
in a united community.” But the Middle East, Shamir continued, was different: 
“The gulf separating the two sides is still too wide, the Arab hostility to 
Israel too deep, the lack of trust too immense to permit a dramatic, quick 
solution.”So why did Shamir, who had earlier voted against the peace 
agreement with Egypt, even attend an international conference aimed at promoting 
peace in the Middle East? It all boiled down to money; or rather $10 billion in 
loan guarantees Israel needed from Washington to help cope with the sudden mass 
influx of Soviet Jews moving to Israel. Shamir knew that without these 
guarantees, the Israeli economy would not be able to cope with this new wave of 
aliya, and that he would lose the next elections.And so Shamir 
reluctantly made his way to Madrid, but then did his utmost to ensure that the 
talks that came in its aftermath went absolutely nowhere. Nevertheless, the 
sight of the prime minister sitting around the same table as Palestinian figures 
such as Saeb Erekat and Haidar Abdel-Shafi broke a taboo and helped pave the way 
for the Oslo talks with the real Palestinian leadership once Shamir anyway lost 
the 1992 elections.THE PARALLELS between Shamir and Prime Minister 
Binyamin Netanyahu are clear. Netanyahu, too, does not believe in the 
possibility of peace between Israel and the Palestinians. As a prime minister 
with two terms of leading the country already behind him, Netanyahu has a record 
of inactivity on the peace process front that would make Shamir proud. Moreover, 
he has also used this period to help further spread the growth of Israeli 
settlements in the West Bank, which makes hopes of securing a peace agreement 
ever more elusive.So why is Netanyahu sending Tzipi Livni and Yitzhak 
Molho to Washington to begin talks with Erekat (who really should consider 
writing a book about Middle East peace negotiations entitled Déjà vu)? Like 
Shamir, Netanyahu simply wants to buy time.Not because the United States 
is pressing him in the same way that James Baker and George H. Bush forced 
Shamir to the negotiating table. In fact, President Barack Obama’s very clear 
distancing of himself from Secretary of State John Kerry’s efforts to broker 
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations shows how little confidence the White House has 
in seeing a positive result from these talks.Rather, Netanyahu is 
concerned about pressure from the wider international community and the 
diplomatic damage the Palestinians could cause Israel at the United Nations and 
the International Court of Justice.By skillfully negotiating a staged 
release of Palestinian prisoners over the course of the planned of talks, 
Netanyahu has bought himself nine months of quiet on the diplomatic front; 
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas will have no interest in scuttling 
the negotiations until all the prisoners are back with their families; and he 
has an accomplishment to rival the prisoner swap for Gilad Schalit achieved by 
Hamas.As far as Netanyahu is concerned, nine months is a lifetime in the 
Middle East and there is no need to worry for now about the inevitability of 
this new round of talks breaking down. In the short term, the prime minister is 
perhaps correct, but he should ponder the recent assessment of retired US Marine 
Corps General James Mattis, the former commander of the US Central 
Command.“I’ll tell you, the current situation is 
unsustainable....We’ve got to find a way to make work the two-state 
solution... and the chances are starting to ebb because of the settlements. For 
example, if I’m Jerusalem and I put 500 Jewish settlers to the east and there’s 
10,000 Arabs already there, and if we draw the border to include them, either 
[Israel] ceases to be a Jewish state or you say the Arabs don’t get to vote – 
apartheid. That didn’t work too well the last time I saw that practiced in a 
country.”
The writer is a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Quebec’s disgraceful ‘Values Charter’</title>
<date>9/10/2013</date>
<content>
Last week, a Quebec government spokesperson revealed that the Canadian 
province’s premier, Pauline Marois, received emergency treatment in September at 
Montreal’s Sir Mortimer Davis Jewish General Hospital.More commonly 
referred to by locals simply as “The Jewish,” the hospital was established in 
1934, primarily by Jews, at a time when it was difficult for members of the 
Jewish community to pursue careers in medicine due to the enforcement of quotas 
at various universities limiting their enrollment numbers and opportunities 
thereafter. Nevertheless, the hospital has always been open to service all 
patients regardless of religion, race or ethnic background.




Today, it 
remains Quebec’s most diverse hospital.It is therefore strikingly ironic 
– and patently hypocritical – that Marois sought treatment at the hospital, 
given her status as the leader of the Parti Quebecois, which currently forms the 
provincial minority government and which recently announced it would be 
advancing legislation – the “Charter of Quebec Values” – which, if passed, would 
ban all public sector employees from wearing “overt and conspicuous” religious 
symbols at work, including kippas, hijabs, turbans, “large” crosses, 
etc.As part of the Quebec Medicare system, the Jewish General Hospital 
would be required to abide by any such mandate.Yet it is nearly certain 
that at least one of the doctors who treated Marois – perhaps even saved her 
life – wore what she and her party apparently deem unacceptable workplace 
garb.The Quebec government’s proposed Charter of Quebec Values is part 
and parcel of an increasingly rampant, worldwide movement – especially and 
tragically so in Europe, where the enactment of legislation restricting Jewish 
freedoms preceded the community’s mass extermination on the continent mere 
decades ago – to ban male circumcision as well as the ritual slaughter of 
animals; both common Jewish and, for that matter, Islamic religious 
practices.Canada’s federal government – led by Prime Minister Stephen 
Harper – has rightfully vowed to review the constitutionality of any such law 
(were it ever to come into effect), with Multiculturalism Minister Jason Kenney 
recently asserting that, “If it’s determined that a prospective law violates the 
constitutional protections to freedom of religion to which all Canadians are 
entitled, we will defend those rights vigorously.”Still, the gravity of 
the situation calls for the immediate implementation of assertive peremptory 
measures.Just as Israel called last week on the Parliamentary Assembly 
of the Council of Europe to annul a resolution against circumcision, the 
government should likewise instruct its emissaries to Quebec to openly denounce 
the plan, as well as lobby members of the Quebec National Assembly to defeat the 
initiative. (As the Parti Quebecois leads a minority government, it would need 
the support of parliamentarians from other parties to pass the Charter.) This 
sort of campaign should generally be spearheaded by the organized Canadian 
Jewish community; however, to date, there has been scant, if any, public 
condemnation of the proposal on its part.For example, The Center for 
Israel and Jewish Affairs (CIJA), the advocacy arm of the Jewish Federations 
system in Canada, responded to the announcement by releasing a tepid statement 
merely pointing out the obvious, namely that “The proposed Charter of Quebec 
Values... is at odds with the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms and 
the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The proposed Charter undermines the 
very sense of unity within Quebec society that it claims to 
uphold.”Nowhere in CIJA’s three-paragraph statement is there any 
explicit denunciation of the proposal, nor is any attention paid to how it will 
infringe specifically on the province’s Jewish population (on whose behalf CIJA 
is supposed to be advocating).Nor does the Center address the fact that 
the intended legislation also aims to revise Quebec’s human rights act in order 
to negate the highlighted contradiction at the provincial level.The 
Center also made the peculiar choice of issuing a joint statement, in 
conjunction with the Civic Education Society – located about 3,500 kilometers 
away from Quebec in the province of British Columbia – whose mandate is to 
create “A World of Multicultural Harmony.”To its credit, CIJA 
commendably encouraged Quebec Jewry to participate in large numbers in a 
recently held demonstration against the proposed Charter, presumably so that the 
community’s “voice” could be heard.Unfortunately, the rally was 
organized by the Rassemblement des citoyens et citoyennes engagé(e)s pour un 
Québec ouvert (The Assembly of Citizens [both masculine and feminine] for an 
Open Quebec), another multicultural entity.The Jewish community’s 
message was thus no doubt largely drowned out amid the sea of 
“humanity.”However, it is imperative to emphasize the Judeo-centric 
nature of this critical issue given that Quebec society is, in large part, 
notoriously anti-Israel, often a mask for flat-out anti-Semitism.THE 
OVERT anti-Israelism of many prominent Quebecois figures is shocking. The most 
notable of these Israel-haters is Amir Khadir, a member of the provincial 
government best known for spearheading a boycott of a Montreal-based shoe store, 
called Le Marcheur, because two percent of the boutique’s inventory comprised 
Israeli-made apparel.For 18 months, the store’s courageous owner, Mr. 
Yves Archambault, a native francophone with no previous ties to the Jewish 
community or to Israel, refused to yield in the face of malicious weekly 
demonstrations outside his shop, which decimated his bottom line. All the while, 
and despite his disgusting involvement in the hate campaign, opinion polls 
consistently found Khadir to be Quebec’s most popular politician.There 
is also a seemingly endless pool of anti-Israel media personalities in Quebec, 
inarguably led by Stephane Gendron, who, when not bashing the Jewish state on 
radio or television, doubles as mayor of Huntingdon, a small town located 75 
kilometers from Montreal. Among other things, Gendron has described Israel, on 
his French-language talk show, as an apartheid regime that does not deserve to 
exist, and Israelis as modern-day Nazis.Over the past year, two other 
high-profile French-language radio hosts have come under intense fire for their 
anti- Israel/Jewish statements.First, Benoit Dutrizac breached the 
Canadian Broadcast Standards Council’s code of ethics when he called on 
listeners to honk their horns while passing through a predominantly Jewish 
neighborhood in Montreal on Rosh Hashanah to protest a bylaw against noisy 
outdoor activity on the High Holy Days. Dutrizac said the spiteful act was 
necessary to send a message to the Jews that they would not be permitted to 
dictate how Quebecers live in their “own” society.Two months later, 
Jacques Fabi was widely condemned for failing to confront an Arab caller into 
his show who compared Israelis to dogs and hailed the Holocaust as the most 
beautiful event in history.Fabi eventually piped up – explaining that he 
found the behavior of Montreal’s Jewish community “annoying.”With this 
kind of venom being spewed across Quebec’s airwaves, it is not surprising that 
polls show that support for the “Quebec Charter of Values” is growing among the 
public.In a recent survey conducted by SOM, one of the largest polling 
firms in Quebec, 66 percent of respondents said they approved of the initiative, 
a figure which peaked at 71% among native francophones, who comprise 80% of the 
province’s population. (It is worthwhile noting that CIJA’s website wrongly 
contends, perhaps inadvertently, that “an increasing number of Quebecers firmly 
oppose the unreasonable measures set forth by the [provincial] 
government”).It is impossible to contextualize the Quebec government’s 
initiative without briefly examining another of the province’s controversial 
laws, the “Charter of the French Language,” arguably the most xenophobic, 
insular and “provincial” legislation in the Western world.Commonly 
referred to as Bill 101, the law, among other restrictions, bans the display of 
uniquely English-language signs throughout the province, as well as bilingual 
signs in which the English (or any language other than French) font is more than 
one-third the size of its mandatory French counterpart. (Imagine, for a moment, 
the uproar that would ensue if ever Israel were to adopt similar conditions on 
the use of Arabic.) TODAY, THE Office québécois de la langue française (The 
Quebec Office of the French Language) – also known to the province’s Anglophones 
as the “language police” or “tongue troopers” – is tasked with enforcing the 
law, with a taxpayer-derived budget of tens of millions of dollars. This entity 
is so extremely dedicated to its work that every few years some absurd incident 
garners it global media attention.This past February, Montreal’s 
wellknown Buonanotte restaurant made worldwide headlines after the tongue 
troopers found it in violation of Bill 101; its menu contained words such as 
“pasta,” “pesce,” “antipasti” and “calamari.” The restaurant was even cited for 
including Italian words on the menu for which there are no French 
equivalents.Amid this political and social environment, Quebec’s Jewish 
population has decreased by 25% – from over 120,000 to roughly 90,000 – since 
the Quebec nationalist/separatist movement rose to prominence in the mid-1970s. 
And if the “Charter of Quebec Values” is allowed to pass, it is not unreasonable 
to expect a second mass exodus of Jews from the province.The Quebec 
government cannot be allowed to add to its anti-democratic and intolerant resume 
by banning forms of religious expression as it previously did with linguistic 
freedom. It is our duty as Jews to vehemently condemn, and fight tooth and nail 
against, the proposed legislation in order to preserve not only the broad rights 
of Quebec’s many minority groups, but also our specific heritage and customs as 
well.The writer made aliya from Montreal last year.
He works as a 
correspondent for i24 News, a recently launched international news network that 
broadcasts out of Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Real Israel: The Jewish homeland’s House</title>
<date>7/2/2013</date>
<content>
There is only one Jewish homeland – although that seems to be one too many for 
our numerous enemies – and it has only one parliament. Naturally, it has its own 
distinct style. Equally naturally, we can argue about what that 
is.Recently I was asked about what made the Knesset different from all 
other parliaments. And the answer is – a lot.




Starting with its name and 
number. The Knesset takes its name from the Knesset Hagdola – the Great Assembly 
– of the fifth century BCE, when Ezra and Nehemiah convened a representative 
body of scribes, sages and prophets in Jerusalem as part of the return from 
Babylonian exile. The number of members in the contemporary Knesset is fixed at 
120 to reflect the composition of the ancient body of rulers.Such yihus, 
or pedigree, however, does not necessarily make today’s Knesset more 
distinguished, just distinct.One obvious difference between the Israeli 
parliament and all others is that its official language is Hebrew. (Arabic is 
accepted but rarely used as a second official language.) This leads to a degree 
of informality almost unimaginable anywhere else in the world. I heard a note of 
incredulity when I explained on Radio New Zealand’s Nights show that not only 
are the elected leaders regularly addressed by their first names, some are known 
mainly by their nicknames.Take the temporary Knesset Speaker, for 
example.Until the next government is formed and the top jobs are 
allocated, the oldest serving MK is automatically appointed Speaker. For now, 
that is Fuad. Of course Fuad has a full name – Binyamin Ben-Eliezer – but it 
would feel strange to use it, even though he has served as a government minister 
and is a former Labor Party leader.Fuad replaces Reuven Rivlin. Over the 
years, he was occasionally referred to by his proper name in the press, but in 
the Knesset corridors he is more likely to answer if you call “Ruby” than 
Reuven. Calling him Mr. Rivlin would sound like a joke.In a translation 
course I took many years ago at the Hebrew University we noted a significant 
cultural difference in political discourse. Whereas politicians in the 
English-speaking world (and elsewhere) are usually addressed by title, in Israel 
it is so rare it is a linguistic red light.It is a sign of respect to 
refer to the British prime minister, for example, as Mr. Cameron. Were the 
Hebrew press to write about “Mr. Netanyahu,” however, it would be so 
ridiculously formal that the ironic tone would be obvious.Netanyahu has 
also tried to improve his image abroad over the years by dropping his nickname, 
but being referred to in the Hebrew media as “Bibi” is still less irreverent 
than the obviously sarcastic “Mr.Netanyahu.”And I remember the 
uproar Defense Minister Ehud Barak caused by when he paternalistically tried to 
clip Tzipi Livni’s wings by insisting on calling her by her full name, Tzipora, 
which means bird.As for other titles, they are also too pretentious for 
the Israeli parliament. Although there are several doctors in the House, it is 
rare to hear them addressed as such.Dr. Ahmed Tibi is a particularly 
rare bird. It is not unusual to hear Arab politicians berating Israel for 
perceived “racist” policies – but Tibi has been in the special position of being 
free to do so from the Knesset podium while serving as deputy Speaker – enjoying 
a salary (and parliamentary immunity) from the very same body he accuses of 
apartheid.Israeli politicians have also developed unique dining habits. 
I doubt parliamentarians anywhere else in the world regularly hold court around 
a cafeteria table. The concept of “liftoah shulhan” – literally “to open a 
table” – fits well with the informality of miznon haknesset – the Knesset 
cafeteria. Press conferences are held here, contacts made, policies formulated 
and deals done.As a vegetarian parliamentary reporter, I didn’t find the 
food anything to write home about (except, perhaps, for the couscous), but the 
Knesset must be the only parliament in the world where kosher food is not just 
an option but the standard fare.The Knesset is definitely the only 
legislature that marks its birthday according to the Hebrew calendar, on Tu 
Bishvat, the Jewish New Year for Trees when it is decorated with flowers and 
baskets of dried fruits.It is also the only one that has a Passover 
recess or celebrates Hanukka with candle-lighting ceremonies (and doughnuts). 
And the Knesset hosts the annual Independence Day celebrations on Mount Herzl 
where the Knesset Guard helps put on a good show.The most prominent 
external symbol of the Knesset is the large bronze menorah situated close to the 
Rose Garden, the seven-branched candelabrum providing another reminder of the 
Temple. It is decorated with themes of Jewish history, and engraved with the 
passage “Not by strength and not by power, but by my Spirit, says the Lord who 
rules over all” (Zechariah 4:6). It was presented as a gift to the Knesset by 
the British Labour Party in time for Independence Day in 1956.Given the 
current atmosphere in the United Kingdom, I doubt they would be so generous 
today, even if we made an extraordinary effort to be polite and remember to 
address the honorable members by title.As a reporter in the House, I 
covered lots of committee meetings, including the Foreign Affairs and Defense 
Committee meetings. These are closed to the press, but journalists receive an 
official briefing and unofficial leaks as a matter of course. The most secret 
committee (or the least known) committee, however, is the va’adat kishut, 
responsible for determining the artwork and temporary exhibitions that grace the 
Knesset.A side benefit of working (or serving) in the House is the 
wonderful art. Popular permanent pieces shown to visitors include the three 
giant tapestries designed by Marc Chagall depicting Jewish history from the 
Bible through Exile and the Return to Zion – a remarkable story told in 
Chagall’s inimitable style, one stitch at a time. The Seven Species Menorah by 
Eliezer Weishoff also has its fans.A personal favorite is Reuven Rubin’s 
A Mountainous View of the Galilee which dominates the Cabinet Room in the 
Knesset. Whenever my mind wandered as I waited for meetings there to start, it 
almost inevitably journeyed up North.The Knesset is popularly – or 
populistically – known as a place where little work is done and politicians 
frequently come to blows. Like every workplace, there are those who work harder 
than others but, as I noted in another recent column, its image as a slackers’ 
paradise is ill-deserved. Apart from the strange alliances created by coalition 
politics, there are other broad coalitions formed to pass legislation even when 
the main beneficiaries can’t express their thanks.For example, a law by 
former Labor MK Eitan Cabel that passed in the previous Knesset and came into 
force last month bans the import, marketing and sale of cosmetics, toiletries 
and detergents whose manufacture involves animal testing.The Knesset, in 
fact, is a wildlife sanctuary – and I mean that in the nicest sense. I believe 
it is the only parliament in the world that has a bird observatory and urban 
wildlife center stationed in its grounds; I occasionally popped out of my office 
to see birds being weighed, ringed and released. I am positive it’s the only one 
where resident porcupines live in a cave dating back to Second Temple 
times.
Strange birds, prickly members and a unique historical link. It’s 
only fitting that the Jerusalem Bird Observatory enjoys a special status within 
the Israeli parliament.liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Reality Check: How will Bibi be remembered?</title>
<date>8/12/2013</date>
<content>
The question facing Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is how he wants to remembered: as someone who led his people to a historic reconciliation, along the lines of Nelson Mandela, or as a modern-day Marie Antoinette, spending some NIS 6,000 a year on scented candles to hide the whiff of the diplomatic decay in Israel’s international standing.No matter how much of the taxpayers’ money Netanyahu spends on watering the lawns of his private villa in Caesarea, the only greenery that really matters is that of the Green Line and the final fixing of Israel’s borders under a peace agreement with the Palestinians.




As former Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) head Yuval Diskin warned last week, the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians poses a greater existential danger to Israel than Iran’s nuclear program. Describing the current state of affairs in the West Bank as a powder-keg, Diskin bluntly stated that “the alternative to the vision of a two-state solution is one state. In a situation like this, the vision of a democratic Jewish state will disappear. This is perhaps the last opportunity to reach a two-state solution.”Of course, rather than deal with Diskin’s analysis head on ‒ particularly his trenchant criticism of this government’s settlement expansion policy which, the former Shin Bet head argued, had undermined any possibility of a rapprochement with the Palestinians who “feel that their state is being stolen from them” ‒ Netanyahu’s cronies quickly launched an ad hominem attack on the former security official, accusing him of bitterness after reportedly being passed over for the job of Mossad head.Such “go for the man, not the ball” tactics are typical of those who lack any real counter-arguments. Israel’s continued occupation of the West Bank will inevitably lead to an apartheid-like situation, with Israel’s Jewish minority between the Mediterranean and Jordan River becoming 21st-century Afrikaners. To talk, as Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman did this weekend in Washington, of simply managing the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians as opposed to seeking to resolve it, is to ignore the dynamics of demography.FORTUNATELY , the new leader of the opposition, Labor party chairman Isaac Herzog, is aware of these dangers. Unlike his predecessor Shelly Yacimovich, who foolishly tried to ingratiate herself with the settlement movement, Herzog understands the importance of reaching an agreement with the Palestinians, even at the cost of major territorial concessions, in order to keep the Zionist dream of a democratic Jewish state alive.In a magazine profile in this weekend’s Yediot Aharanot, Herzog re-affirmed Labor’s pragmatic stance concerning any future agreement: “We have to be realistic and go for [keeping] settlement blocs in return for land swaps. This is the truth and it’s about time we internalized it. Regardless of how hard it is, there’s no alternative but to divide the land.”As for Jerusalem, Herzog said he saw no reason why it couldn’t function as the capital for two states; a Palestinian capital in east Jerusalem and Israel’s capital in west Jerusalem.Herzog also correctly put the Iranian issue into perspective: “My advice to the Israeli people and Netanyahu is to calm down a little. You can’t live the whole time against the background of sirens. Today is not Munich 1938.”The task facing Israel now is not to further undermine the country’s relations with Washington by public spats over the interim agreement with Tehran, but to work with President Barack Obama to ensure that any final agreement succeeds in stopping Iran’s nuclear program.Frustratingly for Netanyahu’s lackeys, as the son of a former president of the country and the grandson of Israel’s first Ashkenazi chief rabbi, and a successful lawyer in his own right, there’s no cause for bitterness in Herzog’s background for them to attack in order to divert attention from his actual arguments.Herzog made it clear in his interview that if Netanyahu was ready to truly set Israel on the path towards peace with the Palestinians, then Labor would be ready to support him. The question, as always, is what does Netanyahu really want: to live up to his words to US Secretary of State John Kerry last week that “Israel is ready for historic peace, and it’s a peace based on two states for two peoples,” or to continue to appease his right-wing supporters and further entrench Israel’s grasp on the West Bank.Given Netanyahu’s failure until now to act decisively on the diplomatic front during his three terms as prime minister, it’s clear that his peace rhetoric should be viewed much in the same light as the household expenses he charges to the taxpayer: exaggerated and out of touch with the real world.
The writer is a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Return of Israel’s arms sales diplomacy?</title>
<date>24/6/2013</date>
<content>
The recent news about Israel’s alleged export of arms to Pakistan and four other 
Arab countries (Egypt, Algeria, United Arab Emirates and Morocco) made headlines 
all over the globe. According to a report by the British Government’s Department 
for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) which oversees security exports, this 
activity has been going on for several years. The most interesting aspect of 
this story is that the alleged activity is being carried out in the absence of 
diplomatic relations between Israel and these countries.This takes us 
back to the famous research conducted in the 1980s by now-retired professor 
Aharon Klieman of Tel Aviv University.




Klieman examined Israel’s “arms 
sales diplomacy,” whereby it adopted “quiet diplomacy” or “back-channel 
diplomacy” methods. Israel’s alleged supply of arms to Pakistan and others would 
seem to fit this sort of diplomatic approach.Historically, Israel’s 
establishment of closer ties with other countries has often been accompanied or 
facilitated by military relations. Arms sales and other forms of security 
relations occupied a prominent position in Israel’s relations with Iran under 
the Shah, South Africa (during the apartheid regime), Taiwan, Latin America, 
Turkey and India (since normalization of relations in 1992).Absence of 
formal diplomatic ties did not inhibit Israel from offering military aid to 
countries officially at war with the Jewish state. This is because its limited 
political, economic and diplomatic leverage has resulted in Israel using arms 
sales and other forms of military assistance such as training and military 
upgrading to further its foreign policy objectives.For instance, the 
normalization of relations between Israel and the People’s Republic of China in 
1992 was mainly facilitated by arms sales, which had begun clandestinely in the 
1970s.In the current scenario, even though Israel and the other parties 
involved claim the allegations are “baseless,” several connected issues could be 
triggered. One is the issue of re-transferral of arms and military technologies 
to third countries, and the second is the resurgence of Israeli arms sales as a 
tool to promote diplomacy.While it was the US Israel had major 
controversies with in the 1990s and 2000s with regard to technology transfers, 
this time around the country in the dock is Britain. According to available 
reports, the military equipment exported to Pakistan by Israel is believed to 
have been originally purchased from Britain. Components (in 2011) included radar 
systems, electronic warfare systems, parts for fighter jets, etc.It was 
reported that military components supplied by Israel to Pakistan were meant for 
JF-17 Thunder jets jointly developed by Pakistan and China. In some instances, 
BIS refused to give licenses to Israel for its intended exports of systems to 
India, Russia, Sri Lanka, Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan.Be it Britain or 
the US, the main concerns are that technologies will be transferred to a third 
country, and that these weapons systems might fall into the hands of non-state 
actors.During the early 1990s and 2000s, relations between Israel and US 
were engulfed by Patriot anti-missile, Phalcon AWACS and Harpy-drone 
controversies. All these major controversies revolved around Israel’s alleged 
re-transfers of American technology to China. Israel had to abruptly end its 
arms sales to China following intense US pressure.This not only rocked 
Israel-US relations but also impacted on Israel-China military ties 
significantly. These incidents had given a veto power to the US over Israel’s 
arms exports policies. A similar example was the Lavi fighter aircraft case with 
South Africa during the late 1980s. Alongside the perceptions of threat to 
American interests in the Asia-Pacific region, the Americans were worried about 
the reverse engineering skills possessed by countries such as China.As a 
result, since mid-2000, the US has been closely monitoring Israel’s arms sales 
and the recipient countries. Likewise, Britain might also begin to put certain 
restrictions on the Jewish state which could reduce its arms trade. This could 
be a costly development for Israel, whose economy and defense R&D largely 
depends upon its arms sales. Moreover, at this juncture, when Israel’s isolation 
in the region and elsewhere is perceived to be growing, it should tread with 
caution.Secondly, the question about Israel’s ageold tactics of using 
arms sales to promote diplomacy (in absence of diplomatic relations) has 
returned. As mentioned above, Israel was very successful with this approach 
during the 1970s, ‘80s, and ‘90s.Currently, its relations with countries 
such as South Korea and Vietnam have also been dominated by such diplomacy. 
Military relations have been the locomotive of their bilateral ties, though 
economic and civilian relations follow suit. And such resurgence cannot be ruled 
out completely.However, while such activities could be lucrative for 
Israel, they could be extremely unpopular among the religious conservatives of 
the countries involved, particularly Pakistan.So what does it mean for 
India? Today, Israel is the second largest arms supplier to India, after Russia. 
The approximate total value of the weapons trade over the past decade is 
estimated at around $10 billion.This is a significant amount for both 
countries, which only established diplomatic relations in 1992.After 
Israel’s establishment of diplomatic relations with India and China, the Jewish 
state begAn to monitor Muslim countries in Asia, Pakistan among them. It was 
also believed that Islamabad’s attitude toward Israel was undergoing a change 
for the better.However, no diplomatic breakthrough 
followed.Despite failure to normalize relations, if this report of 
Israel’s arms sales to Pakistan is proved to be true it could damage Indian- 
Israeli defense ties. Various Israeli-supplied weapon systems are being used for 
surveillance along the Indian frontiers and for maritime security as 
well.Aerostat radars and UAVs from Israel could help India spot 
surreptitious guerrilla attacks and thwart events similar to the Mumbai carnage, 
where the intruders infiltrated the country using dinghy boats.Even 
though present-day India is concentrating on grooming its indigenous arms 
production policy, the bulk of its military equipment is still imported. This is 
where Israel has carved its own niche. But if clandestine military sales to 
Pakistan exist and are to continue, then for obvious reasons, India will not 
approve.This matter is going to be echoing for some time to come. It’s 
not only the aforementioned countries that will be on constant watch, but also 
mega-players such as the US, UK, etc., which are likely to spring in with their 
concerns regarding American and the British interests in the Asian 
subcontinent.In short, the story has the potential to develop into a 
really messy diplomatic quagmire.
The author is an Indian doctoral 
researcher in New Delhi, and also served as a Fellow at the BESA Centre, 
Bar-Ilan University, Ramat- Gan, Israel, 2010-2011.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Saved by the BBC</title>
<date>27/4/2013</date>
<content>
Legend has it that prime minister Menachem Begin learned about the 1982 Sabra 
and Shatilla massacre in Lebanon not from Israeli sources, but from the BBC. BBC 
radio is also where Begin learned his English 40 years earlier.From the 
end of apartheid to the Gulf War, from the tsunami in Thailand to the election 
of the pope – the BBC has covered every major international news event with 
sobriety, taste and depth.




Although its impartiality has met criticism in 
some Israeli circles, no one disputes its premier status among international 
news sources.I stumbled upon the BBC World Service radio 30 years ago 
and have never moved the dial since. Having arrived to live in Israel shortly 
before, I found myself in acute linguistic isolation. Suddenly, saved by the 
BBC, I could flood my ears with the Queen’s English any time I chose. Sighing 
with relief, I reminded myself: “There’ll always be an England.”In my 
car, beside the shower, in the kitchen, not a day went by without it. My toddler 
in her high chair swayed to the melody which announced the hourly news bulletin, 
as familiar to her as any nursery rhyme. Jazz for the Asking, Witness, From Our 
Own Correspondent, World Book Club, Hard Talk, Speaking of Faith, History of the 
World in 100 Objects. Through the years the programs evolved, and if I wasn’t 
always captivated by a discussion of rugby in Sri Lanka, chances are the next 
show or the one after would grab me. The BBC was the gold standard of 
journalism, the Renaissance man of radio.The world may no longer have to 
huddle around a clandestine radio within a blackened wartime room, but it’s 
still a high to hear the announcer’s rousing “This is London” at the top of the 
news. The BBC entered our cultural DNA.And then, on April 1, the world 
darkened for 1.5 million people who listened to BBC World Service on AM radio – 
including all its listeners in Israel, who are beamed the 1323 AM broadcast from 
Cyprus. Turning on 1323 AM I heard – nothing. Static. From room to room I ran, 
switching on radio after radio.But the unimaginable had happened: the 
BBC had turned off the spigot. Instead of 20-plus hours a day of programming, I 
found only a measly couple of hours in the doldrums of mid-morning and after the 
dead of midnight.I scrambled for an explanation, but the BBC site was 
strangely tight-lipped. The British Embassy and the British Council in Israel 
were likewise unable to elucidate.My emailed inquiry to the World 
Service in London bounced back a form email assuring that all letters are read, 
even if not all are individually answered.Finally, Jerusalem’s BBC 
producer directed me to a low-key BBC press release announcing the cuts as part 
of Britain’s “spending review.”In the deafening silence I awaited the 
uprising of the multitudes.Cypriots, Egyptians, Jordanians, Israelis, 
all joining hands to petition, to cajole, to beg. I waited in vain. In fact, I 
was informed by the British press officer in Tel Aviv, his office had received 
just three other inquiries.But I know there’s a great silent majority. I 
am discovering BBC junkies wherever I go – Americans, Canadians, Israelis. All 
share my dismayed incredulity.One outraged fan suggested it was a matter 
for the Foreign Ministry.On April 24 the BBC finally aired a small 
segment attributing the cuts to budgetary issues. Citing “a lot of feedback in 
the Eastern Mediterranean”, it apologized – but only for the lack of prior 
notice. Interviewed live, a distraught listener in Jerusalem put reaction more 
graphically when she wailed: “The BBC’s left me – what I am going to do?” 
Restoring prior service was not mentioned.“Why do you need radio when 
there’s Internet?” asked the bemused young woman at the British Council. True, 
BBC World Service radio is streamed live on the Internet 24 hours a 
day.That’s great for everybody with a smartphone, or for everybody 
sitting next to a computer with an Internet connection. But what about everyone 
else? Radios may be passé for under- 30s, but not everywhere. Radio is 
predominantly a socioeconomic device, not a generational one.And it’s 
the persons with access to nothing more than a humble AM radio who are really 
served by the gift the British people to the world, no strings 
attached.
I counted on the BBC as if they owed it to us, as if there 
would always be an England. But looks like the next Menachem Begin will have to 
learn his English elsewhere.The writer is an American-born writer and 
lawyer living in Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Africa</title>
<date>14/2/2013</date>
<content>
We Israelis – like most people, if not more so – are very self-centered.History revolves around us, as does the present, with our vivid national debate. The rest of the world is no different, with every society centered on its own well-being, connected to the world by curiosity and competition, yet not in sharing wealth; a world with unprecedented wealth and poverty; a humankind with greater social awareness, protesting in relation to its own individual backyard, such as in Occupy Wall Street, the Tahrir and Jasmine revolutions, the Rothschild protest and Indignez-vous in Paris.




Yet there is no outcry for social justice and against the colossal gap between the world’s haves and have-nots. In today’s world, the poorest 40 percent enjoy only 5% of global income; the richest 20% enjoy 75% of it.There is one continent that suffers most from global injustice – Africa.With 1.2 billion citizens – almost 20% of the world’s population – its share of the global benefits are minimal and its share of poverty, disease and wars enormous. This is mainly true for sub-Saharan Africa.The Irish music star Bono said some time ago that “every single day 7,000 children in Africa die from malnutrition and the world is mum. Therefore when it comes to Africa, it’s not about charity, but about justice.”I was first really exposed to African injustice in the ’90s while deeply engaged in Middle Eastern peace-building. I heard, like everyone else, of the Rwandan genocide in 1994 where almost 1 million people, mostly Tutsi, were savagely murdered, hundreds of thousands of women raped and children maimed.Except for the typical expression of momentary shock and almost shying away from the TV screen, I returned to my daily self-centered activities. A few years later I had the opportunity to meet the president of Rwanda, Dr. Paul Kagame, and became friends with the mayor of Rwanda’s capital city, Theoneste Mutsindashyaka, with whom I was working on the establishment of a small-child center in Kigali. From them, especially from the mayor, I heard the gruesome descriptions of mass assassinations between tribes and neighbors with machetes.And even more, I heard about the shameful silence of the world, the former colonial powers of Belgium and France, the United States and the paralyzed United Nations. I felt ashamed for not having known more at the time of the genocide and for doing nothing – a feeling that has not left me since, after all we are all citizens of the world.While there is indeed a growing awareness of the gaps between rich and poor, the situation has not really improved. We live in a dichotomy-filled world with opportunities on one side and injustice and suffering on the other – a world in which the wealth of 500 billionaires is bigger than the combined GDP of the 41 most-indebted countries; a world in which the seven richest people have more wealth than the 567 million poorest people! Twenty percent of the richest people in the world consume 76.6% of the global wealth while the 20% poorest consume only 5%. Almost 3 billion people have an income of less than $2 a day.Children are the main victims – 1 out of 5 children in the world dies before reaching the age of six as the result of disease, malnutrition or war.Hundreds of millions of children do not have basic education – 1 billion people in the world are illiterate. If only 1% of the amount spent on weapons production could be spent on education, every child in the world would be able to go to school.These plagues are mainly true for sub-Saharan Africa. Some 250 million Africans suffer from malnutrition. Life expectancy ranges from 40 to 50 years, compared to over 80 years in the wealthy West. Africans in the millions are subjected to child labor and forced to be child soldiers.Water is infected in great parts of sub-Saharan Africa. Basic health services and medication are not available to hundreds of millions, due in part to the West curtailing generic drug development in favor of its wealthy multinational drug companies.While there is a rampant urbanization process in Africa, most of the population is still agrarian, yet it is not allowed to reach food security; the West curtails African agricultural production and export opportunities with heavy subsidies to its own agrarian sector and unfair trade policies.The United States, for instance, spent $1 billion dollars in 2005 to subsidize its cotton farmers and to protect their export advantage over African cotton farmers. As a result, 25,000 American farmers gained and 10 million African cotton farmers remained poor.The West is aiding Africa, with much money, but inefficiently and inadequately, mostly out of economic self-interest, unguided policies and guilt.There is an urgent human and political need for African recovery, which, according to many leading Africans, should be based on fundamental policy changes. When it comes to African recovery and reform, we should listen to Africans. Such a new Africa policy should therefore be based on the following principles: • The need to fully understand that the human and social potential that exists in Africa is similar to that of all other continents, including in the West. A different attitude and relationship with Africa first and foremost has to be based on total equality, free of colonial attitudes and prejudice. This is stating the obvious, but unfortunately it must be stated.• The need to understand and appreciate the unique African culture, with its great diversity and its multitude of formidable and impressive expressions. No real dialogue with Africans is possible without it.• The need to let Africa speak for itself rather than to preach to it.• A key transition, which is gradually taking place, is in the nature of African regimes.African leaders, as expressed by the 2001 African-initiated NEPAD Plan, call for greater democratization and an end to corrupt regimes that, to a large degree, were and are a result of preferences and policies of former colonial powers, corrupting aid policies and the exploitation of natural resources. African democracy is up to Africans and has to follow the cultural characteristics of the different countries. African governments can and should be assisted with the creation of credible, transparent, accountable and modern administrations that are able to reform economies, policies and international relations.• For this, the young generation of Africa is critical. Sixty percent of Africans are under the age of 24 and there are many excellent universities on the continent. The hope and future of Africa lies in the continuous development of a new African leadership able to undertake the necessary reforms and aware of both self-interest and the need to create a new relationship with the world. Young women are and should be playing an important role in this transition.• There is a need to move from aid-oriented policies toward investment-based policies, especially in the private sector and in relation to small and medium enterprises and entrepreneurship.Investments in the many natural resources of Africa need to channel revenues to African economic and social development and growth.• Aid policies and budgets should focus, aside from basic urgent needs, on infrastructure – transportation, water, energy – that facilitates the effectiveness of the private sector.But aid policies must be revolutionized.Aid must focus on capacity-building of Africans to run good administrations focused on health, food security, education and business development. Donor countries also need to set conditions of reforms to African governments toward greater political and social freedoms as well as respect for human rights.Aid money needs to be controlled and accounted for as it must be utilized for the good of the people, not of the leaders.Many current aid policies breed corruption on the side of the recipient and the donor.Aid should not serve the interests of Western or Asian private sector companies seeking cheap labor. Simultaneously, it should not serve the exaggerated salaries for consultants – 38% of aid to sub-Saharan Africa remains with consultants from the donor countries.Aid money therefore should be channeled by good and clear African policies to infrastructure development, capacity-building of new and young leadership and to basic urgent needs in the areas of health, nutrition and education.• Food production is critical – the world produces sufficient food for all inhabitants of the globe. There must be fairer sharing as well as development of domestic food production, rich in protein and vitamins (especially for children), including through peri-urban (between the suburbs and the countryside) development. The world has to pay fairly for African agricultural products and stop riding on the backs of African children.• Basic health services can save millions of lives every year, especially lives of children.The greatest killers in Africa are malaria, measles and diarrhea, all relatively preventable diseases through basic services, tools and awareness, hygiene, clean water and affordable medication. Aid programs also have to focus on these urgent needs and be sensitive to local culture without imposing foreign value systems; it does not help when China donates medications with instructions in Chinese.• Many of the reforms and policy changes can be facilitated by further introduction of new technologies to sub-Saharan Africa.Internet penetration is steeply on the rise, up to 16%, and with time it can serve greater connectivity inside countries and across borders.Technology can bring about innovative solutions to basic problems in the areas of health, irrigation, trade and education.• For these reforms, African countries are in need of greater financial resources that can come about from necessary debt forgiveness and fairer trade. Current trade is low, subordinated to the interests of multinationals and wealthy countries and with low exports of African goods and products. While sub-Saharan Africa has more than 15% of the world’s population, it engages in less than 3% of world trade. Traditional aid policies have severely indebted African countries. Most African governments have to spend about 40% of their budget on repaying debts and only about 20% on urgent social and humanitarian needs. Debt forgiveness and better aid programs have to be on the international agenda. It is time for fair trade, fair aid and fair investments – indeed fair relations with Africa altogether.• For these fundamental changes and reforms to happen, the image of Africa in Western eyes needs to change. The view of Africa is of a tragic, hopeless and helpless destiny.Great suffering indeed occurs, yet Africa is much more than its current image – it is a vibrant continent, rich in culture, talent and capacity, with many success stories. Six of the fastest-growing economies in the world are African. The Economist defined Africa only a decade ago as the “hopeless continent,” but recently as the “continent of hope.”These principles have to be translated into a radical change of the Africa policies of the international community, led by the United States and its first African-American president.Above all, they must be driven by a fundamental change in attitudes – from blindness to care, from prejudice to equality, from pity to cooperation, from guilt to responsibility, from aid to investment, from preaching to mutual understanding, from charity to justice – we have much to learn from Africa and about Africa.South Africa is a case in point. Only after the end of apartheid and racism did it grow and today it is one of the fastest-growing emerging markets, together with China, Russia, India and Brazil, known as the BRICS countries. We can and should all learn from Nelson Mandela. He knew how a majority could make peace with a minority, ensuring their rights despite their criminal past policies.He knew what many or most in the West don’t – how to forgive, how to see the other as equal, how to care about suffering and how to seize opportunity. Inspired by this great African leader, we need to dramatically change attitudes and policies on Africa.
The writer is president of the Peres Center for Peace and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: National priorities</title>
<date>9/5/2013</date>
<content>
The nation is watching with bated breath for the next Facebook post of our 
minister of finance – Yair Lapid is definitely a greater master of communication 
than of economics.In recent weeks he has engaged the country in a 
spectacular roller coaster ride of expectations – first raising fees for 
university students, then committing to never do so; first raising tax on fruits 
and vegetables, then, God forbid, no; first committing in his campaign to reduce 
funding for settlements, then “Don’t worry,” Naftali Bennett; first reinstating 
the value added tax on Eilat, then continuing the exception for the holiday 
resort. So goes the up-and-down ride of Lapid’s budget tours, nearly item by 
item.




As he retreated on the most unpopular cuts, this week we witnessed 
his biggest flip-flop – increasing the budget deficit from the 3 percent, as 
advised by Bank of Israel head Stanley Fischer – who happens to be a master of 
economics – to a dangerous 4.65%. After all, who wants the students, the trade 
unions, the people of Eilat, or actually the whole middle class, taking to the 
streets again in protest? Definitely not Lapid, who not only was elected by the 
middle class, but wants to be reelected by it, ideally to a higher 
post.In this process, Lapid is performing a skillful tango with his 
partner and opponent Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu – “Enemies: A Love 
Story.” Both seek to craft this budget along coalition needs and political 
ambitions.A state budget should reflect the priorities of the state. 
Policy planning should come before budget planning. The budget should be a 
function of policy priorities. In our case, it’s budget first, according to 
narrow political interests, and thereafter fiscal constraints and preferences 
are turned into policy.It is, therefore, time to define our national 
priorities according to which the state budget should be structured. In Israel, 
long-term policy planning is essential due to the tremendous challenges that 
face us in all walks of life.Yet today, long-term policy planning is 
taboo, as it necessitates making important national choices between an effective 
peace policy aiming at conflict resolution, and continuing the illusion of no 
peace, no war; a Greater Israel, or not (funding the periphery in Israel or the 
settlements in the West Bank); a purely capitalistic society, or a more 
compassionate one with investment in social services; theocracy or democracy; 
Bnei Brak or High Court of Justice; equality for all, including the Israeli 
Arabs, or a quasi apartheid society with second class citizens. None of these 
fundamental choices has been made by this or the previous government. It’s 
government by default, not by national priorities.There is now, 
therefore, a need to set clear national priorities for the long run and to make 
difficult yet necessary choices, and only then to set the budget accordingly: • 
Peace first – Israel in the long run will find it difficult to sustain a war 
economy with one of the most inflated defense budgets in the world, massive 
investments in settlements and their security, and international isolation 
damaging trade and tourism.This is not to say that peace is necessary 
merely for economic reasons; it is about our very identity as a Jewish 
democracy.Peace in the volatile Middle East will not be a European one, 
but an agreement with the Palestinians will weaken the axis of 
Iran-Hezbollah-Hamas and prevent regional war. A viable, serious peace process 
leading to the desired two-state solution is today more possible than 
ever.The Arab world is weakened by inner shake-ups and dependent on 
American aid. The visit last week of the Arab League delegation to Washington is 
an important milestone – for the first time the Arab world accepts changes to 
the 1967 lines.Mahmoud Abbas’s moderation and mandate to negotiate has 
been strengthened.Peace means peace at a price that is well known to all 
realists and is along the lines of the Clinton Parameters of 2000. But more 
important it has critical rewards in lives, livelihood, security and economy. It 
is both the prime national priority and the moral choice. It must be translated 
into a realistic policy plan based on the Obama vision of 2011 (which refers 
also to our security needs) and the Saudi peace plan in its new version. We 
cannot afford to live by our sword forever.• If peace is life and 
identity, education is the future – the education of today is the technological 
and scientific advance of tomorrow.It is also the future moral code, and 
the democratic fabric of the country.Education starts early, in the 
kindergarten, and should be ongoing for all, in academia and professional 
training. We are in need of more classrooms, laboratories, better and more 
teachers, international youth exchanges, etc. A skillful, educated and 
open-minded young generation will make Israel more prosperous, reaping the 
fruits from globalization and contributing to it. We must aim to be the leaders 
in high technology – as the young should rebel against past and present 
knowledge. We must aim for the young to reach a moral high ground in terms of 
social empathy, respect for the other, for the different and for human rights. 
In the modern age, education – more than defense – builds the strength of a 
country.• Social justice is not only an outcry of the social protest 
movement – it is a fundamental cornerstone of a healthy society and economy. We 
are one of the most unjust societies in the OECD club, with tremendous gaps 
between haves and have-nots, and a suffering middle class.Encouraging 
the private sector as the engine of the economy and creating equal opportunities 
must and can go hand-inhand.The Israeli private sector must be allowed 
to grow for the creation of jobs and exports, given our advanced technology. To 
be wealthy is not a social curse. In parallel, government must regulate and 
intervene for those who must catch up – mainly in the periphery and on the 
outskirts of the cities.While wealth is not a plague, poverty 
is.• Democracy that touches on our very identity is based on equality 
among all citizens – equality between genders, new immigrants and veterans, 
periphery and Center, Jews and Arabs. This means that government cannot 
discriminate, not in favor of yeshivot and settlements, and not against the Arab 
minority.The economic well-being of Israeli Arabs is critical to our 
social and national stability.We are surrounded by Arab countries; the 
solidarity of Israeli Arabs is for obvious reasons split between loyalty to 
Israel and loyalty to the Arab world; we have every interest to see them 
integrate into society and grow economically. It is a time bomb to be defused, 
but above all a test of our sovereignty – running a country as a majority, 
respecting the rights of minorities.• Economic reforms are necessary: – 
Further taxation of the private sector by demanding from companies an investment 
of 1% of their profit in social causes and projects of their choice as part of 
corporate social responsibility.– Housing reform by drastically reducing 
the price of land for construction.– Privatization of ports and airports 
despite massive protest of unions.– Greater freedom of media, including 
turning Channel 1 into a PBS-like public channel as well as more subsidies to 
local film and cultural productions.– Reform of governmental services 
into more effective e-government service (thereby saving personnel in the 
inflated public service and bureaucracy).– Greater gender equality 
across the board, including introducing affirmative action for senior managerial 
positions.– Creation of a special public-private fund for all needy 
Holocaust survivors within six months. The current situation is a 
disgrace.The new state budget should reflect these necessary priorities 
– peace, education, social justice, democracy and economic reform, and lead to: 
• a substantial cut in defense spending; • a substantial cut in the settlement 
and yeshivot budgets; • an across-the-board cut in all ministries except 
education, health and social services (with special attention to the periphery 
and the Arab sector); • an increase by 1 percentage point of the income and 
value-added taxes; • a substantial increase in the education budget (including 
for research and development in universities).An economy is not about 
money. It is about people, their well-being and ability to produce for 
themselves and for society.Given the high deficit, stringent measures 
must be taken now while redirecting the economy to new directions – to a free 
economy, a socially empathetic economy and a peace economy. Only a reform of 
policies can lead to a healthier, vibrant and fairer economy.
The writer 
is president of the Peres Center for Peace and served as Israel’s chief 
negotiator for the Oslo Accords. Barbara Hurwitz edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's corner: Occupation</title>
<date>24/10/2013</date>
<content>
The other day I held one of my regular meetings with a Palestinian friend at my 
favorite Tel Aviv café (Café Michal). I had promised Riad (pseudonym) that the 
best Tel Aviv cappuccino would be no less attractive than the roasted Arab 
coffee we had had in Ramallah the week before. Besides coffee and camaraderie, 
we were planning to share much more – our common endeavor to advance a young 
leaders movement between our two countries.Riad’s coffee became cold as 
I waited somewhat impatiently in my Tel Aviv comfort while he was delayed and 
interrogated for three hours at the Kalandiya checkpoint. He was left waiting 
one hour under the glaring sun. When he approached the soldiers to alert them 
that he was late for a meeting, the soldier in charge threw his Palestinian ID 
on the floor and told him to pick it up and come back in an hour. Then he was 
interrogated by an apparently very nice officer, trying through every angle to 
find out any possible ill intention or even terror affiliation. The fact that he 
claimed to be on his way to a meeting of peace and that he had a valid permit to 
enter Israel was irrelevant; finally he was allowed through with a warning “be 
back by 6 p.m., otherwise we will arrest you.”




This is the daily, 
humiliating banality of the occupation.Had I encountered similar 
treatment on my way into Ramallah, I would have turned around and maybe never 
returned. Not so, “Riad,” who made it to Tel Aviv, told me of his torment with 
an embarrassed smile. We did talk peace, the only way to change the reality of 
mutual suspicion, humiliation and blame – a mutual dehumanization, leading to 
perpetual conflict and violence.Many Israelis dispute that the West Bank 
is occupied territory, as they see it as part of the biblical land of Israel and 
therefore believe that we have the right to rule the territory. The fact that 
close to 3 million Palestinians live on this land is immaterial to them. The 
historical vision is based on an outdated view of nationalism, whereby land 
belongs to its initial inhabitants. Today the national identity of a territory 
and a people are a function of the concept of selfdetermination as part of the 
democratization of international relations.Empires and colonies cease to 
exist and people determine their national affiliation by majority.The 
West Bank is Palestine because the great majority of its inhabitants are 
Palestinians, which makes it an occupied territory. Yet the international legal 
argument is not the most important one, what matters is the daily reality in 
these areas, and unfortunately it is one of occupation, unrelated to how good or 
bad a neighbor the Palestinians are.The occupation came about as a 
result of an Israeli war of defense in 1967 when attacked by Arab 
armies.“Territories for peace” has since been on the table, not picked 
up by us or the Palestinians in a sufficient way.And hence occupation is 
the reality for all Palestinians, not only in terms of their national destiny 
but in virtually every facet of their daily lives.While the Oslo 
agreements obliged us to transfer all security and civilian authority in all 
Palestinian cities to the Palestinian Authority, the IDF feels free to enter 
these cities in pursuit of potential terrorists and stonethrowers despite a much 
better than ever cooperation by the Authority security forces. While sometimes 
necessary, this routine is hurting mostly innocent civilians, constantly in fear 
of soldiers entering their homes. It creates a bitterness and disillusion with 
political agreements, ultimately leading to more violence.If the 
Palestinians are anxious for their well-being in their own cities, it is their 
freedom of movement that is most curtailed. Machsom (“checkpoint”) has become a 
synonym for humiliation, not only in entering Israel, but also between 
Palestinian cities and villages. For those who want to or have to enter Israel, 
there is a prolonged Via Dolorosa of obtaining a permit. The word itself is 
denigrating as it derives from permission.“Why not a visa?” the 
Palestinians ask.Our answer to this is that all these measures are for 
the sake of security.This is a misleading perception.Stringent 
security measures must be taken to counter terror and can succeed only with 
Palestinian cooperation.Palestinians will not and should not gain 
anything from violence.Palestinian terrorists are also killing their own 
people’s cause. Yet there is a difference between effective measures that our 
various security forces are very much capable of implementing and collective 
punishment of a whole population. The first weakens terrorism, the latter with 
time encourages it. You can ask our “gatekeepers,” the former heads of our Shin 
Bet security service.Still, the main obstacle to any normal Palestinian 
dignified life or future is the settlements. A visit to the West Bank is a visit 
to an apartheid state. One hundred thirty settlements and another 100 outposts 
with 340,000 settlers are spread all over the area. Palestinians in the West 
Bank see, from their houses or in their daily travel, tens of thousands of 
settlement housing units and view them as an assault on their daily lives and 
their national aspirations.With the settlements in place, there will be 
no Palestinian state, leaving the Palestinians in despair.Furthermore, 
there is a blatant contrast in the standard of living – modern Israeli 
settlement housing with green gardens and swimming pools in contrast with the 
relative poverty of Palestinian housing and infrastructure. The settlers in the 
apartheid country can use their own roads and buses. Water from the West Bank 
mountain aquifer is 87 percent used by Israelis (according to the WASH 
monitoring program).The West Bank is gradually becoming a binational 
state, with power on the Israeli side and demographics on the Palestinian 
one.When we conquered the West Bank and Gaza in 1967, there were 1 
million Palestinians living there, today only 46 years later, there are over 3 
million Palestinians. The future balance is obvious.The settlements as 
well as the security restrictions are a heavy burden on the Palestinian economy. 
According to the World Bank, half of the land of the West Bank, most of it 
agricultural, is inaccessible to Palestinians.Indeed a binational 
state.The movement of Palestinian goods and people is heavily 
restricted, which costs the Palestinian economy $3.4 billion a year according to 
this year’s World Bank report.The significance of the occupation for 
both sides is devastating. From a political, economic and security point of 
view, the deeper the occupation, the more impossible a two-state solution 
becomes. The situation in the West Bank will one day comprise the whole area 
from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River; an apartheid state with no 
democracy, no Jewish identity, isolated from the world as a pariah state. 
Palestinian hostility and violence will only grow with time – no nation will 
take its lack of freedom lying down.The Palestinians as well as the Arab 
countries bear their fair share, if not most, of the blame for this conflict 
because of their rejection of Israel’s existence and legitimacy in and since 
1948. A change of attitude toward Israel must be a condition for any agreement 
which is recognized by the Arab Peace Initiative of 2002.In this 
situation of running the lives and destinies of the Palestinians, we will never 
enjoy real security.Security will be possible when the Palestinians have 
something to lose – an independent state – such as in the cases of Egypt and 
Jordan. Not only does the Palestinian economy suffer from the status quo, ours 
does.International investments and tourism are down given the security 
situation. Our international position is on a slippery slope as the entire 
international community is opposed to occupation and settlements, including the 
United States.Most important, the occupation, while making Palestinian 
freedom impossible, is a moral defeat for us.We should be the first to 
know that dictating the lives of others leads to self-defeat. All those who 
attempted to dictate our lives as Jews perished.Oppression of others, no 
matter what caused it, is not only untenable, it is inhumane. Freedom and 
equality are the most fundamental of human rights. If one forbids them to 
others, one loses one’s own freedom, becoming enslaved to curtailing the lives 
of others, and, gradually, the lack of morality and the violence that comes with 
it creeps into one’s own society.In deciding on the freedom of the 
Palestinians, we will decide on ours.If we want to remain a Jewish 
democracy, we must take control of our own lives and freedoms rather than 
attempting the impossible and immoral, ruining the lives of others.The 
writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace and served as 
Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
This article was edited 
by Barbara Hurwitz.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: We need Mandelas</title>
<date>12/12/2013</date>
<content>
For the first time in many decades, it seems that the whole world is 
mourning.The death of Nelson Mandela did not come as a surprise, as the 
death of John F. Kennedy did. And yet many people will be asked from now on – 
where were you when the death of Mandela was announced? People the world over 
feel the loss of a light, of a moral compass, of a unique type of leadership. 
Flags were at half-mast, leaders expressed condolences, people in all corners of 
the world felt grief and expressed it in millions of social network messages, in 
word, song and picture.




Nelson Mandela: the man who from Robben Island 
Prison united the whole world in a profound desire for freedom.His 
powerful messages of hope, love, reconciliation, forgiveness and courage struck 
a chord in almost everyone. His was a leadership of values, in faith and in 
deed, not of ego and self-interest; a leadership that has altered the fate of 
South Africa, leading to a peaceful transition of power, avoiding massive 
bloodshed; a leadership that gave the whole African continent a direction of 
hope and pride, and which created a bridge between Africa and the 
world.Above all, Mandela’s leadership set new standards for the world – 
a belief in the good of men and equality between them, preferring forgiveness to 
vengeance and reconciliation to conflict, respecting the dignity of every human 
being; a leadership for peace.A leadership that attains goals by 
bridging the gap between conflicting interests with humanitarian values, and 
that struggles for their attainment, against all odds. The courage to stand up 
for what is right, and not for what is popular, and the tendency not to give in 
to the shortcomings of human nature or to short-sightedness of 
politics.This is what Madiba stood for, and his legacy will be a guide 
for generations to come, no less than Mahatma Gandhi’s. Our region, which is 
also grieving over the passing of Mandela, needs to reflect on his legacy and 
his model of leadership. This is especially true today, as our region is at a 
crossroads between war and peace, between fundamentalism and modernization, 
between respecting differences and racism, between aspiring to equality and 
surrendering to complexes of superiority; and for us in Israel, between peace 
with our nextdoor neighbors out of equality, and a dangerous deterioration into 
violence and loss of human and national identities.Our region, more than 
others, is in need of a Mandela – both an Israeli Mandela and an Arab Mandela, 
as today’s leaders in Israel and Palestine are anything but that.In 
Israel, Binyamin Netanyahu is a skillful and popular leader. Yet his is not a 
leadership of values, but of force. It is based on an almost paranoid mistrust 
of national and political foes. Netanyahu actually believes that we are a light 
unto the nations; that given our history and tragic past, we have a superior 
right to the greater land of Israel.He concludes from the past that 
enemies will remain enemies forever and that by crude force we can bring them to 
surrender to all our demands. It comes with a xenophobic worldview and an almost 
messianic ambition to alter reality. He lacks any compassion for the other, the 
different; he is unable to create a common language, turning enemies into 
partners, and he does not have the courage to make decisions that could resolve 
a historic conflict.He is everything that Mandela was not.His 
counterpart in Ramallah is also not a Mandela. Abu Mazen (Mahmoud Abbas), while 
moderate and opposed to violence, lacks the stature to make a quantum leap to 
resolve this historic conflict.Both leaders give in to consensus, act 
out of political self-interest, avoid taking risks and are in love with their 
positions and rhetoric.Israel and Palestine need and deserve 
better.What would an Israeli or Palestinian Mandela do? An Israeli 
Mandela, one can assume, would first and foremost tell his people the truth – 
that the occupation of another people, taking away their freedoms, is immoral, 
impossible and self-defeating. Nelson Mandela showed compassion to his white 
oppressors and guaranteed their equality in the agreement he reached with F.W. 
de Klerk. An Israeli Mandela would seek reconciliation with the Palestinian 
people out of honest, mutual respect.Peace to Mandela was not the 
absence of war, but a real and moral human condition, based on the recognition 
of fundamental equalities and rights. As such, an Israeli Mandela would speak 
directly to the Palestinians in their parliament in Ramallah about his full 
respect for their human and natural rights and their desire for freedom and 
self-determination, without ever giving up on his own pride, identity and 
interests.Reconciliation is not an agreement between leaders, but a 
profound and gradual change of attitudes, understanding the best kept secret of 
conflict – that we are all humans.An Israeli Mandela would forgive and 
teach us to forgive; as Nelson Mandela forgave the perpetrators of apartheid and 
antiblack violence. He would say it and prove it in deeds, such as in the 
release of former terrorists. He would look for symbolic gestures to create 
mutual trust as the real Mandela did when he chose to actively support the white 
South Africa rugby team, the pride of the white oppressors. In our case, he 
would have maybe laid a wreath on the tomb of Yasser Arafat, not out of 
admiration for him, but out of understanding of what he means to the 
Palestinians.More than anything, an Israeli Mandela would show courage 
to make historic decisions to lead Israel to an all-important peace, rescuing 
our Jewish and democratic identity, not because of demographics, but due to 
humanitarian values that have to guide and protect us. A Mandela deal would be 
fair, securing fundamental interests for both sides, understanding that 
ultimately Israel’s security will stem mainly from peace with our neighbors and 
not from settlements.Such an Israeli leader would dramatically 
strengthen our all-important position in the international community and our 
strategic relations with the United States, being a friend to Barack Obama. This 
would dramatically affect our security and economy, and above all our moral 
integrity.As for Palestine, a Palestinian Mandela would also tell his 
people the truth – that Israel is here to stay, that it must, for their own 
good, be turned from enemy into a neighbor, that a Palestinian state will not 
come about without a historic compromise with the Jewish state. He would seek 
reconciliation, calling on his people to relate to Israelis with compassion, to 
understand, even with disagreement, the Jewish historical narrative.He 
would express understanding and support for Israel’s security needs in a hostile 
region. He would express these views to the Knesset in Jerusalem. In such a 
process of reconciliation, people-to-people relations would be seen as useful to 
Palestine and not as “normalization” favors to Israel. A Palestinian Mandela 
would lay a wreath at tomb of Yitzhak Rabin.A Palestinian Mandela would 
forgive Israel, mainly for the occupation. Forgiveness to Nelson Mandela was the 
alternative to vengeance and the path to peaceful coexistence.Above all, 
the Palestinian Mandela would have the courage to make a difficult historic 
compromise in order to create the independent Palestinian state, by giving up 
the implementation of the right of return to sovereign Israel, and opening 
sovereign Palestine to the Palestinian diaspora. Palestine under a Mandela would 
be popular among the nations, supported by them and a model Arab 
democracy.Well, unfortunately there are no Mandelas on the Israeli or 
Palestinian horizon, according to Nelson Mandela’s own definition of leadership: 
“A good leader can engage in a debate frankly and thoroughly, knowing that at 
the end he and the other side must be closer and thus emerge stronger. You don’t 
have the idea when you are arrogant, superficial and misinformed.”One 
hopes that today’s leaders will listen to his advice and become more modest and 
courageous. In any case, Mandela-type leaders could come from our young – 
Israelis and Palestinians alike. People void of the bitterness, suspicion and 
cynicism that comes from misinterpreting experience.In this vein, I have 
recently launched – together with the world famous actor Sharon Stone, a friend 
and disciple of Mandela – the Nelson Mandela Online Peace Academy as part of the 
YaLa-Young Leaders online peace movement (with 430,000 followers from the Middle 
East on Facebook). It will be a virtual home for 1,000 Israeli and Arab 
students, also from Palestine, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, 
Tunisia, Algeria and Saudi Arabia. The topics of study will be peacemaking, 
peace-building, truth, reconciliation and forgiveness. The teachers will be 
peacemakers from Israel, Palestine, Morocco, South Africa, Rwanda, Ireland and 
the Balkans, all with great know-how and experience in peacemaking. The Academy 
has prominent academic partners such as professors from the Harvard Program on 
Negotiation, David Axelrod’s Chicago Institute of Politics and the United States 
Institute for Peace. The American State Department supports part of YaLa’s 
academic activities.We hope that out of this brilliant cadre of young 
Arabs and Israelis, with time and the enriching experience that they will gain, 
new Mandelas will come to the forefront.God knows we need 
them.The writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace and 
served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
Barbara Hurwitz 
edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 18: Who will pay?</title>
<date>17/9/2013</date>
<content>
Who will pay?Sir – We have been reading reams and streams of articles and 
letters telling us how the proposal to verify and remove Syrian chemical weapons 
could change the face of the Middle East. However, I haven’t seen a single 
paragraph telling us who is going to come up with the money to undertake this 
massive task.




The world is in the grip of an economic crisis. Governments 
everywhere are increasing taxes and cutting social programs.The job of 
finding, moving and destroying the Syrian arsenal will be gargantuan. I can’t 
imagine that it will cost less than tens of billions of dollars. I also can’t 
imagine for one second that the Russians, who proposed this compromise, will 
step up and offer to pay.The UN will probably be carrying the burden, 
which, after all, will eventually devolve onto its member states, of which the 
US is by far the largest contributor, at nearly one quarter.Will 
President Barack Obama stand up and tell his people that they are going to have 
to cough up this amount? I suspect that if he gave them the choice between 
paying and delivering the punishing blow he originally threatened, they would 
opt for the latter.HENRY KAYE Ashkelon Cough it up Sir, – I have 
followed with interest the articles and letters about new olim and the 
difficulties they face. The latest is by Chaim Friedman (“Abandoned aliya: Don’t 
blame your missing house,” Comment & Features, September 16), who, I see, is 
managing director of a mortgage brokerage firm.Friedman makes one 
statement that is the underlying reason as to why young couples here cannot buy 
their own homes: “[T]he minimum down payment is a high 25%.” That is the crux of 
the matter! Unless young couples have very wealthy parents or are themselves 
very high earners, how on Earth do they raise this amount? How many years would 
it take for them to save $50,000 for a deposit on what is now a modest apartment 
costing $200,000? Many young couples are able to afford the mortgage payments, 
which are probably the same as a rental commitment.But it is the 
crippling deposit that prevents them from ever owning their own home. If 
Friedman can offer a mortgage that doesn’t require 25%, I would be delighted to 
hear about it.I would also love to hear about the bank where “an initial 
negative decision can be readily reversed, especially if you have someone at 
your side who knows the ropes... and the law.”What does that mean? Come 
on, Mr. Friedman. You are obviously one who knows the ropes and the law, so 
cough up the relevant information that so many young couples need to know! LINDA 
SILVERSTONE Herzliya Pituah Those illusionsSir, – With all due respect to the 
honorable professor Ian S.Lustick, (“Two-state illusion,” Comment & 
Features, September 16), he might be a historian but he should go a little 
deeper into history. Then he might come to the correct 
conclusions.Lustick is not comparing apples with pears – that might be 
too close. He is comparing apples with bananas and worse.Ireland was 
occupied by Britain. France occupied Algeria.The Soviet Union conquered 
its neighbors and imposed communism.South Africa imposed apartheid on 
the original inhabitants, who were an overwhelming majority but were second class 
citizens with no rights in their homeland. Where is the comparison with Israel? 
Jews lived continuously in “Palestine” for thousands of years. Zionism is a 
return to our ancient homeland, Israel. After several wars, when we defeated our 
neighbors who wanted to annihilate us, we are here in larger numbers and 
stronger than ever.We have a large majority of Jews who were ingathered 
from exile in many countries. The minorities of Muslims, Christians and others 
who live here have full rights and, as citizens, participate in every aspect of 
life.They are in the Knesset, they are doctors in hospitals, they are 
lawyers and judges, etc., etc.Hopefully, there will be a “two-state 
solution” when we can live in peace. It is as much in the other side’s interest 
as ours.MIKE AYL Ashkelon Sir, – Ian S. Lustick would have us believe 
that “the Palestinian Authority needs its people to believe that progress is 
being made toward a two-state solution....”Not so.The 
Palestinian Authority has drawn a curtain down on what is happening in the peace 
talks and is doing little to bring its people to believe in a two-state 
solution. On the contrary, it continues to indoctrinate toward the future 
elimination of Israel and the glorification of Palestinian 
terrorists.BARRY SHAW Netanya Sir, – Prof. Ian Lustick puts forward a 
very strange argument.He says that Israel-Palestine should be a single 
state – the “state of all its citizens.” This would result in a bloody mess, and 
the mess would force the great powers to step in and cut Israel down to size, 
which, of course, would be very small.The consequences of the mess would 
be totally unpredictable.There is a fatal weakness in Lustick’s chain of 
reasoning, which smacks of Israel-hatred.Smash Israel at any price! 
DAVID MAISEL Jerusalem Let them know Sir, – Referring to the letter headlined 
“Lousy ambassadors” (September 16), my first thought was that it should be 
translated into Hebrew and placed on the front page of all Hebrew newspapers and 
all the popular Israeli travel sites, blogs, whatever. Travel agencies should 
give it out with each flight ticket.A lot of our young Israelis who 
travel do not have the maturity to realize that they truly are our ambassadors. 
We are criticized constantly for almost everything we do, and when we do have an 
opportunity to do the right thing in a small way – which is a mere matter of 
showing decent and respectful behavior to a host country – we blow 
it.Someone has to tell the young travelers, but someone has to think of 
a way how.HEATHER FRIEDMAN Yedidya Governor’s murder Sir, – Stephen 
Gabriel Rosenberg questions whether Gedaliah ben Ahikam was so important, his 
murder so significant, that we have to introduce another fast day just a week 
before Yom Kippur (“The murder of Gedaliah, governor of Judea,” Comment & 
Features, September 8).Rosenberg concludes that perhaps the 
assassination was for the better in the long run and that Shakespeare should 
have written a play about it. “[T]hen we would all have acquired in school a 
somewhat better knowledge of this lurid tragedy.”In fact, our children 
and grandchildren did learn in school about Gedaliah’s tragic death and its 
disastrous aftermath.They know that it forced Jews to flee, putting an 
end to the prospect of the land’s resettlement.The Babylonian exile was 
made absolute and Judea was left bereft of its children.Had Shakespeare 
known he’d be thrilled. But that’s not why we fast on Tzom Gedaliah. It is why 
we send our kids to Jewish schools to allow them to learn and appreciate our 
heritage.CHARLES MARCUS Jerusalem CLARIFICATION The Jerusalem Post 
wishes to clarify that the statements by MK Ahmed Tibi (UAL-Ta’al) at Monday’s 
Knesset Interior Committee meeting on Jewish visits to the Temple Mount (“Tibi 
tells MKs: The crusaders and the British passed, and so will Israel,” September 
17) referred to Israel’s presence in east Jerusalem, specifically the area 
surrounding and including the Aksa Mosque.
He was not referring to the 
entire State of Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Settlements and the future of Zionism</title>
<date>19/12/2013</date>
<content>
Controversy over “Israeli 
occupation,” “unilateral withdrawal” and the destruction of Jewish communities 
is not just about territory and the rights of Jews. It exposes a basic struggle 
between Zionism and post-/anti-Zionism.Jews who live in Judea and 
Samaria, like those who lived in the Gaza Strip, represent an ideology whose 
roots are not only in modern Zionism, but in a deep attachment to Jewish 
history, Judaism and the Land of Israel. This ideology opposes the concept of 
Israel as a pluralistic, secular “nation of its citizens” like those in 
Europe.




This clash is inevitable and raises fundamental questions: What 
is Zionism? To whom does the Land of Israel belong, legally and historically? Do 
Jews need a state at all? Does Israel’s survival depend on establishing another 
Arab Palestinian state? It is not only a dispute about sovereignty and who 
controls land, but about what Israel represents as a society and a 
culture.Deeply rooted in the fear that Israel will be wiped out, 
suggestions to abandon traditional Zionist ideals reflect a survivalist 
mentality.Campaigns to boycott and delegitimize Israel are increasing 
fueled by Jew-hatred and Arab funding. In the face of this onslaught, calls to 
abandon the settlement movement and promoting the “inevitability” of another 
Palestinian state hardly seem irrational.But it’s neither “the 
occupation” nor “Israeli apartheid” (Jewish racism) that makes Jew-haters so 
angry; it’s whether Israel as a country that defines itself as Jewish should 
exist.Changing the fundamental nature of the state, as some propose, 
therefore, is understandable.If the international community refuses to 
accept Israel because of its Jewishness, then once rid of that stigma, Israel 
would presumably be a safer place to live. Their solution: Israelism, a 
non-Zionist, non-Jewish nationalism. We’ll keep Yad Vashem and give up the 
Temple Mount.If Israel’s raison d’etre is only to be a country with a 
Jewish majority and one ruled by Jews, however, who needs it? Wouldn’t Jews be 
better off living in more protected communities in host countries, especially 
those that not only allow but encourage living as Jews? Why is a Jew’s physical 
connection to Eretz Yisrael so important? Two major events during the past 20 
years have complicated this debate: (1) The rehabilitation of Yasser Arafat and 
Palestinian terrorist movements in the Oslo Accords and acceptance of another 
Palestinian state west of the Jordan River; and (2) The destruction of 25 Jewish 
communities in the Gaza Strip and Samaria, and building a barrier/wall as part 
of a plan for unilateral withdrawal intended to create a second Palestinian 
state.Their supporters hoped to kill two birds with one stone: ending 
Jewish-Zionist efforts in Judea, Samaria and Gaza would break the back of the 
growing social and political influence of religious Zionism, and, perhaps, get 
the international community off our backs. It would also reassert the political, 
social and economic hegemony of those who promote Israelism first, and Judaism 
and Zionism secondarily. Casting off the anchor of religious Zionism, especially 
those parts based in the settlement movement, Israel could sail out freely – and 
survive.Changing Israel’s Jewish character and content resonates with 
liberal egalitarianism and democracy.It would create the basis of a 
modern, secular state that would be accepted among the community of nations – 
and, one hopes, survive.Opposition to Jewish “settlements,” therefore, 
strikes at the heart of Zionist ethos, the nature and sovereignty of the state. 
Boycotts, diplomatic threats of isolation because of settlements are only the 
first stages of a war to destroy Israel.Israel’s constant fight for 
survival against Arab terrorism and increasing anti-Semitism, however, although 
worrying and perhaps inevitable, should not lead to despair.The Rav 
(Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik) wrote: “Israel is an affirmation of separatism and 
reflects the refusal of the Jewish people to be submerged into anonymity among 
the nations. Thus does Israel find itself today alone, an historical role 
indigenous to its very identity.”In a sense, our vilification is part 
our existence; it defines us as a people on the verge of geula (“redemption”) 
while embedded in galut (“exile”). Our Jewishness gets us into trouble with the 
world just as we seek their approval and acceptance.Confronted by 
enemies, we attempt to weave practical solutions with a transcendent 
vision.These issues are played out in the struggle over Jewish 
communities in Judea and Samaria. Lightning rods for hatred of Jews and things 
Jewish, “settlements” are our Zionist markers in a sea of 
uncertainty.More than two years ago, in an attempt to resolve the 
controversy, the government appointed former justice Edmund Levy and a committee 
of jurists and legal experts to examine issues of legal rights in areas of Judea 
and Samaria currently under military administration.Their authoritative 
and comprehensive report, however, has not yet been adopted by Prime Minister 
Binyamin Netanyahu.Asserting the rights of the Jewish people in its 
homeland demonstrates integrity and clarity of purpose.Accepting the 
Levy report would be an appropriate Zionist response; it is long 
overdue.
The author is a PhD historian, writer and journalist living in 
Jerusalem.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Should Jordan be Palestine?</title>
<date>23/4/2013</date>
<content>
If you’ve heard former MK Aryeh Eldad speak in the past few years 
(before recent Knesset elections, at least), you probably heard him say 
something like this: “The vast majority of Jordan is Palestinian.In
 fear of an uprising, the King of Jordan has his private airplane 
running 24 hours a day, seven days a week to whisk him away in case of a
 revolt. He should declare that Jordan is the Palestinian national 
homeland or seek asylum in London.”




Such language (there was also
 a petition and a pamphlet) is only the most recent incarnation of a 
push for “Jordan is Palestine,” a slogan many on the Right still adhere 
to.In a lengthy 1988 article on the topic for Commentary 
(rejecting “Jordan is Palestine”), Middle East scholar Daniel Pipes and 
international affairs expert Adam Garfinkle documented many proponents 
of the theory, even practical Israeli plans for potentially realizing 
it, and Pipes continues to update the article on his website with 
quotations of relevant personalities who maintain the opinion.As
 Eldad has explained, the goal of making Jordan into Palestine is to 
lessen pressure on Israel to implement the “two-state solution.” Once 
Jordan becomes Palestine, the “the Palestinians [would] lose their 
orphan status as a people without a state” and “their international 
demands will become much weaker.”The two-state solution would 
become meaningless as there would already be a Palestinian state, and 
there would therefore be much less of an argument for Israel to withdraw
 from Judea and Samaria, something Jordan-is-Palestine proponents 
rightly fear would lead to grave danger for Israel.If only it were that simple.WESTERN
 PRESSURE on Israel is not founded only upon the slogan, “two-states for
 two peoples.” Such pressure is based on geopolitical factors such as 
the millions of Arabs and Muslims who comprise multiple states, who 
control large swaths of territory and important resources, who are 
sizable minorities of European states and who oppose Israel’s existence 
without regard to western formulations.It is based in an 
unspoken anti-Semitism, the feeling that these Israelis, these Jews are 
manipulative land-grabbers who take what’s not theirs, who act like they
 can do whatever they want, when in reality, if it weren’t for outside 
support they would never survive the Arab onslaught.It’s based 
in Western guilt over imperialism and colonialism and a Jewish tendency 
to blame ourselves for the wrongdoing of others.It finds 
rationalization and open expression in liberal terminology such as 
independence, human rights, national aspirations, democracy, occupation,
 apartheid and “two-states for two peoples.” But that’s only the gift 
wrapping.So on the day Jordan is renamed “Palestine,” Israel’s 
detractors will not wake up enlightened to the falseness of the claims 
of apartheid and occupation. Western ambassadors will not turn to their 
Arab counterparts and say – “your claim is resolved, we won’t play along
 with your war against Israel any longer.”On the day Jordan 
becomes Palestine, the pressure on Israel will increase. In place of a 
state ruled by a Hashemite monarchy allied with the US, which 
controversially entered into a treaty with Israel and which cooperates 
with Israel on security matters, there would instead be a state ruled by
 a majority that believes Israel’s existence is a nakba, a catastrophe, 
committed by the most vile people; that Israel is actually their 
homeland wrongfully stolen from them. And, they would have all the tools
 of statehood – diplomatic and military, as well as a very long shared 
border – at their disposal to right that wrong and create more 
instability.Today, Jordan reportedly allows armed Israeli drones
 to use its airspace to operate in Syria, and Israeli drones are even 
monitoring the Syria-Jordan border on Jordan’s behalf. That 110 of the 
120 members of Jordan’s lower legislative house recently signed a 
petition calling for the release of a Jordanian terrorist who murdered 
seven Israeli schoolgirls while they were visiting the “Island of Peace”
 in Jordan, however – not to mention the rise of Islamists in Egypt and 
soon in Syria – is a sign of what non- Hashemite rule would look like.A
 Palestinian-ruled Jordan therefore represents a danger almost identical
 to, perhaps even greater than, a Palestinian state in Judea and 
Samaria, and no hasbarah (public diplomacy) activist or ambassador 
complaining about how the two-state solution was already implemented is 
going to change that.The “Jordan-is-Palestine” plan is thus a 
right-wing fantasy which mirrors the left-wing fantasy of the “two-state
 solution.” Both are based on the assumption that if the Palestinians 
had a state of their own, the conflict would cease, Israel would capture
 the moral high ground and the fundamental perception of the conflict 
would shift, that it would become a run-of-the mill territorial 
dispute between states, etc.The right-wing version, however, is 
more hypocritical as its proponents recognize something their leftwing 
counterparts fail to: that the creation of a Palestinian state in the 
“West Bank” would not lead to an end of the conflict or improve Israel’s
 diplomatic position. Despite this recognition, the Jordan-is- Palestine
 proponents pursue in the east bank the very logic they rightfully 
reject with regard to the west bank.There is, however, an 
important hasbarah function served by the Jordan-is-Palestine argument. 
It’s a reminder of a history that has been forgotten, ignored and 
repressed: the history of how the international community unanimously 
recognized “the historical connection of the Jewish people to Palestine”
 and “the grounds for reconstituting their national home in that 
country,” and how Judea and Samaria is not alien territory to Jews, but 
part of their homeland which was illegally conquered and ethnically 
cleansed of its Jews by Jordan in 1948 and renamed the “West Bank” in 
1950.That history undermines the narrative that Israel’s 
creation was a post-Holocaust scheme in which the Jews, with 
guilt-ridden European help, stole land which was not their own, and all 
the policy implications that narrative carries, such as the alleged need
 to establish a Palestinian state in Judea and Samaria.It’s also
 a reminder of how that policy has already failed as once before 
territory the Jews sought (“every expert knows that for a prosperous 
Palestine, an adequate territory beyond the Jordan is indispensable,” 
Herbert Samuel once said, prior to becoming High Commissioner) and which
 was part of (actually, the majority of) the land promised to them, was 
relinquished and handed over to Arabs, yet Arab aspirations were not 
satiated and violent opposition to Zionism did not abate. It also asks 
the reader: if a Palestinian-Arab state already exists, why does justice
 demand that there be another one? But hasbarah has its limits. And 
whatever the utility of Jordan-is-Palestine as a hasbarah point, it does
 not remove the danger that Jordan-is-Palestine as a peace plan would 
pose – dangers which all of the history prior and subsequent to Israel’s
 establishment point to.
The writer is a political activist and an attorney.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sinai Today: Ministers of international polarization</title>
<date>7/11/2013</date>
<content>
Fact is stranger than fiction.  Who would think that Avigdor Liberman and Maite 
Nkaona-Mashabane share so much in common? Liberman, Israel’s former foreign 
minister, and Nkoana-Mashabane, South Africa’s minister of international 
relations, both recently brought their governments and proud countries into 
disrepute and further polarized divided societies, through their simplistic, 
ignorant and inflammatory caricatures of complex political and moral 
issues.In response to Nkoana-Mashabane’s statement that South Africa 
would continue to curtail its diplomatic relations with the Israeli government, 
Liberman lashed out, saying, “The same government that just one year ago, its 
police indiscriminately shot and killed 34 miners because they ‘dared’ to 
strike... is concerned about what is happening to the Palestinians thousands of 
kilometers away.”




He went on to say, “The South African government is 
creating an anti-Israel and anti- Semitic atmosphere, which will result in 
pogroms against the country’s Jews. I call on all the Jews still living there to 
emigrate to Israel as soon as possible, before it is too 
late.”Liberman’s bombastic comments betray profound ignorance of South 
Africa. The ethos of the new South Africa – stated, practiced and celebrated – 
is unity in diversity.The South African Constitution, its government and 
indeed the very spirit of the society are all firmly rooted in the equality of 
all human beings, irrespective of race, religion or beliefs, affording all 
citizens of the country the freedom and dignity to be who they 
are.Numerous studies have objectively verified that, proportionately, 
South Africa has one of the lowest rates of anti-Semitic incidents of any 
country in the world. It is, therefore, grotesquely false and deeply insulting 
to accuse South Africans of harboring genocidal anti-Semitic 
tendencies.The South African Jewish community lives and thrives as a 
dynamic, contributing part of society, proudly committed to its religious 
heritage and values, to its Zionism and to its moral duties as good citizens 
intimately involved in the rebuilding a society recovering from 
apartheid.All South Africans who lived through the very painful events 
of the Marikana shootings know the deep complexities of that incident. At the 
time, I was part of a delegation of religious leaders who went to meet with the 
mine’s management and miners to understand and assist with the volatile and 
tragic situation.An independent judicial inquiry is under way to 
determine what happened at Marikana. The findings have not yet been made, and 
for Liberman to pronounce his verdict on such a complex situation is absurd. 
South Africa has laws and policies which protect, and indeed encourage, 
industrial action. Collective bargaining and worker strikes are a part of daily 
life in the country. To simplistically describe it as “the South African 
government shooting people who dared to strike” is a statement of monstrous 
ignorance – matched only by Nkoana-Mashabane’s one-sided condemnation of 
Israel.Her libelous accusation that Israel is guilty of apartheid is a 
brutish caricature which is as grotesquely false as Liberman’s accusing South 
Africans of widespread genocidal anti-Semitism and the willful shooting of 
striking workers. Nkoana-Mashabane’s prejudiced and thoughtless characterization 
of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict as having comparison to the South African 
experience is based on bizarre distortions of the truth.In the State of 
Israel, all citizens, Jew and Arab alike, are equal before the law. Israel has 
none of the apartheid legislative machinery designed to discriminate against and 
separate people. It has no Population and Registration Act, no Group Areas Act, 
no Mixed Marriages and Immorality Act, no Separate Representation of Voters Act, 
no Separate Amenities Act, no pass laws or any other of the myriad apartheid 
laws. On the contrary – Israel is a vibrant, liberal democracy which accords 
full political, civil and other human rights to all, including its one million 
plus Arab citizens, many of whom hold positions of authority in all areas of 
public life across the Jewish state. There are Arab cabinet ministers, Arab 
Knesset members and Arab judges at every level of the judiciary, the Supreme 
Court included.There is, however, a bitter dispute on how to establish a 
Palestinian state in the areas of the West Bank and Gaza, which, before they 
were under Israel’s jurisdiction, were Jordanian and Egyptian territory, 
respectively.The Arab/Israeli conflict regarding the future of these 
territories and other issues is more than a century old, and is rooted in deep 
historical, religious and political forces, many of which go back thousands of 
years.These negotiations have been tortuous and protracted and currently 
are in a very fragile state. The only hope for peace is a balanced and 
sophisticated approach by world leaders of intellectual and moral 
substance.Nkoana-Mashabane’s divisive approach puts her at odds with 
many of her fellow citizens, who prefer policies which favor peace.In an 
open letter, religious leaders representing more than 10 million South Africans 
called on politicians not to take sides in the Palestinian/Israeli conflict, 
saying: “South Africa has no just cause for choosing sides.We should 
support both sides in their struggle for a peaceful solution. When South 
Africa’s ruling party chooses sides in this bitter conflict, our country loses 
the credibility to be a voice for peace between the parties, and only the agenda 
of conflict is served.”Nkoana-Mashabane and Liberman, through their 
inflammatory statements and grotesque caricatures of countries they do not 
understand, have exacerbated the tensions in both of their societies, and have 
made achieving peace even more difficult in a world which is filled with enemies 
of reconciliation.
South Africa and Israel are both proud, vibrant, 
thriving democracies. Both countries deserve better. The cause of peace deserves 
better.The writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa’s father and my father</title>
<date>12/12/2013</date>
<content>
In the book of Deuteronomy (16:20), we are commanded: Justice, justice you shall 
pursue.Our father, Lazer (Laz) Sidelsky (I have two siblings named Colin 
and Ruth) pursued the law, and if ever there was a man who pursued the justice 
required by the law, it was our father. But it was more than the law that he 
pursued – it was mercy, compassion and kindness, which is in the true spirit of 
the law.




Throughout his life, our father was a man who gave tzedaka – 
charity, and devoted himself to gemilut hassadim – acts of loving kindness. This 
was exemplified in his legal practice – where he related to clients not just as 
clients, but as human beings to whom he gave of the best of his sage advice, 
help and friendship.Lazer Sidelsky passed away on Shavuot – the Feast of 
Weeks – the day of King David’s birth and death. Lazer could be compared to King 
David’s forefather Boaz, a man who continuously carried out deeds of loving 
kindness.When Boaz married Ruth, little did he think that out of this 
union one of their descendants would be David, king of Israel.In a 
similar vein, when Lazer Sidelsky admitted the young Nelson Mandela to his law 
firm to enable him to serve his articles, an action that no other white law firm 
was prepared to take, little did he think that Mandela would rise to be the 
president of the Republic of South Africa.Our mother, Goldie Blume 
Sidelsky, throughout her life fulfilled the verse of Proverbs: A virtuous woman 
is a crown to her husband.When it came to kind deeds, Goldie excelled in 
her benevolence and consideration for others – Jews and Gentiles.She was 
the Commandant of the first Jewish detachment in the S.A. Red Cross (Voluntary 
Aid Detachment No 57), administering first aid and care for many people. She 
took on voluntary work providing occupational therapy for people with special 
needs.When her husband, Lazer, in later years opened a law practice by 
himself, Goldie worked for him in the office supporting him as a loving wife and 
personal assistant.Nelson Mandela, in his autobiography Long Walk To 
Freedom, wrote that on Walter Sisulu’s recommendation, Lazer Sidelsky had agreed 
to take him on as a clerk while he completed his BA degree.The firm of 
Witkin, Sidelsky and Eidelman, one of the largest law firms in the city of 
Johannesburg, had a client base of blacks as well as whites.Mandela 
wrote, “The law firm was more liberal than most. It was a Jewish firm, and in my 
experience I have found Jews to be more broad-minded than most whites on issues 
of race and politics, perhaps because they themselves have historically been 
victims of prejudice.The fact that Lazer Sidelsky, one of the firm’s 
partners, would take on a young African as an articled clerk – something almost 
unheard of in those days – was evidence of that liberalism.Mr. Sidelsky, 
whom I came to respect greatly and who treated me with enormous kindness, was 
involved in African education, donating money and time to African schools. He 
took a genuine interest in my welfare and future, preaching the value and 
importance of education – for me individually and for Africans in general. Only 
mass education, he used to say, would free my people, arguing that an educated 
man could not be oppressed, because he could think for himself.”Nelson 
Mandela emulated Joseph in the Bible. We read in Genesis (45:4-8), “And Joseph 
said to his brethren: ‘Come near to me, I pray you.’ And they came near and he 
said: ‘I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. And now, be not 
grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that you sold me hither; for God did send me 
before you to preserve life. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God; 
and he has made me a father to pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and ruler 
over all the land of Egypt.’” Later, we read in Genesis 50:15, “And when 
Joseph’s brothers saw that their father was dead....” Rabbi Yitzhak, one of the 
sages of the Midrash, asks, What did they see? They saw Joseph when he returned 
from burying his father, going and looking into the pit (where they had 
previously cast him); but he Joseph only had heavenly thoughts. He said to 
himself: “How many wonders did the Holy One, blessed be He, perform for my 
benefit – He saved me from the pit. But his brothers didn’t know what he was 
thinking in his heart and said: “It may be that Joseph will hate 
us.”Nechama Leibowitz, in her commentary on the Pentateuch, wrote: “From 
the moment that Jacob and his sons came to Egypt, Joseph is presented not only 
as a son who honors his father, but as a faithful brother who used the power and 
authority that had been given him to serve and not to dominate. Beginning with 
his great speech to his brothers upon informing them of his spirit of 
forgiveness and peace and love, to this taking care of his family, we do not see 
him bearing a grudge or wishing to take revenge.This epitomizes 
Mandela.He was sentenced by the Supreme Court to life imprisonment and 
served 27 years in jail, most of them on Robben Island. Not one member of the 
apartheid governments of South Africa could ever have imagined Mandela one day 
becoming president of South Africa.He and all the black people of South 
Africa had been victims of state persecution and human rights abuses. In April 
1994, the Mandela-led African National Congress won South Africa’s first 
elections by universal suffrage and on May 10, he was sworn in as president of 
the country’s first multi-ethnic government. In 1995, he established the Truth 
and Reconciliation Commission.Instead of taking revenge upon the white 
oppressors of the blacks of South Africa, Mandela wanted to make his country a 
symbol of reconciliation.Mandela said gently, “The Rainbow Nation starts 
here. Reconciliation starts here.”When Alon Liel, the former 
Israeli ambassador to South Africa, first visited Lazer Sidelsky in his home in 
Johannesburg, he mentioned that Mandela had asked him whether he had met his 
boss.“Who?” replied Liel. “F.W.de Klerk?” “No!” said Mandela 
taken aback. “Not de Klerk – my boss, my only boss – Mr. Lazer Sidelsky!” Years 
later, Sidelsky attended a dinner in honor of “Newsmaker of the 
Decade.”He was introduced by the MC, Time Modise, as “Madiba’s 
ex-boss.”When Mandela heard this he stood up and exclaimed, “My boss is 
here, my boss is here” and promptly walked over to where Sidelsky was 
sitting.Sidelsky began to stand up, but Mandela gently placed his hand 
on his friend’s shoulder and said, “You don’t stand up for me, I stand up for 
you.”The two men embraced to a standing ovation of nearly a thousand 
people.The writer is a rabbi who lives with his wife, Naomi, in 
Jerusalem’s Har Nof neighborhood.
This article was adapted from his book, 
Mandela’s Boss (Mazo Publishers, Jerusalem 2011), which he co-authored with his 
brother, Colin Sidelsky.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Targeting KKL-JNF</title>
<date>10/7/2013</date>
<content>
There appears to be a new international campaign to delegitimize the Keren 
Kayemeth LeIsrael-Jewish National Fund. All those who care about the future of 
the largest, oldest environmental organization in Israel – and the Jewish state 
itself – should take it seriously.Army Radio correspondent Ilil Shahar 
reported this week that the latest campaign was triggered by KKL-JNF’s plans to 
plant a forest near al-Arakib, a Beduin village in the Negev. Human rights 
organizations immediately jumped on the anti-Israel bandwagon and assailed 
KKL-JNF’s alleged seizure of land that belonged to the village – something JNF 
categorically denies.




Shahar played a video that had been posted on 
YouTube in which an Arab man who lives in a nearby village says “I don’t know if 
you know what Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael is, but it’s one of the racist 
organizations in Israel, grabbing land from Palestinian refugees.”She 
added that leftist groups had now taken their protest a step further by 
appealing directly to foreign governments, including Germany, Canada and 
Britain, to take KKL-JNF off their lists of nonprofit organizations eligible to 
receive donations.Army Radio’s Razi Barkai on Tuesday interviewed KKL-JNF 
emissaries in Toronto, Ilan Pilo, and Paris, Reuven Na’amat, who corroborated the report, and warned of a growing campaign to delegitimize the organization in 
Canada and France.Na’amat said that as the Muslim community in France 
strengthened day by day, so did its attempts to stop funding to KKL-JNF and 
Israel.“In the last two years, we have been facing a growing campaign by 
Palestinian Arabs against Keren Kayemeth,” Na’amat said. “Recently, this 
campaign has included serious threats against our activists, against 
us.”Pilo said the campaign reached a climax in Toronto last month during a large 
event KKL-JNF had arranged to honor the IDF, in the presence of Israeli war hero 
former public security minister Avigdor Kahalani. “We encountered many negative 
responses, a demonstration against the event and we had to institute a very high 
security alert,” Pilo said.Dr. Meir Margalit, a Jerusalem city councilor 
from the left-wing Meretz party, made it clear that he sided with KKL-JNF’s 
detractors and opposed its “expropriation of Arab lands.”“JNF did good 
things in the good old days,” Margalit said. “The problem is that today KKL-JNF 
[workers] have become the technocrats of the occupation, and in one way or 
another are serving the Right in the name of the redemption of 
land.”Perhaps the most harmful PR blow came when the previous South 
African ambassador to Israel, Ismail Coovadia, recently rejected the traditional 
gift certificate of 18 trees planted in his name by KKL-JNF.“The JNF has 
planted the so-called Ambassadors’ Forest on land violently seized from the 
Beduin village of al-Arakib,” he wrote, calling his tree certificate “nothing 
less than an offense to my dignity and integrity.”Such assaults against 
KKL-JNF are aimed at the very heart of the Jewish state. They generally portray 
Israel as “an apartheid state” and are disguised as politically correct attacks 
on behalf of the Palestinians against Israel’s “occupation” of Arab 
land.These attacks are part of the global campaign by the Boycott, 
Divestment and Sanctions Movement. BDS seeks to isolate Israel, ostensibly to 
punish it for not enabling the establishment of a Palestinian state along 
pre-1967 lines.KKL-JNF has come under fire in social networks, 
conventional media and public protests. But repeating lies does not make them 
true. KKL-JNF plants trees only inside pre-1967 lines in accordance with the 
law.Sources in KKL-JNF told The Jerusalem Post that the organization has 
never evicted a person from his or her land nor has it planted a single tree on 
land that does not belong to it or to the state.The sources also noted 
that as an environmental organization, KKL-JNF dedicates much of its work toward 
environmental development and forestry for the benefit of all citizens of 
Israel, including the Beduin. KKL-JNF has, inter alia, established Wadi Atir, a 
farm for ecological agriculture and tourism, from which many Beduin are able to 
create a sustainable livelihood.
We should not be fooled by those using 
the guise of “defenders of human rights” to attack KKL-JNF. They have another 
agenda; their target is Israel itself. And their arguments should be countered 
with one word: False!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>TERRA INCOGNITA: Segregating fact and fiction</title>
<date>5/3/2013</date>
<content>
The Twainist witticism of the “lie traveling halfway round the world while the 
truth puts on its socks” was never more true than with regard to this week’s 
story about Israel inaugurating “segregated bus lines.”This story began 
with Israeli media reporting Sunday: “Israel introduces ‘Palestinian only’ bus 
lines, following complaints from Jewish settlers” (Chaim Levinson, Haaretz). The 
mainstream newspaper Yediot Aharonot reported on “Separate but equal bus lines?” 
the next day.




The foreign media took its cue from the Israeli reports – 
in many cases, such as at Al Jazeera, the Israeli reports were re-printed almost 
verbatim.At the Washington Post, Caitlin Dewey wrote, “Starting today 
Palestinians travelling from the West Bank into Israel have their own bus 
lines.” She claimed that “according to Haaretz, the two new non-mandatory public 
bus lines will start from checkpoints and run north toward Tel Aviv.”The 
Times in London claimed “‘Apartheid’ anger as Israel starts separate bus lines 
in West Bank.’” The ‘Lede’ blog at the New York Times claimed: “Israelis divided 
over separate bus lines for Arabs and Jews in occupied West Bank.” According to 
the author the Transportation Ministry introduced the bus service for “30,000 
Palestinians who live under Israeli military occupation in the West Bank and 
commute to work daily in Israel: two new bus lines ‘designated’ for their 
use.”At Australia’s The National, the article explained, “It is the 
first time that Israel has, in effect, introduced Palestinian-only buses in the 
West Bank since taking over the territory in...1967.”Daily 
Banter writer Ben Cohen claimed that “starting today, certain buses running from 
the West Bank into central Israel will have separate lines for Jews and Arabs,” 
and Salon.com reiterated, “Certain buses for West Bank commuters will have 
segregated lines.”The media hype was perfectly scripted to fit the 
narrative that is every Israeli leftist’s dark fantasy and every anti-Israel 
activist’s dream: Apartheid and the “Old South” alive in well in the Holy 
Land.Philip Weiss at the blog Mondoweiss noted, “The story reminds us of 
the Jim Crow South, and a heroic chapter of American history.” Meretz leader 
Zahava Gal-On claimed: “Separation on buses based on ethnicity was customary in 
the past in racist regimes around the world.” A Peace Now spokesman claimed: “A 
Palestinian Rosa Parks is needed to insist upon sitting on Jewish bus 
lines.”EVERY SINGLE one of these stories about the “segregated 
Palestinian only” bus lines was based on ignorance of the actual situation, and 
most of the stories were brimming with inaccuracies, to a degree bordering on 
unethical reporting. What is interesting is that the source for almost all the 
information in these reports was the original two Israeli reports.The 
assumption is that Israeli sources, being on the scene, report the news 
accurately. However the reality is that the two initial reports in the Israeli 
press were crafted to provide a manipulative narrative, to fit an 
agenda.Why did Yediot title its article “Separate but equal”? No one at 
the Transportation Ministry or the bus company suggested that these lines were 
supposed to be separate or equal. In fact the ministry and company categorically 
denied that there was any directive saying Palestinians must take certain buses: 
“the Ministry of Transport is not authorized to prevent any passenger from using 
public transport services.”The website of the bus company, Ofakim, shows 
that the No. 211 bus route begins near Kalkilya and travels to Tel Aviv with 
stops in Petah Tikvah, Bnei Brak and elsewhere. It doesn’t indicate that it is a 
“Palestinian only” bus or that Jews may not ride it. Ofakim claimed “We are not 
allowed to refuse service and we will not order anyone to get off the 
bus.”Why did the press not title the articles “New buses servicing 
Kalkilya prompt accusations of segregation”? This is, after all, the real 
story.The new bus lines were not inaugurated, as some reports claimed, 
to serve all the Palestinians in the West Bank, or “30,000” workers (in fact the 
new lines serve around 1,300 people daily). They were created only to serve the 
needs of workers who come from the area of Kalkilya and usually used buses that 
serve the Jewish communities in Samaria. This is a major corridor for Jews and 
Arabs who commute to Gush Dan to work.Nothing clearly prevents Jews from 
waiting for bus No.
211, one of the new lines, along with the Arab 
workers, and nothing obvious prevents Arabs from commuting to a bus stop near a 
large Jewish community, to take a bus serving Ariel for instance. There is no 
“segregation,” no “separate but equal.” No one is “sitting at the 
back.”MANY IN Israel’s media purposely exaggerated the issue to bring 
attention to themselves in the international spotlight. They know foreigners 
presuppose Israelis actually know more about Israel than others, and in 
manipulating this issue the Israeli press abused the trust put it in it by 
legitimate news organizations that rely on it for information.Like an 
advertising company creating slogans, some in Israel’s media will create catch 
phrases like “Palestinian only buses” so that they will be picked up abroad; 
Israel’s news organizations can then put the very phrase they invented in 
quotes, as if it were a term referring to a real phenomenon. This is what 
happened in Haaretz, where the editorial bashed the “new routes to racism” and 
an op-ed by Aeyal Gross claimed the country was “on the bus to Israeli 
apartheid.”Israelis, primarily on the Left, wallow in the need for 
“another Rose Parks.” This is part of a culture that wants to relive the 1960s 
and, absent of actual heroes today, invents “modern-day Rosa Parks” to fulfill 
the dream of being modern “freedom riders” (last year “Rosa Parks” was also 
invented, to oppose the haredi bus lines’ discrimination against women). This is 
why “Plessey v. Ferguson” is the new catch-word in Israel in referring to the 
buses.Tin-pot intellectuals are waxing about how 2013 is a repetition of 
1896, when the US Supreme Court ruled that “separate but equal” was acceptable. 
Ignoring the fact that there is no equal and there is no separate, the pundits 
pretend to “educate” the Israeli public about this issue. Now people can be 
heard in the streets talking about “Plessy,” and yet no one knows the least bit 
about the actual case, just as they don’t know the least bit about bus lines 210 
and 211.THE MOST biting aspect of the current demagoguery is that it 
ignores a fundamental hypocrisy. Israel’s coffee-house smarties whine about the 
“segregated buses” without wondering just who are these 30,000 Palestinian 
workers who wait in lines at 4 a.m. to board the “segregated” bus to Tel 
Aviv.Aren’t they the Palestinians who built the towers in Ramat Aviv for 
some of the very same people who object so strongly to the buses? The people who 
talk about “Rosa Parks” don’t want an actual boycott by the Palestinians, as 
happened in the Montgomery Bus Boycott that Rosa engendered in 1955 – because 
then there would be no one to do the dishes in the restaurant.They 
demand that Israel’s public buses not serve the Palestinian population, deriding 
any service as “apartheid,” in order to make the Palestinian workers’ lives as 
hard as they can be; the workers must pay three times more to ride “shared 
taxis” to Tel Aviv.That is the brutal reality: Palestinian workers are 
underserved by their employers in Israel. Construction companies don’t provide 
vans to go pick them up in Kalkilya or Hebron, instead the workers get up at 3 
a.m., or even sleep at relatives’ houses, to catch the few buses and “pirate 
vans” that help get them to work. It is a situation rife with abuse of the poor 
and vulnerable, a system that buses 210 and 211 were supposed to help 
alleviate.Likewise, there is no evidence that the Israeli public so 
angered about “segregated” buses has ever demanded that its public bus system 
serve Palestinians or even Israeli-Arabs in Israel. There are few public buses 
in Israel that serve the Arab community except in mixed cities (Jaffa, Haifa, 
Ramla and Lod). The public and press decry segregation when it can point fingers 
at two bus lines, but doesn’t ask questions about the routes of lines throughout 
the country, many of which manifestly discriminate against large Arab locales, 
such as Umm el-Fahm, Nazareth and Rahat.Has anyone objected to this 
discrimination, that has been the pattern for 65 years? Has anyone wondered why 
east Jerusalem’s bus station serves only Arab communities in the West Bank while 
west Jerusalem’s bus station services Jewish ones? Two communities might be side 
by side, but the way to get to them is separated by miles.
Yet, that is 
not segregation, not separate but equal. No Rosa Parks required. Why? Because a 
challenge to that system might require an entire re-ordering of all the public 
buses in Israel. Instead, it is easier to get rid of lines 210 and 211, the 
“apartheid” lines, because they dared to serve Arab workers and provide them 
with a cheap way get to work.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The apartheid libel</title>
<date>12/3/2013</date>
<content>
Israel Apartheid Week kicked off this year in Europe on February 25 and runs through March 17 in South Africa. Events include mock checkpoints, replicas of the security barrier, the screening of documentary films critical of Israel and meetings with the “victims” of the “occupation.”Organizers are united by their belief that the situation in the West Bank is comparable to the systematic racial segregation and discrimination that South Africa’s white minority instituted against the black majority.




However, as noted by Gideon Shimoni – the former head of the Hebrew University’s Institute of Contemporary Jewry, who was born and raised in Johannesburg – the term “apartheid” has become “a code word that is not being used to analyze a sociopolitical phenomenon, but rather as a rhetorical weapon... to demonize and excoriate the State of Israel, a political entity that defines itself as Jewish and democratic.”Here is why Shimoni’s observation is correct: • Israel has never said it intends to keep the West Bank forever.Opinion polls have consistently shown that a majority of Israelis support reaching a compromise with the Palestinians that would end the century-old conflict between the peoples. Politicians are keenly aware of this.In his June 2009 Bar-Ilan speech, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu supported a two-state solution.Addressing a joint session of the US Congress in 2011, Netanyahu stressed Israel’s willingness to take significant risks for peace and concede land resonating with historical significance for Jews. He went on to say that “some [Israeli] settlements will end up beyond Israel’s borders,” and that “with creativity and with goodwill, a solution [for Jerusalem] can be found.”Israel has more than once offered the Palestinians comprehensive peace plans, which they have rejected.In 2008, then-prime minister Ehud Olmert offered Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas a peace offer based on an Israeli return to the pre-1967 lines in 93 percent of the West Bank and proposed a 5.5% land swap inside the Green Line to compensate for settlement blocs that would remain in the West Bank.He also offered to share Jerusalem with the Palestinians and place the Holy Basin under the rule of five different states that would ensure access to all the faiths, as is the situation now. Abbas never responded to Olmert’s offer.In 2000, then-prime minister Ehud Barak offered PLO chairman Yasser Arafat a similar peace offer, that was also rejected.• The present legal and political situation for Palestinians is not comparable to apartheid. The majority of Palestinians in the West Bank reside in areas administered by the PA, where Palestinian law applies. Palestinians living under direct Israeli control or those arrested for security offenses fall under Israeli military law, based on British and Jordanian precedents.All Palestinians are endowed with the right to appeal directly to the Supreme Court. Palestinian elections were supposed to take place in January 2010, but have been delayed due to the inability of the Fatah leadership in the West Bank and the Hamas government in Gaza to end their internal disputes.Palestinians are also to blame for delaying a two-state solution.Besides repeatedly rejecting Israeli peace proposals, Palestinians voted in 2006 for Hamas, a terrorist organization that is dedicated to Israel’s destruction and that has transformed the Gaza Strip into an Islamic terrorist state. Both Hamas and the PA regularly engage in incitement against Israel.The Palestinian Authority’s recently adopted tactic of demanding a settlement freeze as a precondition for negotiations is self-defeating, since the best way to stop Jewish settlements in land designated for a Palestinian state is through direct negotiations on borders.
The conflict between Palestinians and Israelis should ultimately be solved via the creation of two states – a Jewish state and a Palestinian state living side by side in mutual recognition, security and peace. Equating the present situation with South Africa’s former apartheid regime lacks intellectual honesty and does nothing to advance the cause of peace.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Balad bill</title>
<date>15/6/2013</date>
<content>
Balad’s three MKs – Jamal Zahalka, Haneen Zoabi (who participated in the 2010 
Mavi Marmara provocation) and Basel Ghattas – have sponsored a bill that seeks 
to define Israel’s Arab minority as an autonomous national unit, an “indigenous 
nation” as distinct from “immigrant groupings who are slated for 
integration.”Balad aims to include its bill in Israel’s set of Basic 
Laws, which in effect comprises a quasi-constitution.




In practical terms 
Balad calls for a collective social and cultural autonomy within the pre-1967 
lines. Indisputably, down the road, this is a separatist formulation geared to 
lay the ground for secession from Israel proper.Balad’s argumentation is 
blatantly confrontational. Its bill states that Israeli Arabs “had well preceded 
the establishment of Israel in their national cohesion and identity” and that 
they therefore consider themselves “as this country’s native 
population.”Today, the law guarantees civil rights on an individual 
basis but not in the framework of a collective national autonomy.That 
Arab national autonomy, Balad’s bill further stipulates, will be granted the 
right to set up its own national institutions as well as the right to national 
representation in all state institutions. Israel is required to acknowledge “the 
special link between the Arab national minority in Israel to the Palestinian 
nation and all other Arab nationalities.”All this is fully in keeping 
with Balad’s platform since Azmi Bishara established the party in 1995. Bishara 
fled Israel in 2007 following accusations of espionage for Hezbollah during the 
Second Lebanon War.Balad always advocated divorcing Israel from its 
Jewish identity; ending the special status of the Jewish Agency and the Jewish 
National Fund; abrogating the Law of Return for Jews, while allowing an 
unlimited influx into Israel of millions of so-called Arab refugees.The 
fact that this stands no chance of adoption in the Knesset plenum is beside the 
point. What counts is that this mindset is increasingly prevalent in Israel’s 
Arab sector, that it is hardly challenged there and is fast becoming 
near-consensus.Already the “proposed constitution” put forth in 2007 by 
Adala, an organization purportedly aiming to uphold rights of Israel’s Arab 
citizens, demanded that within-the- Green-Line Israel no longer constitute a 
Jewish state; that Israel’s Law of Return be abolished; that Israel’s national 
anthem, flag and emblem be changed; that Israel ratify the Arab “right of 
return”; that “uprooted” Israeli-Arabs resettle their “confiscated” lands; and 
much more.In their own position papers the Mossawa Advocacy Center for 
Arab Citizens in Israel and the Higher Arab Monitoring Committee likewise argued 
for unconditional administrative Arab-sector autonomy, separate representation 
for Israeli-Arabs in international organizations, veto power on major 
legislative/executive decisions, the elimination of Jewish state symbols and an 
overhaul of immigration policy.There are barely any discernible 
differences between the aforementioned and the “Future Vision for Palestinian 
Arabs in Israel,” prepared by the National Committee of Arab Mayors in Israel, 
and the “Haifa Covenant,” mostly composed by the Mada el-Carmel Arab Center for 
Applied Social Research.While all this challenges Israel’s sovereignty, 
it more than anything does a colossal disservice to the country’s Arab 
population. Israeli Arabs’ inherent interests hinge on integration and not 
segregation – even if it is voluntary and belligerent segregation, as Balad in 
effect proposes.Ironically, Balad’s own headliner Zahalka passes up no 
opportunity to rail against Israel’s “apartheid regime.”Arab politicians 
like him, who exploit Israeli democracy to undermine Israel, do not further the 
cause of coexistence.They intentionally and cynically do the reverse. 
They create a vicious cycle whereby they radicalize the Arab sector, turn 
pugnacious propaganda into a vote-getting ploy and thereby generate further 
radicalization.This is the last thing this country’s Arabs 
need.Looking around them at the mayhem and severe dysfunction in 
neighboring states, they can surely conclude that their lot is vastly superior 
to that of their brethren across our borders.
They live in the Middle 
East’s freest and most thriving state. Disdainfully deprecating and 
delegitimizing it, while promulgating inflammatory agendas for its obliteration, 
is hardly conducive to building bridges. That should be elementary for the 
Arab-Israeli political leadership that persistently churns out deliberate 
provocations.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The coming canard: ‘Constructive unilateralism’</title>
<date>19/4/2013</date>
<content>
Fanaticism consists in redoubling your effort when you have forgotten your aim.– George Santayana I realize some might find the tone of this article overly acerbic – even abrasive.But I make little apology for this.




I was compelled to write it by a profound sense of exasperation.It articulates a feeling of deep despair, and reflects a sentiment of disbelief, disillusionment and disappointment at the conduct of prominent public figures, which is difficult to characterize, without recourse to epithets such as “moronic” and “myopic” – while less charitable souls might venture the use of “maniacal” or “malevolent.”Curiouser and curiouser It is becoming increasing difficult to avoid recognition of the fact that any prospect of a negotiated two-state-solution (TSS) is receding into oblivion.However, as reluctant realization of the increasingly undeniable and inevitable failure of their favored, but fundamentally flawed, formula begins to dawn on even the most hitherto- enthusiastic two-staters, their responses wax evermore hysterical, harebrained and hallucinatory.Unchastened by the misery and mayhem wrought by attempts to promote TSS-initiatives, desperate advocates of political appeasement and territorial retreat, which comprise the doctrinal underpinnings of such initiatives, are energetically promoting their latest – and loopiest – “initiative.”True, it seems that the bitter realization has set in that there is no Palestinian negotiating partner with the desire and/or the ability to deliver a durable peace accord. As prominent and persistent two-stater Ami Ayalon (former commander of the navy and the Shin Bet) conceded in an interview with Charlie Rose (August 8, 2012): “We have to accept [something which] if you had asked me two years ago I would not [have] accepted... there is no Palestinians partner...”Yet, despite the acknowledged disproof of the major tenet buttressing their political thesis, obsessive two-staters have begun to conjure up a notion – one that could have come straight from the make-believe world of Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. This is the concept of “Peace without partners.” No kidding You can almost hear Alice’s sigh of exasperation: “It would be so nice if something would make sense for a change.”But wait, things get curiouser and curiouser.Plumbing new depths of absurdity? One of the first symptoms of this disturbing intellectual malaise appeared in the international media a year ago, in the form of a New York Times opinion piece titled – yes, you guessed it – “Peace without partners.”Written by a trio of well-known Israelis – Ayalon, Orni Petruschka, a successful hi-tech entrepreneur) and Gilead Sher (formerly prime minister Ehud Barak’s chief of staff) – and almost immediately endorsed by Tom Friedman (itself a reason for concern), the article plumbed, new depths of absurdity.Sound excessively harsh? Judge for yourself.The authors (all founders of an organization known as Blue and White Future (B&WF), whose stated objectives include endeavoring to “resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on the basis of a ‘two states for two peoples’ solution”), acknowledge: “We recognize that a comprehensive peace agreement is unattainable right now... It now seems highly unlikely that the two sides will return to negotiations...”Yet, undaunted by recalcitrant realities, the intrepid trio nevertheless urges: “Israel can and must take constructive [unilateral] steps to advance the reality of two states based on the 1967 borders...regardless of whether Palestinian leaders have agreed to accept it.”In response, I wrote a column, titled “Stupidity on steroids” (May 24, 2012), remarking: “...the very oxymoronic nature of the title, “Peace without Partners,” testifies to the nonsensical nature of its content, which not only resurrects the failed formula of unilateral retreat but suggests a new one of “unilateral peace,” whatever that might mean...”Land for nada As we shall soon see, the notion of unilateralism, misleadingly designated “constructive,” comprises a radical departure from – and from Israel’s point of view, degradation of – the rationale underpinning the familiar formula of “land-for-peace.”In the past, when they still clung to the illusion that “there was someone to talk to,” the logic driving the TSS paradigm was that in exchange for transferring territory to Palestinians, Israel would receive some sort of negotiated quid pro quo from the Palestinians in the form of a mutual peace – or at least, non-belligerency – accord.This principle has now been entirely jettisoned.The concept being seriously proposed and aggressively promoted is no longer one of “land-for-peace” but in effect “land-for-nothing” – naught, nada, zilch, zero...In the light of the consequences of previous experience with unilateral initiatives, it is difficult to overstate the gravity of this initiative, were it to gather sufficient momentum to impact Israeli policy-makers.In fairness to its endorsers, they do attempt to argue that these initiatives are qualitatively different from those undertaken in the past. However, it requires little analytical ability to demonstrate that, if anything, this makes the proposal even more preposterous and perilous.It is essential to expose just how reckless and ridiculous it is, before any such regrettable outcomes materialize – especially in view of the energetic efforts being made of late to mobilize support for it.Elements of “constructive unilateralism” This notion of “constructive unilateralism” is being bandied about with increasing frequency in the mainstream press both in Israel and abroad. In recent months it has been the topic of discussion in both the electronic and printed media – in radio and TV interviews, in opinion columns and in letters to the editor, including in the Los Angeles Times, Foreign Policy and The Washington Post to name but a few.As will soon become clear, the cross-organizational affiliation of many of the authors/interviewees is both intriguing and significant.The elements of this proposed “constructive unilateralism” appear repeatedly in several of the previously mentioned media items, but arguably the most concise articulation thereof is to be found in a Foreign Policy article (March 18), headlined “Unilateral Peace: It’s time for Israel to move toward a two-state solution, alone if necessary,” authored by Maj.- Gen. (res.) Amos Yadlin and Gilead Sher.Yadlin was credited as former chief of Israeli Military Intelligence and director of Israel’s Institute for National Security Studies, and Sher as co-chairman of B&WF, a senior research fellow at the INSS.In the article, Yadlin and Sher set out the elements comprising “constructive unilateralism”: “We suggest a new series of unilateral steps towards disengagement that have a better chance of succeeding [than the 2005 Gaza disengagement].“First, Israel should renounce its sovereignty claims over areas east of the security fence... Second, it should end all settlement construction east of the fence.And third, Israel should enact a voluntary settlement evacuation and compensation law.”Elements (cont.) They continue: “Israel should coordinate these moves – particularly those related to security – with the United States, the international community and the PA...The Jordan Valley and possibly other strategic locations should provisionally remain in Israeli hands to prevent the smuggling of weapons... and assure Israel’s security,” leaving the reader to puzzle over what the meaning of “coordinated unilateralism” is and what to do if others decline such “coordination.”On this issue Sher, in an earlier op-ed, “Time has come for 2 states,” (January 29) is a little more assertive, if no less fanciful: “The IDF will remain in the territory until the security responsibility will be handed over to an element that is acceptable to us (we learned this lesson in the aftermath of the Gaza disengagement of 2005).” This position which closely parallels views set out in the previously cited Ayalon et al. New York Times piece: “...the Israeli Army would remain in the West Bank until the conflict was officially resolved with a final-status agreement.”So there you have it – the elements of the new TSS-paradigm driven by “constructive unilateralism”: • A voluntary forgoing of Israeli claims to sovereignty over virtually all of Judea and Samaria while maintaining the deployment of the IDF – thus instantly transforming “disputed” territories into unequivocally “occupied” ones.• An initiative to remove all Jewish presence east of the security barrier, either by financial inducement, economic deprivation or eventual physical abandonment.A mega-South Lebanon Clearly, under these conditions any hope that “the conflict [will] be officially resolved with a final-status agreement” is detached from reality. For why should the Palestinians offer any quid pro quo to negotiate the withdrawal of the IDF when Israel has a priori conceded sovereignty to them and ceased all construction of the settlements, condemning them to inevitable decay and disintegration? Indeed, what would be the justification for any further IDF deployment in the sovereign territory of others – especially as that deployment itself is likely to be cited as the major grievance precipitating the belligerency between the sides? Little imagination is required to comprehend the catastrophic consequences should such a policy fail in inducing/coercing the Jewish residents to evacuate. For by voluntarily voiding its claims to any affinity with the land, Israel will have deemed itself indelibly an “occupier” and all settlements “illegal,” since it would have no power to legalize their existence.But even if it were to succeed, the prospects are scarcely more palatable. It is difficult to know how to characterize the political-legal structure that would prevail in an area whose only residents are non-Israelis and over which Israel makes no sovereign claims, yet maintains the deployment of its military – unless you think of pre-2000 South Lebanon. And we all know how that ended – in ignominious unilateral flight of the IDF.Significantly, Yadlin and Sher seem to view this favorably, claiming: “The decision to withdraw... was correct...unilateral action legitimized Israel’s border in the north...”Could this reflect their real intentions? And if not, how do they propose preventing repetition of such undignified and unreciprocated “unilateral action to legitimize Israel’s eastern border” – and the subsequent stockpiling of formidable armaments on the fringes of Greater Tel Aviv.Seamless symbiosis Formally, this concept of “constructive unilateralism” is being promoted by the previously mentioned B&WF, which describes itself as “a non-partisan political movement...funded by private donors in Israel, the United States and elsewhere.”However, even a cursory glance at the identities of the individuals involved, the vehicles of publication and the cross-organizational affiliations will reveal an almost seamless symbiosis between B&WF and the INSS, chaired and largely funded by Australian billionaire philanthropist Frank Lowy.Thus although the two are organizationally separate, there is a striking overlap between the figures who endorse the “constructive unilateralism” idea and their attributed affiliation with the INSS – from the director of the institute, through prominent senior research associates to junior interns. Indeed, the concept has been touted in the INSS’s quarterly publication Strategic Assessment and a plausible case could be made for the claim that the institute provides the intellectual bona fides for B&WF’s public activism.Does Frank Lowy realize? It would take a volume to enumerate/expose the gamut of logical flaws, glaring non sequiturs and dangerous defects that riddle the intellectual edifice and operational rationale of “constructive unilateralism,” but the limits of space dictate that I desist.However, one can only wonder whether the devoted Zionist billionaire Lowy is aware that the institute that he funds is vigorously promoting a policy which, rather than preclude an apartheid-like reality, would create a South Lebanon-like one on the fringes of Greater Tel Aviv.True, it is a policy proposal with an impressive array of supporters, including the former heads of the Shin Bet and Military Intelligence. But with all the esteem I (genuinely) have for their achievements, past seniority is no guarantee of current infallibility.That said, the proposal does contain elements that Israel should adopt.As I have urged in numerous columns, Israel should embark on unilateral initiatives – not those geared to relinquishing territory but to retain it. It should embark on a large-scale and vigorous program of evacuation- compensation – not for Israeli Jews, but for Palestinian Arabs.
Perhaps the generous billionaire might consider alternative causes to support. After all, if there is no moral defect in funding the voluntary evacuation of Jews from their homes in Judea-Samaria to facilitate the establishment of what, in all likelihood, would become a failed mini-micro-state and a base for radical Islamist terror, what possible moral objection could there be to funding the voluntary evacuation of Arabs from their homes to prevent the establishment of such a base for Islamic terror? Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder and executive director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The cruel cut of the progressive-Christian boycott</title>
<date>10/3/2013</date>
<content>
Here’s a quiz for you readers: Before boycotting West Bank settlement goods in 
2011, when was the last time the UK branch of the Quakers, or Society of Friends 
as they prefer to be titled, decided to implement a boycott? One has to travel 
back in history for the answer. Not child slavery in the chocolate plantations 
of the Ivory Coast in the early 2000s, nor the blood diamonds of 1990s Angola. 
Not the Nestle infant formula scandal of the 1980s. And definitely not the 
boycott of the banks that helped to finance apartheid South Africa in the 1970s, 
which the Quakers reportedly refused to endorse, in part because the targeted 
bank, Barclays, was founded by prominent Quakers and held the Society’s 
accounts.For the answer, you have to look past the 1930s when various 
Jewish groups pleaded for a boycott of Germany as it stripped the Jewish 
community of its rights and freedoms. You have to go further back than the 1880s 
when a Capt. Charles Boycott, a land agent in Ballinrobe, Ireland, gifted the 
word to the English lexicon, when his workers walked out during the Irish Land 
War. In fact, the last national Quaker “boycott” was promulgated over 200 years 
ago, in 1791, in a widely produced hand-bill which called for the “Neceffity of 
refraining from Sugar and Rum in order to abolish the African Slave 
Trade.”




What about Christian Aid, the relief charity for the Churches in 
England, with origins dating back to the early 1950s; can you name their last 
boycott prior to the current lobbying of the UK parliament for a ban on Israeli 
settlement goods? Neither can they. Before Israel, Christian Aid never boycotted 
anything, anywhere.In a world of horror, torture and sheer greed, a 
world in which China refuses to give back Tibet, Syria smolders, and bits of 
metal in my mobile phone finance atrocities in Africa, does it not appear odd, 
gentle reader, that such august bodies as the Church of Scotland, the Methodist 
Church, the Iona Christian Community, the Quakers and Christian Aid have all 
chosen to boycott one single issue on earth? THE COMPLEX series of events that 
led the Quakers, and their ilk, to invest over 10 years of financial expenditure 
and political clout into a single-minded campaign to end “Israeli occupation” 
begins, in part, in Latin America in the early 1970s. There, a young Peruvian 
Catholic Priest, Father Gustavo Gutierrez, was struck with a 
dilemma.Christian teachings praising the poor and the meek are widely 
disseminated in Latin American society, yet the actual poor suffered horribly 
under cruel and unfair regimes. How could injustice be so rife in a Christian 
state? Gutierrez came to the conclusion that Jesus’s redemptive call must be 
reinterpreted as the struggle for bread and justice, rather than spiritual 
blessings alone.Gutierrez’s liberation theology was transformative, 
turning protest marches (or boycotts) into an act of Christian faith. It 
revitalized Latin American Churches and may have helped depose a dictator or 
two.The problem, at least for the Jews, occurred when liberation 
theology become fashionable among the liberal churches of the west. Liberal 
Christianity had a separate dilemma; according to New Testament scholar Amy 
Jill-Levine, the problem revolved around Jesus: “As long as Christians could 
believe that Jesus was fully divine, there was no need to distinguish him 
explicitly from Jews, he was already distinct... Once the church met the 
Enlightenment and the secular academy, however, Jesus no longer looked quite so 
original.... Why remain Christian if Jesus is one of several wise individuals 
with good ideas for social improvement?” For the liberal churches, the answer 
was to make Jesus stand out on the 1st-century scene. And this, according to Dr 
Levine, meant reading first-century Judaism as a “noxious” mix of warlike 
theology, obsessive purity compulsions and clannish racism; in short everything 
that Jesus could stand out against.Here was the toxic combination: 
Liberal churches carried an intrinsically negative view of Judaism, while 
liberation theology demanded that Jesus’s message must be enacted in real-world 
change. The perfect storm for the Israel boycotts now required only a 
dovetailing of the liberation theology call to action, and the liberal churches’ 
caricature of Judaism, morphed onto the State of Israel. Rev. Naim Ateek, 
founder of the Sabeel Ecumenical Liberation Theology Centre in Jerusalem, and 
co-author of the Kairos Palestine manifesto, joined up all the pieces.IN 
HIS 2001 Easter Message Rev. Ateek offered a simple, yet effective homily: “In 
this season of Lent, it seems to many that Jesus is on the cross again with 
thousands of crucified Palestinians around Him....The Israeli government 
crucifixion system is operating daily.”Ateek’s analogy is anything but 
subtle. Israel, in keeping with the stereotypical Judaism of the New Testament, 
is cast as the warmongering, racist oppressor, nailing up Palestinians today, as 
they had crucially turned against Jesus, the social revolutionary, 
then.Once it had been the “The Jews, who killed the Lord Jesus” (First 
Thessalonians 2), now it was the Israeli government re-enacting the Passion 
daily on Palestinian children. In the spirit of liberation theology, this 
Israeli Jewish injustice, which precisely replicates (and perpetuates) the 
original injustice against Jesus, must end – first and foremost, above all other 
global agendas.In 2009, when Rev. Atteek and Sabeel published the Kairos 
Document calling on Christians to boycott Israel and decry the “sin” of Israeli 
occupation, the Churches responded quickly. Within a day, the General Secretary 
of the World Council of Churches endorsed the document and called for an 
ecumenical boycott. Within six months the Methodist Church had voted for a 
settlement boycott at its annual conference.You know the rest of this 
sad drama.Can the churches imbibe this heady cocktail of new prejudices 
pickled in old tropes for so long and still be trusted for sober conversation on 
the Holy Land? I have doubts. Yet, because a great Jewish rabbi once said, 
“Judge not, lest you be judged,” I hold the door of encounter open, though a 
bitter wind is blowing past.
The author is the interfaith consultant for 
the Board of Deputies of British Jews.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The cynical manipulation of Israel’s Beduin citizens</title>
<date>10/11/2013</date>
<content>
On October 17, the “Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists & 
Democrats” in the European Parliament participated in a seminar in Brussels 
entitled “Beduin in the Naqab/Negev: Dreams and Nightmare.”During the 
event, a poster which read “Stop Prawer-Begin Plan, no ethnic cleansing of 
Palestinian Beduin” was prominently displayed.




Key Israeli officials such 
as Doron Almog, the director of the directorate for economic and community 
development of the Negev Beduin in the Prime Minister’s Office, did not receive 
permission to participate, despite repeated requests.Clearly, the 
display of bias and exclusion of Israeli policy makers prevented members of the 
European Parliament from making informed decisions regarding Beduin citizens in 
the Negev. The so-called seminar, based entirely on biased presentations that 
excluded key facts, is another example of the damage caused by political 
advocacy NGOs and the European governments that fund them.Land claims, 
unrecognized Beduin villages, and the complicated relationship between the State 
of Israel and the Beduin population in the Negev have concerned Israeli 
governments for decades. Over the past few years, the complexities gained new 
urgency, leading to the Goldberg Commission for the Regulation of the Beduin 
Settlements in the Negev (2009), the Prawer report (2011), and legislation based 
on these recommendations, introduced by then-minister Benny Begin, which passed 
the first reading in June 2013.In parallel, international frameworks, 
such as EU and UN, became involved with this issue. As in the case of the 
“seminar” in Brussels, such events are often led by political NGOs with a big 
axe to grind. In this and many other platforms, members of the NGO network 
exploit the complexity of the Beduin to promote the broader process of 
anti-Israel demonization.Giving the Beduin population a voice in Israel 
is important, but the behavior of these NGOs drowns out this voice, as well as 
substantive discussions.In contrast to the inherent complexity, NGOs 
present the issues in a one-sided, simplistic way, based on unreliable sources 
and total distortion of the Israeli legal system.Some NGOs also employ 
demonizing rhetoric, falsely attacking serious approaches as “apartheid,” “a 
process of disinheritance” and “discrimination” against the 
Beduin.Criticizing is legitimate when the goal is bringing about change 
and improving the current situation, but externally-directed NGO activities are 
designed only to attack Israel, not resolve the Beduin dilemmas.The 
Negev Coexistence Forum for Civil Equality (NCF) is a leader in this warfare, 
regularly sending representatives to UN committees on the subject of “Indigenous 
People,” “Elimination of Racial Discrimination,” etc.In those frameworks 
(and many others) NCF calls for “urgent intervention by the international 
community” and claims Israel’s policy is “discriminative” and violates many of 
the Beduins’ rights, including the right for an “adequate standard of living,” 
while using “forceful proletarization” as part of the “disinheritance 
policy.”As is often the case with NGO campaigns, the funders bear 
responsibility as enablers. NCF is supported by the New Israel Fund, and 
received funding from the Swiss Foreign Affairs office in 2011.Another 
NGO, Adalah, funded by the NIF, the European Union, Switzerland, the Ford 
Foundation, Welfare Association and other foundations, mainly active in the 
European sphere, testified with the NCF before the EU Parliament subcommittee on 
human rights, claiming that the “Begin Plan” “represents two principles: 
Apartheid and Military Rule.”The NGOs also arrange carefully designed 
political “tours” to the unrecognized villages for foreign diplomats and tell 
about “the rights of the unrecognized villages in the Naqab, including the 
policy of the displacement of population and house demolitions” and the way in 
which “Arab Beduin [are] deliberately prevented from all basic services and 
infrastructure.”In addition, NGOs lobby vigorously before foreign 
governments to influence their policies toward Israel on this issue. Most of the 
organizations receive a large amount of foreign funding, transferred without 
transparency from countries and international foundations for development and 
advancement needs, which in practice they use for campaigns aimed at demonizing 
Israel as a human rights violator.In sharp contrast, these are clearly 
internal Israeli issues – foreign political pressure is no substitute for the 
democratic process.Additionally, the NGOs have expropriated the language 
used in anti-Israel campaigns in the context of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict 
for the Beduin issue; these NGOs are working hard to misleadingly connect this 
internal Israeli issue with the broader Palestinian narrative.The 
conclusion of the S&D seminar was pre-determined: it presented a biased, 
one-sided case, excluded differing opinions and prevented a productive and 
rational discussion on the subject. Instead of trying to understand Israeli 
decision making regarding the Negev Beduin, the event became an anti-Israel hate 
festival.For the European Parliament and other institutions, the need to 
end exclusive reliance on biased political NGOs on this and other important 
issues should be apparent.
The author is a senior researcher at NGO 
Monitor and the author of a new report, “NGOs and the Negev Beduin Conflict in 
the Context of Political Warfare”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The hijacking of apartheid</title>
<date>11/12/2013</date>
<content>
In remembering Nelson Mandela, we most recall his determined leadership in 
bringing down apartheid – the separation of races – in South Africa. His passing 
after a lifetime of suffering extreme prejudice and hatred causes us all to 
pause in honor of his deeds and respect for his commitment to justice and 
equality.The term “apartheid” evokes not only images of the struggle of 
his people in South Africa, but is also a concept that is often used, and 
sometimes misused, by advocates determined to achieve their own goals for their 
own purposes.




Such is the case when the term “apartheid” is thrown around 
in an accusatory framework against the State of Israel, which suffers regularly 
in the United Nations and in the press from the untrue and unfounded accusation 
that Israel, in building the terrorism prevention security fence, has built an 
“apartheid wall.”For decades at the United Nations and in the press, the 
Palestinians and her supporters have blindly but broadly attempted to brand 
Israel as a racist criminal state, adopting resolutions equating Zionism with 
racism and continuing the war of words against Israel in repeated UN Conferences 
and resolutions.The theme is simple and has been quite effective: brand 
Israel as Zionist...brand Zionism as racism. With racism and apartheid 
being criminal... brand Israelis as part of a Zionist racist criminal conspiracy 
to commit apartheid.This ugly effort lives on without regard to the 
truth.During the raging second intifada when Palestinian terrorists were 
infiltrating Israel for the purpose of murder, maiming and heinous acts of 
terror, including suicide-homicide bombings, as well as gun and grenade attacks 
upon innocent people, Israel took the necessary and correct decision to defend 
and protect her people. This decision took various forms, including steps to 
provide security on the edges of the land located between Israel and the 
Palestinian territories, particularly between Israel and Gaza and between Israel 
and the Judea and Samaria areas of ancient Israel situated on the West Bank of 
the Jordan River.Construction of the security fence began in 2001 in an 
attempt to keep out the terrorists and has proven to be most effective in saving 
life, limb and the fiber and fabric of families and communities.Exactly 
10 years ago on December 9, 2003, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution 
referring to the International Court of Justice the question of the legal 
consequences of Israel’s construction of the security fence, calling it a 
“wall.” Israel’s opponents continually refer to it as a “separation barrier” for 
the specific purpose of evoking the image of separation between Israel and the 
Palestinians in a hijacking of the term “apartheid.”The use of the ugly 
term “apartheid” in conjunction with wrongful accusations that Israel is a 
criminal racist state evidenced by the building of the security fence as a 
“separation wall,” are unfair, untrue and malign of the good name of Israel and 
the Jewish people.
In memory of president Mandela, it is both timely and 
fitting to issue a call for the world to cease the inappropriate, unfair and 
untrue use of the term “apartheid” when referring to Israel, the nation-state of 
the Jewish people. In that spirit, it should be remembered, acknowledged and 
appreciated that the Jewish people have historically stood against racism; have 
always stood for civil and individual rights; have always stood for the dignity 
and human rights of men, women and children from all religions, all races, all 
sexes, all national origins; and with a commitment to freedom, liberty and 
justice for all.The author serves as Senior Counsel of the Washington, 
DC, law firm Heideman Nudelman & Kalik, PC, representing victims of 
terrorism and international human rights violations and is the author of The 
Hague Odyssey: Israel’s Struggle for Security on the Front Lines of Terrorism 
and Her Battle for Justice at the United Nations (Bartleby Press, 2013; see 
thehagueodyssey.com). Contact: info@thehagueodyssey.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The insider origins of anti-Israelism</title>
<date>12/11/2013</date>
<content>
Every week brings news of a controversy involving an ostensibly Jewish or 
Israeli institution playing host to radical anti-Zionism, anti-Israelism or even 
anti-Semitism.For instance, a week ago it was revealed that a Montreal 
Jewish festival had disinvited a noted anti-Birthright activist named Sarah 
Woolf. At Limmud in South Africa earlier this year there was some debate over 
the anti-JNF film Village under the forest. There was controversy over a 
conference for the Palestinian “right of return” being hosted at the Eretz 
Israel museum.




Australian Limmud also cancelled a talk by “Vivienne 
Porzsolt, a spokeswoman for Jews Against the Occupation, who was detained in 
Israel last year en route to the flotilla to Gaza; Avigail Abarbanel, the editor 
of Beyond Tribal Loyalties, who renounced her Israeli citizenship in 2001; and 
Peter Slezak, a co-founder of the far-left advocacy group Independent Australian 
Jewish Voices (The Forward).”The narrative we are presented with each 
time is that this is “surprising” or “ironic.” Supposedly a Jewish community 
center, Israeli cultural event or Israeli museum serving as a venue for people 
who think the State of Israel should be dismantled or radically altered is a 
contradiction in terms.However, radical critique of Israel is not an 
outsider phenomenon; while it may be a minority voice, that minority is often 
the elite of the Jewish and Israeli community.They are 
“outside-insiders”: those masquerading as outsider critics but who in fact were 
groomed by and recognized as part of the elite Zionist structure.(The 
“inside-outsider” was used by Jeremy Suri to describe Henry Kissinger, an 
outsider as an immigrant who became an inside player in US administration.) For 
example, Avraham Burg, a resident of the posh community of Nataf near Jerusalem, 
was a head of the Jewish Agency and a Knesset Speaker who then “suddenly” became 
a radical critic of Israel in 2007, launching a book that he first thought of 
titling “Hitler won,” in which he excoriated Israel.He gave an interview 
to Haaretz in which he advised Israelis to obtain foreign passorts, and said the 
Law of Return that allows Jews to immigrate to Israel should be cancelled. He 
was celebrated abroad, in The Independent, The New York Times and elsewhere, as 
a daring apostate.Ze’ev Bielski, the chairman of the Jewish Agency, 
responded that Burg’s statements caused him “pain over a person who was 
considered to have great promise for the future of the State of Israel. Pain 
over a person raised and educated in this country in a Jewish Zionist family, 
one of the leaders of Israel’s younger generation.”Burg has since been 
on speaking tours, and on November 11 was at Harvard’s Quincy House giving the 
Samuel L. and Jodidi Lecture at the Weatheread Center. For an “apostate” he’s 
done quite well for himself.Burg’s narrative of growing up in a 
traditional Zionist home and then becoming a critic isn’t the exception, it is 
the rule.Alon Liel, former Foreign Ministry director-general, claimed in 
a February conference that, “In the situation that exists today, until a 
Palestinian state is created, we are actually one state. This joint state – in 
the hope that the status quo is temporary – is an apartheid state.” His comments 
were greeted with shock.He told his listeners: “As someone who knows the 
original apartheid well, and also knows the State of Israel quite well – I was 
born here, grew up here, served and fought for it for 30 years – someone like me 
knows that Zionism isn’t apartheid and the State of Israel that I grew up in 
wasn’t an apartheid state.”Similarly, Burg claimed “My generation, born 
in the ’50s.... Back then, Americans and Israelis talked about democracy, human 
rights, respect for other nations and human solidarity. It was an age of 
dreamers and builders who sought to create a new world, one without prejudice, 
racism or discrimination.... Where is that righteous America? Whatever happened 
to the good old Israel?” Miko Peled peddles his insider status as a key to his 
identity in his book The General’s Son: Journey of an Israeli in Palestine: “It 
was 1948 in Jerusalem and Zika Katsnelson- Peled, my mother, was 22 years old. 
She was a daughter of the Zionist elite. Her father, Dr. Avraham Katsnelson, was 
a member of the provisional Zionist government in Palestine and later a 
signatory of Israel’s Declaration of Independence.” His father was the Israeli 
general Matti Peled.Miko’s sister, Nurit Peled-Elhanan, was quoted at 
Mondoweiss as saying “Apartheid in Israel and Palestine, imposed and practised 
by the Israeli security forces, is enabled by the most profound racism, 
practised every day, in every domain of life.”It is a mistake to pretend 
that these are outsider opinions.They were generated and sculpted by the 
very leaders and founders of Zionism, by Israeli generals and a family that 
signed the declaration of independence.These views didn’t just come out 
of nowhere, either, they formed over time, in coffee houses and in the homes of 
the elites, on the kibbutzim and in the universities.OPPOSITION TO 
Zionism is in fact a central feature of Zionism; opposition to and “daring” 
criticism of the State of Israel is integral to being an insider in 
Israel.Abdul Kareem, a commenter at the website of Americans for Middle 
East Understanding, notes, “I found it hard to believe that Miko, coming from 
such a background, could present such a moral story.”But Karim 
misunderstands the source and nature of these views. They do not contrast with 
the background, they are rooted deeply in it.Many other radical critics, 
like Oren Yiftachel, who compares Jewish communities in Israel to “pure” white 
settler states like Australia and Canada, proudly describes being raised on a 
kibbutz “in a northern Israeli kibbutz, where socialism was not a curse and 
social justice was not a mere theory.”Meron Benvenisiti, another critic, 
was the deputy mayor of Jerusalem.Dror Feiler emigrated to Sweden in the 
1970s and renounced his citizenship.He was on the Gaza 
flotilla.But in a recent article it is revealed his mother was a founder 
of Kibbutz Yad Hana.In fact, most of the leaders of Israeli anti-Israel 
NGOs, the radical critics who shout “apartheid” or go on speaking tours of the 
US, such as the recent one by Breaking the Silence at Harvard University, are 
composed of those raised on kibbutz or “traditional Zionist families.” They 
attended the best Israeli high schools and universities. They pose as outsiders, 
but are the ultimate insiders. To list them all would take too long, but all you 
have to do is ask, the next time you hear about some radical Israel critic, 
“where did he or she grow up?” You will find that most probably, they or their 
parents were generals, leading academics, director-generals of ministries, or 
bureaucrats in various state-funded institutions.THE SAME holds true in 
the Diaspora. Most of the radical critics are insiders. A new film being shown 
by the NGO Zochrot includes the biography of “Alice Rothchild, an American Jew 
raised on the tragedies of the Holocaust and the dream of a Jewish homeland in 
Israel. The film follows my personal journey as I begin to understand the 
Palestinian narrative.”Peter Beinart, when he wrote about closing his 
blog Open Zion, describes the careers of many of his employees; “Our first 
employee, Elisheva Goldberg, was a high school AIPAC activist transformed by 
meeting Palestinians while studying at yeshiva in the West Bank.”The 
fact is that anti-Zionism and critique of Israel are the ultimate insider’s 
career path. Those insiders who become anti-Zionist or radical critics rarely 
offer constructive criticism, and this differentiates them from the descendants 
of other founding generations.The founders of the American Republic 
didn’t turn on that republic in a generation and go on speaking tours condemning 
it.Critics of Israeli policy could be constructive; a solution to the 
conflict with the Palestinians is in everyone’s interest, and combating racism 
is a good thing. But the way in which many of these insiders go about it, 
becoming more famous at Harvard and in London than they are in Israel, seems 
counterproductive, to say the least.
Bashing Israel as a racist, failed 
state in Boston or Berlin doesn’t make anyone less racist in Israel. Responsible 
insiders work for change from within, but unfortunately the Jewish community and 
Israel is not cultivating a responsible elite culture of critique, but an 
irresponsible one.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The truth about anti-Semitism in Germany</title>
<date>11/11/2013</date>
<content>
Two weeks ago German public television broadcast a film titled Anti-Semitism today – how hostile is Germany? 1.6 million people watched the 50-minute-documentary – not very many in a country of 82 million.A few newspapers wrote about it, and not a single political leader commented on it.




Public outrage? Not at all.And yet the film revealed some shocking details about German society that should indeed have raised a discussion. Anti-Semitism, it showed, is by no means only a problem among poorly educated, socially disadvantaged right-wing extremists in East Germany.Anti-Semitism, as sad as it sounds, is fairly common and widely accepted in many parts of German society. However, since it is mostly subtle anti-Semitism, hardly anybody admits or even realizes it.Is it anti-Semitic if a member of the German parliament calls Israel an apartheid state? Is it anti-Semitic if the popular opposition party “The Greens,” that won some eight percent of the votes in the recent national elections, calls to label Israeli products from the settlements? Is it anti-Semitic if German journalist Jakob Augstein, a member of the left-liberal intelligentsia and a frequent guest on television talk shows, claims that “the Netanyahu government keeps the world on a leash”? Many people in Germany would indignantly say: No, this is normal criticism of certain political issues – not realizing or not willing to realize their lack of sensitivity and historical awareness.Criticizing Israel, that’s for sure, is a “must” among left-wing German intellectuals, and quite often it is not easy to figure out whether their ignorance of the fine line between criticism of the Israeli government and a hostile attitude towards the Jewish people is accidental or on purpose.Equally problematic remarks have repeatedly been heard from the right-wing side of the political spectrum in Germany, especially among older generations. The topics might be different, but the attitude behind is very much the same: prejudice, stereotypes, lack of awareness.Is it anti-Semitism that among those who were born in the 1940s or earlier, more than a few claim the beginning of the Shoah “should be seen in the context of society,” fantasizing about “rich Jewish clans” who “ruined poor Germans with extortionate rates of interest”? Is it anti-Semitic if a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party, CDU , remarks with regard to Poland’s role in World War II that the country “mobilized its forces already in March 1939” and thus several months before Germany? Many German citizens would probably say such comments are negligible and should be ignored. And besides, they would argue, after over 65 years, it is time to stop blaming the Germans anyway. Some would not even be ashamed to state that Germany payed millions of Euros in reparations, and that the Jewish people have benefited immensely from playing the victim card.The most obvious and most aggressive form of anti-Semitism in Germany can be viewed among the Turkish and Arab population, that makes up round about 10% in the capital Berlin and 2-4 million nationwide.Is it anti-Semitic if “Jew” is a popular word among Muslim youths when they want to insult or offend someone? Is it anti-Semitic if the German-Tunisian hip hop star Bushido, who regularly storms the charts with his albums, posts a picture of a Middle East map without Israel via Twitter? And last but not least, what about the rabbi who walked down a street in Berlin wearing a kippah and got brutally attacked by “Mediterranean -looking youths,” as the police, in an embarrassing attempt to be politically correct, claimed? Was that, finally, an attack that everyone, regardless of the political spectrum, would call anti-Semitic? A new survey conducted among Jews of nine European countries has just found that one in five Jewish citizens experienced an anti-Semitic attack in the past 12 months. 29 percent have already considered emigrating due to increasing hostility.So, deductively one could say that the situation in France, the UK and other EU countries is not much better than in Germany.Hatred is hatred, prejudice is prejudice.Anti-Semitism is anti-Semitism, regardless of the country. But still, in Germany, it hurts a bit more.
The author is an editor and reporter for the German daily newspaper BILD.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The World From Here: Israel’s boycott ‘warnings’ strengthen BDS</title>
<date>16/7/2013</date>
<content>
The Israeli public has been warned recently that its nation state is about to fall off a cliff and drown in a sea of (BDS) Boycotts, Divestiture, and Sanctions if the peace process fails to advance.  Haaretz’s July 15th editorial, “Danger: Boycott Ahead”, cautioned that Israel is facing its moment of truth”. Haaretz also reported that Justice Minister Tzippy Livni admonished a packed business forum in Eilat on July 2nd  that absent a peace agreement with the Palestinians, the state of Israel could face a full EU boycott.Regretfully, anti-Israel boycott warnings  by Israeli officials -have achieved the opposite of their intended goals; instead of weakening BDS , they have emboldened  boycotts, inspired sanctions, and  increased divesture efforts in the West.  Israeli public warnings over inevitable boycotts have also encouraged the Palestinian leadership to avoid peace negotiations with Israel and act unilaterally at the UN while leveling criminal accusations and other charges at Israel at international fora such as the ICJ, the ICC and UNESCO.




The Palestinian Authority has adopted this political assault strategy since PA chairman Mahmoud Abbas’ rejected  former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert’s far reaching peace offer in 2008 Olmert said at the time that, “If the day comes when the two-state solution collapses and we face a South African-style struggle for equal voting rights, then, as soon as that happens, the State of Israel is finished".  It is no irony that Olmert’s unprecedented ” end of conflict” peace offer to Abbas  who rejected the entreaty telling  the Washington Post at the time, “The gaps were wide”, coupled with Olmert’s “end of days” admonition for Israel resulted in increased PA led BDS efforts and a Palestinian rejection of negotiations that have characterized the past five years of diplomatic stalemate.Israel’s housing starts in Northern and Southern Jerusalem which have been frozen recently and other home building  which Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has limited to the major settlement blocks in line with Oslo are largely irrelevant to the underlying Palestinian- BDS strategy.These BDS campaigns are not focused on settlements in Judea and Samaria or Israel’s sovereignty over its capital, Jerusalem. BDS groups such as  the  Coalition of Women for Peace (CWP) that was recently exposed by Professor Gerald Steinberg and the NGO monitor, targets Israel as an inherently illegitimate, criminal entity like apartheid South Africa, regardless of borders. BDS organizations -- whether in academia, commerce, sports or the arts are led by scores of Palestinian civil society groups that charge Israel’s lack of legitimacy as based on three major components as emphasized by the Palestinian BDS national Committee; Palestinian refugees in exile, Palestinians under occupation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and the “discriminated” Palestinian citizens of the Israeli state.This three part strategy explains why the BDS regimes consider Israel to be an illegal settlement even in its truncated 1949 armistice lines. BDS groups and activists make no secret of their agenda. Take a look at Israel bashing BDS conferences on You Tube.Regretfully, the Palestinian driven BDS strategy is misunderstood by many in Israel and friends of Israel abroad as being limited to the struggle for a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza. BDS groups-- whether in Ramallah, London or San Franciso make no secret of their battle for a Palestinian State to replace the nation state of the Jewish people, not live alongside it.The Israeli public has paid a high price in blood and treasure in its search for peace; Since 1993 and the launch of the Oslo peace process,  some 1,500 Israelis have been killed  and billions of unintended tax dollars expended on unanticipated security measures due to increased terror. The list of peace attempts is long; The 1993 Oslo Exchange of Letters, the 1995 Interim Agreement, the 2000 unilateral withdrawal from the security zone in Southern Lebanon, the 2000 Camp David Accords resulting in the Al Aksa Intifada, the 2005 withdrawal from Gaza resulting in Hamas rocket assaults and two rocket wars, Iran backed Hizbullah’s 2006 Second Lebanon war,  and the 2008 Annapolis Peace offer  to the Palestinians.The international community would be hard pressed to identify any country that has taken more risks for peace.Today, in a Middle East region dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood, and Salafist and Iranian regime backed radical Islamic terror groups in Lebanon, Syria, Egypt, Gaza, Judea and Samaria, Iraq, and North Africa,  Israel approaches prospective peace negotiations prudently and cautiously.In short, Israelis have developed an immunity to “Armageddon” BDS scenarios. That is why official calls from both “family and friends” to the Israeli public to hurry up and concede additional territory vital to its national rights and security because “more boycotts are on the way” will not only fail to advance the peace process, they will inadvertently help Israelis adversaries destroy it.
The writer is a Foreign Policy Fellow of the Jerusalem Center for Public affairs and former Secretary General of the Word Jewish Congress.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think again: Why WoW’s radical leaders matter</title>
<date>28/11/2013</date>
<content>
Is it merely a coincidence that so many of Women of the Wall’s (WoW) leaders 
have numerous close associations with radical, anti-Israel groups? Or could it 
be that WoW is a useful vehicle for advancing an anti-Israel narrative that 
leaves Israel increasingly isolated internationally? Is concealing that agenda 
the reason why WoW tried to suppress the story of its leaders’ ties to fringe 
anti-Israel NGOs?Early this month, journalist Rachel Avraham posted a 
story on Jerusalem Online, the English-language website of Channel 2 News, 
detailing the connections between WoW vice-chairwoman Batya Kallus and 
chairwoman Anat Hoffman, and various anti-Israel groups.




As program 
director for the Moriah Fund, Kallus helps facilitate funding for such groups as 
Adalah, Ir Amim, Yesh Din and Mossawa. Adalah rejects Israel’s right to exist as 
a Jewish state, and has been active in promoting Israel Apartheid Week on North 
American campuses, and in the dissemination of the Goldstone Report accusing 
Israel of war crimes in Operation Cast Lead. The report cited “evidence” 
provided by Adalah 38 times.Yesh Din categorizes Israel as an apartheid 
state and supported Turkey’s position after the Mavi Marmara incident, in which 
Israeli naval commandos attempting to interdict the Gaza flotilla were set upon 
with iron bars and knives. Like Adalah, Mossawa rejects Israel’s existence as a 
Jewish state, and describes it as having been built on the ruins of the 
Palestinian people.Kallus also serves as an adviser to Sikkuy, a 
signatory to the Haifa Declaration, which opposes the definition of Israel as a 
“Jewish state” and supports the right of return for Palestinians, which would 
spell the demographic end of the Jewish state. Sikkuy accuses Israel of 
exploiting the memory of the Holocaust for gain, and states the Jewish state has 
carried out “policies of subjugation and oppression in excess of those of the 
apartheid regime in South Africa [i]n the occupied territories.”Kallus 
is the Israel representative of the Fohs Foundation, a major funder of the New 
Israel Foundation (NIF) and Sikkuy. Over 90 percent of the citations of 
Israel-based NGOs in the Goldstone Report were of organizations funded by the 
NIF. And prior to that, NIF-funded organizations played a leading role in 
planning the anti-Israel hatefest at Durban.A taste of NIF’s orientation 
comes from a letter written to The Jerusalem Post by one Evalyn Segal over a 
decade ago. She relates how she was a “devout Zionist,” until she came to Israel 
on an NIF study tour and learned of the “racist contempt of the Israel 
government... toward Palestinians [and] how the founders of Zionism schemed from 
the start to take over, by any means necessary, the whole of Palestine and 
cleanse it of Palestinians.”Hoffman, the public face of WoW, is also the 
chairwoman of the Domari Society of Gypsies in Jerusalem.The Domari 
Society is part of the Grassroots Al-Quds Network of NGOs that coordinate 
activities and pool resources. The network’s mission statement supports 
“resistance to the occupation” and the Palestinian “right of return to Israel 
proper.” And it opposes the “Judaization of Jerusalem.”Among the 
founders of the Al-Quds Network are Micha Kurz of Breaking the Silence, which 
accuses Israel of ethnic cleansing, and Angela Godfrey-Goldstein, one of the 
organizers of the Free Gaza Movement flotilla. The network’s website’s map of 
the Old City omits any mention of the Western Wall, and calls the Jewish Quarter 
the Sharaf neighborhood.Among Kallus and Hoffman’s most revealing 
associations are those with groups opposing Israeli archeological digs in 
Jerusalem’s Old City. Ir Amim, an NGO supported by the Moriah Fund, claims that 
Israeli archeological digs within Jerusalem are a “tool in the fight for control 
over the city.” Ir Amim opposes all Israeli construction in the Old City, and 
refers to Jewish occupied buildings in the Western Wall Plaza as 
“settlement.”Leslie Sachs, CEO of WoW, is an Ir Amim board member. 
Serving on the board of the Domari Society along with Hoffman are Yonatan 
Mizrachi and Dafna Strauss of Emek Shaveh, an organization which has called for 
an international investigation of Israel’s archeological work in 
Jerusalem.No one suggests that all, or even most, WoW members share 
Kallus and Hoffman’s far left-wing political views. Why, then, are those views 
relevant to a discussion of WoW? Or, to put it another way, why was WoW so eager 
to prevent publication of Avraham’s article, which was almost entirely based on 
public information that can be readily gleaned from the websites of the 
organizations named, or from documents on file with the Authority for Nonprofit 
Organizations? When Avraham’s piece first appeared, Shira Pruce, WoW’s director 
of public relations, immediately contacted Jerusalem Online, claiming the 
article contained libelous and slanderous statements, and demanding its removal. 
Without a budget for litigation, Jerusalem Online complied.At that 
point, Avraham reposted at the Matzav website, and Daniel Greenfield posted at 
FrontPage.com his own piece quoting extensively from Avraham and adding more 
information of his own. Pruce wrote to Matzav, “According to our lawyers, the 
statements made by the writer, which are fictitious, constitute slander and 
libel.”Significantly, she did not point to a single fictitious statement 
or make any attempt to refute Avraham’s research.Matzav did not remove 
the article.AVRAHAM’S RESEARCH demonstrates that Hoffman and Kallus are 
political animals, not just spiritual seekers motivated by their intense 
attachment to the Western Wall. And it strongly suggests that the prime 
motivation of the leaders of WoW is to advance an agenda consistent with their 
other political work.The power of the Western Wall derives, in large 
part, from its role as a symbol of Jewish continuity, from the time of the First 
and Second Temples until today. Those who identify with organizations like Ir 
Amim and Emek Shaveh, which oppose Israeli archeological work in the Old City, 
as part of a sinister “Judaization of Jerusalem,” and who are allied with groups 
calling for the return of east Jerusalem, including the Temple Mount and Western 
Wall, to Palestinian control, are apparently not terribly moved by Jewish 
continuity and its symbols.In truth, Hoffman has always been rather 
forthright that the Western Wall Plaza had value in her eyes primarily as a 
place to make political statements – “to be seen,” in her words – and provoke 
confrontation. Hoffman admits she feels no particular attachment to places, the 
Western Wall included. And her Reform Movement long ago declared, “One should 
not consider the Western Wall as possessing any sanctity.”She has no 
answer for the question posed long ago by Hillel Halkin, “Are there no other 
places in Jerusalem to practice Jewish feminism, that they must do it at the one 
site where it is sure to infuriate large numbers of Orthodox Jews?” – a question 
that takes on special gravity given Hoffman’s admission that the Western Wall 
has no real sanctity in her eyes.Offending others is not an unfortunate 
byproduct, but the very purpose of WoW. Again, Hoffman admitted as much recently 
in explaining her theoretical acceptance of Jewish Agency chairman Natan 
Sharansky’s proposal for WoW to move their prayer rites from the current Western 
Wall Plaza to a fully refurbished area further south on the Western Wall (albeit 
while conditioning that acceptance on 16 untenable conditions). “WoW,” she 
conceded, in explanation of the new approach, “is not the right group for 
bringing about change in the Orthodox world.”In other words, the 25 
years of confrontation were not, at least for Hoffman, about the yearning for 
proximity to the Western Wall, but to “model” new and better modes of prayer for 
her benighted Orthodox sisters.IT IS IMPORTANT to understand the ways in 
which WoW’s activities serve the radical agenda of Hoffman, Kallus and Sachs. 
WoW serves to “kasher” many of the organizations with which it is associated, in 
particular the NIF, which serves as both a funder of WoW and a conduit for its 
tax-deductible contributions.WoW wraps itself in the cloak of religious 
pluralism.For most American Jews, the belief that “there is no right way 
to be a Jew” is both the first and last of their theological principles. 
Accordingly, religious pluralism is as “American Jewish” as apple pie and 
motherhood – sadly, a good deal more so than the latter.By selling 
itself as an organization committed to the benign cause – at least in the eyes 
of non-Orthodox American Jews – of religious pluralism, the NIF is able to 
obscure other parts of its agenda that might find less favor with many of its 
contributors.But there is another more insidious way in which WoW helps 
to advance the radical Left agenda in Israel.Groups like B’Tselem and 
Breaking the Silence, which uses former IDF soldiers to advance a narrative of 
widespread Israeli war crimes, seek to alienate American Jews from their 
identification with Israel. By doing so, they hope to increase Israeli Jews’ 
sense of isolation and lack of international support, and to thereby convince 
them that the only way out is to conclude a “peace” with the Palestinians on 
almost any terms.By casting herself as a second Rosa Parks circa 1956 in 
Montgomery, Alabama, Hoffman does the same thing, by portraying Israel as a 
country in which women are “second- class citizens” and Reform Jews are not free 
to worship as they please. When former US secretary of state Hillary Clinton 
remarked that the treatment of women in Israel often reminds her of the status 
of women in Tehran, she indicated how successful Hoffman has been.Such a 
state appears increasingly alien in the eyes of American Jews. And that, in 
turn, makes it easier for them to believe that their Jewish brothers in Israel 
are the most maniacal violators of human rights in the world, regularly and 
consistently treating Palestinians with inhumane cruelty.Evelyn Gordon 
argues at length in the September issue of Commentary (“Provocation at the 
Wall”) that Hoffman and other leaders of WoW have skillfully ridden a narrative 
of women’s exclusion from the public square in Israel that has little 
relationship to reality. That narrative, she demonstrates, started with the 
left-wing media in Israel and has been eagerly picked up abroad.And it 
is part of a pattern dating back to Menachem Begin’s election in 1977. As soon 
as the Left finds itself cast from the seat of power at the ballot box, it 
propagates a “false narrative of Israel’s slide into fundamentalism and 
fascism.”In sum, the radical politics of WoW’s leaders are not just a 
curious coincidence, they are an essential part of their agenda. 
The writer is 
director of Jewish Media Resources, has written a regular column in The 
Jerusalem Post Magazine since 1997, and is the author of eight biographies of 
modern Jewish leaders.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>’Tis the season to bash Israel</title>
<date>27/12/2013</date>
<content>
On the most important week of the year for Christian faith, you would think that 
churches around the world and the Western media would bear witness to the 
accelerated persecution of Christians in Arab lands by the forces of 
Islam.You would think that the de rigueur bashing of Israel might be put 
aside for a moment of Christian self-defense and solidarity.




Think 
again.Much of Western media devoted their Christmas ink, and many 
Christian NGOs dedicated their Christmas appeals, to purveying the false 
impression that Christians are under assault by Israelis; and worse still, that 
Jews are crucifying Christians smack in the heart of Bethlehem.The 
singular, outstanding exception to this was Christa Case Bryant of The Christian 
Science Monitor, who published a finely researched, 3,700- word article 
detailing the Muslim assault on Christians across the Middle East, often with 
government encouragement and support.Bryant reveals that Iraq has lost 
at least half of its Christians over the past decade, and Egypt is wracked by 
the “worst spate of anti-Christian violence in 700 years.” In Syria, jihadists 
are killing Christians and burying them in mass graves. More than 600,000 Syrian 
Christians have been displaced or fled Syria since the rebellion began, 
according to Patriarch Gregorios III Laham, spiritual leader of the Melkite 
Greek Catholic Church.In Gaza, Muslim militants have bombed churches, 
killed prominent Christians, and forced others to convert to Islam. In the West 
Bank, Arab Christians are better off than many in parts of the region, but only 
an estimated 50,000 live there – about 2 percent of the population, down from 
10% in 1920. Christians make up only 5% of the population of the Middle East, 
down from 20% a century ago.But you wouldn’t know any of this from most 
media reports. Instead, most foreign correspondents produced the usual 
bash-Israel- for-Christmas articles, ignoring the dire plight of Christians 
across the region. Last year, for example, CBS’s Bob Simon produced a 
masterpiece of mistruth on 60 Minutes in which he indicted Israel’s “occupation” 
for the decline of the Christian population in the entire West Bank.And 
the slam-Israel doozy of the year was published by Harriet Sherwood, in The 
Observer, who wickedly evoked biblical and Christian imagery to savage Israeli 
settlement in and around Jerusalem.Sherwood painted a picture of a 
pastoral “Christian biblical landscape” with “gnarled olive trees,” “bleating 
sheep and goats” and “vine covered terraces,” “near the site where angels 
announced the birth of Jesus to shepherds in a field” – all tended to with love 
by Bethlehem’s remaining Christian heroes. She then contrasted this with the 
evil Israeli security fence – “8-meter high concrete slabs casting a deep 
shadow, both literally and metaphorically, snaking around most of Bethlehem,” 
along with the monster “cranes, bulldozers and concrete apartment blocks” – all 
of which are “strangulating” the city.Sherwood capped-off her tiresome 
slam by telling us lovingly about a Beit Jala parish priest who “leads open-air 
prayers under olive trees at sunset every Friday” to protest the route of the 
security fence: “a vast concrete and steel barrier with a long steel-caged 
corridor with multiple turnstiles” that chokes off the main exit for 
Palestinians who want to go to Jerusalem.Similarly blowing off all 
pretensions of journalistic respectability, Ben White of Middle East Monitor 
published a filthy piece titled “Bethlehem Bantustan 2013: Have Yourself an 
Apartheid Christmas.” White says that Bethlehem is “a microcosm of Israel’s 
colonization of Palestine.”The refugee camps are home to those expelled 
from their villages in the “ethnic cleansing” that enabled a majority Jewish 
citizenry; camps where “Israeli soldiers snatch residents and deploy lethal 
force” against youth raised in the shadow of the “apartheid, choking 
wall.”These screeds demonize Israel and seek to cover up for the real 
reason for Christian decline in Bethlehem: the Palestinian Authority and radical 
Islam. It started with Yasser Arafat.Arriving from Tunis in 1994, Arafat 
immediately set out to suppress the Palestinian middle class across the West 
Bank, which he understood could be the only real opposition to his planned 
dictatorial authority. He nationalized most business sectors, and squeezed 
Palestinian small businessmen out of business. Especially hard hit were the 
middle class businessmen of Bethlehem, most of whom were 
Christian.Arafat then sidelined the longtime Christian mayor of 
Bethlehem, Elias Freij, and Arafat’s henchmen led a campaign of terror and 
intimidation against Christian institutions and families in the city. Land 
theft, beatings and intimidation of Christians in Bethlehem by PA security 
services and other Muslim gangs became routine.Forced marriages between 
Christian women and Muslim men were reported. Arafat’s terrorists even took over 
and defiled the Church of the Nativity for 39 days in 2002, holding 200 priests 
as hostage as the terrorists sought to escape Israeli justice.The result 
has been an inexorable and ongoing Christian exodus from Bethlehem; a city 
captured by the PA and taken over by a very intolerant strain of 
Islam.None of this stopped the current PA president, Mahmoud Abbas, from 
this week releasing a malevolent Christmas message in which he cynically called 
Jesus Christ a “Palestinian messenger,” and went on to blast Israel for denying 
“millions” of Christians their “right to worship in their homeland.”This 
is an ugly attempt to apply replacement theology (in which Christians are said 
to have superseded the Jews in a covenant with G-d) to the Palestinian assault 
on Israel. In Abbas’s reversed and warped world, the Jewish and Christian Jesus 
has been replaced by a Palestinian Christ, and Christianity is under attack by 
the Jews, not by the Arabs and Muslims.Few Christian leaders, and no 
prominent Western journalists, publicly took Abbas to task for arrogating Jesus 
to Palestinian propaganda.Turning the other cheek, they apparently 
thought, alas, that challenging Abbas just wouldn’t be in the Christmas spirit 
of justice, peace, charity and love.
Unfortunately, Abbas’s perverse and 
perfidious statement is in keeping with the Palestinian Authority’s ongoing 
denial of Jewish history and rights in the historic Land of Israel. It doesn’t 
augur well for the peace process.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Trial and tribulation –  South Africa’s obsession with Israel</title>
<date>5/11/2013</date>
<content>
Early this year the so-called Russell Tribunal on Palestine (RTP) concluded in 
Brussels four years of regular meetings around the world. The declared goal of 
the non-profit organization was “the promotion of peace and justice in the 
Middle East.” The sole focus of every single session of this “trial” was the 
State of Israel.The RTP is in its form and content symptomatic of the 
global BDS movement (Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions) displaying itself as a 
critical counter-movement to an imagined pro-Israeli mainstream. Many of today’s 
leading anti-Israel activists supported the tribunal or appeared as witnesses 
for this kangaroo court that sought to put Israel and its allies on trial in 
order to promote anti-Israel boycotts.




The leading question of the RTP’s 
Cape Town session was designed under the motto: South Africa has suffered a 
period of apartheid, so South Africans know best what apartheid is. The leading 
question for the jury assembled, of South African and international judges, read 
as follows: “Are Israeli practices against the Palestinian people in breach of 
the prohibition on apartheid under international law?” In South Africa the RTP 
staged a show trial against Israel accusing the country of an especially evil 
form of apartheid: “Israel’s rule over the Palestinian people, wherever they 
reside, collectively amounts to a single integrated regime of apartheid [...] 
The Palestinians living under colonial military rule in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory are subject to a particularly aggravated form of 
apartheid.”Exactly two years have passed since I addressed an op-ed in 
the South African daily Cape Times to the jury of that tribunal’s session in 
Cape Town. In that letter I demanded an answer to a question I was prevented 
from asking during the international press conference of the 
tribunal.The question was: Hamas is not only responsible for murder, 
torture and human rights violations among their own people, but also for 
terrorist attacks against Israeli citizens.What official position does 
the Russell Tribunal jury take toward the Islamist regime of Hamas ruling the 
people of Gaza? This RTP-gathering in Cape Town was organized by the same crowd 
of the BDS movement that recently attracted global attention by chanting slogans 
such as “Shoot the Jew” during a concert by an Israeli jazz band in 
Johannesburg.Nobel laureate Desmond Tutu headed the “international 
people’s tribunal” together with Stephane Hessel, a French Resistance member and 
concentration camp survivor who recently passed away. Hessel’s “Time for 
outrage!” essay sold worldwide as a booklet and was an inspiration for the 
“Occupy movement.”The list of declared RTP supporters reads like a who’s 
who of global anti-Zionist academia: Noam Chomsky, Judith Butler, Ilan Pappe, 
Jean Ziegler, Norman Fineklstein, Jose Saramango, Harold Pinter and the former 
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Boutros Boutros-Ghali.If these 
supporters of the tribunal were honestly concerned with the lives of 
Palestinians, why then was there not a single word mentioned about the abuse of 
Palestinians by Arab regimes such as Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Kuwait, who keep 
them stateless, refuse them access to higher education and do not allow them the 
vote? If championing human rights, integrity and an objective hearing were the 
tribunal’s values – why then was it collectively silent when human rights abuses 
are perpetrated against Palestinians? Is it solely because Israel is not 
involved? In the course of this concluding press conference I was astonished by 
the lack of restrained professionalism that finally led to the public exposure 
of the RTP’s agenda, namely trying to sell itself as the spearhead of human 
rights, morality and a somehow critical truth.When these BDS activists 
were reminded of the fact that applying a moral standard has a different quality 
than dissing the Jews, fury became their language of choice.Their 
immediate thuggish response to my question was pavlovian – any question that did 
not fit in with their agenda of demonizing Israel was assumed to be from the 
mouth a “Zionist heckler” or “Zionist activist.”I was not only prevented 
from asking the question, but three security personnel were sent in to violently 
remove me from the hall.Their labeling of me as a “Zionist activist” was 
their attempt to delegitimize my argument and demonize me as a 
person.Not only was I not allowed to ask any questions, but in 
attempting to raise issues of concern, I was thrown to the floor, dragged out of 
the conference and threatened with more violence.The tribunal’s 
international press conference was a sham, displaying a total disregard and 
disrespect for the principles and procedure of jurisprudence.If 
championing human rights, morality and “the quest for the truth” was their 
intention, the way they handled my straightforward question achieved quite the 
opposite.This incident was typical of today’s numerous “Palestine 
solidarity” campaigns: While accusing Israel of “apartheid”, a relatively modest 
question that could disturb their cohesion – in this case a question about the 
jury’s stance towards the Islamist Hamas, was prohibited and resulted in my 
expulsion.It would seem that my mere presence there constituted a threat 
so serious I had to be removed by any means. What they were afraid of was not 
that I would disturb their session, but that I would expose their biased and 
corrupt agenda.While I laid a charge against the organizers of the 
tribunal for the physical assault and the threats against me, the CPT police 
department closed the proceedings two weeks later without any 
findings.While failing to answer or apologize, the organizers of South 
Africa’s high-profile Russel Tribunal were exposed for their transparently 
one-sided agenda, and vicious implementation thereof, to demonize and 
de-legitamise the State of Israel, irrespective of the truth.
The author 
is a German freelance journalist with an MA degree in International Relations 
from the universities of Cape Town and Freiburg. He focuses on the Middle East, 
terrorism and conflict.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Who are the victims?</title>
<date>3/11/2013</date>
<content>
Her tone was sharp, her words piercing: “You want us to think that you are the 
victims. You talk about the Romans, the Holocaust and the Arab armies in 1948 
and 1967. But you’re not the victims.”These remarks were directed at me 
recently by a woman from England who was part of a small Christian delegation 
that had come to our home in Efrat that morning.




The group had an 
interest in visiting an “illegal settlement” and hearing the views of a 
“settler” about Israel’s “occupation of Palestine.”Early in the morning 
this woman and the others in her group had stood in line with Palestinians at 
the Kalandia checkpoint on their way to Efrat from Ramallah where they had spent 
the night. Another member of the group took pains to refer to this experience 
several times. It sounded as if their encounter with the checkpoint was not only 
a demonstration of this group’s solidarity with Palestinians but also a badge of 
honor.This group was typical of the veritable endless caravan of 
delegations whose members come to “Israel Palestine” from abroad to “learn about 
the conflict.” During a typical five- to 10-day visit the bulk of their time is 
spent among Palestinians within the Palestinian Authority (or meeting with 
pro-Palestinian Israeli NGOs).This particular group allocated 
approximately two hours to hear the views of a single “settler.”It 
should therefore come as no surprise that to this woman it is the Palestinians 
who are the victims and Israel, and in particular Israeli settlers, who are 
responsible for their victimization.She was expressing a phenomenon 
known as “Holocaust fatigue” and taking it one step further. This benighted 
concept has emerged in recent years to express the feelings of some non-Jews who 
are sick and tired of hearing about how Jews suffered and died in the 
Holocaust.What was, they feel, was. Having come through the checkpoint 
that morning it was clear to this woman who are the victims today.This 
group, like others with a similar agenda, was interested in hearing the Israeli 
“settler” narrative. But their primary objective while touring the area was 
experiencing the Palestinian narrative. They strove to personally know 
individual Palestinians and witness their suffering; thus, the Kalandia 
checkpoint experience. In contrast, most internationals rarely spend more than a 
couple of hours when visiting an “illegal settlement.”Such distancing, 
trying to avoid attaching a name or a face to the image of “settler,” 
contributes to the delegitimization of Jewish community life beyond the 1949 
armistice lines. The people who organize these groups’ itineraries know that 
seeing is believing, while hearing represents a far less powerful experience. 
They feel secure that visitors given only a limited opportunity to interact with 
Jewish “settlers” are unlikely to question their own commitment to the 
Palestinian cause; in fact, after their brief exposure to a community like 
Efrat, this commitment may in fact become stronger.The woman who spoke 
out acknowledged that she was visiting the region for the first time and that 
she knew very little about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict before deciding to 
join her co-religionists on this mission. The Christian denomination to which 
she belongs is Low Church and liberal. Among other social justice campaigns with 
which it is involved, it supports the boycott of all manufactured products as 
well as fruits and vegetables produced by Jews in Judea and Samaria.Her 
present understanding of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, she said, was formed 
at the short, preparatory seminar offered to all trip participants approximately 
a month before departure. The views presented at that time were now being 
confirmed by the partisan encounters that comprised this group’s tour. For 
example, as I learned, the few other Israelis invited to meet with this group 
all expressed strong criticism of the “occupation.” Otherwise, this group’s time 
was spent with Palestinians.It is no wonder this woman reacted to my 
presentation in the manner she did. Until reaching Efrat she was likely 
surrounded by discussions of stolen land, refugee camps, home demolitions, 
travel restrictions, checkpoints, abusive soldiers and the scarcity of water, 
all attributable to the “occupation.”Most poignantly, she was taken to 
see the “wall,” Israel’s national security barrier, which has become the premier 
symbol of the “occupation” and synonymous with “apartheid” in the lexicon of all 
groups sympathetic to the Palestinian cause.Since her group’s arrival in 
Israel she surely had also observed dozens of IDF personnel with automatic 
weapons as well as military jeeps on patrol. To this woman, a people whose 
soldiers drive around in jeeps with guns and are able to control the movement of 
other people are certainly not victims... they can only victimize 
others.This woman’s failure to view current realities as the outcome of 
past events blocked her ability to understand the causal relationship between 
the extended waves of suicide bombings Israel faced a decade ago and the 
obligation of a government to maintain whatever measures are necessary to 
protect its citizenry. Her jaundiced view of the conflict echoed in her cynical 
dismissal of the explanation for such measures.“Why,” she asked, “does 
the ‘wall’ not follow the precise route of the ‘green line’ (the 1949 armistice 
line)?” In other words, why does the security barrier run through and divide 
privately owned Palestinian property or in other ways deviate from the route of 
the “green line” and spill over onto Palestinian land? The answer she received, 
that except where Israeli security experts deemed it necessary the barrier does 
follow the “green line,” caused her to cast a fleeting, conspiratorial glance at 
a colleague.THE PALESTINIAN narrative continues to win peoples’ hearts 
and minds because people respond more viscerally and permanently to what they 
see and experience than to what they are told, and Palestinians regularly make 
sure that outsiders are brought to see the assortment of encumbrances imposed 
upon them by the “occupation.”In contrast, visitors to Israel will 
undoubtedly hear the story of the Jewish People’s unprecedented national 
renaissance in the wake of the Holocaust or be treated to a PowerPoint 
presentation highlighting the state of Israel’s incredible achievements in 
science, technology and culture. As impressive as these may otherwise be, this 
approach has a significantly lesser impact on dubious visitors than the 
unsettling experience of being stopped by soldiers carrying weapons and asked to 
present passports at an IDF checkpoint, an experience reported by some overseas 
groups.This woman had it wrong. My telescopic recounting of Jewish 
history leading up to the creation of the state of Israel to her and her group 
was not intended as a review of Jewish victimization. That Jews carry the 
unenviable distinction of being the most consistently victimized people 
throughout the past two millennia is self-evident from any sober reading of 
world history.Rather, my intention was something else, and 
twofold.First, I wished to trace the trajectory of events framing 
Israel’s unique historic exile and return to the Land, events that I am certain 
had no place in this group’s consciousness. Second, I wished to illustrate how 
we Jews, in spite of our travails and against all odds, through a combination of 
abiding religious faith and sheer will, succeeded in returning to history and 
re-establishing our membership among the sovereign nations of the world. This 
feat was not achieved by touting our victimization.Following their 
morning visit to Efrat this group returned by bus to Ramallah, a journey that 
again involved their waiting in line at the Kalandia checkpoint.I have 
no doubt that while standing patiently in line alongside Palestinians they would 
again contrast the surrounding dismal scene with the green lawns and comfortable 
homes they just left behind in Efrat. But would it enter their minds that some 
of the people who live in Efrat, or their parents or grandparents, not so long 
ago, were made to wait in line surrounded by soldiers in a black universe where 
Kalandia would have been considered a life-giving oasis? Although we never 
forget those lines, here the woman from England was actually right; we did not 
allow them to make us victims.The author lives in Efrat and is the 
director of iTalkIsrael.Her tone was sharp, her words piercing: “You want us to think that you are the 
victims. You talk about the Romans, the Holocaust and the Arab armies in 1948 
and 1967. But you’re not the victims.”These remarks were directed at me 
recently by a woman from England who was part of a small Christian delegation 
that had come to our home in Efrat that morning.The group had an 
interest in visiting an “illegal settlement” and hearing the views of a 
“settler” about Israel’s “occupation of Palestine.”Early in the morning 
this woman and the others in her group had stood in line with Palestinians at 
the Kalandia checkpoint on their way to Efrat from Ramallah where they had spent 
the night. Another member of the group took pains to refer to this experience 
several times. It sounded as if their encounter with the checkpoint was not only 
a demonstration of this group’s solidarity with Palestinians but also a badge of 
honor.This group was typical of the veritable endless caravan of 
delegations whose members come to “Israel Palestine” from abroad to “learn about 
the conflict.” During a typical five- to 10-day visit the bulk of their time is 
spent among Palestinians within the Palestinian Authority (or meeting with 
pro-Palestinian Israeli NGOs).This particular group allocated 
approximately two hours to hear the views of a single “settler.”It 
should therefore come as no surprise that to this woman it is the Palestinians 
who are the victims and Israel, and in particular Israeli settlers, who are 
responsible for their victimization.She was expressing a phenomenon 
known as “Holocaust fatigue” and taking it one step further. This benighted 
concept has emerged in recent years to express the feelings of some non-Jews who 
are sick and tired of hearing about how Jews suffered and died in the 
Holocaust.What was, they feel, was. Having come through the checkpoint 
that morning it was clear to this woman who are the victims today.This 
group, like others with a similar agenda, was interested in hearing the Israeli 
“settler” narrative. But their primary objective while touring the area was 
experiencing the Palestinian narrative. They strove to personally know 
individual Palestinians and witness their suffering; thus, the Kalandia 
checkpoint experience. In contrast, most internationals rarely spend more than a 
couple of hours when visiting an “illegal settlement.”Such distancing, 
trying to avoid attaching a name or a face to the image of “settler,” 
contributes to the delegitimization of Jewish community life beyond the 1949 
armistice lines. The people who organize these groups’ itineraries know that 
seeing is believing, while hearing represents a far less powerful experience. 
They feel secure that visitors given only a limited opportunity to interact with 
Jewish “settlers” are unlikely to question their own commitment to the 
Palestinian cause; in fact, after their brief exposure to a community like 
Efrat, this commitment may in fact become stronger.The woman who spoke 
out acknowledged that she was visiting the region for the first time and that 
she knew very little about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict before deciding to 
join her co-religionists on this mission. The Christian denomination to which 
she belongs is Low Church and liberal. Among other social justice campaigns with 
which it is involved, it supports the boycott of all manufactured products as 
well as fruits and vegetables produced by Jews in Judea and Samaria.Her 
present understanding of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, she said, was formed 
at the short, preparatory seminar offered to all trip participants approximately 
a month before departure. The views presented at that time were now being 
confirmed by the partisan encounters that comprised this group’s tour. For 
example, as I learned, the few other Israelis invited to meet with this group 
all expressed strong criticism of the “occupation.” Otherwise, this group’s time 
was spent with Palestinians.It is no wonder this woman reacted to my 
presentation in the manner she did. Until reaching Efrat she was likely 
surrounded by discussions of stolen land, refugee camps, home demolitions, 
travel restrictions, checkpoints, abusive soldiers and the scarcity of water, 
all attributable to the “occupation.”Most poignantly, she was taken to 
see the “wall,” Israel’s national security barrier, which has become the premier 
symbol of the “occupation” and synonymous with “apartheid” in the lexicon of all 
groups sympathetic to the Palestinian cause.Since her group’s arrival in 
Israel she surely had also observed dozens of IDF personnel with automatic 
weapons as well as military jeeps on patrol. To this woman, a people whose 
soldiers drive around in jeeps with guns and are able to control the movement of 
other people are certainly not victims... they can only victimize 
others.This woman’s failure to view current realities as the outcome of 
past events blocked her ability to understand the causal relationship between 
the extended waves of suicide bombings Israel faced a decade ago and the 
obligation of a government to maintain whatever measures are necessary to 
protect its citizenry. Her jaundiced view of the conflict echoed in her cynical 
dismissal of the explanation for such measures.“Why,” she asked, “does 
the ‘wall’ not follow the precise route of the ‘green line’ (the 1949 armistice 
line)?” In other words, why does the security barrier run through and divide 
privately owned Palestinian property or in other ways deviate from the route of 
the “green line” and spill over onto Palestinian land? The answer she received, 
that except where Israeli security experts deemed it necessary the barrier does 
follow the “green line,” caused her to cast a fleeting, conspiratorial glance at 
a colleague.THE PALESTINIAN narrative continues to win peoples’ hearts 
and minds because people respond more viscerally and permanently to what they 
see and experience than to what they are told, and Palestinians regularly make 
sure that outsiders are brought to see the assortment of encumbrances imposed 
upon them by the “occupation.”In contrast, visitors to Israel will 
undoubtedly hear the story of the Jewish People’s unprecedented national 
renaissance in the wake of the Holocaust or be treated to a PowerPoint 
presentation highlighting the state of Israel’s incredible achievements in 
science, technology and culture. As impressive as these may otherwise be, this 
approach has a significantly lesser impact on dubious visitors than the 
unsettling experience of being stopped by soldiers carrying weapons and asked to 
present passports at an IDF checkpoint, an experience reported by some overseas 
groups.This woman had it wrong. My telescopic recounting of Jewish 
history leading up to the creation of the state of Israel to her and her group 
was not intended as a review of Jewish victimization. That Jews carry the 
unenviable distinction of being the most consistently victimized people 
throughout the past two millennia is self-evident from any sober reading of 
world history.Rather, my intention was something else, and 
twofold.First, I wished to trace the trajectory of events framing 
Israel’s unique historic exile and return to the Land, events that I am certain 
had no place in this group’s consciousness. Second, I wished to illustrate how 
we Jews, in spite of our travails and against all odds, through a combination of 
abiding religious faith and sheer will, succeeded in returning to history and 
re-establishing our membership among the sovereign nations of the world. This 
feat was not achieved by touting our victimization.Following their 
morning visit to Efrat this group returned by bus to Ramallah, a journey that 
again involved their waiting in line at the Kalandia checkpoint.I have 
no doubt that while standing patiently in line alongside Palestinians they would 
again contrast the surrounding dismal scene with the green lawns and comfortable 
homes they just left behind in Efrat. But would it enter their minds that some 
of the people who live in Efrat, or their parents or grandparents, not so long 
ago, were made to wait in line surrounded by soldiers in a black universe where 
Kalandia would have been considered a life-giving oasis? Although we never 
forget those lines, here the woman from England was actually right; we did not 
allow them to make us victims.
The author lives in Efrat and is the 
director of iTalkIsrael.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Who are the victims and perpetrators?</title>
<date>21/8/2013</date>
<content>
Among the hundreds of mostly pro-Palestinian sympathizers with whom I speak each 
year in Efrat I have taken note of a recurring sentiment that I find very 
disturbing. Most recently it was expressed by a student who was part of a 
delegation from a Midwestern Christian college that had come to Efrat for a 
short, token stopover in an “illegal Israeli settlement.”After spending 
four full days in Bethlehem, the group’s hour plus in Efrat was disingenuously 
described to me as an effort to “understand both sides of the 
conflict.”




For this student, as for all of the people with whom I meet in 
this context, be their worldview religious or secular, an expressed concern for 
social justice is the motivation behind their visit to the area.That is 
why I was troubled by the response of this student when I mentioned the brazen 
statement made by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas at a recent 
press conference in Cairo.For those who are unaware of this incident, 
Abbas told a mostly Egyptian press corps, at around the same time that 
preliminary peace discussions between Israel and the Palestinians were getting 
under way in Washington, DC, that no Israeli, neither soldier nor civilian, 
would ever be “present” in Palestine.The student said something along 
the lines of, “Maybe this is their response to being treated so 
badly.”It was not a query. Her tone belied her pretense of objectivity; 
she was being protective. She was, in fact, suggesting a rationale, an apology, 
an excuse, even a form of a justification.As unseemly and 
counterproductive as Abbas’s statement sounded to Israelis, as well as to anyone 
else hoping for an authentic and final resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict, it appears that this student found it acceptable.I have 
encountered this attitude before in my meetings with selfdefined social justice 
groups that come to tour the Palestinian Authority. It emanates from a 
black/white political template in which Israel is the oppressor overlord and the 
Palestinians are the oppressed underdog. To suggest anything other to them is 
futile.Using this template the underdog is relieved of most of the moral 
and social responsibilities of other civilized groups. Of course, this is never 
stated, but it is implied in the absence of unequivocal and public condemnation 
by human rights groups of even the most egregious defamatory and inflammatory 
words and acts of violence that emanate from Palestinian society.Such 
was the attitude reflected in an August 4 New York Times article by the 
newspaper’s Jerusalem-based correspondent Jodi Rudoren. The article, titled “In 
a West Bank Culture of Conflict, Boys Wield the Weapon at Hand,” conveyed a 
tacit understanding of the potentially lethal activity of young Palestinians who 
regularly engage in stone throwing at Jewish vehicles traveling on roads passing 
their towns and villages.Rudoren gives voice to a number of Palestinians 
from the West Bank village of Beit Umar, located between Jerusalem and Hebron, 
who either engage in rock throwing or who have family members that have been 
arrested, sometimes multiple times, for doing so. In the article, the 
rock-throwers and their relatives are personalized through the use of their 
names and individual stories.But all the Jews to whom she refers in the 
article are anonymous settlers or soldiers. While it is not the responsibility 
of a journalist to either praise or condemn the activities of a news story’s 
actors, a reporter can, via tone and vocabulary, indicate which side in a 
dispute he or she personally favors.Clearly, the author of this article 
empathizes with the rock-throwers, their parents and their 
community.Reading Rudoren, one would think that the rock-throwers’ 
intent to injure, maim or kill Jews plays no role in their activity. “They throw 
because there is little else to do in Beit Umar – no pool or cinema, no music 
lessons after school, no parttime jobs other than peddling produce along the 
road. They do it because their brothers and fathers did.” Rudoren tells her 
readers that for young Palestinian males “rock throwing is a rite of passage and 
an honored act of defiance.”By the end of Rudoren’s article the true 
victims of rock throwing appear to be the young Palestinians who are arrested by 
needlessly aggressive Israeli security forces for engaging in nothing more than 
a time-honored local hobby.W h e n meeting with internationals, it is I, 
not they, that raises the issue of suicide bombers.The subject enters 
our dialogue only because I mention it as the reason that Israel constructed the 
national security barrier, exclusively referred to by these groups as “the 
Wall.”The Wall has achieved iconic status among these visitors; it 
represents all that they see as evil and anti-humanist in Israel’s occupation of 
the West Bank. To these groups the wall stands for apartheid, land theft, family 
separation and personal humiliation. When reminded that the barrier came only as 
a defensive response by Israel to the repeated Palestinian suicide bombings that 
took place during the second intifada resulting in 1,137 civilian murders and 
countless maiming and injuries, both physical and emotional, the typical 
response is silence.At this point, I can sense the cognitive dissonance. 
To my discussion partners, the Palestinians are the victims, not the 
perpetrators. They are the oppressed, not the oppressors.Thus, it is 
typical for one person in the group with which I am meeting to respond with some 
variation of the following statement: “Well, what do you expect? You have your 
tanks and jets, they only have their bodies!” With this statement, one that I 
have heard often, the cat is out of the bag: This person doesn’t “condone” 
terrorism, but can “understand” it and, in the case of Palestinians and Jews, 
when up against the wall (pun intended), can even justify it, at least in a 
closed conversation out of earshot of the press.From words to rocks to 
suicide bombing.I still consider myself politically liberal on many 
social issues.But the same loss of moral compass that ultimately turned 
me off the New Left in America decades ago leaves me recoiling in horror from 
the “Invasion of the Body Snatchers” mentality displayed by too many of the 
social justice and church-based groups with whom I meet. Their relative silence 
or stated excuses throughout the past decade on the subject of open terrorist 
warfare conducted against Israeli civilians by ideologically driven and trained 
Palestinian Arabs is tantamount to standing on the sidelines and winking 
approval.How do otherwise seemingly moral people come to this? Is it the 
outcome of misguided self-righteousness? Is it a sublimated expression of 
anti-Semitism, or when expressed by Jews, a form of selfhatred? Is it the result 
of blatant ignorance? Or is it the expected outcome of full identification with 
the Palestinian narrative? Sympathy is an important sentiment.But when 
sympathy crosses the line, the results can be lethal.
The author is the 
director of iTalk- Israel and lives in Efrat.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why are Israel’s critics trying to kill two-state solution?</title>
<date>9/1/2013</date>
<content>
The two-state solution apparently has seen better days. Indeed, according to The 
Atlantic’s Robert Wright the two-state solution is on its “deathbed,” while the 
Daily Beast’s Andrew Sullivan has already lost all hope in the prospects of an 
independent Palestinian state.These two prominent commentators are 
hardly alone in their bleak prognosis. In fact, for the past few years, it has 
become an article of faith among Israel’s most reliable left-wing critics that 
the prospects for a two-state solution are about to vanish, if they haven’t 
already done so.




Such pundits offer several reasons for why they believe 
the two-state solution is near death, such as settlement growth and Israel’s 
current right-wing leadership, among others.But this shared pessimism is 
curious, to say the least. After all, going back decades, Israel’s left-wing 
critics across the globe have consistently been the strongest proponents of the 
two-state “dream,” even when most observers were still characterizing it as a 
fantasy.Since that time, it would be impossible not to notice the 
progress made between the sides: prime minister Rabin and PLO chairman Arafat 
shaking hands on the White House lawn after signing the Oslo Accords in ’93; 
prime minister Sharon dismantling all Israeli settlements in Gaza in 2005; and, 
in 2008, prime minister Olmert’s offer of a Palestinian state with land swaps 
and a capital in Jerusalem.Sure, current conditions make it unlikely 
that a peace deal will be struck in the immediate future. But progress in the 
peace process has moved slowly over the decades, overcoming many obstacles along 
the way. For Israel’s critics who formerly advocated the two-state solution to 
now suddenly give up all hope is completely out of character with their previous 
unshakeable optimism.So why are these critics seeing so little hope now, 
with the recent past providing plenty of reasons to believe that a two-state 
solution is a real possibility? For the simple reason that they no longer view 
the two-state solution as the preferred resolution to the conflict. In other 
words, it’s not that Israel’s critics believe the two-state solution is dying; 
they are actively trying to kill it.INSTEAD OF pushing for two states, 
Israel’s most vociferous critics lately have been subtly shifting their 
arguments to focus on the “inevitability” of the one-state solution, where 
Israel and the occupied territories would be incorporated into a single 
democratic state, resulting in a Palestinian majority.But in order for 
the one-state solution to become inevitable, the two-state solution must first 
be killed. Here is former US president Jimmy Carter doing his part, in a recent 
piece he co-wrote for The New York Times: “If the [UN resolution for Palestinian 
nonmember state status] fails, it will probably mark the death of the two-state 
solution and move us even closer to a one-state outcome, with uncertain and 
potentially catastrophic consequences for both Israelis and 
Palestinians.”I somehow doubt, however, that Carter truly believes that 
becoming the majority power in Israel would be “catastrophic” for Palestinians. 
At least, no less than I doubt Br’er Rabbit believed it would be catastrophic to 
get thrown into the briar patch.Soon after featuring Carter’s article 
“warning” of a one-state outcome, the Times ran another an op-ed, titled, “If 
Not Two States, Then One.” Only this time, the author didn’t pretend to disfavor 
the one-state solution.The New York Times is hardly alone in giving a 
prominent platform to one-state advocates. Left-leaning publications, such as 
The Guardian and NPR, have also recently run articles discussing the possibility 
of a one-state solution. Predictably, these pieces prompted widespread media 
debate on the merits and feasibility of a one-state outcome.What’s more, 
this shifting narrative by the anti-Israel Left isn’t confined to pundits and 
politicians; our most prestigious academic institutions are also getting in on 
the action.This past March, Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government held 
a symposium featuring 20 prominent speakers, titled “The One- State Conference: 
Israel/Palestine and the One- State Solution.”TO BE sure, many on Left 
still believe in and are advocating for a two-state solution. But up until very 
recently, attempts to end the prospects for a two-state outcome had been the 
exclusive domain of certain segments of the political right. Now, in order to 
bring one-state advocacy into the liberal mainstream, the anti-Israel wing of 
the Left has taken up the mantle of trying to kill the two-state 
solution.Of course, these critics know that a one-state solution is far 
more improbable than any two-state solution, but that’s beside the point. With 
enough chatter about the obsolescence of the two-state solution, Israel’s 
critics will have laid the groundwork for explaining how Palestinian grievances 
can only be addressed through a single Palestinian-Israeli state with a 
Palestinian majority. Anything less would be no better than 
apartheid.
The author is an attorney and frequent political commentator. 
His articles have been previously published by The Washington Times, Fox News 
and the Daily Caller.
</content>
</article>
