<article>
<title>Adalah, the NIF and BDS: End the secrecy</title>
<date>20/2/2012</date>
<content>
‘Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.” This adage might have 
occurred to the officials, donors and supporters of the New Israel Fund (NIF) 
when they learned that an official from Adalah – one of their major grantees – 
was scheduled to speak at this year’s “Apartheid Week” at an event sponsored by 
BDS Geneva.Suhad Bishara, the director of Adalah’s Land and Planning 
Rights Unit, was featured prominently in the publicity for the event. After NGO 
Monitor brought this to NIF’s attention, Bishara’s name and affiliation were 
removed from some of the advertising, and was replaced by a statement reading, 
“For security reasons, we do not mention [the speaker’s] name on the 
site.”




NIF officials should not have been surprised by Adalah’s ongoing 
role in promoting BDS (boycotts, divestment and sanctions) and other forms of 
political warfare. The organization has made no secret of its agenda, including 
the participation in the infamous NGO Forum of the 2001 UN Durban 
Conference.The NGO Forum’s “Final Declaration,” which is still posted on 
Adalah’s website, calls for the “complete and total isolation of Israel as an 
apartheid state.”Expanding on this theme, Adalah’s so-called “Democratic 
Constitution” (2007) called for replacing the Jewish state with a “democratic, 
bilingual and multicultural” framework and for a redefinition of the “symbols of 
the state.” Jewish immigration would be restricted solely for “humanitarian 
reasons.”And following the publication of the Goldstone Report, Adalah 
joined Palestinian NGOs in urging governments to “re-evaluate their relationship 
with Israel.”Such activities are in direct contradiction of NIF’s 
recently adopted funding guidelines and principles, which explicitly exclude 
groups that “work to deny the right of the Jewish people to sovereign 
self-determination within Israel” and other forms of anti-Israel demonization. 
But for some reason, the NIF funding for Adalah – $475,950 authorized in 2010 – 
has continued.For many years, the organization has had trouble 
implementing “red lines,” and in a number of cases, has been embarrassed and 
forced to backpedal before taking action. In 2004, the NIF awarded a fellowship 
to Shamai Leibowitz, who went to the US and promoted BDS, among other activities 
inconsistent with NIF’s declared objectives. (Last week, a current NIF fellow, 
Moriel Rothman, noted in an op-ed, “I have become deeply frustrated by the 
political manipulation of the Holocaust to distract from Israel’s crimes against 
Palestinians.”) NIF also provided seed funding for a radical NGO known as ICAHD, 
which violates nearly all of NIF’s guidelines and principles, only ending 
funding after the damage had been done.More recently, it took two years 
for NIF to finally end support for the Coalition of Women for Peace (CWP), which 
is centrally involved in the BDS campaigns. Another group – Mada al-Carmel – 
which is also a major source of delegitimization and advocates for a “one-state” 
solution, was still listed in NIF’s latest published budget (for 2010), although 
incoming president Brian Lurie has stated that the funding has now ended. In 
each of these cases, NIF did not make any public statement warning others not to 
repeat the mistakes, and seems to have learned no lessons, which is apparent in 
the case of funding for Adalah.Although, or perhaps because, NIF is an 
extremely powerful political institution, with an annual budget of over $30 
million, whose policies and activities affect the lives of all Israelis, its 
leaders are out of touch and very slow to react. The organization’s inability to 
properly monitor its grantees’ activities creates an environment ripe for major 
mistakes, which have been very costly for Israel.When the contrast 
between NIF’s promotional claims and the reality of its political activities and 
funding is noted, they lash out angrily. For an organization claiming a “liberal 
and progressive” agenda, the NIF is particularly hostile to any form of 
criticism. When caught, as in each of the examples cited above, NIF’s public 
relations team resorts to vicious personal attacks against whistle-blowers for 
“speaking truth to power.”This was also the case with Adalah’s scheduled 
role in the Apartheid Week event in Switzerland. When NGO Monitor sent a letter 
to NIF officials to bring this to their attention, the response was a public 
attack accusing NGO Monitor of “smearing” the organization and attempting to 
deflect attention from Adalah’s false “apartheid” and “racism” 
rhetoric.The “fool me” adage stops after the second occurrence, but NIF 
is now well beyond this. And the personal, vindictive attacks are 
unconstructive, to understate the case, creating a contentious 
relationship.Instead of lashing out, NIF has the opportunity to 
demonstrate that its guidelines are serious.Given the extensive public 
evidence of Adalah’s true agenda, if NIF chooses to not sever ties with the NGO, 
one would have to assume that NIF is knowingly being fooled and is happy to go 
along for the ride.
The writer is president of NGO Monitor, a 
Jerusalem-based research institution dedicated to promoting universal human 
rights and to encouraging civil discussion on the reports and activities of 
non-governmental organizations, particularly in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A Dose of Nuance: Walking away from Alice Walker</title>
<date>28/6/2012</date>
<content>
When Eric Maria Remarque, the exiled author of All Quiet on the Western Front, 
was asked whether he missed Germany, he is reported to have said, “Why should I? 
I’m not Jewish.” Remarque’s comment was an edgy swipe at those formerly German 
Jews who never lost their infatuation with the Fatherland or its culture. Even 
after Germany became maniacally genocidal, many German Jews could not help 
themselves but love it.It’s an oft-repeated Jewish pattern. The Jewish 
belief in the value of human creative genius often reigns so supreme that we 
refuse to draw lines in the sand; we resist calling something evil even when 
there is no other way to describe it. Now we’re seeing it again – not with 
Germany, but with the United States. It’s reappeared not with Richard Wagner, 
but with Alice Walker, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of The Color 
Purple.




Walker, as is by now well known, recently refused to allow her 
novel to be translated into Hebrew. In a letter posted on her website, she 
explained her reasoning as follows: “… last Fall in South Africa the Russell 
Tribunal on Palestine met and determined that Israel is guilty of apartheid and 
persecution of the Palestinian people, both inside Israel and also in the 
Occupied Territories. The testimony we heard, both from Israelis and 
Palestinians (I was a jurist) was devastating.I grew up under American 
apartheid and this was far worse. Indeed, many South Africans who attended, 
including Desmond Tutu, felt the Israeli version of these crimes is worse even 
than what they suffered under the white supremacist regimes that dominated South 
Africa for so long.”When a person of Walker’s obvious intelligence 
utters such drivel, what we have is not a matter of ignorance. It is a matter of 
hate. Everyone knows that the condition of Palestinians in the West Bank is far 
from ideal; we also know that Israel could, and must, do better. But Walker 
writes as though the Palestinians are identical to the blacks of South Africa; 
they suffer only because of the color of their skin (or their ethnicity, in this 
case), not because of anything they have done. She writes as though Israel is 
the only obstacle to their “freedom,” as though Israel is, as a matter of 
policy, committed to perpetuating their second-class status without end. But no 
reasonable reading of the Middle East justifies any such claim. There is much to 
critique about Israeli policy; but the notion that the Palestinians are 
stateless solely because of Israel, or that they suffer at Israeli hands only 
because of their ethnicity, is obviously rubbish. Deep down, Alice Walker must 
know that.Lest we imagine that what Walker really objects to is the 
occupation, she even makes a point of saying that Israel is guilty of apartheid 
inside the Green Line as well.Really? Again, it is true that Israeli 
Arabs do not get a fair share of Israel’s social bounty, and that must be fixed. 
But name a single country in which some minorities do not get the short end of 
the stick. Is every country on the planet therefore guilty of apartheid? And if 
so, why boycott only Israel? It can’t be because of Israel’s social policies, 
which are far better than those of many other countries that Walker is not 
boycotting.Why just Israel? In apartheid South Africa, were there blacks 
on the Supreme Court? (Justice Salim Joubran, an Arab, serves on Israel’s 
highest bench; nor is he the first to do so.) In apartheid South Africa, were 
there recognized black parties in the parliament, legally pressing for their 
rights? The list could go on, almost endlessly. Anyone who knows anything about 
apartheid South Africa and about Israel knows how utterly different the two 
are.Alice Walker also knows. But Alice Walker doesn’t care. Because this 
is not about Walker’s concern for the Palestinians; it is about her attitude to 
the Jews.Yet, à la Remarque’s bemused comment about Jews their abiding 
infatuation even with cultural icons who hate them, there are Jews across the US 
still wondering how to “bring her around.” What can we say to Alice Walker, they 
ask, to get her to re-think, to understand? Though these questions come from a 
place of deep goodness, of belief in reason and decency, they also reflect our 
inability to draw a line in the sand and to demand that hate speech (which is 
precisely what Walker’s letter was) simply be banned from any circles in which 
we will take part.We can especially understand those Jews who do not 
wish to cut their ties with Alice Walker, of all writers. After all, we 
sympathize with the plight of African Americans, which she evoked so brilliantly 
in The Color Purple. Her cause was our cause, and rightly so. But our cause, 
sadly, is not hers. Our ongoing attempt to assure a Jewish future by assuring a 
vibrant and secure Jewish state is a cause Alice Walker utterly 
rejects.Walker, who joined a failed flotilla that had planned to sail 
from Greece, who openly supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement 
and who has called Israel “the greatest terrorist” in the Middle East, compares 
Israel to South Africa and to the American South because she hopes for the same 
outcome – she wants Jewish sovereignty to go the way of apartheid, a rich Jewish 
future to go the way of the old American South. She does not want the Jews to 
have the revitalization that the Jewish state is meant to foster.The 
real issue, therefore, is not Alice Walker, but us. Anti-Semites come and go. 
Walker is not the first, nor will she be the last.There is nothing we 
can do about that. But there is something we can do about our own reactions. Can 
we learn to stop coddling cultural geniuses, even though we revere their craft 
and talent, when they cross certain lines? Can we remind the world that what is 
truly abhorrent is not a conflict that Israel does not know how to end (though 
again, Israel could certainly manage it better), but the tarring of all Israelis 
and all Jews with one brush, as boycotts such as Walker’s invariably do? Anthony 
Julius, in his magisterial Trials of the Diaspora, a history of British 
anti-Semitism, says this about boycotts: “What happens when people are 
boycotted? The ordinary courtesies of life are no longer extended to them… The 
boycott is an act of violence, though of a paradoxical kind – one of recoil and 
exclusion rather than assault… It is a denial, amongst other things, of the 
boycotted person’s freedom of expression… The boycott thus announces a certain 
moral distaste; it is always self-congratulatory.”Nazi Germany, we 
should recall, began with boycotts of Jewish businesses, with the boycotting of 
Jewish intellectuals and professionals.By and large, German Jews said 
nothing. Will be we silent once again? This will be our test: Will Jews across 
the spectrum come to the defense of their people, or will they continue to 
wallow in their fawning over cultural icons? Will J Street’s Jeremy Ben-Ami 
publicly repudiate Alice Walker? What about Peter Beinart, who continues to 
insist that he is a Zionist? What about the many American rabbis who have made 
social activism a cornerstone of their rabbinate? Do they care about Jewish 
civil rights, too, or is it only other victims who arouse their sympathies? We 
are going to learn a great deal in the weeks to come. We know what Alice Walker 
is made of; now it’s time to find out what we are made of.
The writer is 
senior vice president and Koret Distinguished Fellow at the Shalem Center in 
Jerusalem. His book Saving Israel won the 2009 National Jewish Book Award. The 
issues explore in this column are the subject of his next book, The Promise of 
Israel: Why Its Seemingly Greatest Weakness is Actually Its Greatest Strength, 
which will be published this August.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A Hamas victory at the UN Human Rights Council</title>
<date>25/6/2012</date>
<content>
The Obama administration’s political and financial backing of the UN Human 
Rights Council resulted in another win for Hamas on Friday, June 22 in Geneva. A 
Hamas-affiliated organization and its supporters held an “informal parallel 
meeting” promoting the destruction of the Jewish state at the UN’s Palais des 
Nations.The event was advertised on the UN website and listed on an 
official UN document headlined “Human Rights Council, twentieth session, 18 June 
– 06 July 2012.”




Opening week of the Council’s latest session, therefore, 
featured both friends of Hamas sporting UN passes and championing an end to a 
Jewish state, and Obama’s Ambassador (and former California fundraiser) Eileen 
Donahoe painting the Council as the place to be to promote and protect human 
rights.In recent months, top Israeli officials have pleaded with their 
US counterparts to end American legitimization of the Council in light of its 
virulently anti-Israel record. In fact, this is the first Council session in 
which Israel’s observer seat is empty. Instead, the Obama administration has 
doubled-down on its support for the UN body and continues to trumpet its 
decision to seek a second term on the Council at elections this 
fall.Hamas and company have now calibrated team Obama’s evident 
priorities to their advantage.One of Friday’s three speakers was Sameh 
Habeeb, head of the media department of the “Palestinian Return Centre.” The 
event flyer, which clearly identified the Center as a “coorganizer” and named 
its representative as a speaker, was authorized to be posted at the UN 
conference room and distributed on UN NGO-reserved tables. And yet, as the Meir 
Amit Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center has documented, the 
Palestinian Return Centre is one of the central institutions through which Hamas 
operates in Britain.Here is some of what Habeeb had to say while 
speaking in a UN room, at a UN-provided microphone, at a UN-advertised event 
associated with the UN’s top human rights body: “In 1947, 1948 and 1949 the 
Palestinian refugees were ethnically cleansed by the Israeli gangs.... Some Arab 
armies came to Palestine to fight the Zionist project, which came from all over 
Europe to take over Palestine and to make it as a national home for the Jews, 
although it was always the national home for the Palestinians for thousands and 
thousands of years.”Habeeb, a well-known radical and “one state 
solution” campaigner, didn’t come alone. Various publications of his Palestinian 
Return Center were made readily available on UN premises.There was the 
pamphlet with this bigoted diatribe: “a racist ideology is inherent in political 
Zionism and... is being implemented as a political project by the state of 
Israel.Political Zionism idealizes and advances a racist and 
chauvinistic... religion and nationalism.”And there was the map with the 
word “Palestine” splashed across the entirety of what is now Israel. Advocating 
the elimination of a UN member state, the most elementary violation of the UN 
Charter, is evidently acceptable literature in the belly of the UN human rights 
beast.A third handout, entitled “Apartheid against Palestinians,” 
analogized Israelis to Nazis: “The Israeli regime is based on... race and 
religious supremacy... Modern nation states formed through these corrosive 
ideals scarred the 20th century, including in Germany and the South African 
apartheid regime.”This is the second time in two consecutive sessions of 
the Human Rights Council that Hamas and its messengers have been allowed into 
the UN fold. At the last session of the Council in March, a Hamas member of the 
Palestinian Legislative Council, Ismail al- Ashqar, was given a UN pass, seated 
in a UN room at the invitation of a UN-accredited NGO, and permitted to speak at 
another Council “side-event.” Though UN organizers issued the standard 
disclaimer about what is said during such events, applications to hold any such 
meeting are first vetted and approved by UN staff.The raft of 
anti-Israel informal meetings during Human Rights Council sessions which have 
been approved, and the nonstop Israel-bashing emanating from the Council itself, 
are not mere ships passing in the night. Forty-one percent of all the 
resolutions and decisions of the Council condemning a specific state have been 
directed at just one country among all 193 UN members, namely, 
Israel.Nevertheless, today the UN Human Rights Council’s lead promoter 
is President Obama.As November’s election fast approaches, UN Ambassador 
Susan Rice has been commissioned to explain the troubling disconnect with 
American values to disaffected voters.At a synagogue in Boca Raton, 
Florida last month, Rice lectured: the administration had made “meaningful 
progress... at the Human Rights Council.” That is, some are more equal than 
others. She also tried this contortion: “there’s an important distinction to 
understand. Israel gets singled out at the UN, not by the UN. When Israel gets 
marginalized and maligned, it’s not usually because of the UN Secretariat.... 
It’s usually because of decisions by individual member states.”Actually, 
the decisions to facilitate public speeches and the distribution of documents by 
Hamas and its cohorts alongside the Human Rights Council were made by the UN 
Secretariat. And the point is, UN bodies empower and magnify the pernicious 
decisions of their members.In what is bound to become standard Democrat 
fare in the coming months, Rice summed up her UN pep talk this way: “Efforts to 
chip away at Israel’s legitimacy have been met with the unflinching opposition 
of the United States.”
Except with Obama’s representative settled 
comfortably into her Council digs while the Israeli chair lies vacant, it is 
obvious to all that this White House has blinked.The writer is the 
director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Alice Walker’s bigotry</title>
<date>21/6/2012</date>
<content>
Pulitzer Prize-winning author Alice Walker, who has a long history of supporting 
terrorism against Israel, has now resorted to bigotry and censorship against 
Hebrew-speaking readers of her writings. She has refused to allow The Color 
Purple to be translated into Hebrew.This is the moral and legal 
equivalent of neo-Nazi author David Duke disallowing his books to be sold to 
Black and Jewish readers.




There is an appropriate moral and legal 
response to Walker’s bigotry. The publisher who had sought permission to publish 
Walker’s book in Hebrew should simply go ahead and do it – without her 
permission and over her objection.Walker could then sue for copyright 
infringement, and the issue would be squarely posed whether copyright laws, 
which are designed to encourage the promotion of literature, can be used to 
censor writings and prevent certain people from having access to it, based upon 
the language they read.The laws of most Western countries prohibit 
discrimination based on race, religion and national origin.Walker is 
guilty of violating both the spirit and the letter of such laws. The laws of 
copyright should not be permitted to be used in the service of bigotry and 
censorship.But even if it were lawful for Walker to prevent 
Hebrew-speakers from reading her book, it would be immoral to do so, and the 
publisher might well consider engaging in an act of civil disobedience, as 
Walker herself has done.Walker participated in unlawful efforts to break 
Israel’s entirely lawful military blockade of the Gaza Strip – a blockade 
designed to prevent Hamas and other terrorist groups from bringing to Gaza 
weapons that are aimed at Israeli civilians.In doing so, she has 
provided material support for terrorism, in violation of the law of the United States and several other countries.Her bigotry against 
the Jewish state and in support of terrorists knows no bounds. Now she is even 
prepared to impose censorship of her own writings as a tool in support of 
terrorism.She should not be permitted to get away with such bigotry. Nor 
should her actions be seen as morally elevated.The laws of copyright 
were certainly not designed to encourage or even permit selective censorship 
based on national origin or religion.
I am confident that reasonable 
courts would rule against Walker if she sought to sue a publisher who refused to 
go along with her bigoted censorship. Inaction in the face of bigotry is 
unacceptable. Alice Walker’s bigotry should be responded to by turning her own 
weapon – the written word – against her. Her writings should be published in 
Hebrew, whether she likes it or not, and the royalties should be contributed to 
the NAACP and other civil rights organizations that understand the true meaning 
of fighting against bigotry and real apartheid.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A new Middle East or old Israel hatred?</title>
<date>27/5/2012</date>
<content>
The momentous events of the Arab Spring offer us another opportunity to review 
the discussion of the Middle East in the US and Europe. The picture emerging is 
that old habits die hard, and the main themes which dominated the discourse 
before the eruption continue to top the agenda.The media completely 
failed to anticipate the events, something which is largely attributed to the 
excessive concentration on the Israeli-Arab-Palestinian conflict as the most 
important issue at the expense of everything else. No attention was given to the 
yearly reports, published by the UN and written by Arab academics, on the state 
of human development in the Arab world.




These amazingly candid and 
insightful reports have portrayed a dismal picture of affairs and contain 
specific warnings – that the status-quo in the Arab world could not last for too 
long, for instance. They were ignored by the press and the academic world. Yet 
as the events started to unfold, as if by Pavlovian reflex, many in the press 
and the academia came quickly back to the Israelis and Palestinians.A 
case in point is the writings of Thomas Friedman in The New York Times. 
Friedman’s well-written columns leave the reader with the definite impression 
that so many factors behind the Arab Spring notwithstanding, the key to a better 
Middle East in the future continues to be a quick resolution of the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and it is for Israel to do the one thing which 
will lead to a new Middle East.When the same Times, however, dealt with 
events in Syria, five scholars were invited to discuss the situation – and none 
of them were Israeli. One is left to wonder if it was not a subtle message that 
somehow Israeli scholars are not legitimate participants in a forum about 
Syria.Much of this discussion deals with the question of sectarianism. 
While this has clearly been a crucial factor behind the conflict, the floor is 
wide open to those who deny the obvious.This was the case on March 18, 
when the Washington Post published a typical piece by Wadah Khanfar, the former 
CEO of Al Jazeera, claiming that “modern Syria has never witnessed primary [sic] 
religious conflict.” Many such outrageous distortions appear almost daily in so 
many places, leaving the impression that if sectarianism is not the problem, 
then the Arabs are exempted from the need to blame themselves – with Israel and 
the blame game put back on center stage.While American public opinion 
polls consistently show large measure of support for Israel, academia offers a 
different picture altogether, particularly in international relations, political 
science and Middle East studies. There, the book on AIPAC titled The Israel 
Lobby,authored by Mearsheimer and Walt, continues to figure prominently, and the 
two are ranked by their peers among the most influential scholars in the 
field.In terms of its impact, this is a cult book.A sympathetic 
review of the book claiming that it slammed into “the opinion–making community 
with a category five force’’ may not be altogether exaggerated.The 
situation in Europe is much worse.University campuses are witnessing the 
most severe wave of anti-Israel prejudice since April 6, 2002, when 123 
academics signed a letter, published in the Guardian, calling for a moratorium 
on all cultural links with Israel. Since then, dozens of universities hosted 
EU-funded events that equated Israeli policies with South Africa’s Apartheid. 
Moreover, even US universities in the Ivy League promote “Israel Apartheid 
Week.”The definition of the Jewish state as an “apartheid state,” with 
the subliminal comparison between Aryanism and Zionism, has become the code word 
for evil.Portraying Jews as Nazis, Israeli prime ministers as Hitler and 
the Star of David as equal to the swastika is now common in the Islamic world, 
but these horrible comparisons have also made major inroads in Western 
academia.Zygmunt Baurman, regarded as one of the world’s most 
influential sociologists, declared in an interview to the Polish weekly 
Politika, that “Israel is taking advantage of the Holocaust to legitimize 
unconscionable acts’’ and he went on to compare the Israeli self-defense fence 
to the Warsaw Ghetto, from where 400,000 innocent Jews were sent to the death 
camps. The German historian Ernst Nolte said in a lecture in Italy that “the 
only difference between Israel and the Third Reich is Auschwitz” and that “the 
liking for the Palestinians is more widespread than that given to the Holocaust 
victims.”No wonder that words like these cross oceans, as in UC Irvine, 
one of the epicenters of anti-Israel agitation, the Jewish state is described as 
“the Fourth Reich.”Altogether, a new generation of Western academics, 
particularly in the humanities, is imbued with these anti-Jewish, anti- Israel 
notions. Zionism is cast as a cause for anti-semitism, not as a legitimate 
response to it. The worldwide view of these academics is internationalist and 
third word-list.They consider Israel’s sovereignty as “racist,” and 
reject the notion of Jewish national identity, at the same time, that they 
preach for the entire world to accept the legitimacy of Palestinian 
nationalism.For them, Islamophobia is the worst kind of racism, hence 
another reason why they can’t accept the simple fact that in the Islamic Middle 
East there is so much conflict between ethnic and religious groups, as to accept 
it will be to, God forbid, cast a shadow on the entire Islamic 
religion.Most of these academics are Marxists, whose picture of the 
world on every issue is in sharp contrast to the Islamic one, and yet They find 
a common denominator, as the bottom line of both groups about the Middle East is 
the negation of Israel’s rightful existence. With this in place, it can be 
safely said, that many Western academics are fast becoming one of the most 
influential offspring’s of anti-Israel in the world.We know from 
history, that there is nothing new in this irrational obsession.
Josef 
Olmert is an adjunct professor at the University of South Carolina. Giulio 
Meotti is an Italian writer.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Anglo Jewish leaders and ‘trembling Israelites’</title>
<date>7/3/2012</date>
<content>
The simmering tensions associated with the “restrained” Anglo Jewish leadership 
approach to Israel advocacy exploded at the most recent plenum meeting of the 
Board of Deputies of British Jews.Senior vice-president Jonathan Arkush 
launched a bitter attack on the Jewish Leadership Council (JLC), a group 
primarily comprised of wealthy British Jews and their acolytes who, although 
unaccountable, are allegedly determining communal policy.




To widespread 
applause from the plenum, Arkush accused the JLC of being “unelected, 
unaccountable and therefore unacceptable” as spokesmen for Anglo 
Jewry.However, he was immediately castigated by the president and 
members of the executive for “an intemperate outburst” and making “unhelpful and 
incorrect” comments. There were also calls for his resignation.The JLC 
head, Mick Davis, blatantly threatened to terminate ongoing financial support to 
the Board if it could make such “unwarranted and egregious 
attacks.”Davis, who also heads the United Jewish Israel Appeal, had 
previously created a storm by urging British Jews to criticize the Jewish 
state’s handling of the peace process. Employing the terminology of our enemies, 
he warned that Israel was in danger of becoming an “apartheid” state.In 
remarks unprecedented for any Diaspora Jewish leader, Davis stated: “I think the 
government of Israel has to recognize that their actions directly impact on me 
as a Jew living in London, UK. When they do good things, it is good for me when 
they do bad things, it’s bad for me. And the impact on me is as significant as 
it is on Jews living in Israel. I want them to recognize that.”Board of 
Deputies leaders are themselves frequently criticized for their muted approach. 
The preceding president boasted that the Board operates on the basis of 
“whispering” rather than “shouting” and sought to avoid confrontations by 
concentrating on silent diplomacy.Current president Vivian Wineman is an 
urbane, committed and cultured Jew and unquestionably well intentioned. But some 
critics feel his behavior is more befitting of an academic than a street-smart 
communal leader.In a recent interview with The Jerusalem Post, he 
adamantly denied that he and his colleagues were “trembling Israelites.” He 
previously conceded that the Board has “good access” but “no influence” over 
government and mentioned that he had recently met Prime Minister David Cameron 
(as part of a JLC delegation) and found him receptive.However, in the 
same breath he observed that “the important people are the civil servants who 
brief ministers.” He failed to note that UK Foreign Ministry officials are 
inclined to be even more hostile to Israel than elected ministers.But 
the unaccountable JLC clearly remains in the driver’s seat.This was 
confirmed only a few days later, when Arkush released a letter abjectly 
apologizing for his critical remarks and praising the JLC, describing his 
comments as inappropriate and expressing regret for having introduced 
divisiveness at the Board plenum.It was a humiliating retreat by a man 
previously admired for his independence who had apparently capitulated under 
brutal pressure from his colleagues and a group of unaccountable individuals 
whose control of the purse strings enables them to impose their will on the 
community.It is relevant to note also that JLC head Davis had previously 
muzzled feisty Zionist Federation vicechairman Jonathan Hoffman by threatening 
to initiate costly legal action after he made similar critical 
remarks.These leadership struggles are taking place at a time of great 
turmoil for the declining Anglo Jewish community. Whereas there are signs of 
cultural revival and increased ethnic solidarity, the overall situation of 
British Jewry is profoundly depressing.Robert Wistrich, the expert on 
global anti-Semitism, refers to the “evil wind blowing through England’s green 


and pleasant land” in which anti-Israeli rhetoric has infiltrated all levels of 
the British intelligentsia to the extent that “it may be time to 
leave.”Yet in this context, Anglo Jewish leadership remains in denial. 
In his Jerusalem Post interview, Wineman conceded that “there is an awful lot of 
anti-Israeli feeling which sometimes morphs into anti-Semitism.” Yet, when Robin 
Shepherd, a leading non-Jewish academic and friend of Israel, remarked that the 
dramatic upsurge of anti-Israeli feeling and boycotts suggested “that the 
darkness is closing in... for the Jews of Britain,” Wineman castigated him for 
being “misguided and alarmist.”THE TRUTH is that the current 
Conservative government is at the forefront of the European anti- Israel pack. 
In classical “Perfidious Albion” style, Prime Minister Cameron describes himself 
as a Zionist but then refers to Gaza as “an open-air prison camp” and condemns 
Israel for its “attack” on the Mavi Marmara flotilla.Last year, in order 
to appease anti-Israel and Arab groups, he even terminated a century-long 
tradition of British PMs acting as patrons to the Jewish National Fund – an act 
which the editor of the Jewish Chronicle described as “equivalent to sticking 
two fingers up to the Jewish community in Britain.”Campaigns to promote 
BDS (boycot, divest, sanction) and calls from unions to boycott Israel have 
reached feverish heights. The viciously anti-Israel Ken Livingstone is again 
campaigning for election as Mayor of London, which has emerged as the 
European hub of Israeli delegitimization.There are constant 
demonstrations by the far left supporting Hamas and Hezbollah. The Anglican 
Church and other Protestant denominations are fiercely anti-Israel. Jewish 
academics and activists who loathe Israel spearhead efforts to demonize and 
delegitimize the Jewish state and frequently receive more favorable media 
coverage than official Jewish spokesmen.The visceral anti-Israel 
hostility radiating from the media, especially the BBC, has intensified hatred 
of Jews and Israel to the extent that many perceive the Jewish community as a 
pariah group. Yet Jewish leaders underrate the impact of this vitriol and invest 
more efforts against marginal fascists than the far more dangerous anti-Israel 
Left and the radical Muslims who they persistently seek to appease in futile 
efforts to prove their bona fides.They also understate the critical role 
of Muslim anti-Semitism and jihadism and continuously issue statements warning 
of the dangers of Islamophobia, which is puny compared to the violence and 
threats leveled against Jews.The situation at the universities is 
absolutely horrendous and increasingly violent. Every day preachers of hate 
assail Israel and the Jewish people. Some Jewish students, seeking to avoid 
social isolation, have distanced themselves from Israel and joined the 
anti-Israel chic.A number of Union of Jewish Students leaders, funded 
and encouraged by the Jewish establishment, sought unsuccessfully to appease 
Muslim and anti-Israel activists by condemning students who mounted counter 
protests.They also sought to persuade Jewish Societies to cancel public 
addresses by Kasim Hafeez, a brilliant former Muslim extremist turned pro-Israel 
advocate, on the spurious grounds that his presence would make things worse for 
Jews during Israel Apartheid Week. To placate Moslems, they distributed 
Palestinian as well as Israeli flags at universities which merely intensified 
contempt against them.BUT DESPITE 
this depressing state of affairs, dramatic positive changes are also 
underway.Chief among these is the British Israel Coalition (BIC), a 
relatively new body headed by Sam Westrop, a talented and dynamic young man. It 
now has in excess of 5,000 members and is growing rapidly, despite the fact that 
it is denied funding from most of the established Jewish leadership.It 
holds regular demonstrations, monitors and acts against anti-Israel agitators at 
all UK universities and aggressively combats Israel boycott movements.It 
allies itself with other organizations and even introduced pro-Israeli Muslim 
activists like Hafeez to the forefront of its campaigns.It is currently 
expanding operations to promote political lobbying and positive media exposure 
and publish monthly reports documenting anti-Israel activity at universities. 
With a minimal budget it is penetrating areas in which other lavishly funded 
establishment organizations have made little progress.BIC recently 
coordinated a campaign to neutralize the appearance at a major Manchester 
secondary school of local Islamic extremists raising funds for Hamas who were on 
record for hailing suicide bombers as freedom fighters, referring to Jews as the 
descendants of apes and pigs and promoting The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. 
BIC was castigated by Jewish establishment leaders for indiscreetly exposing the 
event in the media, but the headmaster was forced to cancel the 
event.The fledgling body deserves much of the credit for last week’s 
enforced resignation of the xenophobic anti-Israel Baroness Jenny Tonge from the 
Liberal Party following a toxic speech at Middlesex University.It spent 
months preparing for Israel Apartheid Week and Richard Millett, one of its key 
activists, filmed the incriminating speeches at the Tonge event and published 
the footage on his blog.BIC subsequently coordinated the complaints, 
presented them to the university and police and on the morning prior to Tonge’s 
resignation, BIC leader Westrop lobbied the Liberal Democrat Party to take 
disciplinary action against the incitement by Tonge. The Board of Deputies and 
JLC sought to take credit for the outcome but it was clearly a product of the 
determined activists rather than back-door whispering.There is also the 
Academic Friends of Israel, which has been confronting the academic boycott for 
over 10 years. Currently its head Ronny Fraser has a pending legal action of 
institutional anti-Semitism against the Lecturers Union.Another recently 
created body is Lawyers for Israel, headed by Jonathan Turner. It actively 
employs the law to neutralize those seeking to delegitimize Israel and expose 
Muslim organizations acting as fronts for raising funds for 
terrorists.It recently intervened, successfully, obliging the Lord 
Chancellor to formally rebuke a British judge who had exonerated vandals after 
destroying $300,000 worth of military equipment destined for Israel because of 
its alleged “immoral” behavior towards Gaza.None of these independent 
organizations are funded or supported by the Board or the JLC.There are 
also prominent individuals like the indefatigable Daily Mail columnist Melanie 
Phillips, who is reviled by much of the Jewish establishment for courageously 
promoting Israel advocacy. She also contributes to the Jewish Chronicle, as does 
urbane historian Geoffrey Alderman, who continuously excoriates the Jewish 
establishment for its cowardice and silence in the face of concerted anti- 
Israel and anti-Semitic attacks.Despite the tortuous capitulation under 
pressure by Board of Deputies vice president Arkush, more and more 
representatives are beginning to express disapproval of the weak approach to 
Israel adopted by their leaders and increasingly objecting to the dominant 
communal role of the unaccountable, arrogant leaders of the JLC.That 
groups like the British Coalition for Israel are enjoying increasing grass roots 
support is a healthy sign. They represent the only hope that Anglo Jewry will 
find the courage to speak up on behalf of Israel and ensure that future 
generations of young Jews will not follow the example of their elders, who are 
running for cover, overwhelmed by the torrents of hatred and lies emanating from 
the current hostile British social climate. They deserve greater support from 
the community.
The writer’s website can be viewed at 
www.wordfromjerusalem.com He may be contacted at 
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Annexing Area C: An open letter to Naftali Bennett</title>
<date>20/12/2012</date>
<content>
You can’t make an omelette without breaking eggs –a maxim of disputed origins.Dear Naftali,From our past exchanges, it is clear that we have broadly similar opinions on – or at least, a broadly similar approach to – several major issues on the national agenda, particularly those relating to security and foreign policy.




It is in the spirit of over-arching like-mindedness that I would urge you to rethink the position you have taken on the Palestinian issue – and in particular, your proposal to annex Area C.Shared point of departureLet me say from the outset that I fully concur with your explicit negation of the notion of Palestinian statehood, both in terms of its feasibility and its desirability.Likewise, I agree with your caveat that the government, by formally embracing, or at least formally acceding to, the establishment of Palestinian state, while being compelled to undertake measures on the ground that, prime facie, appear inconsistent with such a goal, is sending out mixed – indeed, self-contradictory – messages to the world.Thus, it is undermining its credibility, playing into the hands of those less charitable souls who seek to depict it as a duplicitous double-dealer, whose professions of peaceful intent should be dismissed as no more than the disingenuous declarations of a forked-tongued swindler.It thus seems that we are in complete agreement as to what should not be done. However, when it comes to what should be done, we appear to differ – and differ sharply.For regrettably I find the approach you have chosen to adopt, i.e. the partial annexation of Judea-Samaria and confining the extension of Israeli sovereignty to Area C, an ill-considered initiative which is not only likely to prove largely unproductive, but to a great degree counter-productive.I strongly urge you to reconsider persisting in its promotion.Demonstrably detrimentalTrue, you have admitted you are not proposing your partial annexation plan as comprehensive, utopian solution, but even as a temporary, intermediate measure, it is demonstrably detrimental.So while I have little argument regarding the factual accuracy of the empirical material you present as the basis for your proposal, I do take issue with its political pertinence and the validity of the policy-related inferences that you draw from it.As I will show, it is a fatally flawed formula in that – even if it were fully implemented – would alleviate virtually none of the grave problems confronting Israel today on the Palestinians front, whether in the diplomatic, security or administrative spheres. It would, however, almost inevitably exacerbate many of them.But before elaborating on the reservations I have regarding your proposal, allow me to offer my readers a brutally condensed synopsis of it – at least as I have come to understand it from a perusal of the material recently put out by you and on your behalf.In a nutshell...Your proposal rests on the current division of Judea-Samaria into three areas, A, B and C, which while distinct functionally, are interspersed and intermingled geographically.Area A is under full civil and security control of the Palestinian Authority, and comprises about 18 percent of the territory. Approximately 55% of the Palestinian population resides in Area A which includes all the major Palestinian cities and their immediate environs, but no Jewish settlements.Area B is under Palestinian civil control and joint Israeli-Palestinian security control, and comprises about 21% of the territory.Approximately 41% of the Palestinian population resides in Area B which includes numerous smaller Palestinian towns and villages, but no Israeli settlements.Area C, which you designate for annexation, comprises about 61% of Judea-Samaria and includes all the Jewish settlements and 3 to 4% of the Palestinian population.The numerical estimates of the Palestinian population in Area C vary from around 50,000 (your estimate) to about 150,000 (the UN’s).But even without engaging the difficulties of arriving at a reliable estimate of the Area C population – which includes a significant nomadic component – it can, in general terms, be conceded that your major contention that the Palestinian presence in this area is relatively small is correct.Drawing on this data, the partial-annexation proposal prescribes unilaterally extending Israeli sovereignty over Area C in which all the 300,000-400,000 Jewish settlers reside and – to counter any charges of apartheid – offering full citizenship to the far smaller Arab population which, whatever its precise size, would have minor impact on Israel’s demographic balance.In the remaining Areas A and B, comprising less than 40% of the area but including around 97% of the Arab population, you propose some form of autonomous Palestinian self-rule, which you designate “full PA autonomy,” but to the best of my knowledge, do not specify which activities will be included (and excluded) from the authority of this envisioned autonomous body.Partial annexation: The perilsThis is one of the crucial omissions of the proposal. For as will soon become clear, once an attempt is made to designate what autonomous powers should (or should not) be conferred on a Palestinian self-governing body, it quickly becomes apparent that the entire scheme is unworkable.But before we engage the impediments to autonomy, let’s focus on those of geography.A cursory glance at any map of the region will reveal how impractical such partial annexation would be for Israel, implying borders for the country’s sovereign territory that are impossibly torturous and lengthy. For just like Areas A and B, Area C is a crazy quilted patchwork of enclaves, corridors and access roads, with an outer contour well in excess of 1,000 km.Is this meant to designate Israel’s final sovereign frontiers? If so, how are they to be secured, and at what cost – operationally, financially and diplomatically? If not, what are these final frontiers to be and how are they to be determined? This is no trivial matter – for any country that deems certain territory to be under its sovereignty must demarcate the frontiers of that territory and be ready to secure them against infiltration and attack.Indeed, if Israel does not demarcate and secure the boundaries of its sovereign territory, how would it prevent the influx of residents from Areas A and B into it – with all the attendant security and demographic ramifications? Given the massive outlay required for the existing 400- to 450-km.-long security barrier, imagine the monetary and manpower resources needed to construct a similar one, well over 1,000-km.-long, to demarcate and secure the contours of Area C.Perils (cont.)But apart from what I see as the insurmountable problem of demarcating and securing Israel’s sovereign territory, there remains the status of the remaining Areas A and B in which over 95% of the Palestinian population would reside, on less than 40% of the territory, spread over a myriad of disconnected enclaves, scattered from Hebron in the south to Jenin in the north; and from Jericho in the east to Kalkilya in the west.Even given your yet-to-be-realized vision of a bewildering array of yetto- be-constructed (at what cost?) highways interchanges that would provide what you designate as “transportational continuity,” allowing any Arab-Palestinian to travel from anywhere to anywhere in Area A and B “without encountering a single IDF checkpoint,” this collection of helter-skelter mini-territorial patches is clearly incapable of being forged into any sustainable collective entity.If by annexing Area C, you permanently forgo sovereignty in Areas B and C, what is the rationale for the long-term presence of the Israeli military there? What would be the envisioned rationale for withdrawing it? If you do not forgo such sovereignty, what is to be the status of the inhabitants? It is unthinkable that the current PA leadership, or any conceivable alternative, would accept responsibility for the administration of such an emasculated entity.What then would be the alternative administration? If none could be found, what would this mean and how would it be presented to the world? What is the envisioned long-term future for the residents of these areas? How are accusations regarding the creation of ethnically delineated discriminatory – and defenseless – Bantustans (or rather Arabstans) to be countered?\Autonomy: Conundrums and contradictionsThis brings us to the nature of the autonomy to be granted the Palestinians.In principle there in nothing essentially flawed in the idea of autonomy – provided that the autonomous entity (which by definition has its authority limited by some sovereign entity) recognizes the legitimacy of the sovereign entity to limit its authority.However, when the rationale for granting autonomy does not reflect acceptance but rather rejection of the legitimacy of the sovereign (as in the case of the Palestinians and Israel), the entire endeavor is devoid of internal logic and doomed to failure.So when you state that you propose giving the self-governing Palestinian entity “full autonomy,” what does that include? One would assume it would exclude external defense and foreign policy, but in every other area, potential for confusion, dissension and worse abounds.Even putting aside difficulties that might arise with regard to law enforcement and what legal system would apply where, particularly given the difficulty in delineating frontiers, there are a plethora of thorny issues in other, more “banal,” civilian spheres that make Israeli intervention in routine daily issues inevitable – hence virtually emptying the notion of Palestinian self-government of any significant substance.Conundrums and contradictions (cont.)For example, would Israel allow the Palestinian autonomous entity to determine the location of charcoal production, which emits carcinogenic smoke, induces respiratory diseases and (according to Haaretz) has in some areas reduced life expectancy to 40?Would Israel intervene to deal with sewage pollution emanating fron Palestinian population centers that threaten Israeli water sources? Would it monitor, and enforce limits on, water extraction from the shared Mountain Aquifer?Would Israel enforce road-worthiness standards for motor vehicles that travel on the envisioned shared highway system to ensure safety? If not, what would the consequences be – both legally and physically? With regard to preventative health measures, would Israel enforce, for example, the inoculations of household pets against rabies?Clearly, if Israel does not control and ensure the implementation of these (and many other) activities, the ramifications for it citizens might well be severe. If, on the other hand, it does control them there is precious little left of the intended “full autonomy.”In for a penny...From the foregoing analysis it should be clear that as long as the perceived need to maintain an autonomous – and inherently adversarial – Arab collective entity between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea remains the cornerstone of the Israeli approach to the Palestinian question, we will continue to be drawn into futile and wasteful attempts to resolve it.This is why I have repeatedly advocated focusing efforts on the Palestinian individual, rather the Palestinian collective, on the humanitarian rather than the political aspects of the problem; on dissolving the problem rather than resolving it.Partial annexation would not only solve little and exacerbate much on the ground, the diplomatic outrage it would precipitate would be no less than if Israel were to annex the entire “West Bank” – as I have suggested on numerous occasions in previous columns.But as opposed to your proposal, which would encase virtually the entire Arab-Palestinian population in an indefinite and directionless state of political limbo, my alternative suggestion would offer individual Palestinian breadwinners tangible hope for a better future for themselves and their families.Naftali, I am sure that we both agree that between the Jordan River and Mediterranean Sea, there can – and eventually will – prevail either exclusive Jewish sovereignty, or exclusive Arab sovereignty.Given the recognition of this political truth, why adhere to a partial non-solution rather than adopt a comprehensive paradigm for permanent dissipation of the predicament – particularly if the political pain entailed in the latter is unlikely to greater than that involved in the former.Making omelettes...In conclusion, Naftali, the polls have been kind to you and predict an impressive achievement for your Bayit Yehudi Party in the coming elections. Accordingly, you are likely to have a chance to significantly impact the policy of the next government.I would urge you to press home to your future colleagues that any policy based on perpetuating the presence of a large Arab population in Judea-Samaria is incompatible with the long-term survival of the Israel as the sovereign nation-state of the Jewish people.This calls for you to rethink your partial-annexation initiative and to throw your weight behind the more far-reaching policy option I have proposed in the Humanitarian Alternative, which entails extending Israeli sovereignty over all of Judea-Samaria while helping individual Arab-Palestinians currently resident there prosper elsewhere.After all, you can’t make omelettes without cracking eggs.
Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder and executive director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A Palestinian spring for Jordan?</title>
<date>12/2/2012</date>
<content>
Speaking to The Washington Post, King Abdullah of Jordan urged Israel to 
jump-start peace negotiations with the Palestinians; otherwise, he said, “Israel 
will have to choose between democracy and apartheid.”While 
Israel-bashing by Abdullah is nothing new, this “apartheid alert” from a regime 
based on apartheid policies against a Palestinian majority is 
shocking.




Abdullah’s attempts to publicly bash Israel, desperately 
sponsor born-dead peace talks, and welcome Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal in Amman, 
all indicate that Abdullah is worried about the Arab Spring making its way to 
his doorstep.While Abdullah’s kingdom has been witnessing a much calmer 
tone of protest, nonetheless, they are regular and could grow into a revolution 
if the Palestinians join in (which so far they have not).The Palestinian 
majority in Jordan have endured decades of discriminatory policies. In Apartheid 
South Africa, citizens were classified according to their race. As a result, the 
black majority ended up being ruled by a white minority. In a similar 
way, Abdullah’s Hashemite regime separates Jordan’s citizens into East Bankers 
(Beduin) and Palestinians. The East Bank minority, although also discriminated 
against, has been much better off than the Palestinian majority.BUT IS 
it really fair to compare the half- British king’s regime to Apartheid South 
Africa? Let’s take a look at the facts.Under the Hashemite regime, the 
last time a Palestinian served as prime minister was 21 years ago, and Tahir 
Masri lost his position in less than a year. Israel’s demonizers, 
including King Abdullah, simply overlook the fact that Azmi Bishara – an 
Arab-Israeli former Knesset member – ran for prime minister of Israel in 1999, 
despite being an outspoken enemy of the Jewish state, and received fair Israeli 
state TV coverage just like his Jewish opponents.On the legislative 
level, Israel’s Arab minority has 14 out of 120 seats in the Knesset, while 
Abdullah’s Palestinian majority has six seats out of a 120-member Parliament. In 
Israel, Arabs serve as mayors while not a single Palestinian is currently 
serving as a mayor of any of Jordan’s cities, including the Palestinian-dominated 
Amman, Abdullah’s capital.And Jordan’s discriminatory policies are not 
limited to the government, they they affect the Palestinian majority’s everyday 
lives. The UN Higher Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) confirms Abdullah’s kingdom 
treats its Palestinian majority as refugees, despite the fact that they obtained 
Jordanian citizenships when the Hashemite regime occupied and annexed the West 
Bank in 1948. Israel, on the other hand, recognizes its Arab minority as full 
citizens with no questions asked.Abdullah himself has admitted that his 
Palestinians are discriminated against. In 1999, when Abdullah was newly crowned 
following the death of his father King Hussein, Abdullah visited an 
Israeli-controlled crossing point between Jordan and Israel and delivered what 
the CNN described then as “a long-awaited message to Palestinians under his 
rule” by calling on fellow Jordanians to work toward “ending class divisions 
that have marginalized Palestinian citizens of the Hashemite Kingdom,” vowing 
that “discrimination must end.”However, according to two 
Palestinian-Jordanian former senior officials, Abdullah’s actual policy was to 
sustain discrimination against Palestinians. This was made public in a US 
Embassy-Amman cable, exposed by Wikileaks, quoting former prime minister Tahir 
Masri and Abdullah’s former senior advisor, Adnan Abu Odeh.That cable 
also documents a littleknown fact, namely that only 35 percent of Jordan’s 
Palestinians are registered refugees. If that is true, let’s do the 
math.According to UNRWA there are 1.8 million registered Palestinian 
refugees in Jordan. If that constitutes a mere 35%, then the total number of 
Palestinians in Jordan could be as high as 5.2 million.Jordan’s 
population is 6.5 million. Now, if Abdullah is discriminating against 
approximately 5.2 million, or 80%, of his country’s 6.5 million citizens, then 
accusations of “apartheid” should be more of a concern to him than to Israel, 
whose Arab (Palestinian) minority has full access to state services, public 
jobs, education, welfare and even the army for those 
desiring.Discriminatory polices under Abdullah even extended to 
withdrawing passports from Palestinians. Human Rights Watch issued a report in 
2010 confirming that the Jordanian government has been withdrawing citizenship 
from Palestinians in Jordan at random, and as a result destroying livelihoods 
and breaking families. Human Rights Watch Middle East Director Sarah Lea-Wahtson 
commented at the time that “Jordan is playing politics with the basic rights of 
thousands of its citizens.”“Playing politics” is exactly what Abdullah 
was doing when he labeled Israel as a country moving towards apartheid. Abdullah 
is worried his disenfranchised and angry Palestinian majority will end up 
toppling him into the stream of the Arab Spring, and therefore he is doing what 
most Arab governments have been doing best for years: blaming their failures and 
shortcoming on Israel to distract their own people.Abdullah should 
realize that Jordan’s Palestinians are fed up with him and his policies and that 
all of his anti-Israeli talk will not deter them from joining the Arab Spring. 
Abdullah must know that the Palestinian majority in Jordan is more concerned 
with the daily bread they cannot afford and the dignity they no longer have 
because of a king who treats them as sub-human.
Abdullah and other Arab 
rulers must realize that bashing Israel will not get them an Arab-Spring 
exemption.Mudar Zahran is a Palestinian-Jordanian writer who resides in 
the UK.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 13: Finding balance</title>
<date>12/8/2012</date>
<content>
Finding balance Sir, – Most readers understand the difficulty of trying to 
ensure balanced news presentation.




David Brinn’s “Perplexing perceptions” 
(Observations, August 10) is a worthy exposition of efforts to do just 
that.Why, then, is Gershon Baskin’s regular column in The Jerusalem Post 
allowed to propagate so airily the inflammatory accusative word “apartheid,” 
regarding others here, as he also voices it in his appearances abroad? In 
addition, many reports in the paper use the term “private Palestinian land,” 
despite large swaths here being sub judice, although much of it has proven 
Jewish ownership. This seems to be a mantra phrase for the long-barren areas 
which we were prevented from reclaiming for disastrous millennia. It slanders 
Zionism – as the catastrophe our enemies falsely allege it to be. A plethora of 
factual letters and articles have proven not just a few Palestinian claims as 
baseless.As our democratic Jewish state thrives and diversifies, with 
all its warts, no reporter nor any citizen should fail to exercise his vote 
“lest word gets out whom he voted for and [his] work is compromised.” As far as 
I know, our ballots are secret. Instead, he can unafraid join our ever-loud 
non-harmonious but vibrant chorus. Go editorial staff! ESTER ZEITLIN Jerusalem Lost story Sir, – Thank you for publishing Michael Freund’s “Serbia: Lost and 
found,” (Fundamentally Freund, Comment and Features, August 9).The Serbs 
and the Jews share very common histories as historically persecuted peoples – 
particularly during one of the worst genocides ever committed in the Nazi-puppet 
“independent” state of Croatia.The recent Yugoslav civil wars can be 
viewed as a continuation of World War II because the animosities and mistrust 
created as a result of this genocide were never properly dealt with and many of 
the perpetrators were left unpunished. And, to add insult to injury, the West 
has illegally recognized the “independence” of Kosovo, the spiritual Jerusalem 
for the Serbs as a center of the Orthodox Christian faith, violating 
international law and the concept of national sovereignty by stealing the 
historically Serbian province from Serbia.The world never heard the 
Serbian side of this tragic story as it was largely censored by the mainstream 
media. I call upon Jews to learn more about the Serbs and rekindle the 
historical friendship that both peoples have shared over many 
centuries.MICHAEL PRAVICA Henderson, Nevada Deep denial Sir, – Isi 
Leibler’s review of Robert Wistrich’s book on Jews and the Left should prove of 
great value to those interested in the phenomenon of intellectual misguidance 
(“Wistrich on ‘the Left, the Jews and Israel,’” Candidly Speaking, August 9). 
But why just pick on the secular Left? Foolishness is universal.As 
Nazism arose in Europe, many religious Jews refused to consider emigration to 
Israel since Zionism required a Messiah.These same people also averred 
that divine favor alone would accord protection from the Nazis. Even today, in 
Israel, the same lethally bad advice is being offered to excuse exemption from 
military duty.As the Nazis rose to power in the 1930s, many people 
grossly underestimated the peril.Indeed, anti-Semitism in Germany was 
hardly ubiquitous, and many Jews knew decent Germans. Despite the fact that 
current statistics show far higher levels of Jew-hatred in Islamic lands than 
existed in prewar Germany, there are those who rationalize and minimize this 
unpleasant reality.At least authors like Wistrich help dispel the 
stereotype that all Jews are intelligent.DAVID KATCOFF Jericho, Vermont Reliable investment Sir, – In his column “Cleaning up an inherited portfolio” 
(Your Investments, Business and Finance, August 9), Aaron Katsman questions the 
advisability of a 20-something holding Israel bonds in his portfolio.On 
the contrary: Israel bonds are excellent allocations for most portfolios, 
including young adults, and for one of the most fundamental reasons of all – 
preservation of capital. At a time when many portfolios are consistently 
shrinking, Israel bonds provide consistency of a different sort – a 61-year 
record of dependability.In 61 years, every investor in Israel bonds has 
received all interest and principal on time and in full. Moreover, the bonds 
organization offers securities with short, medium and long-term maturities, 
providing an excellent option for laddered portfolios – an outstanding way to 
plan for the future.Katsman concludes by saying, “There is a good chance 
that the relative that left money for you as an inheritance would like you to 
gain from it.”At a time when today’s economic uncertainties are creating 
negative returns in many portfolios, there is no better way to gain than by 
knowing your investments are reliable and provide a dependable return – two of 
the most significant aspects of Israel bonds.JAMES GALFUND Washington, 
DC The writer is the associate director of State of Israel Bonds.Call 
for action Sir, – Although I sometimes disagree with some of the activities and 
causes that Shmuley Boteach chooses to identify with, I believe that his 
article, “Why I’m traveling to Rwanda,” (Comment and Features, August 8) 
deserves the serious attention of all people of conscience.Boteach does 
not only call on us to remember the horrible butchery that took place in Rwanda 
in 1994 when hundreds of thousands of the Tutsi tribe were literally machete 
hacked to death by the Hutus, he makes us aware that most nations of the world 
totally ignored the brutal massacres and did nothing at all to try to prevent 
their taking place. He specifically accuses the Clinton administration in the 
United States of perfidious behavior when it deliberately frustrated any 
attempts by the UN to interfere.His attention to the genocide in Rwanda, 
however, is to alert us to the fact that there are similar atrocities taking 
place today, and once again the enlightened world permits itself to effectively 
do nothing. Boteach calls for real efforts on the political and military fronts 
to halt the daily slaughter by the well armed and trained Syrian army of 
hundreds of unarmed civilians.We in Israel have the right to ask why the 
oft repeated call by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for the annihilation 
of Israel is not in itself sufficient grounds for the expulsion of Iran from the 
community of nations.Must we really wait for the bomb to drop? ZEV 
CHAMUDOT Petah Tikva Remembering dedication Sir, – Greer Fay Cashman’s Grapevine 
talked of “The Australian connection” to Israel (Comment and Features, August 
8).In 1948 I was among a dozen Machal volunteers sailing to Israel in an 
Italian fishing boat converted by the IDF with an Italian skipper.Among 
us were five Australian Jewish boys who had fought in New Guinea. They told us 
that the Zionist establishment in Australia would not support their passage to 
Israel and so they decide to work their way over on freighter 
ships.Fearing the Suez canal, their target was Europe through the Panama 
Canal. The ship they boarded in Australia mutinied and they were stranded in New 
Caledonia, France, where they worked in a quarry to make money for continuing 
their journey.After five months they arrived in the agency refugee camps 
near Marseille which was the staging area and on to our ship.This is 
dedication. All I can remember is one whose name was Clyde, we lost touch once 
we landed.
RAPHAEL BEN-YOSEF Ramat Gan
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 31: It is Shechem</title>
<date>30/8/2012</date>
<content>
It is Shechem Sir, – I am sorry that in “Vishnitz rebbe and hundreds of hassidim 
visit Joseph’s Tomb” (August 29) you said the tomb is “in the Palestinian city 
of Nablus.”




It may be located in Area A, but Nablus is Shechem, as it is 
known in the Bible and has been called since antiquity. Nablus is a rather new 
name and has very little historical meaning.All in all, however, the 
news makes one glow with happiness since Joseph is venerated for his association 
with and love for Shechem, and the holiness inherent in his grave is revealed 
once again.Thank you, Jerusalem Post, for revealing how necessary to the 
lives of so many people this pilgrimage has become.TOBY WILLIG Jerusalem 
Tibi et al Sir, – How wonderful indeed that a young Israeli Arab was able to 
receive medical care from an Israeli doctor in Barcelona and at Ichilov Hospital 
in Tel Aviv, with the cooperation of El Al (“Tibi saved my life in Spain, says 
Israeli vacationer,” August 28).How welcome and appropriate it would 
have been had the patient and his mother expressed their appreciation to 
everyone involved in that noble effort, and not just MK Ahmed Tibi.It 
boggles the mind to imagine such a story coming out of any other country in this 
region, specifically where someone from a minority group receives such a 
response after having contacted a member of his parliament.Kol hakavod 
for the good our country tries to do for all its citizens (and on behalf of so 
many others as well).JOANNE JACKSON YELENIK Beit Shemesh Independent 
voice Sir, – Richard Marceau (“The real nature of Jewish anti-Zionists,”Comment 
& Features, August 28) resorts to the self-appointed Jewish establishment’s 
typical weapon: misrepresentation or slander.The Zionist political 
establishment runs away from debating the values that divide Jews. It is afraid 
of Jews who believe that Israel is wrong to treat Palestinian-Israelis as 
second- class citizens, that Israel’s settlements, occupation and blockade of 
Palestine are despicable, and that the manufactured hysteria about Iran is a 
re-run of the lies about weapons of mass destruction that led up to the 
catastrophic US war on Iraq.The political Zionist establishment 
shamefully supports the creeping annexation of Palestine, if not an apartheid 
Israel.Ironically, it has found its positions losing mainstream support 
while anti-Zionist and liberal Jews reflect the ethical values and political 
strategy needed to resolve this conflict.We challenge the Jewish Zionist 
establishment to stop hiding and sniping, and to start debating.SCOTT 
WEINSTEIN Montreal The writer is a member of Independent Jewish Voices Call them 
‘enforcers’ Sir, – There is indeed a case to be made that Israeli drivers need 
training in stopping for pedestrians at crosswalks (“Pedestrian protectors,” 
Editorial, August 26). But I feel uncomfortable with setting up an enthusiastic 
army of citizen enforcers. It reminds me of East Germans reporting on their 
neighbors.The first thing to do is mark the crosswalks more clearly. 
Since in Jerusalem they use inferior paint, the road markings wear off quickly. 
The street signs are usually small and to the side. Many are not lighted at 
night.Pedestrians also need training in using crosswalks.Take 
one small step off the curb so that drivers see you intend to cross; then stop 
and make sure the driver sees you and intends to stop. Do not talk on your 
phone. This is especially true at intersections where drivers turn right with 
limited visibility of pedestrians.I would suggest that a criterion be to 
use people who have a drivers license – they can sense when a driver is behaving 
in an unsafe way.
ERIC ZORNBERG Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS and academia</title>
<date>30/1/2012</date>
<content>
A self-proclaimed National Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions Conference is set to 
take place at the University of Pennsylvania, an Ivy league institution in the 
heart of Philadelphia, during the weekend of February 4. Last held in 
2009, according to the organizers, the BDS movement intends to focus on the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict by demonizing Israel while propagating the 
Palestinian victimhood status in order to gain global sympathy.They 
believe that if universities, companies and even countries boycott, divest from 
and sanction Israel it will pressure the government to change its so-called 
“hard nosed” policies toward the Palestinians and in addition to give up land 
Israel supposedly “stole” from the Palestinians in 1948 and 1967.




A 
closer look at the BDS movement and its methodology shows not legitimate 
criticism but actually a racist and anti-Semitic program. In a world where 
refugees have been created and resettled by the tens of millions, including over 
900,000 Jews that fled Arab states, BDS targets only Israel. Its stated 
goals vary but all include the “right” for descendants of Palestinian “refugees” 
to “return” to a country they have never seen, thus bringing about the end of 
Jewish Israel.The movement takes care to give the impression that ending 
specific Israeli policies such as the “occupation” or “apartheid” will also 
bring an end to efforts to ostracize Israel. Their maximalist demand – the 
elimination of Israel as a Jewish state – is carefully hidden but readily 
apparent to a careful examiner.It is a matter of great concern that 
respected universities lend their space and name to such conferences in addition 
to the participation of their faculty and others from around the country. In 
North America, whatever goes on in a classroom is deemed protected by “academic 
freedom,” whether it is academic or not. Only sexual harassment appears exempt 
from this blanket protection. Gradually, campuses have become an 
“academic freedom” zone where protests and other activities now qualify as 
academic “speech.”This freedom to critique is, predictably, directed 
mostly at the twin Satans, Israel and America, although efforts to curtail 
speech that academics find unpleasant and unacceptable have been longstanding in 
the form of “speech codes” and restrictions on “hate speech.” Clearly academic 
freedom is a one-way street; only those having the correct opinions may claim 
it.As such, we commend the University of Pennsylvania for clarifying it 
does not support or endorse the BDS movement, as well as for its clear statement 
that “The University of Pennsylvania... has important and successful scholarly 
collaborations with Israeli institutions that touch on many areas of our 
academic enterprise.”Universities which should be bastions of critical 
thinking and opposition to fallacies of argument have become fertile ground for 
myth, fantasy and lies about history. North American college campuses have been 
suffering from an significant increase in anti- Israelism. This new situation 
has demonstrated the need for a clear and inclusive definition of anti-Semitism 
and an answer to the question of whether anti-Israelism constitutes 
anti-Semitism.The apparent dilemma has been that anti-Israelism itself 
is not blatantly or even necessarily anti-Semitic but rather may appear merely 
critical of “Zionist policies,” thus distinguishing between Jews and Zionists. 
This well-worn distinction has enabled the anti- Israeli camp to pose as 
legitimate critics. What has actually emerged, in effect, is a new form of 
anti-Semitism, because the state of Israel acts as a proxy for Jews at 
large.To the extent that it becomes harder to make a case for Israel on 
campus and in the Jewish community in general, the environment has become 
increasingly hostile to the pro- Israel community.All of this has lent 
legitimacy to those who advocate for BDS. This paradigm is unique to the 
debate about Israelis and Palestinians and cannot be found in any other academic 
discipline. No university would host an “academic” conference on whether 
blacks are biologically inferior to whites, but even though the BDS movement 
makes a similar outrageous comparison one is considered acceptable and the other 
not.Moreover, the involvement of Jewish individuals in such forums has 
become another indicator that this “genuine debate” deserves to be explored. In 
the US, politicized writing and teaching have often displaced scholarship, and 
academic freedom has been redefined as the liberty to dispense with academic 
standards. In response, hiring token Israeli Jews who subscribe to the 
anti-Israel narrative and support the BDS movement has become common practice on 
American campuses, thereby eliminating debate while providing the illusion of 
balance and using their Jewishness as a carte blanche to criticize Israel and 
question it existence.Combating BDS has become complicated and confusing 
especially for those who want to believe that there is room for debating the 
“facts” presented by the BDS movement. What makes this battle so arduous for the 
pro-Israel community and so attractive for the antagonizers of Israel is the 
umbrella of academic freedom that argues that it is legitimate to debate all 
aspects of Israel, from specific policies to its elimination, in contrast to 
racial and gender discussions where such unsupported slanders are correctly and 
forcefully rejected by university communities.Many in the Jewish 
community in their naïveté are willing to engage in these debates precisely 
because they are cloaked in academic freedom, which gives them the impression of 
legitimate criticism rather than racism.
On a positive note, the racist 
nature of the BDS movement has redrawn the lines of acceptable 
discourse. We are now seeing a sure but steady understanding of the real 
threats BDS and its sympathizers represent to not just the pro-Israel community 
but to honest academic discourse on the Middle East. The hope is that 
rejection of their hateful message will catch on.The writer is deputy 
director of Scholars for Peace in the Middle East (SPME) and John R. Cohn is a 
professor of medicine at Thomas Jefferson University and a Scholars for Peace in 
the Middle East (SPME) board member.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Beinart’s false image of Zionism and American Jewry</title>
<date>20/2/2012</date>
<content>
In June 2011, Peter Beinart, a former editor of the staunchly pro-Israel New 
Republic, published a controversial essay in the left-wing New York Review of 
Books headlined: “The failure of the American Jewish Establishment.” The article 
was a scathing condemnation of Israeli policies which he alleged were 
undermining democracy and violating human rights. He accused American Jewish 
leaders of slavishly toeing “extreme right-wing Israeli positions” and “refusing 
to defend democracy in the Jewish state.”Beinart’s essay transformed him 
overnight into a darling of the left-liberal establishment and media, which 
abhor the Netanyahu government. He was feted as a courageous Jewish writer 
willing to stand up and castigate both Israeli and American Jewish 
leaders.




Presumably overwhelmed by the adoration showered upon him, 
Beinart has now expanded his essay into a book based on the standard stereotypes 
and fallacies shared by most hostile far-left and “liberal” critics of Israel. 
Titled The Crisis of Zionism, it is scheduled for release next 
month.Beinart is convinced that Israel’s treatment of the Palestinians 
is the “great Jewish question of the age” and his central call is for American 
Jews to join the choir condemning Israel. He informs us that he loves Israel and 
would teach his children to love it. Yet in the same breath he unequivocally 
condemns the Jewish “apartheid” state for breaching human rights, depriving 
Palestinians of dignity, and describes Israel’s settlement policy as a futile 
effort to retain occupation in a post-colonial age. He accuses the Israeli 
government of denying human rights to Palestinians “simply because they are not 
Jews,” comparing their treatment to that of African Americans before segregation 
was banned.Netanyahu is portrayed as the devil incarnate, who opposes 
peace, regards liberalism as the special curse of the Jewish people, inherited 
from his father a view of Arabs as “semi-barbaric” and exploits Jewish 
victimization and the Holocaust as cynical propaganda tools.In an effort 
to depict him as a rightwing extremist directing Israel towards fascism, Beinart 
shamelessly quotes outdated views of the prime minister, even when they 
represent the antithesis of the current policies he is implementing.The 
Jewish state is far from perfect and we are entitled to have differing views on 
specific areas of Israeli policy. But to insist that the settlement issue, which 
relates to only a minute proportion of the disputed territories, is the core of 
the Arab-Israeli conflict is simply parroting primitive Arab propaganda. 
Besides, Beinart fails to point out that both prime minister Ehud Barak and 
prime minister Ehud Olmert offered in excess of 95 percent of the disputed 
territories to the Palestinians, with both Arafat and Abbas rejecting the offer 
without even making a counter-proposal. And when Sharon unilaterally withdrew 
from Gaza these territories were used to launch missiles to terrorize Israeli 
civilians.The most demagogic aspect of Beinart’s distorted approach to 
Israel is his repeated depictions of Israel as a country consistently abusing 
human rights and undermining democracy. Yet despite facing existential threats 
from the day of its birth and harboring a substantial minority of Arabs whose 
radical extremists, including Knesset Members, ally themselves with terrorists 
and our genocidal enemies, the Jewish state remains one of the most vibrant 
democracies in the world – an especially stark contrast to the tyrannical 
Islamic states surrounding it.Israel provides universal suffrage, social 
services without discrimination to all its citizens, a free press and extends 
freedom of expression beyond what many other stable democracies 
tolerate.To describe such a nation as verging on fascism is 
preposterous. We are entitled to become enraged when bleeding-heart liberals like 
Beinart, basking in their New York or London salons, depict us in such a 
despicably distorted manner.Beinart regards Barack Obama as “America’s 
first Jewish president... a man steeped in liberalism absorbed from Jewish 
friends in Chicago.” He relates to the influence on Obama of the late Rabbi 
Arnold Jacob Wolf, who in 1973 became founder and chair of Breira, a far-left 
forerunner of J Street which was dissolved in 1977. Perhaps, to some extent, 
that identifies the source of the president’s loathing of the Israeli 
government.The bulk of Beinart’s book concentrates on denouncing 
American Jewish leaders for collaborating with the “immoral” Israeli enterprise 
by refusing to condemn abuses. He asserts that it is impossible to remain a 
liberal while supporting the policies of right-wing Israeli governments. ADL 
head Abe Foxman is castigated for allegedly stating “Israeli democracy should 
decide, American Jews should support.”Beinart expresses contempt for 
AIPAC, giving as examples of its supposed bias its “unfair” and “obsessive” 
attitudes toward Human Rights Watch, an organization publicly repudiated by its 
founder due to its frenetically biased hostility toward Israel.The 
greatest flaw in Beinart’s thesis is the constant repetition of the lie that 
“the mass of American Jews are to the left of organizations that speak in their 
name and almost always oppose US pressure on Israeli leaders and blame the 
Palestinians almost exclusively for the lack of Middle East Peace.”The 
reality is that American Jews may be liberal and traditionally inclined to vote 
for the Democratic Party, but at the grassroots level, in recent months they 
displayed far greater agitation than their leaders against President Obama’s 
biased diplomacy against Israel.Beinart’s mantra, chanted repeatedly by 
the left-liberal media, is also that despite evidence to the contrary, other 
than the Orthodox, American Jewish youngsters have become alienated from 
Israel.It may be true that most American Jews, including youngsters, are 
painfully ignorant of the history of Zionism and that their knowledge about the 
Jewish state remains pitiful even though Birthright and other sponsored programs 
bringing young Americans to Israel are improving the situation.But 
despite this, even discounting the Orthodox, opinion polls taken in recent years 
demonstrate that far from being alienated from Israel, American Jews are 
instinctively more hawkish than Israelis. One need only examine the annual 
American Jewish Committee opinion polls and the important recent Mitchell survey 
undertaken by the American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise and The Israel 
Project. They reveal that 89 percent of American Jewish youngsters strongly 
support Israel, endorse decisions adopted by the democratically elected 
government of Israel and oppose the public criticism of Israel which Beinart 
advocates. In fact, the vast majority consider Israel to be the spiritual center 
of the Jewish people and regard Israel as a crucial component of their Jewish 
identity.The reality is that “liberals” who feel alienated from Israel 
are running against the grain of grassroots American Jews. They may get more 
media attention, but they represent a small albeit highly vocal minority. This 
is exemplified by the marginal impact of the primarily Soros-funded J 
Street.Beinart “modestly” proclaims that he is upholding “the honor of 
the Jewish people in our time.” His book is hailed by former Meretz leader and 
current chair of the New Israel Fund as “the outstanding Zionist statement of 
the 21st century” and received fulsome praise before its release by anti- Israel 
New York Times columnist Roger Cohen and the newly appointed Jerusalem 
correspondent of the Times, Jodi Rudoren, who described it as 
“terrific.”Not surprisingly, J Street embraces Beinart and will be 
launching his book at their forthcoming national conference.Reality on 
the ground and the flawed premises upon which Beinart bases his thesis will not 
detract from the praise he will receive from the left-liberal media whose 
hostility against Israel has regrettably become endemic.His book, like 
that of Walt and Mearsheimer, the maligners of the Israel lobby, will be another 
addition to the growing number of volumes demonizing the Jewish 
state.
Fortunately, despite the misguided efforts of some Jewish leaders 
to invite into the “big tent” those canvassing foreign governments to pressure 
the Jewish state, the impact of people like Beinart on the Jewish community as a 
whole has been marginal.The writer’s website can be viewed at 
www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Borderline Views: To occupy or not to occupy</title>
<date>16/7/2012</date>
<content>
So what have we achieved by the publication of a political report, under the 
guise of a legal opinion, which arrived at a conclusion that the occupied 
territories are not occupied, that the illegal settlements are not illegal, and 
that everything Israel has done in the West Bank (Judea and Samaria) during the 
past 45 years is really okay? Now that the world has read this learned opinion, 
which flies in the face of every other legal opinion, both Israeli and 
international, from foe and friend alike, they are now sure to be convinced that 
they have been wrong all along, that Israel is in the right and they will now 
stop demanding the withdrawal of Israel from the territories under dispute and 
the establishment of an independent Palestinian State.Of course, if the 
world refuses to accept this dubious report, it is because they are all 
anti-Semites. Why else would every considered legal opinion reject the 
conclusions of a committee appointed by a right-wing government, whose 
objective, from the outset, was to reach a political conclusions which would fly 
in the face of the accepted discourse. Lets conveniently forget the facts – that 
Israel’s control of the West Bank is based on military conquest (even if it was 
in a legitimate war of self defense), that all international conventions forbid 
the transfer of civilian population to territories which are under military 
control, and the little matter of a Palestinian people numbering well over two 
million (in the West Bank alone) who do not share the basic rights of autonomy, 
equality and independence, which lie at the heart of what Israel’s own democracy 
is all about.




It is true that the West Bank is different to most other 
territories under dispute in today’s world. It does not face the contradiction 
of self-determination and secession which is common in many other disputed 
areas. While the entire world, including many Israeli governments of recent 
years, recognizes the rights to Palestinian self determination, the problem of 
secession – the desire to separate from the state and to establish an 
independent state, does not apply.Regardless of whether the area is 
defined as “administered” or “occupied,” the area is not, never has been, part 
of the recognized sovereign territory of the State of Israel.Neither was 
Jordan the sovereign power between 1949- 1967. On almost all international and 
neutral maps, the West Bank is defined correctly as a “territory without formal 
jurisdiction – to be determined,” with no one at present exercising sovereignty 
in the accepted sense of international statehood.And all past Israeli 
governments, including those of rightwing leaders such as Menachem Begin, 
Yitzhak Shamir and Ariel Sharon, knew exactly why they did not pass laws in the 
Knesset annexing the West Bank and Gaza to Israel.They knew that Israel 
had no legal right to lay claims to sovereignty, that the long-term demographic 
implications for the Jewish State would be disastrous and that, anyway, 
absolutely no one in the world – friend or foe – would ever recognize such 
claims just because they were passed in the Israeli Knesset – thus bringing the 
country’s parliament and democracy into international disrepute.THERE IS 
no need to prove the historical phases through which this region has passed. The 
West Bank, or in its more correct historical and geographical term, Judea and 
Samaria, has strong historical connections with the Jewish people. The Bible 
narrative is focused on this area, as expressed through the choice of Biblical 
names (such as Shilo, Bet El, Elon Moreh – to name just a few) to rename the 
Jewish settlements. Judea and Samaria were as much part of ancient Jewish and 
Israelite kingdoms as parts of the coastal plain, where the overwhelming 
majority of the residents of the State of Israel reside, never were.But 
I know of no one who is prepared to trade the densely populated hill regions of 
the West Bank for the Tel Aviv metropolitan area. For almost 2,000 years we were 
absent and during that time, other peoples came and went, created new realities, 
and the fact that their antecedents may not be as long as those of the Jewish 
people is totally irrelevant to the contemporary political and geopolitical 
realities.The miracle of the Jewish return to its ancient homeland took 
place within certain territorial configurations, was accepted and eventually 
supported by the international community. But this did not include the area of 
the West Bank, neither in the UN Partition resolution or in the outcome of 
Israel’s War of Independence – both of which constitute our contemporary claim 
to sovereignty and international legitimacy.WHY DO we insist on playing 
with semantics rather than make a real attempt forge a political solution which 
will ensure greater stability and security for both peoples? We need to get back 
to basics and understand the political and demographic implications of the 
contemporary realities.Why is it so difficult to understand that the 
growing Palestinians people, regardless of whether they stretch back 2,000 or 
200 years, are here to stay. They are not going to disappear into Jordan and the 
Saudi Arabian desert tomorrow, just as the Jewish people are not going to be 
swallowed up (or pushed into) the Mediterranean Sea or return to their European 
Diaspora. Each of us is here to stay – and the options ahead are actually much 
more simple than the complexities of the legal and the historical arguments 
would have us believe.We can go on contesting each other’s right to be 
here, or we can – each of us – make those painful compromises which require each 
of us to make do with only part of the territory between the Mediterranean and 
the Jordan River. We each require guarantees that the other side will no longer 
threaten our safety and security, and that the human rights and democracy of 
both peoples will be respected.This will almost certainly require a 
clear line of separation, a border, but this is becoming increasingly difficult 
to demarcate as more and more settlements are constructed throughout the region. 
The border has become increasingly blurred and the two-state solution has become 
almost impossible to implement.The only problem with this is that all 
other alternatives – ranging from a one-state solution which will no longer be a 
Jewish State or the continuation of long-term occupation which will bring us 
ever closer to apartheid – are even worse.The farcical claim, after 45 
years of Israeli administration, that suddenly everything is legal and that 
there is no longer an occupation has not convinced a single person to change 
their position. What it has done however is to worsen, even further, Israel’s 
position and image in a world which has always questioned Israel’s right to 
continue to control and administer a territory captured in a war almost 50 years 
ago.There will now be renewed calls for sanctions, BDS and boycotts by 
those groups who are continuously seeking ways to delegitimize Israel. Only this 
time they will no longer be forced to make a distinction between sovereign 
Israel and the “occupied territories.” By trying to justify an unjustifiable 
situation, all we will have managed to do is to weaken even further the 
foundations on which the sovereign state exists.For all those of us out 
there in the battle to deflect and defuse the boycott attempts, this report has 
just made our task a hundred times more difficult. It has simply played into the 
hands of our detractors, weakened even further our international standing, and 
reflects the failed policies of a right-wing government which is doing its best 
to lead Israel into a new era of international isolation.
The writer is 
dean of the faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at Ben-Gurion University 
and editor of the international journal Geopolitics. The views expressed are his 
alone.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Boycotting West Bank products: A view from South Africa</title>
<date>7/6/2012</date>
<content>
JOHANNESBURG – Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad’s call from 
Ramallah on Sunday for Palestinians to boycott West Bank products made by 
Israeli companies sealed the initiative in recent weeks by South African Trade 
and Industry Minister Rob Davies to label these products as such, though he has 
denied aiming to boycott them. Fayyad thanked a South African official for his 
support.The boycott affects the livelihood of 15,000 Palestinians in 
Area C where all Israeli companies are situated, according to Israel’s Foreign 
Ministry spokesperson Paul Hirschson. This is the area where Israel is by 
recognizable international treaties responsible for civilian law and 
security.




Iraqi-born Middle East columnist Linda Menuhin Abdul Aziz 
believes the boycott will fail as it did in 2010, because Palestinians will not 
buy into it.“A recent survey showing the majority of Palestinians 
approve of a boycott of West Bank products, I think is 
misleading.Palestinians are caught in a vicious cycle,” she said. “They 
cannot afford to lose their jobs and benefits, neither now nor in the future, on 
the one hand. On the other, they cannot stand up against the boycott lest they 
be labelled as traitors. The Arab world applies double standards and behaves in 
a two-faced manner. In public they say exactly the opposite of what they say in 
private.”In 2011, it was estimated 76,723 Palestinians work in Israel 
and the settlements.Compared to Israel’s unemployment rate of just over 
five percent, unemployment in the West Bank in 2011 was 22.5% out of a total 
labor force of 745,600, according to the CIA World Factbook.Unemployment 
in Gaza is estimated at 45 percent. Here Israel has had no presence since 2005, 
save to facilitate the freight forwarding of produce out of and into the 
enclave.The irony of the call by South Africa to label products made in 
the West Bank as such, and not as those of Israel, is two-fold.The 
disregard for the consequences of the labeling by the South African government 
reflects upon its own lack of political will to address the underlying causes of 
its own unemployment problem, at just under 40% of its total workforce as 
measured in 2009.It has been argued convincingly by Ann Bernstein in The 
Case for Business in Developing Countries that companies, rather than foreign 
aid, will lift people out of poverty. The PA has received over $3 billion in aid 
over the past three years, thus fueling its annual 8% economic growth. Hence 
more companies, rather than less, are needed to address poverty.Both 
Davies, Minister of Trade and Industry since 2009, and Fayyad, former PA 
Minister of Finance, are in precarious political positions. Both have shown 
ineptitude in stopping corruption in their own governments and in areas under 
their own purview; corruption that is a growing source of outrage for citizens 
in South Africa and the territories.ANC government officials have 
benefited and continue to do so from industrial and trade activity, mostly in 
the form of state tenders, at the expense of South African 
taxpayers.That Davies may be called to account before the Commission of 
Inquiry into the Arms Deal for failing to exercise oversight over the Department 
of Trade and Industry under then-minister Alec Erwin has not escaped observers 
of this on-going saga. These were arms not needed by South Africa in the first 
place but predicated on the offsets they promised and by which contractors were 
selected.Davies was chairman of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on 
Trade and Industry from 1996-2004 – that is, during and after the arms deal was 
concluded and subsequent attempts made to investigate it.The Department 
of Trade and Industry not only stone-walled when the auditor-general and the 
Joint Investigating Team tried to access information about the paucity of the 
offsets – a mere 10,000 jobs created versus 65,000 promised – but contrived to 
hide it in its opaque annual reports, unremarked on by Davies at the 
time.Indeed, the offsets were heralded as the rationale for the whole 
arms deal by then-minister of intelligence Ronnie Kasrils in parliament in 1997. 
He added in this speech that the arms acquisitions would in fact be led by the 
Department of Trade and Industry.In that same year Kasrils wrote an oped 
for the Mail & Guardian describing the situation in Israel and the 
territories as worse than apartheid.Davies’ recent acknowledgement in 
parliament, under questioning by the opposition Democratic Alliance’s Shadow 
Minister of Defense David Maynier, that the DTI flouted its normal practices in 
the arms deal, in no way exonerates him for his own failure to check it at the 
time.Authors Paul Holden and Hennie van Vuuren in The Devil in the 
Detail: How the Arms Deal Changed Everything, go further: “As we will discuss in 
much more detail in later chapters, there is also the possibility that the 
offsets programs that were attached to the Arms Deal may have been used to 
facilitate corrupt arrangements. At the very least there remains the suspicion 
that the offset figures that have been presented to the South African public in 
support of the Arms Deal have been the result of inducements offered to 
officials of the DTI rather than a true reflection of their actual 
fulfillment.”It has been estimated by the ANC’s former highest ranking 
member of Parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts in 2000, Andrew 
Feinstein, who was forced resign by the ANC when he launched a multi-pronged 
investigation into the arms deal, and who is author of After the Party and The 
Shadow World: Inside the Global Arms Trade, that of the 70 billion-rand arms 
deal (at 2018 prices), 3b. rand was paid in bribes to the ANC, government 
officials and agents.Davies was sent a copy of the article but has not 
responded.Regarding labeling of West Bank products by the South African 
government, Hirschson – who is originally from South Africa – says his problem 
with such an issue is that there is “to my knowledge, no case of specifically 
labeling produce from territory under dispute – including the land which 
Swaziland claims South Africa is occupying.“There are some 200 
territorial disputes in the world and the focusing on only one side of only one 
of those conflicts raises uncomfortable questions about the motivation behind 
such potential policies.”
The writer freelances for The South African 
Jewish Report. In 1995, she won the Sanlam Financial Journalist of the Year 
award for her coverage of the property, building and construction industries in 
South Africa. At the time she was property editor of the Financial Mail.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Breaking what silence?</title>
<date>11/9/2012</date>
<content>
Eleven years ago, in September 2001, the UN Human Rights Commission brought more 
than 5,000 officials from 1,500 organizations to Durban, South Africa for a 
conference that adopted a strategy of political war against the Jewish 
nation-state based on obscene falsehoods like “ethnic cleansing” and an “alien 
domination” of the “indigenous Palestinian population.” The program of action is 
promoted by a multi-million dollar industry led by dozens of NGOs that exploit 
the language of human rights as a weapon targeting Israel. Since Durban, the 
NGO-led activity has produced the Goldstone Report, with numerous false 
allegations of “war crimes” during the Gaza war, and numerous similar attacks. 
These fuel the campaigns of boycotts, divestment and sanctions (BDS) seeking to 
isolate and demonize Israel.In this political warfare, Israeli groups, 
largely funded from abroad, such as “Breaking the Silence” (BtS), play a central 
role. In late August, they issued a publication that appeared in newspapers 
across Australia and the UK, based largely on anonymous “testimonies,” which 
were then quoted without independent verification by foreign journalists. The 
report was filled with allegations of IDF misconduct and what the organization 
refers to as a “pattern of behavior” of soldier misconduct that it claims to 
have “uncovered” through its research.




The stated aim of BtS, whose 
campaigns are made possible by major support from European governments and the 
New Israel Fund, is to “expose the Israeli public to the reality of everyday 
life in the Occupied Territories.” However, in many of its activities, 
BtS courts the international media rather than presenting its allegations to the 
Israeli government or the IDF for investigation through due process of law. And 
in a country whose democratic debate features every possible dimension and point 
of view, and where there are more opinions than citizens, it is also unclear 
just what “silence” this organization is attempting to break.In this 
process, BtS’s campaigns to discredit the IDF have turned the organization into 
an invaluable ally of those NGOs behind the “Durban Strategy” – with the 
explicit goal of “the complete international isolation” of Israel, using 
repeated accusations of “war crimes,” “genocide” and “apartheid.”The 
August 2012 report was first published by an Australian journalist eager for a 
scoop. As a result, these claims are now receiving sensationalist headlines in 
Australia, generating the type of demonization of Israel that the Durban 
Strategy envisaged. Similar activities have taken place in Europe and 
North America, including on many university campuses, and are often accompanied 
by speaking tours.To its credit, Australia’s Jewish community responded 
to the BtS road-show by highlighting its many failures. Danny Lamm, president of 
the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, labeled their research and findings 
to be “anonymous... devoid of critical detail and untested by any kind of 
cross-questioning.”In its latest report, BtS focuses on allegations 
regarding children, following a similar campaign by a highly politicized 
organization known as Defense for Children International-Palestine Section 
(DCI-PS).BtS claims that its testimonies are from a “time perceived as 
calm and uneventful from a ‘security’ standpoint,” and that “the reality that 
emerges from the testimonies shows that harsh treatment of Palestinian children 
continues unabated, and despite the overall security situation.”However, 
the report makes no mention of the central role that Palestinian children and 
minors play in the ongoing deadly attacks against Israeli citizens. According to 
the IDF, 2011 had the highest incidence of rock throwing since 2005 – almost 
always involving Palestinian children. Both DCIPS and BtS immorally portray this 
activity as benign, despite the many cases in which Israeli civilians have been 
wounded or killed.For instance, in September 2011, Asher Palmer and his 
one-year-old son were murdered when Palestinian youths attacked their car by 
throwing rocks. But providing information on such attacks does not coincide with 
BTS’s political agenda.At times, the group has gone further still, even 
suggesting that Israel is ultimately to blame for terror attacks against its 
civilians. In an exhibit at the Army Museum in Stockholm in March 2011, Itamar 
Shapira, a member of BtS, declared “we are the oppressors, we are the ones that 
are violating human rights on a daily basis. We are creating the terror against 
us, basically.” Shapira’s comments expose the humanitarian facade.In 
exploiting the allegations of human rights violations for political propaganda, 
groups such as BtS and their funders are not in any way contributing to the 
moral imperative of preventing such abuses.Rather, they themselves 
engage in conduct that is immoral and fail to fulfill the humanitarian mandate 
that they espouse.
The writer is professor of political science at 
Bar-Ilan University and president of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Intellectuals and the Left</title>
<date>18/4/2012</date>
<content>
The most talented Israeli intellectuals and writers frequently display gross 
political naiveté. Amos Oz is an Israeli icon, recognized throughout the world 
as the doyen of the Israel literary arena. His books, primarily relating to the 
wide spectrum of life in Israel, are enormously popular and have been translated 
into many languages.Oz, always regarded as a supporter of the Left, was 
also admired as a consummate and devoted Zionist. Until recent years, he 
expressed his political views with gentle restraint and moderation and was 
perceived as a national rather than partisan intellectual.




I have fond 
recollections of his visits to Australia in the ’80s, when he insisted while 
abroad on assuming non-partisan positions and refused to publicly air his 
political differences with the Likud government then in office.In 
contrast, today Oz unhesitatingly exploits every opportunity, even when abroad, 
to bitterly demonize his government. Moreover, his criticism has become 
so vehement that he effectively blames Israel for the impasse with the 
Palestinians.Most recently, Oz even proudly publicized his prison visits 
to Marwan Barghouti, the Palestinian terrorist condemned for five life sentences 
for the murder of five Israelis plus other orchestrated attacks on Israeli 
civilians and who only recently called for a third intifada and global boycott 
of Israel. Sadly, Oz morally identified himself with Barghouti, insisting that 
they both share the same national objectives, and expressed the fervent hope 
that the ruthless killer would soon be released.David Grossman, another 
highly acclaimed and talented Israeli writer, whose son was killed during the 
Second Lebanon War, behaves in a similar manner. He recently penned an op-ed in 
the viciously anti-Israeli UK Guardian proclaiming that the greatest threat 
confronting the Jewish state is not Iran but the paranoia of its 
leaders.These two writers exemplify the irresponsibility and extremism 
that has consumed a number of prominent leftist Israeli intellectuals and 
academics.Needless to say, they are hailed as heroes by Israel’s 
“elitist” but dramatically declining newspaper Haaretz, which over the past 
decade has radicalized itself to such an extent that it is recognized as one of 
the most potent sources for global anti-Israeli propaganda.The extent of 
this newspaper’s venom – directed from the “top” – was recently demonstrated in 
an op-ed written by the publisher, Amos Schocken, who accused his country of 
becoming an “apartheid” state and last week in an editorial which criticized 
President Shimon Peres for “publicly” calling on US President Barack Obama to 
release Pollard.It is hard to comprehend how seemingly rational educated 
Jews can behave in such a manner. Of course, Jews turning against themselves are 
not a new phenomenon. In the Middle Ages Jewish apostates emerged as the most 
vicious anti-Semites. But one can rationalize that their disgusting behavior may 
have been motivated by an obsession to ingratiate themselves within their host 
societies.Likewise the alienation from Judaism of Karl Marx and many of 
the early Jewish socialists could be attributed to desperation for emancipation 
from what they considered to be a stifling religious and ethnic identity in 
order to qualify as cosmopolitan citizens of the world.The same can also 
be said for the Jewish communists who vigorously applauded as Stalin executed 
their kinsman and justified the persecution of Soviet Jews. Many of them 
convinced themselves that by destroying Jewish particularism, they were paving 
the way for a messianic secular era in which the brotherhood and equality of all 
men would resolve the Jewish problem.But after the Holocaust and with 
the creation of a Jewish state, one surely expected less alienation and a more 
rational approach.Prime minister David Ben-Gurion, a genuine 
social-democrat, was highly conscious that left-wing extremists represented a 
major threat to the Zionist enterprise. He was especially scathing towards the 
Marxist Mapam which continued to idolize the murderous Stalin and the Soviet 
Union – even after Mordecai Oren, one of their senior political leaders, had 
been arrested in Czechoslovakia in 1951 during the Prague Trials on trumped-up 
charges of having acted as a CIA agent.But after Khrushchev’s exposure 
of Stalin’s cult of personality, the loony Left in Israel was marginalized to 
splinter groups like Matzpen.The dominant Labor Party was uncompromising 
in its commitment to the State of Israel and proudly stood at the forefront of 
Zionism. It had no truck with the post-Zionist intellectuals and ensured that 
they were isolated and condemned.It was only following the huge public 
divide over the Oslo Accords that the Zionist Left began to fragment. Although 
Rabin himself remained a steadfast Zionist throughout his life, de facto he 
became allied with a new breed of Labor activists, many of whom flirted with 
post-Zionism.Dr. Yossi Beilin, a key architect of the Oslo Accords, even 
expressed public regret that his grandfather, one of the original Chovevei Zion 
delegates to the early Zionist Congresses, had voted against Herzl’s plan to 
adopt Uganda as a Zionist homeland.Some Labor leaders, in order to 
alleviate public hostility about the “peace process,” felt obliged to defend the 
Arab case and began understating or trivializing statements by Arafat and other 
Palestinians leaders who were telling their people that Oslo was merely a 
preliminary step toward achieving the ultimate objective of destroying the 
Zionist entity. They also suppressed the mounting evidence that the duplicitous 
Arafat was directing terrorism.This impacted on our response to terror 
with repeated mindless statements, even from Rabin, that we would fight terror 
but continue pursuing peace – with the very same Palestinians initiating the 
terror.As a result, the Zionist core of the Labor movement rapidly 
eroded, with extremist radicals emerging and expressing sentiments that would 
have been considered treasonable during the period of the Mapai hegemony. 
Ultimately the radicals all but hijacked the Labor Party.Of course, 
criticism of Israel is a guaranteed passport for elevation to heroic stature in 
certain Western liberal quarters, and thus represents an additional incentive 
for failed Israeli politicians like Avram Burg and his ilk to join the anti- 
Israeli pack and act as principal propagandists of the adversaries of 
Israel.The situation became exacerbated in recent years with a major 
change in public perceptions and the emergence of a consensus moving the country 
somewhat to a right-of-center approach to the Israel-Palestinian impasse, thus 
further marginalizing the far Left. To the dismay of the radicals, their bête 
noire, Netanyahu, far from being reviled, emerged as the most popular 
leader.Oz and Grossman are neither post-Zionists nor self-hating Jews. 
They unquestionably love Israel. But the public support of the government 
appears to have unhinged them and a number of other “doves.” In their frenzied 
desperation to dissociate themselves from the national consensus which broadly 
endorses Netanyahu, they succumbed to employing vitriolic language that comes 
perilously close to being indistinguishable from the anti-Zionist 
Left.
One can only hope that under the new leadership of Shelly 
Yacimovich, the Labor Party will reaffirm the Zionist credo and encourage Labor 
Zionists who lost the plot, to return to the fold.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Jewish struggle for rights</title>
<date>29/8/2012</date>
<content>
One of the conundrums associated with the enduring nature of global 
anti-Semitism which has soared exponentially in recent years is why, having made 
such disproportionate contributions towards all levels of civilization and left 
major imprints on science, ethics, medicine, culture and the arts, we Jews 
continue to act as a magnet for such virulent hatred.Equally bizarre is 
the failure of formerly oppressed groups and nations to reciprocate or even 
acknowledge the extraordinary Jewish contributions in support of their struggles 
towards overcoming persecution, discrimination, abuse of human rights and 
achieving independence.




This is typified by the fact that whereas there 
is no American group comparable to the Jews who sacrificed so much to help 
African-Americans to overcome racial discrimination and their struggle for civil 
rights, ironically, today they are amongst the foremost US racial or ethnic 
groups promoting anti-Israelism and anti-Semitism.The recent loathsome 
outburst by the African-American writer Alice Walker, who sought to prohibit her 
novel – relating to racism – from being translated into Hebrew, typifies 
this.Walker’s demonization of Israel even extended to accusing Israel of 
practicing “racism” in a more extreme manner than was the case in apartheid 
South Africa. This is all the more perverse because aside from being the only 
free and democratic society in the region, the Jewish state probably also 
comprises the greatest mélange of racial groups in the world committed to 
equality.The same criticism would apply to the current South African 
government, which is today bitterly anti-Israeli despite the fact that 
individual South African Jews were at the vanguard of the struggle against 
apartheid, many having been forced to leave the country during the apartheid 
regime.Even Archbishop Desmond Tutu, whose anti-Israeli outbursts have 
now morphed into vulgar populist anti-Jewish diatribes, conceded that “in our 
struggle against apartheid, the greatest supporters were the Jewish 
people....They almost instinctively had to be on the side of the 
disenfranchised, of the voiceless ones.”But in the same breath he paved 
the way for his government’s recent anti- Israeli initiatives by calling for 
divestment from Israel which “has oppressed more than the apartheid ideologues 
could ever dream about in South Africa” and descends into primitive 
anti-Semitism referring to Jews as “a peculiar people” who “once oppressed and 
killed” are now “empowered”, and “refuse to listen and disobey 
God.”Similar attitudes prevail amongst a number of Third World leaders. 
I will never forget a meeting in New Delhi in 1981 with the late Indian 
president, Indira Gandhi, in which she erupted in a frenzied anti-Israeli 
outburst laced with rage against “international Jewish power”– which she claimed 
was responsible for having turned the US against India.In response to my 
rejoinder, she conceded that when her family were in England, the majority of 
their closest friends were British Jews who passionately supported their 
struggle against colonialism and efforts to achieve independence. Yet, this in 
no way mitigated her hatred against Israel or her conspiratorial fantasies about 
international Jewish power.History records the numerous misguided Jewish 
idealists in Europe and the United States who, in the 1930s, abandoned Judaism 
and Zionism and devoted their lives towards promoting and even worshipping the 
false messianic cause of communism. Even distant members of my own family in 
prewar Belgium, in their passionate desire to combat Nazism, relinquished their 
Jewish heritage and in 1936, needlessly sacrificed their lives for Stalin on the 
battlefields of Spain.Yet these same Jewish communists who, out of a 
misplaced exclusive commitment to universalism, devoted their lives to 
fanatically serving an evil totalitarian system, subsequently themselves became 
victims of the anti- Semitic purges and bogus trials initiated by Stalin in the 
late 1930s, the murder of the Jewish writers in 1948, which culminated with the 
infamous 1952 Moscow Doctors’ plot.These initiatives, unquestionably 
motivated by feral anti-Semitism, would probably have resulted in massive 
deportations of Jews to the Gulag were it not for Stalin’s timely demise in 
1953.There are Jews today who still maintain that the universalist 
tradition in Judaism obliges us to set aside our own “parochial” Jewish 
interests and in order to concentrate exclusively on making the world a better 
place by combating injustice.Yet in reality, the alleged tension between 
the Jewish role in maintaining itself as a particularistic nation and promoting 
universalistic ethical values is often exaggerated and not mutually exclusive. 
Abraham did not smash the idols and Moses did not struggle for his people’s 
freedom in order to create a cult. They served the Jewish people but were also 
providing messages of universal significance to humanity.An example of 
the fusion between both concepts is reflected in the oft quoted sentence from 
Pirkei Avot (Ethics of our Fathers), “If I am not for myself who will be for 
me?” But it is balanced by the following sentence, “And if I am only for myself, 
what am I? And if not now, when?” There is thus every justification for us to 
take pride in the actions of Jews who contributed towards tikkun olam – 
repairing a fractured world – and making it a better place for 
mankind.That many oppressed groups struggling for freedom, on whose 
behalf we fought frequently at considerable personal cost, subsequently turned 
against us, must not deter us from our universalistic obligations towards 
humanity and ongoing commitment to promote justice and human rights.When 
viewing the world in today’s troubled times, we, the Jewish people who have 
overcome powerlessness and miraculously regained nationhood, are obliged to 
recognize that our overriding priority must be to safeguard ourselves against 
those seeking to destroy us. In times of peril, it is both rational and 
incumbent to focus on our families and our own people before attempting to 
reform the world. By prioritizing the particularistic goals of defending and 
securing the well-being of the Jewish State and the Jewish people against those 
still seeking to fulfill Hitler’s objectives, we are ensuring that Jews will 
survive. One of the by-products of this will enable us to continue as in the 
past to contribute towards tikkun olam.The writer’s website can be 
viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com. 
He may be contacted at 
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: On Israeli racism and democracy</title>
<date>10/10/2012</date>
<content>
Nothing makes us cringe more than screaming headlines reporting racist outbursts 
or hate crimes in our own country. There were a number of such cases over the 
past year, and earlier this month, a Jerusalem church was vandalized with foul 
graffiti by unknown villains. There were also “price tag” incidents, allegedly 
perpetrated by fringe groups of alienated young settlers unhinged by a 
combination of the hatred radiating from the Arabs surrounding them and 
bitterness over the Gaza disengagement.There was also an appalling 
incident recently in which a group of young Jewish hoodlums brutally attacked 
four Arabs in the heart of downtown Jerusalem, severely injuring one of them. 
Prior to that, a Palestinian taxi was firebombed in Gush Etzion, injuring an 
entire family. There were also occasional reports of defilement of mosques 
within and beyond the Green Line. We occasionally hear of hooligans despicably 
chanting “death to Arabs” at football matches.




No matter how rare, such 
acts not only shame us but encourage us to ask ourselves how such obscene 
behavior could occur in the homeland of the Jewish people which itself endured 
2,000 years of persecution and humiliation in the Diaspora. Have we failed to 
inculcate in young Israelis those fundamental humanistic Jewish traits and 
ethics that we imbibed from childhood? Regrettably, the fact is that one can 
detect the emergence of strains among the younger generation of Israelis which 
make them less sensitive to these issues. For many, the burning revulsion 
against bigotry and racism which was seared into the consciousness of their 
parents and grandparents has diminished with the fading memory of the 
Holocaust.And more importantly, the unremitting, poisonous and vile 
hatred directed against us by our adversaries – calls for our annihilation, 
suicide bombings, missile attacks and the rabid anti-Semitism – has led to waves 
of loathing and anger against Arabs.Moreover, this prejudice was 
intensified by radical Israeli-Arab politicians collaborating and aggressively 
identifying with those who seek to murder us and are committed to ending Jewish 
sovereignty in the region. It is highly unlikely that any other country would 
tolerate the seditious outbursts repeatedly expressed by Arab MKs in the 
Knesset.The situation is further exacerbated by some of our less worldly 
rabbis who tend to indulge in demagoguery and concentrate excessively on 
preaching about Amalek – our first biblical genocidal adversary – and rather 
less on the humanistic foundations of rabbinic Judaism.Does this imply 
that there is validity in accusations depicting us as a criminal and racist 
society and comparing our behavior to that of Nazis? While we must stamp out any 
manifestation of racism, it is absurd to beat our breasts and provide credence 
to our enemies who depict us as a nation of monsters.Despite accusations 
of racism and apartheid leveled against us – ironically mainly by outright 
racists – one need only observe the variety of races, ranging from black 
Ethiopians to blonde Russians, who comprise the core of the nation, to 
appreciate that Israel could in fact serve as a role model for a genuine 
multi-racial society.IN THE context of a country surrounded by neighbors 
seeking our destruction, we should also take pride in the fact that 20% of 
Israeli citizens are Arabs who enjoy all the benefits of a democratic society, 
despite the outrageous behavior of some of their extremist 
representatives.One need only visit a hospital or shopping mall to 
witness the extraordinary level of coexistence in everyday life which prevails 
between Jews and Arabs.Without detracting from their vile behavior, the 
racist thugs who beat up Arabs are the lowest underclass of society and probably 
victims of the drug culture. Those involved in the “price tag” offenses belong 
to extremist fringes whose alienation from the broader settlement movement is 
exemplified by their equally outrageous attacks on the property and equipment of 
the IDF which protects them.Every country has its percentage of 
deviants, hooligans and racists. The litmus test of the ethical standing of a 
society is the extent to which the leadership and community at large, rather 
than silently standing by or distancing themselves from such outrages, condemn 
the perpetrators and actively demand that they be punished with the full 
severity of the law.Here our position is crystal clear. Despite being a 
country under siege, every mainstream Israeli political leader has sincerely and 
passionately condemned these hate crimes. Not only because it brings us into 
disrepute but more importantly because such behavior is considered dastardly and 
contrary to all Jewish ethical values.We flagellate and irresponsibly 
besmirch ourselves if we concede that these actions of fringe elements are 
comparable to the despicable behavior of our neighbors who indulge in street 
celebrations and exult over the murder of innocent Israelis. Yes, there are a 
few deviants who lionize the murderer Baruch Goldstein, but they are reviled by 
the nation as a whole. We do not hold state ceremonies sanctifying mass 
murderers or honoring them by naming squares, schools and football clubs after 
them.Yet notwithstanding this, in the extraordinary tense and volatile 
climate in which we live, with hatred and defamation continuing to be 
relentlessly directed at us from both within and without the country, we must 
intensify efforts to ensure that the poison from our neighbors does not impact 
on our youngsters.We have an obligation to ensure that our schools 
inculcate those aspects of Jewish tradition and Jewish history which will 
instinctively alienate us from all forms of racism and bigotry. Our humanistic 
traditions should be emphasized and our children must be educated to appreciate 
and respect every human being because God created us all b’tzelem Elokim – “in 
His image.”At the leadership level, there is a need to introduce new 
legislation to tighten the punitive laws dealing with hate crimes. This requires 
the government to bite the bullet and act against the prevailing dogma of 
unlimited freedom of expression which is being abused to foment racism and 
treason. This includes the delusional leftists who promote hatred of Israel and 
falsely defame the IDF, accusing it of engaging in war crimes and of Nazi-like 
behavior. They share a major responsibility for polarizing of our society and 
stimulating the emergence of extremism.It is also time to curtail the 
abuse of freedom of expression by those Israeli Arabs who incite hatred or 
engage in treason by publicly embracing those seeking to kill us and destroy the 
state. Israel is far from being a normal country.But even normal 
countries would not tolerate this level of subversion.If stringent 
punitive legislation was introduced to restrict those promoting sedition as well 
as the thuggish elements on both the extreme Right and the extreme Left who 
abuse freedom of expression to foment hatred, bigotry and racism, it would 
effectively enhance rather detract from our democracy and create a healthier and 
more tolerant Israeli society.The writer’s website can be viewed at 
www.wordfromjerusalem.com.
He may be contacted at 
ileibler@leibler.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Mainstreaming anti-Semitism</title>
<date>19/1/2012</date>
<content>
Anti-Semitism may not yet be a litmus test for social acceptability in the US, 
but it has certainly become acceptable.Proof of this dismal state of 
affairs came this week with the publication of a supportive profile of 
University of Chicago professor John Mearsheimer in The Atlantic monthly written 
by the magazine’s in-house foreign policy guru Robert Kaplan.




Mearsheimer 
is the author, together with Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government’s 
Prof.Stephen Walt, of the infamous 2007 book The Israel Lobby and US 
Foreign Policy. Since the book’s publication, Mearsheimer has become one of the 
most high-profile anti-Semites in America.Kaplan’s article was a clear 
bid to rehabilitate Mearsheimer in order to advance his pre-Israel Lobby theory 
of realism in international affairs.Mearsheimer’s realist theory argues 
that the international arena exists in a state of perpetual anarchy. As a 
consequence, the factor motivating states’ actions in international affairs is 
their national interests. Morality, he claims, has no place in international 
affairs.This theory’s considerable intellectual underpinning rendered 
Mearsheimer one of the most prominent political scientists in America during the 
1990s. As a realist himself, particularly in relation to the rise of China as a 
superpower, Kaplan perhaps believed that by rehabilitating Mearsheimer, he would 
advance his goal of convincing US policy-makers to adopt a realist approach to 
China.But whatever his motivations for writing the profile, and whatever 
its eventual impact on US policy towards China, Kaplan’s profile of Mearsheimer 
served to mainstream a Jew-hater and in so doing, to give credibility to his 
bigotry.It has become necessary to rehabilitate Mearsheimer because in 
the years since he and Walt published their conspiracy theory against Israel and 
its American supporters, Mearsheimer has actively embraced fringe elements in 
the US and the world in order to advance his campaign to discredit Israel and 
its supporters. As Alan Dershowitz highlighted in November, Mearsheimer wrote an 
enthusiastic endorsement of a psychotically anti-Semitic book written by British 
jazz musician and prolific anti-Semite Gilad Atzmon.The book, titled The 
Wandering Who? is replete with Holocaust denial, claims that Jews control the 
world and America, characterizations of the Jewish God as evil and corrupt, and 
claims that Israel is worse than Nazi Germany.In his endorsement, 
Mearsheimer called the book “fascinating,” and said it “should be read widely by 
Jews and non-Jews alike.”As far as Kaplan was concerned, Mearsheimer’s 
embrace of Atzmon was a simple mistake. But it wasn’t. It was part of an 
apparent decision on Mearsheimer’s part to use his own celebrity to legitimize 
his anti-Semitic views.In a speech to the Palestine Center in April 
2010, for example, Mearsheimer distinguished between “righteous” Jews and “New 
Afrikaner” Jews. The former are Jews who oppose and attack Israel and the latter 
are Jews who support and defend Israel.By sanitizing Mearsheimer’s 
bigotry in his sympathetic profile, Kaplan mainstreamed his hatred.And 
Kaplan is not alone.KAPLAN’S PROFILE of Mearsheimer is part of a larger 
trend in US letters, politics and culture in which anti-Semitism is becoming 
more and more acceptable. As Adam Kirsch noted in an article in the Tablet 
online magazine this week, The Israel Lobby’s central contention, that a cabal 
of disloyal Jews and sympathizers has forced the US to adopt a pro-Israel policy 
against its national interests, has found recent expression in the writings of 
mainstream journalists including New York Times’ columnist Tom Friedman and 
Time’s Joe Klein.Last week, The Washington Post-owned online magazine 
Foreign Policy – which publishes a regular blog by Stephen Walt, published an 
article by Mark Perry claiming that in 2007 and 2008 Mossad agents posed as CIA 
agents in a false-flag operation whose aim was to build a cooperative 
relationship with the Pakistani/Iranian Baluchi anti-regime Jundallah terror 
group.Perry’s report was based solely on anonymous sources. Its obvious 
purpose was to discredit the very notion of Israeli-US intelligence cooperation 
on Iran.Following the publication of Perry’s article, Israel abandoned 
its general policy of never commenting on intelligence issues. The Foreign 
Ministry denounced his report as “utter nonsense.”What Foreign Policy 
failed to tell its readers is that Perry is not an objective reporter. He is a 
former adviser to Yassir Arafat and an advocate of US engagement with Hamas and 
Hezbollah. By failing to mention his biases, Foreign Policy became an accessory 
to the mainstreaming of anti-Semitism. Like The Israel Lobby, Perry’s report in 
Foreign Policy adds to the legitimacy of the attitude that there is something 
fundamentally wrong with having close relationship with the Jewish 
state.Perhaps if Mearsheimer and Walt had published their updated 
version of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion in 1997 instead of 2007 they 
would have been received in the same manner.That is, they would have sat 
in the mainstream doghouse for a few years but then gradually acceptance and 
support for their bigotry would have moved from the margins to the 
mainstream.And within five years they would have been rehabilitated by 
the establishment. But in all likelihood, that wouldn’t have been the 
case.It is a fact that since the turn of the century, and particularly 
in the wake of the collapse of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process in 2000 – a 
collapse precipitated by Arafat’s rejection of Palestinian statehood; and in the 
aftermath of the September 11 attacks on the US, anti-Semitism has become far 
more acceptable in the US and throughout the world. The volume of attacks 
against Jews has skyrocketed and the intellectual war against Israel and its 
Jewish supporters has grown ever more virulent.The rise of anti-Semitism 
in the US has many causes, but three parallel developments stand out. First, the 
development of Arab satellite stations like Al Jazeera has brought the open 
Jew-hatred of the Arab world into the Western discourse.True, most 
Westerners reject the Arab annihilationist form of anti-Semitic propaganda as 
crude and wrong. But the Jew-hatred propounded by these broadcasts has had a 
corrosive impact on the Western discourse. It has deadened observers to the lies 
at the heart of the propaganda.That is, whereas they may reject the 
daily calls to destroy the Jews, Westerners have increasingly internalized the 
basic claim that Jews deserve to be hated. Take for instance a Washington Post 
story last week on Egypt’s decision to bar Jewish worshipers from making their 
annual visit to the grave of Torah sage Rabbi Yaakov Abuhatzeira.The 
story claimed that the Egyptians oppose Israel because of its treatment of 
Palestinians and because the Egyptian cross-border terror attack on Israel last 
August “led to the killing of at least five Egyptian border guards as Israeli 
troops pursued alleged militants.”That is, according to the Washington 
Post, just as the pan-Arab media claims, Israel is entirely responsible for Arab 
hatred of Jews.THEN OF course there is the European media.This 
week, the Dutch Christian newspaper Trouw published an article about prenatal 
care in Israel written by Ilse van Heusden. Van Heusden wrote of the superior 
medical care she received in Israel where she lived temporarily and where she 
gave birth to a healthy son.Rather than extol the dedicated care she 
received, van Heusden attacked it. She claimed that Israel’s world class 
prenatal medicine is a product of its embrace of eugenics and its similarity to 
Nazi Germany. As she put it, “To be pregnant in Israel is comparable to a 
military operation. Countless ultrasounds and blood tests should produce the 
perfect baby, nothing can be left to the luck of the draw. The state demands 
healthy babies and a lot of them too.”Trouw’s decision to publish van 
Heusden’s anti-Semitic assault is of a piece with countless articles published 
in the European media portraying Israelis as evil Jews intent on using science 
and every other means at their disposal to advance the Jews’ malign goals of 
global domination, genocide, apartheid, and general evil. When Israel dares to 
complain about these attacks, European politicians and media celebrities are 
quick to stand up and defend their right to freedom of expression.So it 
was that Sweden’s Foreign Minister Carl Bildt – who barred all the Muhammad 
cartoons from being published in the Swedish media – stood by Sweden’s leading 
tabloid Aftonbladet when in 2009 it published an article accusing IDF soldiers 
of killing Palestinians in order to harvest their organs. In the mind of the 
anti-Semites, by trying to object to the blood libel, Israel was proving that it 
seeks to control the media.The European media’s lies about Israel have 
been translated into official government policies of lying about Israel. So it 
is that the French National Assembly published a report last month about the 
geopolitics of water that included a 20-page diatribe claiming that Israel uses 
water as a weapon of apartheid against the Palestinians.To write the 
report, the French legislators had to ignore not only the content of the 
Israeli-Palestinian agreement on water in the 1995 Interim Agreement. They had 
to ignore the basic fact that Israel gives the PA far more water than the 
agreement requires it to give, and to associate malign intent to the Israeli 
government. That is, they had to embrace the irrationality of anti-Semitism.Parallel to the penetration of Arab anti-Semitism into the 
Western discourse through the pan- Arabic media, and the embrace of overt anti- 
Semitism by the European media and political class, over the past decade, we 
have witnessed the development of an alliance between the West’s political Left 
and Islamist movements.The international Left’s embrace of the likes of 
Hamas, the Taliban, Iran and the Muslim Brotherhood has increased leftist and 
isolationist American policy-makers’ comfort level in adopting hostile postures 
towards Israel. So it is that at the same time that the Obama administration is 
assiduously courting the Taliban, the Muslim Brotherhood and the Iranian regime, 
according to Channel 2, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has refused to 
meet with Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman during his upcoming trip to 
Washington. Channel 2 reported that senior US officials said that “Lieberman is 
an obstacle to peace. We don’t want our pictures taken with him and with what he 
represents.”Anti-Semitism is prejudice that is based on a rejection of 
reason. To fight it, it is not sufficient to disprove the contentions of the 
likes of Mearsheimer. He and his colleagues must be discredited and their 
enablers must be shamed.But before this can happen, world Jewry and 
Israelis alike need to recognize what is happening.Anti-Semitism is back 
in style. Its new justification is not race or religion. It is nationalism. 
Today’s anti-Semitism is predicated on preferring Palestinian and pan-Arab 
nationalism to Jewish nationalism.And like its racist and religious 
predecessors, its aim is to deny the right of Jews to be free.In the 
face of this onslaught the Jewish people in Israel and the Diaspora have two 
choices. We can either succumb to our enemies, or we can fight 
back.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: The Left’s only enemy</title>
<date>4/10/2012</date>
<content>
Palestinian Authority Chairman Mahmoud Abbas’s legal term in office expired 
nearly four years ago. But his supporters don’t care. In Israel, Washington and 
throughout the world, Abbas’s supporters extol the authoritarian leader as a 
great moderate. In 2002, desperately searching for a face for the 
Palestinians that wasn’t Yasser Arafat’s face, the Left pushed Abbas out from 
behind Arafat’s shadow. Abbas, who served as Arafat’s deputy for 39 
years, was upheld as a great moderate and placed in the invented position of 
Palestinian prime minister.The fact that Abbas was an inveterate 
Jew-hater who spent four decades in the senior leadership of a terrorist 
organization and whose doctoral dissertation was a long denial of the Holocaust, 
was brushed aside.




His leftist supporters don’t care that he says Israel 
has no right to exist. They are untroubled by his 2008 rejection of then-prime 
minister Ehud Olmert’s unprecedentedly generous offer of peace and Palestinian 
statehood. They don’t mind that Abbas has refused to negotiate peace with Israel 
for the past four years. They don’t care that he has signed two unity government 
deals with Hamas or that he seeks to gain sovereignty for a Palestinian state 
through the UN and so establish a Palestinian state in a formal state of war 
with Israel.They don’t care. But most Israelis do. Due to their 
recognition of his hatred for Israel and due to the terrorism Abbas has condoned 
and financed for decades, the vast majority of Israelis do not consider him a 
potential partner for peace. They do not believe that either Abbas or the 
Palestinians as a whole are remotely interested in being appeased by 
Israel.As a consequence, most Israelis greeted Abbas’s speech at the UN 
General Assembly last week with indifference. In that speech, Abbas made clear – 
yet again – that he remains Arafat’s loyal deputy. The majority of 
Abbas’s speech involved a litany of libels against Israel, which he accused of 
everything from terrorism to apartheid, colonialism, racism, murder, theft, 
etc., etc., etc.Then he moved on to his demands. In addition to 
reinstating his demand that Israel agree to every Palestinian demand as a 
precondition for negotiations, Abbas demanded that Israel release all 
Palestinian terrorists from its prisons.No, none of Abbas’s attacks had 
an iota of truth to them.But who cares? Abbas certainly doesn’t. And 
neither do his supporters. Their support for Abbas has nothing to do with what 
he says or does. It has to do with who they are and what they want. Abbas is 
their prop, not their partner.Abbas’s Israeli supporters are the core of 
far-leftists who brought us the phony peace process with the PLO. Two thousand 
dead Israelis later, and with no peace in sight, their camp is much smaller 
today than it was in 1993. But it is still dedicated. And it is 
overpopulated by members of the media.TIPPING HIS hat to this group, 
this week Defense Minister Ehud Barak announced in a media interview that he 
thinks that Israel should unilaterally withdraw from much of Judea and 
Samaria.For most Israelis, Barak’s plan is self-evidently 
insane.We left Gaza and see the consequences of that unilateral 
withdrawal every day as southern Israel is bombarded with missiles and rockets. 
We left and Gaza was transformed into a hub for global jihad, increasingly 
indistinguishable from Sinai. The very notion that our defense chief 
could suggest adopting an identical strategy for Judea and Samaria is both 
obscene and frightening.What can he be thinking? Barak is thinking about 
elections, which are apparently about to be called. Barak thinks his best bet 
politically is to try to win the support of Abbas’s ever shrinking support 
base.Barak lost his political base when he left the Labor Party and 
formed his own Independence faction with other breakaway Labor politicians at 
the beginning of 2011. He needs Abbas’s Israeli supporters to vote for him if he 
is to get elected to the next Knesset. Even more crucially, Barak needs Abbas’s 
supporters in the Israeli media. So to win their support, he opted to run on a 
platform of expelling Jews from their homes.Barak’s move doesn’t tell us 
anything we don’t already know about him. He remains the political opportunist 
he has always been. His move is interesting because of what it reveals about the 
nature of Israel’s Left.There is no rational way to argue that Israel 
can gain any advantage by surrendering Judea and Samaria to the Palestinians. If 
Israel departs, either Abbas will gobble up the territory and demand more, or he 
will swallow the concession and get swallowed by Hamas, which will demand more – 
as happened in Gaza.Either way, Israel loses.But that doesn’t 
matter for the Left. The Left continues to support Israeli withdrawals because 
its members know that the biggest loser of such an action won’t be Israel as a 
whole. It will be the Israeli Right. And that is all the Left cares 
about.The only enemy they are interested in fighting, the only adversary 
they wish to defeat, is their fellow Israelis. And in a bid to win their support 
at the ballot box – and on the evening news – Barak has decided to embrace their 
cause. He will fight their fight against their Israeli enemies for 
them.The Israeli Left is not alone in its belief that its number one 
priority is to destroy its domestic political opposition. Throughout the Western 
world, the political Left is increasingly rallying around positions that are in 
fundamental conflict with their nation’s interests as well as with the specific 
ideological commitments of the Left, for the sole purpose of gaining and 
maintaining power.In recent weeks, the Left in the US has exposed its 
motivations and purpose in profoundly troubling ways. If Jewish settlement of 
the Land of Israel is the core of the Zionist revolution, freedom of speech is 
the foundation of America. Without Jewish settlement, there is no Israel. 
Without freedom of speech, there is no America.IN RECENT weeks, US 
President Barack Obama and all of his senior aides and supporters have launched 
an assault on freedom of speech. They have attacked previously unknown figures 
because they dared to exercise their freedom of speech to produce an 
anti-Islamic film and broadcast it on YouTube. The White House pressured Google 
(which owns YouTube) to take the movie down. Obama’s media supporters have gone 
along with this shocking assault on bedrock American principles.The 
Left’s support for Obama’s bid to repress freedom of speech in relation to the 
movie was not an isolated incident. Today the enlightened leftists of New York 
and Washington are apoplectic because a federal judge required New York’s 
Metropolitan Transportation Authority to post paid advertisements by the Stop 
the Islamization of America human rights group calling for Americans to support 
Israel against jihad.The content of the ads is self-evidently 
reasonable. They read, “In any war between the savage and the civilized 
man, support the civilized man. Support Israel. Defeat 
Jihad.”SIOA’s founder Pamela Geller submitted the ads to the MTA last 
year in response to a rash of anti- Israel ads calling for the US to end its 
support for the Jewish state. Those ads were published on New York buses and 
subways and on public transportation around the US.The MTA rejected 
SIOA’s ad but the group sued. Citing the US Constitution, the court 
required the MTA to post them. When after a year’s delay the ads were finally 
posted last week, the US Left in the media and beyond had a collective 
fit.From The New York Times to radical rabbis to pro- Islamic Christian 
pastors to The Washington Post, everyone is wringing their hands. In a televised 
debate with Geller, the anti-Israel evangelical pastor Rev. Jim Wallis condemned 
the ads, told Geller she was going to get Christians killed, (by what or whom, 
he never said), and demanded that Geller silence herself. As he put it, “Stop 
talking.”It is important to be clear. The American Left doesn’t have a 
problem with free speech, per se. And they aren’t concerned – as Wallis 
would have you believe – that calling jihad savagery is going to get people 
killed, (by not-at-all savage jihadists).The problem with messages like 
Geller’s is that talk about jihad distracts people from what the Left wants them 
to be thinking about.Like the Israeli Left, the American Left doesn’t 
want Americans to think about the actual threats to the US emanating from the 
Islamic world. They want the public to think about what for them is the only 
real threat to their values and their ability to win and wield 
power.That threat doesn’t emanate from the Islamic world where women are 
treated worse than farm animals, homosexuals are hanged in public squares, 
Christians are forcibly converted and assaulted, churches are burned to the 
ground, the annihilation of the Jewish people throughout the world is an ardent 
desire, and “Death to America” is a political program.For the American 
Left, the primary threat to their way of life comes from people who oppose 
abortions and gay marriage and gun control. It comes from people who oppose 
unionization of government workers and nationalization of healthcare.And 
it comes from people like Geller who state the obvious about jihad.The 
reason that Islam is supposed to be immune from criticism is that for American 
leftists as for Israeli leftists, the only important battle is the one against 
domestic foes. And just as the abysmal results of leftist policies have left the 
Israeli Left with no choice but to shoot the messengers, so too the American 
Left must deal with policy failure by silencing the opposition.In 
Israel, leftist appeasement of Palestinian terrorists has led to a horrific 
death toll and the obvious absence of peace. So the Left must silence those who 
have the temerity to oppose that failed policy. The Right’s most visible members 
are the religious Zionists, who are disproportionately situated beyond the 1949 
armistice lines, and so the Left must destroy them through expulsions, no matter 
what the cost to Israel.In America, the Left’s most conspicuous failure 
is its claim to promote women’s rights, equality and civil liberties in the 
culture war, even as it defends the Islamic world’s addiction to female genital 
mutilation, forced marriages, honor killings and executions of homosexuals for 
the “crime” of being gay. So the Left must silence critics of jihad and 
Islamism, and hope no one will notice its hypocrisy.The upshot of all of 
this is that the Left must be denied its ability to dominate national 
discourses. Because Abbas and the pathologically Jew-hating society he 
leads is a threat to the Jewish state, while religious Zionists are not. And the 
assaults on American embassies throughout the Islamic world are not due to 
Internet movies, but to the savagery inherent in jihadist Islam.In these 
perilous times we cannot permit ourselves to be led astray by those who insist 
we are our worst enemies.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Comprehending the incomprehensible – Part I</title>
<date>12/1/2012</date>
<content>
Israel has made itself defenseless. Israel has vacated the battleground of the 
mind. Israeli ‘hasbara’ is a JOKE! – British columnist Melanie Phillips, IBA 
Television, 2011 One of the gravest strategic threats facing Israel is its 
accelerating international delegitimization. This is developing into a strategic 
constraint that is increasingly curtailing the nation’s ability to protect 
itself and its citizens. Even more troubling, it is undermining international 
recognition of Israel’s right to exercise self-defense, even in the most blatant 
cases of aggression against it.




Strategic debacle Without wishing to 
diminish the significance of innate hostility towards Israel and the Jews from 
many sources in the international system, the present dismal and untenable 
situation has arisen in large measure because of the abysmal job the Israeli 
leadership has done in conducting – or more accurately, misconducting – its 
public diplomacy.Indeed, Prof. Eitan Gilboa, a well-known authority on 
public diplomacy, warns: “The lack of an adequate PD [public diplomacy] 
program has significantly affected Israel’s strategic outlook and freedom of 
action. Any further neglect of PD would not only restrict Israel’s strategic 
options, it would be detrimental to its ability to survive in an increasingly 
intolerant and hostile world.”Many find it puzzling why Israel – with 
its proven record of extraordinary achievement in so many other fields of human 
endeavor – does such a poor job in presenting its case to the world.An 
inescapable truth For anyone seeking the principal reason why Israel is losing 
the public diplomacy war, the answer is difficult to accept, yet very easy to 
prove.Israel is losing the battle because it doesn’t want to 
win.Or to put it differently: The people charged with the nation’s 
public diplomacy have a worldview that prevents them from adopting a winning 
strategy. Indeed, this chronic malaise was aptly diagnosed by Daniel Pipes when 
he observed: “No one at the upper echelons of Israel’s political life 
articulates the imperative for victory.” (More on this later).Although 
difficult to accept, the lack of will to win is easy to prove. In gauging the 
motivation of any organization to achieve an objective, one of the most 
important indicators is the resources it allots for to achieve 
it.Clearly, if the objective is considered important, more resources 
will be allotted, and vice-versa.Surrender syndrome Israel’s public 
diplomacy budget is ludicrously small.Indeed, as one government minister 
bemoaned: “It is dreadful to hear that Bamba (a snack produced by the Osem 
corporation), has a promotional budget two to three times the size of the total 
state budget for public diplomacy.”This frugality is not dictated by a 
lack of resources. Indeed, when Israel has desired to achieve an un-budgeted 
objective, money has rarely been an obstacle.For example, when billions 
of shekels were needed for the construction of the West Bank security barrier, 
that was no problem; when billions of dollars were needed for the Gaza 
disengagement, that was no problem either.Likewise, the tens of billions 
of dollars required for the planned “convergence” (i.e.withdrawal) from 
Judea and Samaria were not considered an insurmountable obstacle, even though it 
was clear the money would not be coming from the American taxpayer.In 
last week’s column, I pointed out that if a small fraction of 1 percent of GDP 
were devoted to public diplomacy, this would generate a budget of $1 billion – 
rather than the paltry sums provided today.So if the Israel leadership 
chooses not to allot available resources to assertively promote Israel’s case 
abroad, to resolutely defend its international image, to explain its operational 
constraints and security imperatives, to elucidate why certain measures are 
indispensable for the safety of its citizens, it must mean that – for one reason 
or another – it does not wish to. There is no other rational 
explanation.How can one account for this syndrome of submissive 
surrender? The key to the conundrum This is a conundrum that cannot be 
deciphered without a firm grasp of the sociological – rather than the political 
– topography of country in general, and of the priorities and preferences of 
powerful civil society elites in particular.Without this insight it is 
impossible to understand the dramatic and disturbing events that have taken 
place in Israel over the past two decades. Without it, it is impossible to 
understand: • Why a country that displays such technotactical brilliance is 
afflicted by such strategic imbecility; • Why hawkish candidates consistently 
win elections, but then immediately adopt the failed policy of their defeated 
dovish rivals; • Why the doctrine of political appeasement and territorial 
concessions is repeatedly and consistently disproven, but somehow never 
discredited – and certainly never discarded; • Why the Israeli political 
establishment has not embraced more appreciatively and mobilized more 
effectively the huge potential in the support of communities such as the 
Evangelical Christians across the world, and particularly in the US, as a 
strategic asset.None of these phenomena makes any sense unless one 
understands the decisive role that civil society elites have in setting the 
direction of the country’s strategic agenda – no matter who gets elected. As 
will become clear later, understanding this role is also the key to deciphering 
the riddle of Israel’s dismal public diplomacy performance.Detrimental, 
dysfunctional, disloyal Sadly, this is a role that is not only decisive, but 
also in many ways detrimental, dysfunctional and at times disloyal.If to 
some this uncharitable description appears excessively harsh, consider the 
following examples and decide for yourselves how to characterize the conduct of 
civil society elites in the media, the academia and the legal establishment, who 
(a) accuse Israel of being an “apartheid state” and support international 
boycott and sanctions against their own county, such as Prof. Neve Gordon of 
Ben-Gurion University, who declared: “Israel today is an apartheid state. I have 
decided to support the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions 
movement...launched by Palestinian activists.”(b) portray Israel 
as a bloodthirsty, intolerant nation bent on the persecution of minorities, such 
as Prof. Aeyal Gross of Tel Aviv University, who characterized Israel as “a 
society where shooting at children of the ‘other’ is the norm” and the Israeli 
public as “indifferent or worse to Israel’s widespread killing of Palestinian 
youth?” (c) condemn Israeli policies as being on a par with or worse than those 
of the apartheid regime in South Africa, such as the poet, writer and lecturer, 
Yitzhak Laor, who alleged that “Israel’s apartheid is worse... more ruthless 
than that seen in South Africa.... We have to get rid of Zionism. What lies 
behind Zionism are interests and a huge army hungering to justify its 
existence.”(d) condone – and indeed appear to endorse – Palestinian 
terrorism against Israeli civilians, such as Prof. Oren Yiftachel of Ben-Gurion 
University, who suggested that “Palestinian shelling from Gaza should be 
perceived as a prison uprising... suppressed with terror by the Israeli 
state.”(e) deny the legitimacy of Israel preventative measures to ensure 
the security of the country and the safety of its citizens, such as journalist 
Gideon Levy, who in an article titled “The neighborhood bully strikes again,” 
written at the outset of the retaliatory Operation Cast Lead, undertaken to 
quell the firing of thousands of rockets at civilian communities, decried 
“Israel’s violent responses [which] cross every red line of... morality, 
international law,” asserting, “What began yesterday in Gaza is a war crime,” 
and such as Prof. Fania Oz-Salzberger of the University of Haifa, who following 
the Gaza Flotilla episode, when Israeli commandos were forced to defend 
themselves against a mob endeavoring to disembowel them, endorsed the 
international censure of Israel in a hastily published article titled “Ashamed 
of My Country,” proclaiming that “the almost-unanimous condemnation is spot on. I 
am ashamed,” and elsewhere asserting that “the true-blue pirates were the 
uniformed Israeli commandos.”(f) ignore or obscure the fact that Israel 
policy towards the Palestinians is not driven by a discriminatory doctrine of 
racial superiority but by proven security concerns, such as columnist Akiva 
Eldar, who, in an article titled “Are Israel and apartheid South Africa really 
different?” dismissed the security realities, declaring: “As far as 
discriminatory practices are concerned, it’s hard to find differences between 
white rule in South Africa and Israeli rule,” or such as former attorney-general 
Michael Ben-Yair, who charged that Israel “enthusiastically chose to become a 
colonial society engaging in theft.... We established an apartheid 
regime.”THIS IS but a small sampling of the assault on Israeli 
legitimacy from within its own civil society elites. Many examples abound of 
similar distortions, misrepresentations and exaggerations, of similar 
half-truths, non-truths and full-blooded fabrications from many other 
“intellectuals,” whether self-professed radical post-Zionists, or 
self-proclaimed “liberal” pro-Zionists.The noxious nexus But more than a 
expression of the political predilections of those who articulate them, these 
derogatory attitudes towards Israel reflect a socio-cultural milieu, in which 
the personal and professional interests of its members impose a code of 
conformity to political correctness – irrespective of any divergence this may 
have from the facts. It is a code strictly enforced – not by any formal fiat, 
but by the consequences of any violation.No deviation beyond 
“acceptable” limits is brooked, and any such “delinquency” is likely to have 
grave repercussions in terms of livelihood, promotion and even social 
acceptability of the “perpetrator.”This brings us to the nexus between 
the role of Israeli civil society elites and government policy in general and 
public diplomacy in particular. This is a topic which I shall elaborate on in 
detail in next week’s column (Part II).In it, I will show how the 
combination of their unelected positions of power and privilege in the media, 
academia and legal establishment, on the one hand, and the nature of their 
personal and professional interests, on the other, confers on these elites both 
the ability and the motivation to determine the direction of the strategic 
agenda of the nation.Naturally, this is a direction that reflects the 
worldview of the socio-cultural milieu they belong to, and which they can impose 
on the government no matter who prevails at the polls. This neutralizes voter 
preferences in the governance of the nation and dangerously undercuts the 
underpinnings of the democratic system.This also impinges on the 
formulation and implementation of Israel’s public diplomacy.After all, 
the senior professionals charged with conducting the county’s public diplomacy 
are drawn from – and interface with – the elites discussed previously.In 
effect, this precludes them from adopting any strategy that would undermine 
their own worldview and dooms Israeli efforts to failure. But more on that next 
week.No conspiracy 
In closing, it is important to underscore that what 
is set out here is not a theory of a conscious conspiracy, contrived by some 
purposely malevolent elitist cabal. Rather, it is the elucidation of a mechanism 
comprising the accumulated consequences of individual decisions and actions 
driven by the short-term pursuit of prestige and profit of a group of empowered 
individuals, and which trump considerations of the long-term interest of the 
wider collective.It is essential to understand this 
mechanism.Otherwise, it will be impossible to “comprehend the 
incomprehensible,” to understand why “Israel has made itself defenseless,” why 
Israel has “vacated the battleground of the mind” and why Israeli hasbara is an 
ineffective joke.More important, without such an understanding it will 
be impossible to formulate any remedies.
www.martinsherman.net
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Cult of post-political responsibility</title>
<date>5/12/2012</date>
<content>
In a new film about the directors of Israel’s internal security service, the 
Shin Bet, called The Gatekeepers, Ya’akov Peri claims the actions he ordered his 
agency to carry out can make one become left-wing.“You knock on doors in 
the middle of the night, these moments end up etched deep inside you. When you 
retire, you become a bit of a leftist,” he says.




Isn’t it convenient how 
one can wait until retirement to develop a moral compass? Of course, Peri’s 
moral quibbles apparently don’t apply to the period when he was actually in 
charge. No, Peri’s “insight” is reserved for the benefit of those who came 
after, for the actions of Israel today.A fully mature adult takes 
responsibility for his actions. Not only that, but he learns from the results of 
his actions. When he makes mistakes, he attempts not to repeat them. One of the 
truly remarkable things about Israel is the degree to which the country was, for 
many years, run by a political elite who not only took no responsibility for 
their actions, but refused to learn from, or even admit, for that matter, their 
mistakes The defining characteristic of this group is its capacity for blaming 
others for all the country’s troubles, never mind that they themselves once held 
the wheel and are, to a very large extent, responsible for the very problems 
they now critique.In July 2011, for example, Shlomo Gazit wrote that “if 
we don’t separate from the Palestinian population on the ground, Jewish and 
democratic Israel will be unable to survive.” He bemoaned the Palestinians in 
the West Bank having to navigate a “legal system that enforces the law in a 
discriminatory way on the basis of national identity, [which] is actually 
maintaining an apartheid regime.”This would all be easier to take 
seriously were it not for the fact that Gazit himself played a central role in 
establishing the Israeli regime that now governs the West Bank. Foreign Affairs 
has noted that Gazit was “the coordinator of Israeli government operations in 
the Occupied Territories from 1967 to 1974, was on the ground in the early years 
of the occupation and has closely followed developments since.” Gazit prefers 
that the media focus on how, as a young boy, he joined the Hagana in 1942 and 
then went on to serve for 32 years in the IDF. Although he authored the book 
Trapped Fools: Thirty years of Israeli policy in the territories in 2003, in his 
opeds on the subject he rarely brings up his own role in being present at the 
creation of the very system he denounces.So Gazit, who as the man on the 
spot actually could have instituted a policy in the West Bank more in line with 
that which he now espouses, instead eschews responsibility. Yet he apparently 
wants to have his cake and eat it, too, fashionably fighting for Palestinian 
human rights conveniently long after he could have actually played a role in 
doing something about it as a government employee.Gazit doesn’t take 
responsibility in his 2011 op-ed and note that he personally made mistakes, 
rather he places the burden of responsibility on the current Israeli government. 
But where are the official reports, Mr. Gazit, in which you advised the 
government to leave the territories in 1974, to extend Israeli citizenship and 
law to the Palestinians? Instead the public is supposed to simply accept the 
Gazit analysis, and the Peri analysis, at face value; one bemoans the knocking 
on doors, one the apartheid system – and both were intimately involved in 
creating the very realities they now castigate. It is as if George W. Bush were 
to leave office and then write articles condemning the detention of terror 
suspects at Guantanamo and bemoan the “war on terror” without bothering to 
mention his own role or explain why, if he had moral qualms about it, he allowed 
such policies to continue so long.Another former government official who 
now bemoans the very policies she could have helped change is Shulamit Aloni. 
Like Mr. Gazit, she was a member of the pre-state Palmah and resides in 
one of Israel’s most posh communities, Kfar Shmaryahu. She served as Education 
Minister in 1993.In an interview with the Arab-Israeli newspaper Kul 
al-Arab in 2005 she claimed: “Israel is a racist state that commits war crimes 
and resorts to terrorism worse than that employed by the 
Palestinians.”She claimed that Israel committed “war crimes against 
humanity” and was “no different than racist South Africa.”Strong words 
for a former government minister – especially considering that as a minister she 
didn’t make her serving in the government contingent on getting Israel out of 
the apartheid system she claims it is in.She didn’t have any trouble 
serving under Yitzhak Rabin, the same prime minister who ordered the IDF to 
“break the bones” of Palestinian protestors. Was a little Palestinian 
bone-breaking acceptable so long as it was being done by one of her friends in 
the Labor Party? After all, when Rabin broke bones, is in pursuit of peace, so 
the narrative goes.In an article in The Independent, Avram Burg wrote 
that “the Israeli people’s eyes are blind, their ears are deaf and their leaders 
are flaccid and weak.” He claimed that Israelis the “last colonial occupier in 
the Western world” and that he had decided “not to buy any product that comes 
from the settlements.”Strong words. From a life-long activist against 
the “colonial occupier”? Not exactly.Burg is the scion of one of 
Israel’s elite families, raised in Jerusalem’s prestigious Rehavia neighborhood 
to Yosef Burg, a long-time Knesset member for the National Religious party. Burg 
was a member of the Knesset for the Labor party, chairman of the Jewish Agency, 
chairman of the World Zionist Organization and speaker of the Knesset through 
2003.During all those years, did he work tirelessly to extract Israel 
from the West Bank and Gaza? Did he encourage a boycott of the goods produced 
across the Green Line so the Jewish communities there would wither on the vine? 
When he was chairman of the Jewish Agency, did he advise immigrants that in his 
view it was immoral to move to Israel in order to settle in Judea and Samaria? 
No. Oddly, this vibrant righteous anger only sprang up after the institutional 
positions and the private car and chauffeur he enjoyed for 10 years courtesy of 
the Jewish Agency were things of the past.Alon Liel, former 
director-general of the Foreign Ministry, foreign affairs adviser to prime 
minister Ehud Barak and former ambassador to South Africa, came out in 2012 in 
The Guardian supporting international efforts to label items made in the West 
Bank, writing: “the settlements are not Israel, they are built on occupied 
land.”Liel not only played a role in crafting the recent “apartheid 
survey” that attempted to show that Israelis support apartheid, in Business Day 
he claimed “I buy Israeli products every day and do my best not to buy Israeli 
products from the occupied territories.I don’t see why you, living 
outside Israel, shouldn’t have the same choice.” In addition Times of Israel 
reported that he supports a cultural boycott of Israel.But if Liel 
believes that settlements “are a grave violation of international law” why 
didn’t he work actively while at the Foreign Ministry to make the government see 
that? Why didn’t he work to get the products produced there labeled “made in 
occupied Palestine”? “SHOOTING AND crying” is an oft-repeated Hebrew expression 
that supposedly describes the tendency of some Israeli soldiers to talk about 
the bad things they saw after completing their tours of duty. The soldiers are 
conscripted to carry out these duties and they often take responsibility for 
their role. But the phenomenon of Israeli politicians, officials and high 
ranking officers experiencing a “moral awakening” after their terms end and 
“coming out” against Israel’s policies goes beyond this syndrome.It 
primarily afflicts one particular generation of Israelis, all of whom hail from 
a similar economic and cultural milieu, such as the pre-state Palmach or the 
elite high schools of Jerusalem, that claim to have experienced these moral 
epiphanies. This group’s belief that one can run a secretive internal security 
service, such as the Shin Bet, and claim afterward to oppose the very actions of 
that service, that one can lay the groundwork for Israel’s institutional 
administration of the West Bank and then claim this policy is immoral, 
demonstrates a total failure to grasp the notion of personal responsibility. 
These Israelis were apparently not brought up with a clear notion of what 
responsibility actually means. Avram Burg wrote that the “Israeli people’s eyes 
are blind” – but he should have written “our eyes are blind” or “my eyes were 
blind.”But there was and is no individual recognition on the part of 
this group of mistakes made, no admission that the Burgs, Liels, Alonis, Rabins, 
Peris and Gazits of yesteryear all played integral roles in the creation of the 
state that exists today.This culture of post-political criticism and 
irresponsibility has bred a sanctimonious crescendo of righteous indignation, 
mainly bruited abroad in newspapers like The Guardian, the actual purpose of 
which is simply to coddle the egos of the former political elite, pampered while 
in office and now lauded for “speaking out.”If Robert McNamara, the US 
secretary of defense from 1961 to 1968 had come out against the Vietnam war 
after leaving office the press would have crucified him for not acting on his 
views while he had the power. By contrast, in Israel leaders are not held 
sufficiently accountable for their actions and people are not raised to hold 
themselves accountable. McNamara said towards the end of his life that he was 
“wrong, terribly wrong”; in Israel it would have been “others were wrong, 
terribly wrong.”
Israel needs its leaders to understand responsibility 
and make consistent moral judgements. The the press needs to start asking these 
administrators turned critics some hard questions.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Debate over Citizenship Law muddied by inaccuracies</title>
<date>22/1/2012</date>
<content>
The Israeli High Court of Justice’s decision to uphold the Citizenship and Entry 
Law elicited a range of inaccurate and hyperbolic statements from a number of 
politicized non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Under this law, which was 
first adopted in 2003, Israel is not required to automatically grant citizenship 
to individuals from the West Bank, Gaza, Syria, Lebanon, Iran and Iraq who are 
married to Israelis. But, as previously seen during the debate surrounding the 
“anti-boycott” law of 2011, which many of the same NGOs denounced as preventing 
free speech by criminalizing boycott calls (it did not – it created a civil 
tort), the false NGO narrative of racism and paranoia in Israel is impervious to 
the facts.In both cases, the network of European- funded NGOs that claim 
a human rights mandate was quick to condemn the law and the carefully argued 
court decision as “racist.” Badil, for example, headlined its press release with 
the statement, “Israel’s High Court exposes Israeli apartheid regime.” Some 
media outlets also gave their reports a spin by claiming that the High Court 
upheld “a law which bans thousands of Palestinians who are married to Israelis 
from living in Israel.”




While this rhetoric parallels the image of Israel 
portrayed by political advocacy NGOs, it does not reflect reality. And while 
reasonable people can disagree about this law, a constructive debate should be 
based on facts.The law, first enacted after a series of mass terror 
attacks perpetrated by Palestinians who had gained entry to Israel for “family 
unification” purposes, allows for a case-by-case examination of whether a family 
member who resides in Gaza or the West Bank can live in Israel as a temporary 
resident or receive citizenship. The law was amended in 2005, restricting 
applicants to women over 25 and men over 35. Children under the age of 14 could 
also apply. In 2007, the law was expanded to include restrictions for citizens 
of Iran, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon. Even with these parameters, over the 
past two decades an estimated 130,000 Palestinians entered Israel under family 
unification arrangements.The tired, all-too-common NGO rallying cry that 
such restrictions are unique to Israel is false. Israel’s law in this regard is 
very similar to regulations in other democratic countries, including in Europe. 
For instance, The Jerusalem Post noted on January 12, among other examples, that 
“the Netherlands bans family migration of people who do not speak Dutch or who 
do not accept Dutch culture.”Most countries do not grant automatic 
citizenship or even residency rights to non-nationals as a result of marriage to 
a citizen. A European Council Directive in 2003 on the right to family 
reunification tackled similar concerns. The EU placed restrictions and refused 
the right when the spouse or child “constitute[s] a threat to public policy or 
public security... In this context it has to be noted that the notion of 
public policy and public security covers also cases in which a third country 
national belongs to an association which supports terrorism, supports such an 
association or has extremist aspirations.”BUT FOR this group of 
political advocacy NGOs to acknowledge this reality would be to admit that 
Israel is actually similar to other democratic states, an admission that would 
counter their campaigns to portray the Jewish nation-state as anti-democratic. 
The NGO agenda to demonize and politically isolate Israel is based in part on 
the need to portray proposed legislation – even if it is not heard on the 
Knesset floor – as racist or stifling debate whenever possible. Acting as 
if such legislation is unprecedented or somehow is “apartheid” in nature serves 
the interests of these NGOs.With regard to the Citizenship Law, the 
majority of the High Court carefully sought to balance the ideals of an open 
society with the very real security needs of its citizenry. For this reason too, 
the law can change if the need for security declines. For a country in a state 
of war, striking this balance is an even greater challenge than those presented 
to the courts of the US or Europe. The High Court of Israel – known for its 
activism, liberalism and willingness to make decisions that anger the security 
establishment – rendered its decision fully aware of this reality.The 
decision, therefore, cannot be dismissed as a product of political influence, as 
the NGOs are wont to do. Ironically, the Association for Civil Rights in 
Israel (ACRI), which routinely argues for the independence of the judiciary and 
accuses right-wing politicians of delegitimizing the Court, is now itself 
delegitimizing the judiciary with claims that “[i]t is a dark day for the 
protection of human rights and for the Israeli High Court of Justice” and that 
the court acted in a “disgraceful” manner.But, in addition to these 
overt arguments, the NGO narrative regarding the Citizenship Law includes 
undertones of discomfort with the existence of Israel as a Jewish state, as 
embodied in a Law of Return that ensures automatic citizenship for any Jew that 
chooses to live in Israel. Although other democratic countries, such as Ireland, 
have similar laws, within the Israeli context this is presented by NGOs as 
discriminatory.
Israel’s democratic process resulted in a Citizenship Law 
that balances family unity and security. A debate about these complex matters 
should certainly occur – based on facts, the actual law and the realities of the 
challenges Israel faces.

The writer is communications director of NGO 
Monitor, a Jerusalem-based research institution dedicated to promoting universal 
human rights and to encouraging civil discussion on the reports and activities 
of nongovernmental organizations, particularly in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editor's Notes: Fighting for Zionism</title>
<date>9/2/2012</date>
<content>
As we stride into 2012, there are far more questions than answers on the news 
that this year might yield.Will the international community stop Iran’s 
nuclear program? Last year’s Arab Spring may have unleashed a new democratic 
spirit in the Middle East, but how will we deal with the primary beneficiaries – 
Islamist parties? How should the Jewish state respond to the threats posed on 
its northern and southern fronts by Hezbollah and Hamas? Can it make peace with 
the Palestinians in the wake of the rapprochement between Fatah and Hamas? 




How 
will the US elections affect Israel? Are we headed for another recession, or is 
our economy resilient enough to bounce back? Why is anti- Semitism again rearing 
its ugly head across the globe, and how should the Israeli government, Diaspora 
Jews and our many friends everywhere respond to our enemies’ attempts to 
delegitimize and demonize Israel? We believe it’s time to fight back – with the 
powerful weapon of words – and explain to the world why Zionism is still a just 
cause, that our democratic state is the antithesis of apartheid, and how our 
stellar “Start-Up Nation” should be shining brightly as “a light unto the 
nations.”These are just some of the hot topics to be addressed at The 
Jerusalem Post’s first annual conference in New York on April 29.We have 
assembled a line-up of prominent personalities and politicians from Israel and 
the US, as well as top Jerusalem Post journalists to discuss the enormous 
challenges facing Israel and the Jewish people.The day-long event will 
provide our readers in the New York area with a unique opportunity to hear 
directly from our most erudite news-makers and shakers, writers and 
commentators.Among the most eloquent advocates for Israel scheduled to 
speak are former prime minister Ehud Olmert, American Jewish leaders Malcolm 
Hoenlein and Abraham Foxman, Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz, Deputy 
Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon, Ambassadors Michael Oren and Ron Prosor, MK Danny 
Danon, former Mossad director Meir Dagan and former IDF chief Gabi 
Ashkenazi.As The Jerusalem Post – the Jewish world’s flagship newspaper 
– marks its 80th birthday, the conference will also serve as a forum to meet 
some of our own shining lights: senior editors and reporters David Brinn, Herb 
Keinon, Yaakov Katz and Gil Hoffman, and columnists Caroline B. Glick, Isi 
Leibler and Naomi Ragen.Danny Ayalon has already given us a tantalizing 
taste of what he plans to talk about at the conference.“Our enemies have 
failed to defeat us on the conventional battlefield, through economic boycotts 
and the scourge of terrorism,” he told the Post. “The assault on Israel’s 
legitimacy is a concern because for the first time the Jewish Diaspora is on the 
front lines in a battle against those who attack Israel incessantly, mercilessly 
and unfairly.“The Jewish people, wherever they may live, have an equal 
share in Israel and its future. While those of us living in Israel have a 
responsibility to build the land and defend it physically, our brothers and 
sisters in the Diaspora have a responsibility to help us attain our achievements 
and assist Israel’s defense on the battleground of ideas.”Malcolm 
Hoenlein, the executive vice chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major 
American Jewish Organizations, in a meeting with editors in our Jerusalem office 
this week, called for “a global front” against a nuclear Iran.“The 
ultimate threat has to be a credible one for this to work. I think the United 
States and Israel do want to work together on this,” he said. “We have different 
interests sometimes. Even the closest of allies can have different 
interests, but we can’t let that be displayed publicly, and I think that what we 
have to do is to show a global united front.... Most of the Arab 
countries today fear Iran more than anything.”Hoenlein said the 
Jerusalem Post Conference is being held at “an opportune time, given the 
political climate in America, and the many issues that we as a community are 
addressing, both in the United States and Israel.”He welcomed the 
quality of those “on the front line of these issues who have been invited to 
explore them and prepare for the challenges ahead.”“I think The 
Jerusalem Post is to be congratulated on this initiative, and I hope people will 
take advantage of this unique opportunity,” Hoenlein said.We urge our 
readers to purchase tickets for this very special event as soon as possible on 
our website (www.jpost.com) or by phone.
In the US, you can call 1- 
888-576-7881 toll free, while in Israel, call *2423. We look forward to seeing 
you there!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Is my Zionist dream dead?</title>
<date>2/7/2012</date>
<content>
I am really quite concerned. I see a great disaster about to unfold. I simply 
cannot understand why people are not shouting “don’t let this happen!” Where is 
the prime minister? Where are all of the Zionist leaders? Where is the world 
Jewish community? The option of peace with our neighbors will soon no longer be 
a possibility. How much longer will we be able to speak about two states for two 
peoples? There obviously is no partner for this solution on the Israeli side; 
soon there will be no partner for it on the Palestinian side. The real advocates 
of this solution in Israel are already a tiny minority. Soon even they 
will disappear. I just don’t understand what comes next. I am not trying to be 
provocative, I really don’t understand.




What do we do when partition is 
no longer possible? How will we deal with the Palestinians who live under our 
control but no longer wish to live under the lie that they will have a state of 
their own? More and more Palestinians are waking up to the lie and are saying, 
“I don’t want to lie to myself anymore and I don’t want my leaders to lie to me. 
I don’t want the world to lie to me.”Let’s be honest for a change. There 
is no chance that the government of Israel will ever relinquish control over the 
West Bank, Gaza and east Jerusalem. They have built such elaborate systems of 
control, how will it ever be undone? The State of Palestine will never exist if 
it is up to Israel to decide.If they perceive having UNESCO designate 
the Church of Nativity in Bethlehem as an International Heritage site under the 
designation Palestine as a threat to Israel, then what chance is there that 
there will ever be a State of Palestine? Zero. What do they think, that 
Bethlehem is not in Palestine? Is it part of the State of Israel? If they feel 
threatened by this, then they think it must be.Let’s face it: No 
government of Israel has ever decided to support a two-state solution. It 
was part of a nice, well-received speech of the prime minister at a right-wing 
religious university. It served its purpose, to dispel the fears of the world 
for a while, but how long can the speech’s effect last? The two-state solution 
is not the official policy of the State of Israel. It has never been decided on 
by any government. There has never been a proposed law in the Knesset to 
support the two-state solution. The policies of the government certainly 
don’t support it. It is no more than a speech, empty words on paper with 
absolutely no value anymore. Who believes Binyamin Netanyahu was serious? Even 
his late father said on the day after the speech that “he didn’t mean 
it.”I have really dreamed my whole life about living here in Israel, the 
nation state of the Jewish people, which is democratic and ensures full equality 
for all of its citizens. This dream state can only exist when it is not 
in conflict with all of its neighbors. There can be no equality in an 
Israel which is in conflict with the Palestinians. One million Palestinian 
citizens of Israel cannot be equal when they are always subject to be questioned 
about their loyalty. Of course they will be loyal to their own people when their 
own state is fighting against them, denying them basic rights and refusing to 
grant equal citizenship to those who were born as citizens.ISRAEL CANNOT 
live in peace with its Palestinian neighbors as an occupier. It can only live in 
peace with them if Israel grants them their freedom from Israel’s control or 
when Israel makes them full citizens of the country. Those are the only 
two options I can see.Maybe expulsion? “Jordan is Palestine”? I have 
heard that from people on the Right – including a lot of talkbackers to my 
articles. They say, “those who want to have a Palestinian identity, let 
them go to Jordan.” Well, what about those who refuse to leave their 
land, their homes and heritage? What if they also refuse to live under continued 
Israeli subjugation? What if millions of Palestinians say ok, no Palestinian 
state, fine, but we will not leave, we will stay and we will fight for equal 
rights. And we will fight with any weapon we have. You have experienced that 
before. Sure, we will pay a heavy price, but what choice do you give us. 
Now tell the world that Israel is not a new form of apartheid.Really, 
someone help me here. I am really trying to understand.Mr. Prime 
Minister, what do you think? What do you want to do? I have always thought that 
the two-state solution is the best expression of a realistic Zionist dream and 
vision. Practical Zionism. Pragmatic Zionism.I have not been ashamed to 
be a Zionist. I have believed in the Zionist vision. The book The Zionist Idea 
was practically my Bible when I was young. I still have it; its pages thin from 
being read so many times. But really, what is the Zionist vision now? Where is 
the Zionist dream taking us? Is it Beit HaUlpana in Beit El? Is taking private 
Palestinian land and converting it into Jewish land the Zionist ideal? Is that 
what it is all about? If it is, then why lie about it? Let’s just do it and get 
it over with.Tell the Palestinians they have no rights. Eretz 
Yisrael l’am Yisrael – the Land of Israel for the People of Israel. Is that it, 
Mr. Netanyahu? Please tell me. I want to know where I stand.I 
want to understand if there’s a place left for me in this country. I want to 
know if my Zionist dream has any validity any more. Is there a place in the 
State of Israel for a Jew, a Zionist who believes that Zionism means living in 
peace with our neighbors so that we can devote our energies to making this 
country the exemplary place that it could be? Is there any chance that you, Mr. 
Prime Minister, will ever have any real intention of implementing a two-state 
solution? Or are you just lying to us?
The writer is the co-chairman of IPCRI, 
the Israel Palestine Center for Research and Information, a columnist for The 
Jerusalem Post, a radio host on All for Peace Radio and the initiator and 
negotiator of the secret back channel for the release of Gilad Schalit.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: On Apartheid</title>
<date>6/8/2012</date>
<content>
Spending days with the Jewish community of South Africa at Limmud is a unique 
opportunity to meet another dynamic, engaged Jewish community in the Diaspora. 
My lectures here have focused on political issues concerning Israel and the 
region, Israeli-Palestinian peace and conflict and the story of the secret back 
channel for the Schalit negotiations.Throughout my time here, both in 
the Jewish community, and in media interviews with the non-Jewish South African 
press, I have been repeatedly asked my opinion on whether or not Israel is an 
apartheid state or if it is heading towards being an apartheid 
status.




Many of the Jews here were actively involved in the anti-apartheid 
movement in the past. I too grew up boycotting South Africa until 1994. I 
remember attending the first party at the home of the South African ambassador 
in Herzliya in 1994 for the inauguration of Nelson Mandela. After holding 
parties for years on South Africa Independence Day without participants, in 1994 
there were over 1,000 people there, including prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, 
foreign minister Shimon Peres, and president Ezer Weitzman.It was very 
emotional to see the Afrikaner ambassador stand tall (he was a big man anyway) 
with his fist in the air singing the new South African national anthem and 
watching President Nelson Mandela being sworn in. There was a sense in the air 
that the impossible was possible – and even we in Israel could, would someday 
enjoy peace.MY ANSWERS to the questions about Israeli apartheid were 
that inside of Israel proper, within the borders of the “green line,” the one 
million Palestinian citizens of Israel (20 percent of our population), in 
principle enjoy equal rights, citizenship, participation, the right to vote and 
be elected. This is not apartheid.I said that there is discrimination 
against them, some of it societal and some of it political and structural. In my 
mind there is no excuse whatsoever after 65 years of independence for the 
continued existence of discrimination against the Palestinian citizens of 
Israel. This should not even be part of our discourse.The State of 
Israel must eliminate all forms of discrimination and ensure full and absolute 
equal rights and opportunities for all of its citizens. Our discourse regarding 
the Palestinian citizens of Israel should be focused on the challenge of how to 
create a greater sense of shared citizenship in our state.Naturally the 
continuation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict makes it more difficult, but we 
must rise to this challenge. I believe that this will also require us to 
come to terms with Israel as the nation state of the Jewish people and all of 
its citizens. This will require us to define collective rights of a national 
minority in our state.Thinking is terms of a possible Jewish national 
minority in a Palestinian state in the future may assist us in defining what 
this means, when we would also consider what could be the collective national 
rights of the Jewish minority in Palestine, as well. My answer did not 
satisfy them.WHAT ABOUT the West Bank – isn’t there apartheid there? It 
was difficult for me to say no. There are two populations living there, each 
under a different legal status – one with political rights, and one without 
them.One group lives in modern planned communities with infrastructure 
matching the wealth of Israel, and the other lives with backwards underdeveloped 
basic needs.One group lives under civil law, the other under military 
law. One group has total freedom of movement, the other cannot move without 
permits and permissions. One lives under an economic system with a GDP per 
capita of almost $30,000 the other under $2,000.How is this any 
different than a form of apartheid, ethnic/ national/religious separation rather 
than racial separation? Yes, we rule the West Bank as a form of 
apartheid.Our stated policy is that we hope that there will be a 
Palestinian state and that the Palestinians will live in their own country and 
not under our control. But after 45 years of our control, no one is fooled by 
the idea that this is not an apartheid system because the majority of 
Palestinians live under the rule of their own Palestinian Authority. The PA is 
not a free sovereign party. It is under the direct control of 
Israel.Even the Palestinian president and prime minister requires a 
travel and movement permit from Israel. Israel controls their borders, their 
economy, their land and population registry. The PA is basically equivalent in 
its power to a municipal government in Israel, not much more than 
that.How then is this not a form of modernized apartheid? It is very 
poignant to think this and to hear this in South Africa. For some in the 
audience, especially the young people, the next question is, “So why not adopt 
the South Africa solution? Why not just grant everyone citizenship and allow 
them to vote?” The answer is because both we, the Jewish people, and the 
Palestinian people, want a state of their own. We both want a territorial 
expression of our national identity and we will not be prepared to be ruled over 
by the other side.Therefore, there is no one-democratic-state solution 
to this conflict. There is no avoiding this conclusion if our Jewish senses and 
values effect our decision making and policies.How can we Jews, with our 
history and heritage, allow ourselves to be the 21st century perpetuators of a 
modern form of apartheid? We were strangers in Egypt and now we are free. This 
is for me the central thread of our identity and the most important lesson of 
Judaism to humanity.THERE ARE challenges, dangers and risks involved in 
making peace with the Palestinians, no doubt.We know what they are and 
we have the intelligence to mitigate them and to come up with solutions to the 
problems.The challenges, dangers and risks of the continuation of the 
status quo are far more detrimental to our state and our identity.
We 
must rise to impetrative of our Jewish values and experience and relieve 
ourselves of our apartheid status. We must be a free people in our land and in 
order to do that the Palestinians must also be a free people in their 
land.The writer is the co-chairman of IPCRI, the Israel Palestine Center 
for Research and Information, a columnist for The Jerusalem Post, a radio host 
on All for Peace Radio and the initiator and negotiator of the secret back 
channel for the release of Gilad Shalit.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Exploiting apartheid for political warfare</title>
<date>4/3/2012</date>
<content>
In September 2001, the participants in the NGO Forum of the UN Conference on 
Racism and Discrimination in Durban, South Africa, welcomed Yasser Arafat, 
distributed anti-Semitic literature and adopted a declaration branding Israel as 
“a racist, apartheid state” practicing “a crime against humanity.” This form of 
political warfare was led by the Palestinian leadership and the Organization of 
the Islamic Conference, and the text was written at the Tehran preparatory 
conference, from which Israelis and Jews were excluded.The Durban NGO 
Forum marked the launch of another major round of political warfare against 
Israel, seeking to delegitimize Jewish national self-determination. The 
use of the “apartheid” libel as the primary vehicle for delegitimization is not 
directed against specific Israeli policies. The rhetoric and the campaigns on 
university campuses and in events such as “Israel Apartheid Week” explicitly 
target the existence of Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish people. The 
political warfare accompanied by BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) 
campaigns, is a direct continuation of the Arab rejection of the November 1947 
UN Partition plan (UNGA 181). This strategy was also embodied in the infamous 
1975 UN “Zionism is racism” resolution (UNGA 3379, repealed in 1991).




In 
the words of Prof. Irwin Cotler, former Canadian attorney-general, “Let there be 
no mistake about it: to indict Israel as an Apartheid State is prologue and 
justification for the dismantling of the Jewish State, for the criminalization 
of its supporters, and for the consequential silencing of their 
speech.”This campaign immorally exploits the suffering of the real 
victims of apartheid and racism, and transforms a political dispute into a 
racial conflict. The comparison was categorically rejected and denounced 
by Judge Richard Goldstone in The New York Times. Goldstone, who is a former 
justice of the South African Constitutional Court, wrote that, “In Israel, there 
is no apartheid. Nothing there comes close to the definition of apartheid under 
the 1998 Rome Statute....” Goldstone added that “while ‘apartheid’ can have 
broader meaning, its use is meant to evoke the situation in pre-1994 South 
Africa. It is an unfair and inaccurate slander against Israel, calculated to 
retard rather than advance peace negotiations.”Many others who had 
experienced real apartheid expressed similar views. Benjamin Pogrund, who was a 
journalist in South Africa, wrote, “Use of the apartheid label is at best 
ignorant and naïve and at worst cynical and manipulative.” This cynicism 
is illustrated by the immunity given to the highly discriminatory regimes that 
ruled many of the Arab and self-defined Islamic states for decades, but were not 
subject to serious investigation or criticism in the United Nations or by groups 
claiming a human rights agenda. In countries where women and religious, ethnic 
and other minorities are systematically denied equal rights, terms such as 
“apartheid” are never used. This language is also not applied to Egypt, despite 
often violent friction involving the Coptic minority; or to Turkey, which 
deprives it Kurdish citizens of equal rights.The reality is that 
Israel’s Arab citizens (Muslim, Druse and Christian, of different denominations) 
own property, have full voting rights, are proportionately represented in the 
Knesset and are appointed to the High Court of Justice. Arab and Jewish patients 
receive identical treatment, are entitled to the same welfare and pension 
benefits, and other state-provided services. While there is room for improvement 
in the distribution of income and other areas, as is true everywhere, the 
differences in Israel are not simply due to ethno-religious 
distinctions.In the face of these blatant double standards, the power of 
the “apartheid” campaign is derived from the resources that are available, in 
both political and financial forms. Politically, as noted, this divisive agenda 
is supported by the Arab and Islamic blocs in the United Nations and associated 
institutions, providing numerous platforms, as well as access to 
media.Financially, the availability of significant European government 
funding for ostensible human rights organizations that actively promote the 
“apartheid” libel is a major factor, including Adalah, Badil, Al Haq, and Al 
Mezan. Similarly, Electronic Intifada, which is indirectly funded through Dutch 
government humanitarian aid, and plays a central role in this political warfare, 
as do various Palestinian solidarity committees whose funding sources are 
entirely hidden.
Finally, the crude exploitation of the “apartheid” libel 
and accompanying BDS campaigns are the antithesis of the mutual acceptance 
required for peace. Many Israelis see this form of demonization as the polar 
opposite of acceptance of a “two-state solution,” which would acknowledge the 
legitimacy of Israel as the homeland of the Jewish nation. As Judge Goldstone 
wrote, “The mutual recognition and protection of the human dignity of all people 
is indispensable to bringing an end to hatred and anger. The charge that Israel 
is an apartheid state is a false and malicious one that precludes, rather than 
promotes, peace and harmony.”The writer is the founder and president of 
NGO Monitor and professor of political science at Bar Ilan 
University.This article originally appeared in the February 23, 2012, 
issue of Bitterlemons-International.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 23: Those prices!</title>
<date>22/2/2012</date>
<content>
Those prices! Sir, – Thank you for directing your February 21 editorial 
(“Consumer power”) at the price gouging and greedy ways of the Strauss company, 
which manufactures the Pesek Zman candy bar.




The editorial focused on the 
drop in price of Strauss shares, but more can be done.I do not know what 
the shelf life of Pesek Zman is, but let us stop buying them so that more will 
have to be thrown out. I do not know where Pesek Zman is made, but let us find 
out and picket the company.Let us have friends who come from the US buy 
as many of these candy bars as they can, and then let us stand in front of 
supermarkets and candy stores and hand them out with a little slip saying “Do 
not buy Pesek Zman – Strauss is making a fool of you and pilfering your 
money.”And then the piece-de-resistance: Let us go to the President’s 
Residence and the Prime Minister’s Residence, open up hundreds of Pesek Zman 
candy bars and grind them into the pavement.It is now or 
never.DAVID GEFFEN Jerusalem Sir, – “New March 1 boycott threatened 
against Strauss” (Business & Finance, February 20) reminded me how 
short-lived the offers last summer of “two for NIS 10” on many dairy products 
were. The offers very quickly reverted to the original price – and even more – 
once the boycott ended! And now, with Pessah rapidly approaching, I would like 
to know why I have to pay NIS 25 for a box of Israeli-made Aviv matza when I can 
buy the same product in virtually any British supermarket for a mere fraction of 
the price. Perhaps someone could enlighten me! ANGELA GREEN Herzliya Pituah 
Aiming at Shmuley Sir, – Regarding “Will ‘Kosher Jesus’ affect my children’s 
shidduchim (marriages)?” (No Holds Barred, February 21), I completely agree that 
concentration on yichus (family background or pedigree) and other extraneous 
items is destructive when it comes to marriage. I feel certain that Shmuley 
Boteach’s children will be blessed with marriages that will bring him nachas 
(prideful joy), and thus I do not have concern for their shidduchim.What 
I do have concern for are the impressionable, unlearned and sometimes naïve 
young Jewish people who will be influenced by Kosher Jesus.No matter the 
intent, it can easily leave the impression that after all is said and done, all 
human beings have somewhat similar beliefs, opening the door for those who seek 
to justify intermarriage, which is causing havoc to Jewish 
survival.Rabbi Yisroel Salanter said: “Not everything thought should be 
said, not everything said should be written, and not everything written should 
be read.” With all due respect, I believe Kosher Jesus is just such a 
book.MOSHE STERN Beit Shemesh The writer is a rabbi Sir, – I hope The 
Jerusalem Post receives sufficient remuneration from Shmuley Boteach for 
publishing his self-aggrandizing columns without printing “Advertisement” above 
them.Come now, your readers deserve better than his continual 
drivel.IRA GRINBERG Rehovot Sir, – What’s all the fuss about whether 
Shmuley Boteach is qualified to be chief rabbi? Of course he is. He looks 
rabbinical.He writes religious columns for The Jerusalem Post. He 
lectures.He writes scholarly books like Kosher Sex and Kosher 
Jesus.There’s no question Boteach would make a great chief 
rabbi.Of Los Angeles. In LA he would be embraced by other famous 
personalities – Madonna, Lady Gaga, who knows? Also, he can continue writing his 
scholarly books without having to endure any more ridiculous criticism. The 
possibilities are unlimited! Yo, Shmuley, you da man! BRUCE CLEMENT Federal Way, 
Washington ‘Apartheid’ Israel Sir, – Combatting the insidious vitriol directed 
toward Israel on university campuses in the Diaspora is an arduous task 
(“Fighting the apartheid libel,” Editorial, February 20).As a university 
student I have encountered only a small taste of the hatred that is so often 
leveled at Israel on campus.Perhaps I am one of the lucky 
ones.Here, the Australian Union of Jewish Students (AUJS) does a 
remarkably good job stifling some of the anti-Israel sentiment on our campuses. 
This is often done by educating fellow students about the inaccuracies and 
fallacies of the hardcore Left’s argument. In a sense, that’s all that can be 
done.Israel bashing is in vogue.Proving that Israel is not a 
demonic superpower responsible for all the world’s woes is seemingly an uphill 
battle.JOEL FEREN Melbourne, Australia Sir, – I was born and brought up 
in South Africa and as a young student became involved in a university group 
fighting against apartheid. We all managed to flee the country before being 
taken to trial. I came to Israel 60 years ago.All the claims that Israel 
is an apartheid state stem from ignorance.This is what the real 
apartheid looked like in South Africa: People of color (non-whites, or POC) were 
not allowed to study in whites-only schools, enter city parks or sit on city 
benches. In every bank and post office there were separate lines for POC. POC 
were not allowed to travel on whitesonly trains and buses, and were not allowed 
in whites-only cinemas, restaurants, concert halls and churches. They were not 
allowed to live in whites-only suburbs, so they lived in shanty towns on the 
outskirts of town.There were separate hospitals for POC. White doctors 
could work at POC hospitals to gain experience, as these facilities were filled 
to capacity, but black doctors were not allowed to work at whites-only 
hospitals.The government established homelands for the various tribes. 
These homelands were at least a six-hour train journey away, so these people 
made it home once or twice a year.Every POC had to carry a pass 
permitting him or her to be in a specific urban area. If these people ran afoul 
of this law they would be arrested on the spot and jailed for up to three months 
without being charged.May I recommend that all those participating in 
Israel Apartheid Week do their research thoroughly before they start spreading 
lies. Let them drop the word apartheid, as they have no idea what it means. I 
can assure them that the word is not applicable to Israel. There is no 
similarity whatsoever! YVONNE NARUNSKY Kfar Shmaryahu Sir, – I agree with your 
editorial, which advocates a proactive policy against those using the word 
apartheid to describe Israel. I strongly disagree, however, with the statement 
from The David Project “White Paper” that we should realize “the futility of 
reaching out to [university] students and faculty in the humanities and social 
science departments.”According to the National Center for Education 
Statistics (NCES), business is the most popular college major among 
undergraduates. Second in terms of popularity are degrees in the social sciences 
and history.Humanities and social sciences are clearly very popular with 
all students and especially those who are Jewish. To give up on this large 
segment seems to me to be foolish and extremely short-sighted.
STEVE 
KRAMER Alfei Menashe
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Goodbye to 'The New Yorker'</title>
<date>30/4/2012</date>
<content>
As an avid reader and subscriber to the iconic New Yorker magazine for over 50 
years, I am sad to be allowing my subscription to expire. But I am. Here’s 
why.Since its founding in 1925, The New Yorker has been a cultural, 
literary landmark, not a partisan political screed. However, under the 
editorship of David Remnick (1998-present), politics has come to the fore. In 
fact, the first thing one sees on opening the magazine is the famed “Talk of the 
Town” section. Previously, one could settle in for a delightful, quirky take on 
some random subject by literary giants such as Joseph Mitchell, 
E.B. White, Ian Frazier, John McPhee and Lillian Ross.




Today, one 
is greeted by the harsh, uncivil rants of the likes of Hendrick Hertzberg 
(according to Harvard Magazine, Hertzberg, a former New Republic editor and 
Jimmy Carter speech writer, is the “urbane voice of liberalism”).A 
typical Hertzberg “Talk” piece from June 6, 2011, referred to Prime Minister 
Binyamin Netanyahu as “Netanyahoo” and called him a “mendacious 
mouse.”At other times, one runs into one Elizabeth Kolbert (former New 
York Times Albany bureau chief), whose latest “Talk” column on April 2 begins 
with “Mitt Romney, who, it now seems, is going to become the Republican nominee 
whether anybody likes it or not....”It is not so much the substance of 
these pieces that offends. It’s the highly predictable, and not particularly 
insightful, nature of these comments that makes one question why one is spending 
precious time reading these shallow missives. If one wants to subscribe to a 
ideologically correct partisan political magazine, there are always the New 
Republic, The Nation, or The Weekly Standard, among others, to choose 
from.Meanwhile, as Remnick makes more room for his brand of politics, he 
is less liberal in his allowance for other, more traditional New Yorker cultural 
fare, such as architecture. Paul Goldberger, the renowned architecture critic of 
The New Yorker for the past 15 years, recently decamped for Vanity Fair, in part 
because it was getting increasingly difficult to get his ground-breaking 
reporting into the Magazine (says Goldberger: “David has... mixed feelings about 
the architecture column”).Also, under Remnick’s reign, The New Yorker, 
and particularly Remnick himself, repeatedly and obsessively focuses on what 
Remnick perceives to be the failings of the State of Israel, as he did once 
again in a recent Talk of the Town “Comment” in the March 12 issue (now posted 
prominently on the website of “Intifada – The Voice of Palestine”).In 
this latest diatribe, Remnick crosses the line of rationality, putting Israel in 
the same category of countries “embroiled in a crisis of democratic becoming” as 
Egypt and Syria, decrying “emboldened fundamentalists” (in Israel) who “flaunt 
an increasingly aggressive medievalism,” and speaking of a “descent into 
apartheid, xenophobia, and isolation.”Why Remnick chooses singularly to 
obsess about the Israel-Palestinian conflict (with an unabashedly anti- Israel 
bias), while rarely, if ever, commenting on other conflicts where millions of 
people also were displaced in war (in Kashmir or Armenia, for example), remains 
a mystery. In his March 12 piece, Remnick chooses to highlight a recent incident 
where an Orthodox rabbi reportedly spat upon a young schoolgirl because he 
considered her attire to be “insufficiently demure.”Of course, this is 
not acceptable behavior.But why does Remnick devote valuable New Yorker 
real estate to such trivial matters, while ignoring much more grievous 
violations of human rights elsewhere (the death penalty for gays in Saudi Arabia 
and Yemen and other Arab countries, the complete subjugation of women under 
Islamic law, including routine violence against women)? One can only surmise 
that Remnick is working out his own conflicted identity issues (Remnick was born 
of Jewish parents in Hackensack, New Jersey) on the company dime.While 
these issues with The New Yorker might be neatly categorized and dismissed as 
those of a certain demographic the magazine is no longer interested in, it will 
be harder to dismiss this final objection. Under Remnick’s reign, the always 
interesting New Yorker has become, well, just boring. Although Tina Brown was 
often rightly criticized during her tenure as editor of The New Yorker, at 
least, during her time, the magazine had “buzz” and was “must” reading because 
the articles would be the subject of “water cooler” conversations the day after 
each issue appeared.These days, subscribers’ weekly issues pile up on 
their bedside tables for months at a time, until they get around to leafing 
through an issue for the occasional interesting piece and glancing at the 
cartoons. Recent issues have featured such odd and dated pieces as “Albert 
Camus’s battles,” “The Return of Van Halen,” “The Food Renaissance in Baja,” 
“The Rise of the post 9/11 Canine unit,” and “Dentists without 
Borders.”Not exactly compelling reading.
Remnick receives over 
one million dollars in salary per year (plus a limousine and driver), in spite 
of the fact that his only previous editorial experience was at his high-school 
newspaper. It was at least understandable why Si Newhouse (chairman of Conde 
Nast, which publishes The New Yorker) once thought it worthwhile to pay the big 
bucks and subsidize a money-losing concern such as the New Yorker for its 
“prestige” value. But why does he continue to support it when it has become a 
tired, political rag for the anti- Israel crowd? Perhaps Newhouse has his 
reasons for doing so. I do not.The writer is an attorney and writer in 
Washington, DC.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Groups that demonize Israel put themselves outside the tent</title>
<date>21/2/2012</date>
<content>
UC Berkeley’s Jewish Student Union’s decision to deny membership to J StreetU 
created controversy. Opponents of the decision claim that J Street is 
pro- Israel, no Jewish group should be excluded, and that any exclusion is 
undemocratic and alienates students.Yet those who oppose J Street’s 
inclusion have good cause for concern. Consider some of the groups and speakers 
that J Street has brought to US campuses:




• “Breaking the Silence” (BTS-Shovrim 
Shtika) is a fringe Israeli group touring US campuses accusing the IDF of “war 
crimes.” This New Israel Fund (NIF) supported group claims that Israel commits 
“crimes against humanity,” “ethnic cleansing” and “violates human rights.” BTS 
is quoted 27 times in the infamous Goldstone Report, which Goldstone himself has 
disavowed. BTS still promulgates it.This is the same BTS that Students 
for Justice in Palestine (SJP), which leads the delegitimization campaign 
against Israel on campuses, lists on its website as an advocacy group for its 
anti-Israel campaign. BTS programs have been used during “Israel Apartheid Week” 
on US campuses.• J StreetU arranged talks by John Ging, former director 
of UNRWA in Gaza. He is known for promoting political warfare against Israel and 
supporting the pro-Hamas flotillas.• J StreetU promotes the NIF-funded 
Sheikh Jarrah Solidarity Movement (SJSM). The Jewish Agency describes the SJSM 
as “opposing the idea of Israel as a Jewish homeland and promoting an 
anti-Zionist agenda.” The group collaborates with the anti-Israel Global 
Boycott, Divest, Sanction (BDS) movement, and defames Israel as a “fascist 
state.” They talk about victories over “cowardly Zionists” who are perpetrating 
an “apartheid state” and “ethnic cleansing in Jerusalem,” and urge liquidation 
of the Jewish Agency and the Jewish National Fund.• J StreetU also 
presents B’Tselem, funded by a BDS group and NIF. B’Tselem spearheaded the 
international campaign against Israel’s right to build the security fence to 
prevent Palestinian suicide bombers from entering Israel. B’Tselem “provided 
assistance to the investigative staff of the Goldstone mission from the 
beginning to the end of its research.” It is cited 56 times by Goldstone. It 
praised his report as “the result of a serious, professional investigation, 
reflecting a deep and genuine commitment to ensure that justice is 
done.”B’Tselem has been lobbying foreign governments to adopt the 
Goldstone report. The chair of B’Tselem’s board, Oren Yiftachel, called for 
“effective sanctions” against Israel during the war against Hamas in Gaza, and 
supported the Palestinian “right of return,” which means the destruction of the 
Jewish state. Their CEO, Jessica Montell, has stated: “I think the word 
apartheid is useful for mobilizing people because of its emotional power.” The 
SJP, which delegitimizes Israel, lists B’tselem on its website as an advocacy 
group. B’Tselem programs have been used during “Israel Apartheid Week” on the US 
campuses.What’s common to J StreetU events is not balanced, thoughtful 
discussion of Israel but the defamation of Israel, the spreading of falsehoods 
and one-sided attacks. According to Alan Dershowitz, “J Street has harmed Israel 
more than any American organization.” Its pro-Israel claims constitute 
“fraud in advertising.” “It has made a generation of Jews ashamed to be 
pro-Israel, and has made it politically correct among young people to single out 
Israel to a double standard and for fault.”J Street is already 
entrenched at Berkeley’s Hillel and the JSU. The Hillel group, Kesher Enoshi 
(KE), is its proxy there. This year KE, along with J StreetU, brought the 
founder of the Sheikh Jarrah Solidarity Movement in to speak at Hillel. He 
demonized Israel, proclaiming, “Jerusalem is a symbol of 
evil.” Berkeley’s Hillel director argued that this was “within the 
framework of national Hillel’s Israel policy.” However, National Hillel 
guidelines explicitly state that “Hillel will not partner with, house or host 
organizations, groups or speakers that delegitimize, demonize or apply a double 
standard to Israel.” Hillel also funded its members’ trip to J Street’s national 
conference in Washington.The toxic consequences of KE’s Israel-bashing 
events – organized in the past three years under the guise of “progressive 
Israel activism,” – demonstrate why groups that demonize, or collaborate with 
groups that do so, should be excluded.In the year preceding the Spring 
2010 anti- Israel divestment bill at UC Berkeley, Hillel’s KE organized Israel 
defamatory events in collaboration with SJP and other anti-Israel groups. At 
these events the IDF was portrayed as committing “war crimes,” and Israel as a 
country committing “crimes against humanity,” “ethnic cleansing” and “violating 
human rights.” These demonizing events laid the groundwork for the SJP-initiated 
divestment bill.Kesher Enoshi and SJP organized a Breaking the Silence 
event, promoted by Hillel as: “testimonies by Israeli soldiers about human 
rights abuses committed by the Israeli Military.”They organized the 
“Shministim,” a group of Israeli draft dodgers who defame the IDF and Israel. 
Their US tour was organized by the delegitimizing/BDS supporting Jewish Voice 
for Peace (JVP along with SJP is on the ADL list of the top 10 anti-Israel 
groups in America). Along with SJP, the Muslim Student Association, JVP, Middle 
East Children’s Alliance and other Israel delegitimizing groups, Hillel’s KE 
sponsored an event that compared the IDF to the Nazis.The fact that 
Jewish students on campus get invitations to Israel-bashing events from their 
local Hillel (which controls the list of the Jewish students on campus and the 
students who participated in the Taglit- Birthright trips) is highly 
significant. Hillel and its groups’ involvement lend legitimacy and credibility 
to the Israel-bashing events and to their destructive message.At the 
Berkeley student senate meetings, formerly pro-Israel Jewish students – who were 
co-opted by exposure to Kesher Enoshi’s demonizing events – were conspicuously 
active in advocating the adoption of the divestment resolution. Many of the 
co-opted students are joining the larger delegitimizing/ BDS movement. For 
example: Avital Aboudy, who signed pro-Hamas ISM petitions calling for 
divestment from Israel, and Eyal Mazor, who is involved with the delegitimizing/ 
BDS JVP and Code Pink. Eyal’s younger brother, Alon, became a leader of Kesher 
Enoshi, and is actively trying to get J StreetU into the JSU. Many Jewish 
students now avoid Hillel because of its demonizing events.This 
disturbing situation is not exclusive to Berkeley Hillel. Many other Hillel 
chapters, on major university campuses across North America, are engaging in 
Israel-demonizing events organized by J Street in tandem with the NIF. A growing 
number of Jewish (and non-Jewish) students, are being affected. Those 
young Jews are the future of the Jewish community, its future leaders, and will 
determine its attitudes towards Israel.The immense potential of over 
400,000 Jewish students on US campuses is not only untapped to advocate for 
Israel against the “industry of lies” advocated by the delegitimization network 
on campus, but that the students themselves are influenced by it, and 
consequently many of them have become alienated from Israel.Would people 
who advocate the inclusion of demonizing groups, under the guise of promoting a 
“big tent,” welcome a Kahanist group or Jews for Jesus? In “Is J Street in the 
tent, or out?” Dr. Daniel Gordis observes: “It’s one thing to put ‘pro-Israel’ 
in your tag line, and another to be ‘pro-Israel.’ ...Even a big tent, though, 
has its limits.”Hillel leaders should enforce National Hillel guidelines 
forbidding Israel-demonizing events and groups. Demonizing groups and events 
place themselves outside the tent.
The writer, as a graduate student at 
UC Berkeley founded the Jewish Student Union and co-founded the Israel Action 
Committee (IAC) there. He also served as chairman of the Israeli Students 
Organization in North America and was on the executive board of the North 
American Jewish Students Network, the umbrella organization of Jewish Students 
in North America.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hagel - a litmus test of Obama’s attitude to Israel</title>
<date>23/12/2012</date>
<content>
The possible nomination of former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel as secretary of defense will represent a litmus test as to whether President Barack Obama is poised to resume his anti-Israeli campaign, despite supporting Israel during Operation Pillar of Defense and – only last week – refusing to join the formal condemnation of Israel at the UN Security Council over the Jerusalem and E1 building approvals.One should not underestimate the significance of the appointment of a man like Hagel to such a key post. He represents one of the most hostile antagonists of Israel in the mainstream political arena. Some of his views have even been compared to the extremist policies promoted by Pat Buchanan, the former Republican radical isolationist.




For example, Hagel has questioned the patriotism of the American Jewish community – accusing them of displaying dual loyalties – proclaiming that “the Jewish lobby intimidates a lot of people” and that “I am a United States senator, not an Israeli senator.”His indifference and even hostility toward Israel has been completely out of sync with mainstream congressional attitudes. He was one of four senators who refused to sign a Senate letter supporting Israel during the second intifada. During the Second Lebanon War he blamed Israel and Hezbollah equally for the conflict. He subsequently rebuffed efforts to persuade the European Union to ban Hezbollah as a terrorist group. In 2009 he urged Obama to engage in direct negotiations with Hamas. Earlier this month the Atlantic Council, which he chairs, published a front page article titled “Israel’s apartheid policies.”He has unfailingly opposed sanctions or military action against Iran, warning that a nuclear Iran was inevitable and “continued hostile relations between the US and Iran will have the effect of isolating the United States.” He even refused to endorse the designation of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards as a terrorist entity.Hagel supported unconditional engagement with rogue states, stating “engagement is not surrender. It is not appeasement.”He held both Assads (father and son) in high regard. In 2008, together with Senator John Kerry (now designated to become secretary of state), he co-authored an article in The Wall Street Journal titled, “It is time to talk to Syria,” in which he stated, “Syria’s leaders have always made cold calculations in the name of self-preservation and history shows that intensive diplomacy can pay off.” As late as 2009 he was still urging the US to engage in dialogue with Syria.Hagel also favors reducing what he described as the “bloated” defense budget – unusual for a candidate who would overview the Pentagon.Based on this grotesque political track record, even the liberal Washington Post editorial board urged Obama to reject the nomination on the grounds that it was totally inappropriate for such a sensitive position to be headed by a person harboring views which would be regarded as “near the fringe of the Senate.”Hagel is supported by the wrong people. These include the Council on American Islamic Relations (CAIR), described by the FBI as an unindicted co-conspirator of Hamas, and also cited as an agent of the Muslim Brotherhood in America.Stephen Walt, co-author of the notorious book The Israel Lobby and US Foreign Policy, which mimicked classic anti-Semitic stereotypes, said that Hagel’s nomination would be excellent because “unlike almost all of his former colleagues on Capitol Hill, he has not been a complete doormat for the Israeli lobby” and is “skeptical about the use of military force against Iran.” He also said that the appointment would represent Obama’s “payback to Benjamin Netanyahu.”Executive director of J Street Jeremy Ben-Ami endorsed Hagel as “a fine choice” and “friend of Israel.” He complained that “somebody of Chuck Hagel’s stature and significant record of national service is being slandered.”Peter Beinart condemned the White House for emboldening the “pro-Israel right” by failing to defend Hagel.While public protests against the appointment have until now been somewhat muted, there have been criticisms.Senior Wall Street Journal columnist Bret Stephens stated that Hagel’s appointment would confirm his belief that Obama is not a friend of Israel and that “Perhaps the 63% of Jewish Americans who cast their vote for Mr. Obama last month might belatedly take note.”In fact, Hagel’s nomination will demonstrate whether pro-Israel Jewish Democrats who voted for Obama carry any weight within the party or are now cynically taken for granted as automatic supporters irrespective of how the Democratic Party behaves toward the Jewish state.Interestingly enough, in 2009, after Hagel was named co-chairman of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, Ira Forman, then executive director of the National Jewish Democratic Council (and subsequently appointed Obama’s 2012 Jewish outreach coordinator), felt impelled to state that “if Hagel was taking a policy role, we’d have real concerns.” Forman currently declined to comment on the far more significant role for which Hagel is currently being considered.Ed Koch, a passionate Zionist and former Democratic mayor of New York who nevertheless endorsed Obama in the elections, said that Hagel “would be a terrible appointment...and would give comfort to the Arab world that would think that President Obama is seeking to put space between Israel and his administration.”Chief Executive of the Zionist Organization of America (ZOA) Mort Klein called on President Obama to withdraw the nomination of one of the most consistently hostile political critics of Israel. The ZOA summed up Hagel as “a frightening and dangerous apologist for groups like Hamas and Hezbollah, as well as for the terrorist regime of Iran, while being arguably one of the most vicious and hostile critics of Israel.”Anti-Defamation League Director Abe Foxman – who those on the right frequently accuse of deferring unduly to the liberal establishment – stated that Hagel’s record on Israel and the US-Israel relationship “is at best, disturbing and at worst, very troubling. The sentiments he has expressed about the Jewish lobby border on anti-Semitism in the genre of Professors John Mearsheimer, Stephen Walt and former president Jimmy Carter.”AJC Executive Director David Harris pointed out that as far back as 1999, Hagel was the only senator who refused to sign a letter urging then-Russian president Boris Yeltsin to take action to quash burgeoning anti-Semitism. He noted that the concerns the AJC had about Hagel 13 years ago remain today.If nominated, Hagel’s confirmation in the Senate will presumably be challenged. However, despite holding views which conflict starkly with mainstream Congress foreign affairs attitudes, rejecting him may be complicated by the fact that he is a former Republican senator and a popular, highly decorated war hero.But there should be no illusions. This is a watershed and litmus test of Obama’s attitude to the Jewish state. Should Hagel’s appointment be confirmed it would be perceived as a signal of the president’s determination to revive his earlier efforts to distance the US from Israel and that we are likely to face massive problems during the course of this administration.To appoint as secretary of defense a man who has consistently opposed sanctions as well as military action against Iran would also undermine Israel’s confidence that Obama was sincere when throughout the elections he repeatedly vowed that Iran would never become a nuclear power under his watch.
The writer’s website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at ileibler@leibler.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hamas welcomed at UN headquarters in Geneva</title>
<date>20/3/2012</date>
<content>
On March 19, 2012 the UN Human Rights Council and its UN staff in Geneva
 advertised and facilitated an event featuring a representative of the 
terrorist organization Hamas.  Facing an immediate outcry, a massive 
misinformation campaign is now underway to protect the already 
discredited UN body. But there is no avoiding the facts:  the UN handed a
 UN entrance pass and a UN microphone, in a UN room, to Hamas’s own 
Ismail al-Ashqar.US, European and Israeli laws designate Hamas 
as a terror group.  Hamas’s hate-filled Charter advocates genocide, or 
in its words:  “Israel will exist and will continue to exist until Islam
 will obliterate it…The Day of Judgment will not come about until 
Muslims fight the Jews (killing the Jews)…”   The organization is 
pursuing that goal on a daily basis.




Nevertheless, the Council 
published a formal UN “Bulletin” – with the Council’s name splashed 
across the top and a formal UN symbol number – containing the following 
message.  Anyone wanting to catch a lecture by a Hamas human rights 
authority should head off to Meeting Room XXVII in the UN’s Palais des 
Nations from 10 to 12 Monday morning.Or in more formal UN-eze 
“Human Rights Council, Nineteenth session, Geneva, Bulletin of informal 
meetings, Held in parallel to the session, Monday, 19 March 
2012…Subject: Arrest of parliamentarians, Public. A/HRC/19/BI/16.”Sent
 out to face the subsequent barrage of criticism, Director of the United
 Nations Information Service in Geneva Corinne Momal-Vanian told AP that
 the meeting was “on the sides of the Human Rights Council session" and 
any UN-accredited group “can organize side events and invite speakers of
 its choice.” Indeed, the event featuring the Hamas member of 
the Palestinian Legislative Council was organized by the UN-accredited 
NGO "Maarij Foundation for Peace and Development."  But here are a few 
facts Momal-Vanian managed to leave out. UN facilities would 
only have been available to a non-governmental organization that had 
been awarded UN accreditation and then only after they had requested the
 services from the UN secretariat.  Though the UN bulletin carries a 
standard disclaimer for what may or may not be said during such events, 
the application to hold the meeting in the first place must have been 
vetted and approved by UN staff.Moreover, locating meetings on 
the “side” of the Human Rights Council’s regular session – which is now 
in full swing – is a deliberate attempt to influence information flow to
 Council participants.  And while in theory any UN group can ask 
permission to hold a side event, it is no accident that approval is 
actually granted to a raft of Israel-bashing NGOs.This week alone radical organizations with extreme ideologies are scheduled to hold two more two-hour sessions on UN premises: “Human rights in Palestine” and “Follow-up to the Goldstone Report.”  The organizing NGOs, including Al Haq, BADIL Resource Center for Palestinian Residency and Refugee Rights, and Mouvement contre le racisme et pour l'amitié entre les peuples, all hold official UN accreditation.  Standard fare is to claim that Israel’s creation was a catastrophe that has to be walked back; Israel is an apartheid state; Israelis are foreigners transplanted onto Arab land; Israel should be subject to debilitating sanctions.  BADIL’s website and activities, for example, are studded with antisemitic images and rants.  The controversy comes at an inopportune
 moment for the Obama administration, which is in the middle of a drive 
to renew its three-year term on the Human Rights Council.  So somehow a 
twitter campaign joined Monday’s effort to ward off the public relations
 disaster of a terrorist UN human rights buff.  Some examples. 
Tweet: “NGOs can invite people without the UN being aware or 
responsible.”  In fact, no person can get through UN security at the Palais des Nations without their name being provided to UN officials in 
advance; officials must then grant access and issue a UN pass.  Even the
 UN spokesperson has not alleged that al-Ashqar evaded security and 
snuck in.Then there was this tweet: “Hamas representative 
invited by NGO is distraction.”  Welcoming a terrorist into the midst of
 a facility supposedly dedicated to human rights is indeed a distraction
 – from the UN’s raison d’etre.  Another read: “Contrary to Hamas boast,
 its representative spoke to empty room.”   Photos of the audience 
posted on the web contradicted that tweet.  And then there was the 
bleat: “Invited not by UN but Sudanese group.” Except that the Sudanese 
group was not just any bunch of hate-mongers, but UN-accredited, and 
nothing would have prevented UN staff from turning al-Ashqar away at the
 door.According to Momal-Vanian, however, what worried the UN 
most about the Hamas agent’s visit was this:  “the global body assessed 
the possibility of security threats in connection with the event and 
allowed it to go ahead.” A perversion from beginning to end.  
Only the UN could twist the security threat so that the terrorist front 
man became the victim.
The writer is director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hatred: Coming soon to a campus near you</title>
<date>22/2/2012</date>
<content>
Anti-Israel hatred on campus crests each year during an event called Israel 
Apartheid Week.With this ominous name and programs that thrive on 
ignorance and blind disregard for the facts, tens of thousands of college 
students are urged to rise up against Israel – painfully evoking the types of 
racist characterizations of the Jewish people which defined attitudes once heard 
in Europe in the middle of the last century. Warning: this year’s display will 
come to a campus near you before the end of February.




These campus 
initiatives were incubated in 2001 at the first Durban Conference, proclaiming: 
“no apartheid South Africa in the 20th century and no apartheid Israel in the 
21st.”This battle cry sparked the BDS movement calling for boycotts, 
divestment and sanctions to punish Israel, and it all evolved into an 
invective-loaded campaign that found a degree of favor on campuses coast to 
coast, not to mention among some labor unions, churches, media and cultural 
institutions. But it is based on a lie.Typically, those hurling these 
charges against Israel hope their audiences are ignorant of the facts. In 
apartheid South Africa, blacks were not allowed to use white hospitals, they 
could not attend white universities and they could not participate in the South 
African parliament. Visit Hadassah Medical Center today, or any other health 
facility in Israel, and see Jewish and Arab doctors caring for Jewish and Arab 
patients. Witness for yourself at Hebrew University or any institution of higher 
learning as Jewish and Arab professors teach students of different backgrounds. 
Go to the Knesset, and observe the debates involving both Jewish and Arab 
parliamentarians.Given this reality, Justice Richard Goldstone, a former 
judge on the South African Supreme Court, wrote in The New York Times on October 
31, 2011: “The charge that Israel is an apartheid state is a false and malicious 
one that precludes, rather than promotes, peace and harmony.” Goldstone, it 
should be remembered, did not have a problem criticizing Israeli policies in the 
aftermath of its 2008- 2009 military operation in the Gaza Strip. But when it 
came to calling Israel and apartheid state like the old South Africa, with which 
he was intimately familiar, he firmly rejected the charge, which was completely 
divorced from the reality of modern Israel.No nation has fought racism 
more consistently than the Jewish people, whether through the anti-apartheid 
activists in the South African Jewish community or through those American Jews 
who joined the civil rights movement and locked arms with Martin Luther King 
Jr.The Jewish state was founded on the very same moral outlook, 
reflecting the Jewish value of “Tikkun Olam,” or repairing the world, which is 
deeply held across the Jewish religious spectrum. When Israeli medical teams 
rushed to international disaster zones in Turkey (1999), Kosovo (1999), the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (2008), and Haiti (2010), helping the afflicted 
regardless of their race or creed, they were driven by the very same core Jewish 
value.Moreover, no group cherishes or champions freedom of speech more 
than the Jewish people. But the systematic dissemination of hate-based lies is 
not what freedom is about. This crosses the line. No one has a license to lie, 
manipulate or manufacture falsehoods. Make no mistake, the primary 
characteristics of Israel Apartheid Week programming are terrible, unjustified 
charges expressly aimed at demonizing Israel.Unsubstantiated 
allegations, constantly repeated, take a toll on American opinion, despite 
bedrock gut-level support for Israel which, thankfully, exists as a strong 
counter- force to this mass exercise in propaganda. Studies confirm that when 
accurate information about Israeli policies, society and values is provided, the 
false arguments are uniformly rejected.Our most critical challenge is to 
educate the young and to begin this process during high school years or earlier 
–long before they arrive on college campuses. Our students feel confident and 
empowered when they know the facts and can challenge group-think favoring 
Israel’s isolation, dismantlement or destruction. We are duty-bound to 
engage students in creative, effective ways, through the media they best relate 
to: Facebook, Twitter and other Internet communication. We must knock down the 
posturing of the IAW agitators, who could not care less about promoting peace or 
helping people in the Middle East. Encouraged by foreign governments that do not 
share Israel’s commitment to democracy and human rights, they are the purveyors 
of hatred, akin to many others who have preceded them.Here’s the good 
news. Friends of Israel are not backing off or ignoring the challenge. Important 
new initiatives are already working hard to roll back the hatred. We must spare 
no effort to protect full legal rights and freedom of speech for pro-Israel 
students on campus. Visual communications which have the power to speak the 
truth immediately and graphically are one super-critical tool required for this 
process.Specifically, I conclude with a vitally important call to 
action, as easy to do as it is effective: I invite you to watch a film of 
monumental importance called Crossing the Line: The Intifada Comes to Campus. 
This powerful 30-minute documentary exposes the growing anti-Israel sentiment 
taking root on college campuses across North America. Once you understand the 
problem, I hope you will join me in my quest to make sure all Jewish students 
are educated and empowered with the facts about Israel.If modern Jewish 
history has taught our generation anything, it is that no threat to our 
existence should ever be ignored. Generations to come will judge us for what we 
do, or do not do, today to secure Israel’s future. I urge you to view Crossing 
the Line today – in a group setting or from the comfort of your living room – 
and to share it with the high school and university students in your family and 
in your community.
The writer is president of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, a former ambassador to the United Nations and a former senior adviser to the prime minister and chair of Step Up For Israel. To find out about a screening of Crossing the Line in your area visit http://www.stepupforisrael.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hebron: A matter of opinion</title>
<date>3/4/2012</date>
<content>
When Sigmar Gabriel wrote that Hebron was “an apartheid regime for which there 
is no justification” on his Facebook page (March 14), the chairman of Germany’s 
main opposition party sparked an outcry that reverberated beyond his virtual 
wall.Gabriel, the leader of Germany’s Social Democratic Party and a 
likely challenger to Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2013, was not the first 
European politician to associate Israel with apartheid – nor will he be the 
last.




While the comment may have been particularly surprising coming from 
a high ranking German politician, the truth is that Gabriel simply echoed an oft 
repeated statement made in international discourse about Israel – one that has 
rarely been questioned in the past. In 2008, the former president of the UN 
General Assembly Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann likened Israel’s policies to “an 
apartheid of an earlier era.” In 2002, South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu 
accused Israel of apartheid policies towards Palestinians.Other notable 
officials who have joined in the Israel apartheid chorus include former UN 
special rapporteur John Dugard, former US President Jimmy Carter, Turkish 
President Abdullah Gul, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, 
University of Chicago political science professor John Mearshimer, prominent 
Israeli media commentators and South African activists including antiapartheid 
veteran Reverend Allan Boesak who in November 2011 stated that Israeli apartheid 
is “more terrifying” than South Africa’s.The above mentioned figures’ 
conclusions are inevitable considering their reliance on sources and 
organizations that present Hebron in an extremely skewed light.One of 
the most active is the Temporary International Presence in Hebron (TIPH), the 
group that guided Gabriel during his visit to Hebron recently. Established in 
1994, TIPH representatives, who hail from Norway, Switzerland, Sweden, Italy, 
Turkey and Denmark, patrol Hebron and provide situation analysis with the aim of 
ensuring that residents are upholding human rights law while providing “a 
feeling of security to the Palestinians of Hebron.”TIPH, whose members 
enjoy diplomatic immunity and wear special “observer” badges during their Hebron 
patrols, has given numerous tours to ambassadors, government officials, 
ministers and diplomats from across Europe. Israeli Foreign Ministry officials 
in the past accused TIPH personnel of compiling false reports against IDF 
soldiers and Jewish settlers, while ignoring violent acts by Palestinians, 
thereby “vilifying Israel.”What is most unfortunate about these tours is 
that they do not provide an all-encompassing perspective of Hebron, rather one 
that distorts its history and promotes a propaganda campaign that leads to the 
demonization of Israel.The tours do not highlight the fact that the 
Jewish presence in Hebron dates to biblical times, from King David’s monarchy, 
and continued for centuries after, throughout the Babylonian, Roman, Byzantine, 
Arab, Mameluke and Ottoman periods.Following the Hebron Massacre in 
1929, where 67 Jews were murdered, their synagogues and homes ransacked by 
Arabs, the survivors (who were saved by 19 local Arab families) fled. For the 
next 38 years, Hebron had no Jewish community until after the 1967 Six Day War, 
when the Jewish community was reestablished.Nor is it made clear that 
Hebron today is divided into two areas – H1 and H2 – following the Hebron 
Accords in 1997, which were signed by Israel, the US and the PA.The 
accords offered international recognition of the existence of the city’s Jewish 
community and its entitlement to security and development.The accords 
ceded some 80 percent of the area to the PA and left Israel responsible for 
20%.The majority of Hebron’s Arabs, approximately 120,000 people, live 
in H1, which is the larger, thriving area of the city, full of factories, 
businesses and continued construction. Palestinian police forces exercise full 
control while the IDF is not allowed to enter unless they are escorted. H1 is 
under PA rule and remains completely off limits to Jews.The only area in 
Hebron that Jews are permitted to live in is H2, the smaller and poorer area of 
the city, which makes up 20% of the municipal territory. Jewish residents, 
however, have access to only 3% of the city which entails one street along which 
several Jewish neighborhoods are located. The 600 Jewish people who live among 
30,000 Arabs are not permitted to travel into H1.Furthermore, although 
Israel’s security measures in Hebron have been questioned, they are crucial for 
the protection of Jewish residents living in the city and for residents across 
the country. Stabbing attacks against Jewish worshippers in the vicinity of the 
Cave of the Patriarchs have been attempted numerous times since 2010. And one of 
the most dangerous Hamas terrorist groups during the second intifada was the 
Jihad Soccer Club, considered the best soccer team in Hebron, whose players and 
coach carried out a wave of suicide attacks against Israelis, the most recent of 
which in 2008 killed a woman and wounded 11 others in Dimona.In reality, 
the best way to gain an objective view of Hebron is to tour the city 
independently, just as Stefanie Galla, a German lawyer from Cologne did in 
December 2011. Galla travelled to Hebron and visited the city without a tour 
guide. She recently wrote about her experience in the German liberal daily 
newspaper, Der Tagesspiegel, where she called Gabriel’s view of Hebron 
“one-sided.”“The Hebron I have experienced is another,” wrote Galla, who 
described the Jewish quarter in Hebron as “seeming to be a very small area, 
sheltered by high walls and barbed wire.” According to Galla’s perspective, 
Hebron to her was a “ghetto,” with “Jews included.”Unfortunately, 
Gabriel’s sensational comment, which received more than 1,000 likes on Facebook, 
continues to perpetuate a misconstrued reality that is accepted as true by many 
– except for the few like Galla who dare to think without being told 
how.
The writer is an educator at Hebrew University High School. She 
writes for Tazpit News Agency and a number of other news sources. She made aliya 
from Maine in 2004.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hijaking South Africa’s foreign policy on Israel</title>
<date>14/8/2012</date>
<content>
South Africa’s foreign policy with regard to Israel and the Palestinians, 
although inherently more sympathetic to the Palestinian side, under Nelson 
Mandela and Thabo Mbeki at least tried to maintain an even-handedness, 
supporting a two-state solution and of promoting peaceful 
dialogue.Indeed, South Africa even tried to broker talks between the two 
sides, in February 2003 at the Spier Wine Estate. Since recalling the South 
African ambassador to Israel following “Operation Cast Lead” in Gaza in 2009, 
relations with Israel have deteriorated to such an extent that Israel has been 
singled out and treated as a pariah.




South Africa has allowed local 
politics, such as its obsession to rule the Western Cape and the anti-Israel 
agenda of Deputy International Relations Minister Ebrahim Ebrahim to determine 
foreign policy, even when this policy is antithetical to South Africa’s national 
interests.Its unabashed one-sided anti-Israel stance has disqualified 
South Africa from playing a constructive role in the Middle East and has 
extinguished any claim it once had to holding a moral high ground or of offering 
a solution by virtue of its example of conflict resolution.Ebrahim has 
taken concrete steps to stop “economic” visits to Israel, because “Israel is an 
occupier country.”This follows shortly on the heels of Deputy Minister 
of International Relations Marius Fransman’s speech in Athlone to the Muslim 
community in which he said that “economic diplomacy could be one of the most 
effective weapons of change in the Palestinian situation.Palestinians 
and their supporters, inspired by the economic boycott of apartheid-era South 
Africa, have been trying for years to emulate our success in that terrain. Until 
now their campaign of divestment and boycott has had negligible economic effect, 
but the voice of our government could be a symbolic boost.“However, I am 
glad to inform you that our government, through the Ministry of Trade and 
Industry [DTI] has recently, in May 2012, released a government notice 379 of 
2012, as a strategy to apply economic pressure on Israel,” Fransman 
said.He then went on to note that he was “highly inspired by the role 
played by organizations such Open Shuhada Street, PSG, the MJC, Al Quds 
Foundation and others.”It is poignant to note that the Al Quds 
Foundation does not recognize Israel even in its pre-1967 territory, as in its 
June 2009 editorial it blamed Israel for “occupying Palestine for more than 60 
years, uprooted for more than 60 years, living in fear for more than 60 
years. When does it all end?” Does Fransman support this viewpoint? Is it 
official South African government policy not to recognize Israel in its pre- 
1967 borders?In 2011, Muslim Judicial Council spokesman Shuaib Appleby 
condemned the killing of Osama bin Laden, saying: “extrajudicial killing is 
totally condemned by Islam.” Does Fransman also endorse this viewpoint? Rhoda Kadalie recently explained the motivations behind Fransman’s actions as 
follows: “Under Fransman’s leadership the ANC Western Cape has run a campaign 
against the DA characterized by racially divisive rhetoric and disruptive and 
violent protests. The party’s ‘Project Reclaim’ has attracted repeated 
allegations of bribery as well. Continuing as before under the former premier, 
Fransman seeks to exploit the poor, rural communities and the San 
peoples.”So it appears that in order to win the Western Cape ,the ANC 
has thrown its lot in with the Muslims, who comprise a sizeable percentage of 
the voters, by taking a strongly hostile and partisan stance against Israel. In 
so doing it has calculated that the Jews, being a small minority, can be 
sacrificed politically and that generally they will not make too much noise in 
response to being sidelined.The ANC finds itself in a quandary of its 
own making – were it to remove Ebrahim from his position, it would be 
interpreted by his Muslim brethren as a hostile act against the Muslim 
community, and would undoubtedly produce a negative backlash against the 
progress the ANC have made in the Western Cape. It seems like the ANC are locked 
in to live with the genie that they have allowed out of the bottle.In 
his speech, Fransman transgressed several times over the most time honored rule 
of South African international relations, namely not to interfere in the 
internal or sovereign affairs of another country, by criticizing Israel’s 
Nationality Law of 1952.For decades our leaders have bit their tongues 
rather than break this sacrosanct rule, never indulging in any criticism of 
Mugabe’s wayward policies in Zimbabwe, or in the days of the despots in Libya, 
ne’er a word of criticism against Gaddafi or Omar Bashir in Sudan, despite a 
warrant of arrest from the International Criminal Court. How can our dear 
minister explain why Israel is deserving of a different and unique set of 
standards? Finally, South African taxpayers need to be made aware of the degree 
to which their hardearned taxes are being lavished on the Palestinians. It has 
been estimated that over R30 million has been spent on supporting the 
Palestinian Ambassador in South Africa. That during the last year about 
R2m.has been spent on Palestinian refugees, millions on sports stadia in 
the West Bank and on sponsoring trips to Palestinian territories. While there is 
an undeniable debt of gratitude to repay the Palestinians during their time of 
need, for how long will this be sustained, while South Africans are living 
without the basic necessities of life – no jobs, no food and no adequate 
housing! IT IS time for South Africa to regain control over its foreign policy, 
which has been hijacked by ministers with no sense of fairness, of appreciation 
for human rights, and to regain the moral high ground by unequivocally 
condemning human rights abuses, irrespective of where they occur.South 
Africa has shamed itself by being largely silent on the 20,000 deaths in Libya, 
except to criticize the NATO-led mission, which helped to shorten the conflict 
and undoubtedly reduced casualties. South Africa has to its shame been silent on 
the more than 20,000 deaths in Syria and the more than 300,000 refugees that the 
Assad regime has caused. South Africa continues to import goods from the Syrian 
dictator, while it condemns Israel – the only democratic country in the 
region.South Africa regularly stands with China and Russia, voting in 
support of the most brutal dictators and military rulers committing the most 
heinous human rights abuses. All this while it only accuses Israel of unfairly 
treating the Palestinians.
Are Palestinian lives more precious than 
Syrian lives, or Libyan or for that matter South Sudanese or Malians lives? It 
is time for our officials to act in the interests of the people of South Africa, 
and these would best be served by maintaining and expanding strong relations 
with Israel, which has so much to offer toward solving South Africa’s most 
pressing problems.The writer is the chairman of the South African 
Zionist Federation (SAZF, Cape Council).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In 30 days: Fundamentalism or Liberalism</title>
<date>20/12/2012</date>
<content>
Israel at the crossroads – we seem to voice this truism at every election. This 
time, though, it seems to be truer than ever because in four years, we could 
either be far worse off, or much better off. One scenario is impossible: the 
continuation of our illusionary status quo. And much worse off could mean 
doomsday, given the current and (probably next) government’s policies and 
worldviews, the challenges we are facing and the strengthening of the religious 
extreme Right.For the first time since our independence, our very 
democratic foundations are endangered by a multitude of factions and by the 
prevailing reactionary set of nationalistic and xenophobic views of our leader 
and shakers.




It has become politically correct to express racist views 
against Arabs, to curtail freedom of speech, to delegitimize the High Court of 
Justice, to back nationalistic positions on the use of power in order to crush 
our neighbors; reconquering Gaza has suddenly been raised by Bibi’s alter-ego, 
Yvette Liberman. We are also undergoing a socioeconomic crisis, with growing 
gaps between haves and have-nots, center and periphery, those who enjoy good 
education and health services, and those who don’t.If one seeks 
affordable housing, one is better off as a settler, or as a Shas 
supporter.Corruption is rampant among our leaders, whether in or out of 
prison.There is also moral corruption as we are still an occupying power 
in the West Bank, with over 3 million Palestinians under our control. This 
strengthens the extremist Hamas and reduces the clout and hope of moderates, 
thereby undermining our daily and national security. We prefer settlement 
construction over good relations with the international community – E1 over EU. 
We are isolated in the world, risking sanctions. In short, we have become a more 
theocratic, bellicose, capitalistic, nationalistic island.If this 
process is allowed to continue by a leadership blind to a changing world and 
deaf to the voices of reason and morality, four years from now, we will find 
ourselves in a much deeper crisis, threatening our very being as a Jewish, 
democratic state.The alternative is the adherence to the liberal, 
progressive values of democracy with a strong and independent judicial system, 
respect for human rights, full equality among all citizens, social justice and 
economic growth, a viable process of peacemaking and participating in an 
international coalition for regional stability and opposition to Iranian nuclear 
ambitions. In short, more secure, more prosperous, more free and a respected 
member of the family of nations. This is what is at stake with these elections: 
a clear cut choice, not between leaders, but between values related to the 
basics of modern Zionism – again in between social democracy and 
revisionism.The agenda of Likud Beytenu and its nationalistic and 
religious allies is clear and united. It is an agenda of crude force. Its basic 
premise is that the Arabs are a monolithic lot with an overwhelming, incurable 
hatred for Israel and for Jews, and who as individuals do not deserve equal 
rights, and as a collective should be deterred or fought with strength; that 
Palestine is actually Judea and Samaria; that settlements are not an obstacle to 
peace, but rather a redemption; that the Arab Spring is a winter of extreme 
Islamism, all monolithically following Tehran, be they Sunnis, Shi’as, or 
moderate liberal Tahrir demonstrators; that the region is full of dangers and no 
opportunities; that the whole world is blind to these realities, due to a 
mixture of anti-Semitism and Western naiveté; that only we understand reality; 
and that in such a region and world, we have to depend only on our 
sword.The leader of the all-too loyal opposition, Shelly Yacimovich, 
claims with great confidence that the prime minister would like the elections to 
be held on an agenda of foreign policy and security policy. Yet what Bibi & 
Co. are offering is not a policy agenda, but rather an extreme-right-wing view 
of Israel, the region and the world, deeply entrenched in a philosophy of 
extreme nationalism and religious beliefs – a kind of Israeli 
fundamentalism.What is the alternative? The center-left is divided on 
this – between Yacimovich’s view of a socioeconomic agenda, leading to economic 
stability and social justice, and Tzipi Livni’s view of the vitality of a peace 
and security policy transformation in order to rescue the democratic Jewish 
nature of Israel. The leader of today’s Labor definitely has a point – Israel’s 
socioeconomic reality is in a deep crisis. We are among the most unjust 
societies in the OECD club in the distribution of wealth between haves and have 
nots, we suffer from a large deficit, in need of severe across-theboard budget 
cuts, that after the elections will necessitate making important choices as to 
our national socioeconomic priorities, also in relation to education, health and 
other social services.Politically, it may be the right ticket to run on, 
as Israelis fear for their socioeconomic well-being and security, and that is 
especially true for the right-leaning periphery. So far Labor has entirely 
failed to place these issues on the national and election agenda, and is 
terrified to speak out on the peace and security agenda.On the other 
side, Tzipi Livni and the “Movement” Party, though perhaps too little and too 
late, have opted, with her two ex-Labor leader running-mates Amram Mitzna and 
Amir Peretz, for the predominance of a peace and security agenda.They 
claim, with great justification, that if Israel does not have a proactive peace 
policy, leading to a viable peace process with the Palestinians under President 
Abu Mazen (Mahmoud Abbas), we will reach the point of no return in a contrary 
process leading to a binational state, where we will wake up one day to discover 
that we have become a minority in our own country, forcing us to choose between 
Arab rule and apartheid – the end of the Zionist dream.Time is indeed 
running out, due to the continuation of a dangerous settlement expansion, the 
strengthening of Hamas and the weakening of Fatah, even in the West Bank, all 
thanks to the myopic policies of the outgoing government.The need to 
stabilize our economy and to move toward greater social justice is inherently 
linked and dependent on a real peace process with the Palestinians, as such a 
process will in time affect our national socioeconomic priorities, from 
excessive defense expenditure in the West Bank and massive investments in 
settlement construction, to necessary social needs in sovereign Israel. Such a 
process will also improve our relations with the world, which will affect trade 
and investments in our hi-tech industry and in tourism in Israel.If 
Shelly is saying “It’s the economy, stupid...,” Tzipi answers “It’s peace,” and 
she is actually the clever one. A viable peace process with Abu Mazen could 
start within 24 hours if the next government would freeze all settlement 
construction beyond the Green Line for several months.This would open 
the door for the second Obama administration to engage with us on the peace 
process and on our security needs. This would strengthen Fatah and weaken Hamas. 
It also would allow for anti-terrorism cooperation, as proposed by our defense 
establishment, and eventually lead to a more friendly and pro-Western 
Palestinian state.A process leading to a Palestinian state will happen 
in one way or another, as there is a wall-to-wall global consensus on it. The 
critical question for us is, should it be imposed on us by the international 
community and the United States, or should it be a function of an Israeli policy 
initiative. It makes all the difference in the world; if the Arab world learns 
that they can have a deal on Palestine despite Israeli policies, we will pay the 
price for peace, without reaping its regional and international 
fruits.What is needed after January 22 is an Israeli (not Arab, not 
American) peace initiative proposing direct negotiations, with a settlement 
freeze, with anti-terrorism cooperation, on the basis of the Obama and Clinton 
visions.This would reflect strength, not weakness. An Israeli peace 
initiative leading to a viable peace process and eventually to a two-state 
solution is the key to our national security, to our socioeconomic development, 
to maintaining our moral high-ground, to rescuing our liberal democracy, to a 
Jewish democracy, to our participation in the family of nations, to 
strengthening our strategic alliance with the United States, to maintaining our 
defense and technological edges and to preventing Iran from becoming 
nuclear.The best suited person to run such a policy, among the existing 
candidates, is Tzipi Livni as prime minister, or at least as foreign minister in 
a Netanyahu government, as Bibi is unable or unwilling by himself to opt for 
peace. If he is indeed reelected, he will have to choose between Naftali Bennett 
of Bayit Yehudi and Tzipi Livni as a key partner.The key issue indeed is 
peace, in both the narrow and the deeper sense. As the expansionist, anti-peace 
settlement policies and racist, anti-democratic tendencies lead to a 
fundamentalist Israel, real peace policies with our neighbors, based on Jewish 
and universal values of equality and mutual respect, lead to a liberal, 
democratic Israel.This is the choice that pertains to our very soul and 
character, and this is what the debate should be about in the coming 30 
days.
The writer is president of the Peres Center for Peace and served as 
Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into The Fray: Assessing Abbas’s address</title>
<date>6/12/2012</date>
<content>
They are only concerned with using the concept of Palestinian freedom as a weapon against Israeli freedom. – Pilar Rahola, Spanish journalist The appearance of the Palestinian national personality comes as an answer to Israel’s claim that Palestine is Jewish. – Hussein bin Talal, late king of JordanThe existence of a separate Palestinian identity exists only for tactical reasons. The establishment of a Palestinian state is a new tool to continue the fight against Israel. – Zuheir Muhsin, late member of the PLO Executive Council Something bizarre happened at the UN last Thursday – so bizarre, in fact, it would be difficult to make stuff like this up.Dysfunctional polity, collapsing economy The plenary session of the General Assembly was addressed by a man who despite the fact that his term of office expired almost half a decade ago, still purports to be the leader of a people who openly concede they have no real, separate identity, and that the only rationale for their claiming nationhood is to deny that of another UN member state; a man who was forcibly ejected from, and is now barred – on pain of death – from reentering a good portion of the area populated by the people he claims to represent; a people that, despite two decades of unprecedented economic aid and political support, has been unable to create anything remotely resembling a stable, productive civil society.




From the podium, this man, who parades as president of an entity with a dysfunctional polity and a collapsing economy – with a minuscule private sector and a bloated public one, wracked by corruption, and crippled by cronyism, manifestly unsustainable without (and probably even with) massive infusions of foreign funds – launched into a distortive and deceptive diatribe against Israel.Of course, the fact that without Israeli largesse this man’s regime would implode in very short order, in no way deterred him from his malevolent, mendacious and misleading monologue – which only made the entire event more macabre.This man, Mahmoud Abbas (a.k.a. Abu Mazen), whose regime was permitted to run up a debt amounting to close to a quarter billion dollars for unpaid electricity provided by Israel – which itself makes Israel one of his largest benefactors – accused the very entity propping him up in power of virtually every heinous misdeed known to man.Delegitimizing principal benefactor? True, about halfway through his toxic tirade, he did pause momentarily to pay lip service to diplomatic niceties, claiming “We did not come here seeking to delegitimize a state established years ago, and that is Israel,” but in fact he did everything to achieve just that.Thus, referring to the recent Israeli Operation Pillar of Defense, he fulminated, fraudulently: “The Israeli aggression against our people in the Gaza Strip has confirmed once again the urgent and pressing need to end the Israeli occupation.”From this shrill cry “to end the Israeli occupation” one would never guess that there is no occupation in Gaza.Indeed, Israel has not only withdrawn completely – without any quid pro quo – from the entire Gaza Strip in 2005, but razed every vestige of Jewish presence there, even uprooting Jewish graveyards, leaving behind only a number of synagogues, which were demolished in a frenzy of Judeophobic rage by local mobs immediately after the Israeli evacuation.Oh yes, some of them also took time out to trash thousands (!) of hi-tech greenhouses, purchased for the Palestinian Authority by American Jewish donors – at the initiative of then-World Bank president James Wolfensohn, who reportedly also put up $500,000 of his own cash. (Somewhat euphemistically, NBC News described this senseless vandalism as a “blow to efforts to reconstruct the Gaza Strip.”) Of course, Abbas’s reference to “our people in Gaza” might cause a raised eyebrow or two – seeing it was the folk in Gaza who voted in the rival Hamas in 2006, who then forcibly ejected his Fatah faction from the Strip in a flare of fratricidal fury in 2007, pitching his men off high-rises and blowing away their kneecaps in the process. Perhaps something got lost in the translation from the Arabic.Histrionics trumps history Flagrantly distorting the historical record, Abbas declared defiantly, “We will accept no less than the independence of the State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, on all the Palestinian territory occupied in 1967.”Palestinian territory occupied in 1967? There was no territory that was claimed by the Palestinians that was occupied in 1967. Indeed, as I have mentioned repeatedly in previous columns, in the original (1964) version of their National Charter, the Palestinians explicitly eschewed any sovereign claims to either the Gaza Strip or the “West Bank” – even acknowledging specifically that the latter lay in the “Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan” (Article 24). In fact, until 1967, this territory (including east Jerusalem) was annexed by Jordan and up to 1988, Jordan continued to demand it be returned to its rule.Palestinian eschewal of sovereignty over territories “occupied” in 1967 is something that the UN delegates could easily verify – as the 1964 Charter appears in its entirety on the official UN website of the Permanent Palestine Observer Mission to the United Nations – soon to be upgraded to The Permanent Observer Mission of the State of Palestine to the United Nations. (While this column was being composed, the UN website posted that it was “undergoing urgent maintenance” and was “currently unavailable.”) The territories that they did then claim as “Palestinian” were those inside the 1967 Green Line. Thus, several days prior to the 1967 Six Day War, before Israel held a square inch of territory now designated by Abbas as “occupied” – indeed, before the term “occupation” had any notional significance or practical relevance – Ahmed Shukairy (Abbas’s – and Arafat’s – predecessor as chairman of the PLO) gloated: “D-Day is approaching. The Arabs have waited 19 years [i.e. from 1948 to 1967] for this and will not flinch from the war of liberation.”A little later, in a somewhat premature flush of triumph, he crowed: “This is a fight for the homeland [i.e. pre-1967 Israel!]. It is either us or the Israelis. There is no middle road. The Jews of Palestine [i.e. within pre-1967 lines] will have to leave. We shall destroy [pre- 1967] Israel and its inhabitants and as for the survivors – if there are any – the boats are ready to deport them.”But at the UN last week, histrionic spin trumped historical substance and Abbas’s sinister subterfuge went unnoticed – and certainly unchallenged.Disingenuous and deceptive Disingenuously, Abbas attempted to suggest the Israeli military action last month was an unprovoked assault on a pacific Palestinian population, charging that “this aggression also confirms the Israeli government’s adherence to the policy of occupation, brute force and war.”Really? Aggression? The fact that it was precipitated by continuous barrages of missiles and rockets on Israeli towns and villages from the (unoccupied) Gaza Strip was of course never conveyed to his audience.But arguably the most deceitful insinuation by Abbas is that there was any connection between Operation Pillar of Defense and the Palestinians’ UN bid, and that Israel had tried to dissuade them from it by means of a military threat.Shamefully – or is that shamelessly? – he proclaimed: “You too have heard specifically over the past months the incessant flood of Israeli threats in response to our peaceful, political and diplomatic endeavor for Palestine to acquire non-member observer state in the United Nations. And, you have surely witnessed how some of these threats have been carried out in a barbaric and horrific manner just days ago in the Gaza Strip.”This, of course, is a grotesque distortion of truth. For clearly had there been no rocket attacks on Israel civilians, there would have been no need for any action to stop them.Palestinians in glass houses...Abbas railed on: “This Israeli occupation is becoming synonymous with an apartheid system of colonial occupation, which institutionalizes the plague of racism and entrenches hatred and incitement.”Well, some might find such vilification more than a little galling, especially coming from someone whose official regime-sanctioned media regularly portrays the Jews as pigs and monkeys – or at least the descendants thereof – whose wholesale slaughter is the key to redemption.Funny, isn’t it, how Israel – purportedly tainted with “the plague of racism” – is the only country in the Middle East where the Christian population has increased over recent decades (as has its Muslim population). By contrast, in territories under Palestinian administration, with its allegedly “principled and moral support for freedom and the rights of peoples and international law and peace,” it has been denuded dramatically.Thus, in Bethlehem, under the Arafat- Abbas regime, the Christian population has been eroded from an over 75 percent majority to a minority, now reportedly under 20 percent – vividly underscoring how the ominous premonitions expressed as early as 1993 by Dr. George Carey, then archbishop of Canterbury, have in fact materialized.Following a visit to the Holy Land he stated: “My fear is that in 15 years, Bethlehem – once [a] center of a strong Christian presence – might become a kind of Walt Disney Christian theme park.”By December 1997, The Times reported that due to “unceasing persecution under the Palestinian Authority... his vision of the birthplace of the Christian religion... is becoming more a reality with each celebration of Christ’s birth.”Now there’s institutionalized incitement and entrenched hatred for you! Falsehood, fabrications, fibs As for Abbas’s charges of “racism and apartheid” – true, there are differential administrative systems in place beyond the 1967 Green Line pertaining to Israelis (both Jews and Arabs) and non-Israelis. But to suggest that this reflects any ideology vaguely akin to apartheid is to maliciously misrepresent the facts.Indeed, it is a deliberate attempt to ignore or obscure the fact that Israel’s policy towards the Palestinians is driven not by a discriminatory doctrine of racial superiority but by proven security concerns and accumulated experience of Judeocidal attacks. It is a claim which implies that it is unacceptable for Israel to distinguish between friend and foe, and should treat both with the same undifferentiated even-handedness. Indeed, there is little daylight between such a position, and the denial of the Jews’ right to self-defense, which is itself the epitome of Judeophobic racism.We could go on enumerating falsehood after fabrication after fib, but opinion pieces have their constraints. So in conclusion, perhaps the most staggering display of hypocrisy by Abbas was his invoking the UN declaration endorsing the establishment of Israel in support of his claim for recognition of Palestinian statehood.Abbas: “Sixty-five years ago on this day, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution 181 (II), which partitioned the land of historic Palestine into two states and became the birth certificate for Israel.”This is barefaced duplicity, because Palestinians have always rejected the validity of that resolution. Indeed, Article 19 of the their national charter proclaims unequivocally: “The partition of Palestine in 1947, and the establishment of the state of Israel are entirely illegal, regardless of the passage of time, because they were... inconsistent with the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations.”Incredibly, this permanent repudiationcum- defamation of UN Resolution 181 is still posted on the previously mentioned official UN website of the Palestine Observer Mission to the United Nations.Beyond bizarre? So get this. The Palestinians are basing their claim for statehood on a UN resolution which, to this day, they consider irretrievably invalid – regardless of the passage of time. As I said, bizarre, huh? 
But perhaps even more bizarre was the spectacle of the General Assembly rising to a standing ovation as Abbas’s vicious vilification of a UN member state drew to a close – which of course significantly reinforces the sentiment expressed in the opening citation: “They are only concerned with using the concept of Palestinian freedom as a weapon against Israeli freedom.”Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder and executive director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into The Fray: A study in impotence</title>
<date>26/1/2012</date>
<content>
Water reveals a new apartheid in the Middle East. The 450,000 Israeli settlers 
in the West Bank use as much or more water than some 2.3 million Palestinians... 
even if only a few dare to use the word, all indications are that the Middle 
East is the scene of a new apartheid.... And in this situation, water is a 
particular element of conflict between Palestinians and Israelis. – Excerpt from 
the French parliamentary report on “The Geopolitics of Water” My most recent 
columns have been devoted to analyzing Israel’s public diplomacy, the reasons 
for its manifest ineptitude, and the mechanisms that produce this abysmal 
performance.




Last week, by coincidence, an illustrative example, 
underscoring precisely what I have been trying to convey, broke into the 
headlines.It came in the form of a French parliamentary report on 
Israel’s water policy, authored by Jean Glavany, a Socialist member of the 
National Assembly, and accusing Israel of using water as an instrument of 
apartheid and oppression against the Palestinians.Responses, 
recriminations, repudiations The report sent Israeli officialdom into a 
tizzy.The media were peppered with responses, repudiations and 
recriminations. Foreign Ministry officials claimed to have been unaware of the 
document until several days after its posting on the National Assembly 
website.One diplomatic source characterized the report as “a serious 
mishap that... has seriously damaged Israel’s image in France.” The embassy in 
Paris was accused of falling asleep on the job for not alerting the Israeli 
authorities of the impending publication and the malevolent nature of its 
contents.Israel robustly repudiated the report. The Foreign Ministry 
spokesman condemned it – correctly – as “unacceptable,” “loaded with the 
language of vicious propaganda, far removed from any professional criticism” and 
tainted with “blatant tendentiousness.”Moreover, according to official 
Israeli sources, some members of the working group involved in compiling the 
report disassociated themselves from its anti-Israel tenor.However, the 
damage had already been done. Israel had – once again – been linked to the 
dreaded “A-word.”Cyberspace was replete with websites seizing on the 
report as yet another affirmation of the odious nature of the Jewish state and 
its dastardly discrimination against the “other.”Delusional derogatory 
drivel Israel’s firm rebuttal of the report was factually correct and morally 
justified. This was a document that comes as close to unadulterated, uninformed 
drivel as the written word can get, with accusations as malicious as they were 
mendacious.Its allegations range from the highly implausible to the 
totally impossible. For example, one of its more ludicrous allegations is that 
Israel’s security barrier – “the wall”– “prevents Palestinian access to the 
Jordan River.”However – as the most cursory glance at any map will show 
– the “wall” is located along, or close to, the 1967 Green Line, so it cannot 
constitute an impediment of any kind to Palestinian access to the Jordan 
River.The river has anyway been reduced to a highly polluted trickle 
south of the Kinneret.As such, it has been insignificant as a water 
source for decades, and access to it – or lack thereof – is irrelevant to 
Palestinians’ hydrological situation. So contrary to the impression the report 
creates, it has no bearing on the quantity of water available to 
them.Only marginally less absurd is the document’s supposition that 
avaricious hydrological calculations lay behind the construction of “the wall,” 
to ensure Israeli supplies and to prevent Palestinians from extracting water 
from sites in the adjacent “buffer” zone.In fact, construction of the 
security barrier was undertaken solely in response to the horrific Palestinian 
terrorism that took place between 2000 and 2003. It seems that a few “minor” 
details eluded Monsieur Glavany’s memory when forming his opinion of the 
function of the security barrier and the events that lead to its construction – 
such as the Passover massacre at Park Hotel in Netanya, and the carnage at the 
Sbarro restaurant and the Moment Café (both in Jerusalem), the Dizengoff Center 
and the Dolphinarium (both in Tel Aviv), and at the Beit Lid and Meggido 
junctions, to name but a few.Had it not been for Palestinian terrorism 
there would have been no barrier. To suggest otherwise is either ignominious or 
ignorant.Passivity over preemption Despite all this, the French 
hydro-report episode was indeed a diplomatic debacle for Israel, not because of 
what was done after its publication, but because of what was not done before 
it.Once again, Israeli diplomacy was seen to be slamming the stable 
doors long after the horses had bolted, reacting to events rather than 
anticipating them. It was a classic illustration of what I described in last 
week’s column, of “Israeli [diplomatic] endeavors [being] reduced to defensive 
tactical responses, chasing events rather than preempting them, and doomed to 
failure.”There is little room for excuses, particularly when it comes to 
the water issue.For while it may not have been possible to predict 
publication of this particular report at this particular time, the appearance of 
some similar document from some source or other was a near certainty, which 
should have been foreseen and preempted.Sense of déjà vu The situation 
that has arisen in the wake of the Glavany report has an eerie sense of déjà vu 
about it. It was barely two years ago that a similar document was produced by 
Amnesty International, brandishing similarly baseless accusations berating 
Israel’s water policy as an instrument of apartheid.The report 
immediately became a centerpiece of a US lecture tour by Omar Barghouti, 
arguably the most prominent leader of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions 
campaign against Israel. Flyers billing his talks splashed the title: “Thirsting 
for Justice: Israel’s control of water as a tool of apartheid and means of 
ethnic cleansing.”The Israel diplomatic establishment had ample warning 
of Barghouti’s appearances.Despite this, no action was taken on 
suggestions – including from this writer – to preempt his appearances with the 
massive distribution of factual material, refuting the cavalcade of distortions, 
falsehood, exaggerations, omissions and half-truths that comprised his 
talk.Lessons unlearned The lessons of the Amnesty/Barghouti episode 
remained unlearned.Rather than adopt an offense strategic initiative to 
remove Israel’s water policy for the list of topics that can be used to 
denigrate the country, those charged with the conduct of its public diplomacy 
have opted for defensive tactical responses to hostile initiatives. Rather than 
launch an ongoing enterprise to set, a priori, the context in which later events 
are interpreted/perceived, they have opted to fend off individual accusations 
and condemnations, made in the inimical context prevailing today.This is 
particularly exasperating in the case of water, which is one of the topics most 
amenable to mounting such an preemptive enterprise.For while it is 
always possible to find heartrending anecdotal evidence involving highly 
localized incidents in which an elderly Palestinian may have been 
inappropriately treated, or in which the IDF damaged a cistern, these in no way 
reflect the intent or consequences of Israeli policy. This can only be fairly 
assessed by the overall impact that policy has had on the Palestinians’ water 
situation.Here the facts are unequivocal. They should be used to quash 
any allegation of discriminatory deprivation, as part on an ongoing proactive 
initiative to inform opinion-makers, hydro-professionals and the general public, 
and to create a context in which any accusatory documents are likely to be 
dismissed with the contempt they richly deserve.Facts, figures, 
fabrications The Palestinians’ hydrological situation improved beyond all 
recognition under Israeli administration, not only in absolute terms compared to 
initial pre-“occupation” conditions, but in relative terms compared to that of 
Israelis.Whether one focuses on overall consumption of fresh water; per 
capita consumption of fresh water; consumption of fresh water relative to 
Israelis; accessibility of running water to households; the area under 
agricultural cultivation; or the size of the agricultural product, the 
conditions for the Palestinians have been dramatically enhanced by Israeli 
rule.Between 1967 and 2006, the overall annual consumption of fresh 
water by “West Bank” Palestinians grew by 300 percent, from 60 million cubic 
meters to 180 m.cu.m. The annual per capita consumption in the same period rose 
by almost 15%, from 86 cubic meters to 100 cu.m.Overall consumption by 
Israel dropped by 15% (from 1,411 m.cu.m. to 1,211 m.cu.m.), while the per 
capita consumption plummeted by 70% (from 508 cu.m to 170 cu.m.), a remarkable 
decrease made possible not only by more efficient usage but also by massive 
replacement of fresh water by recycled sewage for irrigation, and of naturally 
occurring fresh water by desalinated water for domestic use.By contrast, 
the Palestinians have steadfastly refused to undertake agreed-upon sewage 
purification projects, allowing untreated effluents to endanger “downstream” 
Israeli supplies.Palestinian claims that it is Israel which has 
prevented the construction of recycling plants are preposterous. For what 
twisted logic could conceivably induce the fiendishly cunning Zionists to oppose 
the construction of installations that would protect their own water resources 
from Palestinian pollutants? The wimpiness of ‘Zionist oppression’? Moreover, 
from 1967 to the years just before Oslo, Palestinian household consumption rose 
dramatically – by almost 600%, significantly higher than the 230% in 
Israel.Similarly, water-conveyance to households also increased 
impressively.Whereas in 1967 only 10% of the “West Bank” Arab population 
was connected to a running water system, the figure today stands at 95%. So much 
for discriminatory deprivation.Palestinian agricultural performance 
improved dramatically as well, even though water allocations were not increased. 
(In recent years Israeli farmers have had their freshwater allocations slashed 
by 50% and more.) This was facilitated by the introduction of more advanced 
methods of irrigation and cultivation, resulting in an increase of the area 
cultivated by about 160% and of the agricultural product by 1,200%.As 
world-renowned soil-physicist and hydrologist Daniel Hillel observes, by the 
1990s, farming “was transformed from a subsistence enterprise to a commercial 
industry.”Furthermore, the inflammatory claims that luscious lawns and 
shimmering swimming pools in Jewish settlements unfairly and provocatively 
deprive Palestinians of water are belied by a single statistic: Israel conveys 
more water (nearly 56 m.cu.m.) from inside the pre-1967 borders into the “West 
Bank” than the total consumption of the entire Jewish population in the 
settlements across the “Green Line” (just over 48 m.cu.m.).In other 
words, there is a net inflow of water from pre-1967 Israel to the Palestinians 
which more than compensates for the much-maligned lawns and pools.Demand 
– not discrimination While claims that per-capita consumption of water by 
Israelis is much higher than that of the Palestinian population are true, this 
is principally a result of differences in demand – not supply – because of 
differences in lifestyles. (Clearly, the fact that a millionaire in an opulent 
penthouse in Manhattan will use far less water than equally affluent owner of a 
sprawling estate in Bel Air is not a matter of discriminatory 
deprivation).Different rates of consumption are found between the Jewish 
and Arab populations within pre-1967 Israel – and between different 
socioeconomic groups within the Jewish population – without anyone raising the 
claim that this is the result of purposeful deprivation.Interestingly, 
per-capita consumption in the frequently vilified settlement of Kiryat Arba is 
25% lower than in the Beduin city of Rahat – and 90% lower than in up-market 
Savyon). What perverse discrimination does that indicate? The perils of 
PC-diplomacy These facts and many others should be assertively and proactively 
inserted into the public discourse, not only as a response to attacks, but as 
part of an ongoing endeavor to mold public awareness and perception of the 
realities that pertain to the Arab-Israeli conflict.One of the principal 
reasons that this is not occurring is the PC (Palestinian-compliant) 
perspectives of the Israeli civil society elites, discussed in my previous 
columns, who exert a dominant influence on the conduct of our public 
diplomacy.These entrenched elites cannot permit accurate portrayal of 
Palestinian society without undermining their own worldview.(With regard 
to the water issue, I can attest to this personally.) After all, this would 
entail exposing the fundamental reasons why the Palestinians find themselves in 
the miserable state in which they are today: a) a chronic and cavalier disregard 
for the truth; b) an enduring propensity to blame others for their fate; and c) 
an obdurate refusal to take responsibility for their own actions – and 
inaction.And that is something one does not say in polite 
company.
www.martinsherman.net
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the Fray: Israel’s Pearl Harbor?</title>
<date>1/3/2012</date>
<content>
Anti-Israel hatred on campus crests each year during an event called “Israel 
Apartheid Week.” With this ominous name and programs that thrive on ignorance 
and blind disregard for the facts, tens of thousands of college students are 
urged to rise up against Israel                                                          – Dore Gold, February 23, 2012 Israel is 
completely outclassed and outmaneuvered on a battleground it doesn’t even 
understand it is on                                                          – Melanie Phillips, January 9, 2011 




Israel Apartheid Week 
(IAW) is once again upon us. Described on its official website as “an annual 
international series of events held in cities and campuses across the globe,” 
its aim is “to educate people about the nature of Israel as an apartheid system 
and to build Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) campaigns as part of a 
growing global BDS movement.”Traditionally, IAW includes events 
(lectures, films, rallies, poetry readings, art exhibitions and so on) spanning 
anything from 60 to 90 cities from Albuquerque to Zurich.This year, 
however, a new condiment has been added to spice up the noxious brew of deceit, 
distortion, and disinformation on the IAW menu.Harvard’s harbinger 
hate-fest This weekend a conference will be held at Harvard University, 
organized by a slew of pro-Palestinians student organizations, to discuss 
prospects for the implementation of a one-state solution for the resolution of 
the Israel-Palestine conflict.In the words of the organizers, “our 
conference will help to expand the range of academic debate” in which to date 
“the only Israel/Palestine solution that has received a fair rehearsal in 
mainstream forums has been the two-state solution.”Although the 
conference is not officially part of IAW activities, there is little daylight 
between the two, as demonstrated by an IAW poster which prominently features 
it under the heading of “Other Palestinian Events” taking place in Boston under 
IAW auspices.The goals of the conference are “to educate ourselves and 
others about the possible contours of a one-state solution and the challenges 
that stand in the way of its realization.”The two-day program includes 
six sessions with a list of about 20 speakers, almost all with distinctly anti-Zionist/anti-Israel credentials.A cursory glance at the sessions reveals 
the thrust of the conference.The first panel, titled “What happened to 
the two-state solution?” is slated to “trace the Oslo process’s trajectory to 
explain why ‘two-states for two peoples’ is no longer a viable option for 
Israel/Palestine,” while the final panel – titled “A History of Violence: Truth 
and Reconciliation” – poses the following loaded questions: As in other conflict 
zones, the Palestinians and Israelis will one day need to share the same land 
and resources in one country. Yet, a great deal of violence has isolated the two 
peoples from one another.And individuals who may have committed war 
crimes may remain at large.How can the open wounds of the past be 
healed? How can justice for the victims of racism or violence be achieved? South 
Africa as template Doesn’t get much clearer than that. An international drive 
has begun to annul Jewish sovereignty, to fuse all the territory between the 
Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea into one, ostensibly polyethnic, 
political unit and to apply the South African model of the Truth and 
Reconciliation Commission to reinforce the perception of the Zionist regime’s 
apartheid practices, mimicking the South African precedent in dealing with 
“individuals who may have committed war crimes” (IDF soldiers and Israeli 
security personnel) to “achieve justice for the victims of racism” (the 
Palestinians).The planned conference has provoked vehement protest from 
numerous prominent pro-Israeli figures – including the American Jewish 
Committee’s David Harris, Harvard’s Alan Dershowitz and The Jerusalem Post’s 
Caroline Glick – who pointed out, quite correctly, that the event is a thinly 
veiled call for the abolition of Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish 
people.The strong condemnation of the conference was clearly justified. 
For behind the sanitized academic phraseology about “helping to expand the range 
of the debate” and “educating ourselves and others about the possible contours 
and challenges of a one-state solution,” lies venomous political intent: To 
create an international climate in which it will be impossible for the Jews not 
only to sustain their national sovereignty, but even to sustain the very notion 
that they have a right to do so.And that is precisely where IAW and the 
One-State Conference dovetail. They both endeavor to co-opt the symbolism and 
imagery associated with the struggle against the genuine racism of 
apartheid-regime South Africa and use it against the Zionist regime in 
Israel/Palestine by creating a false parallel between the two.The clear 
implication that this misleading analogy engenders is equally misplaced: Just as 
apartheid was abolished so must Zionism – and the Jewish nation-state – be, 
replaced by the illusion of an egalitarian state-of-all-its-citizens 
incorporating all the land from the river to the sea.Chickens home to 
roost In an article titled “Fighting campus hatred,” Dore Gold, a former Israeli 
ambassador to the UN, comments: “These campus initiatives were incubated in 2001 
at the first Durban Conference, proclaiming ‘no apartheid South Africa in the 
20th century and no apartheid Israel in the 21st.’ This battle cry sparked the 
BDS movement calling for boycotts, divestment and sanctions to punish Israel, 
and evolved into an invective-loaded campaign on campuses coast to coast among 
some labor unions, churches, media and cultural institutions.“But,” as 
Gold rightly observes, “it is based on a lie.... Those hurling these charges 
against Israel hope that their audiences are ignorant of the facts.”He 
cautions, however, that, “unsubstantiated allegations, constantly repeated, take 
a toll on American opinion, despite bedrock gut support for Israel which, 
thankfully, exists as a strong counter-force to this mass exercise in 
propaganda.”A recent report by The David Project indicates that support for Israel is lower among college students than the rest of the American 
population. It warned that bipartisan American support for the Jewish state 
could be threatened if large segments of the public comprising the future 
leadership spend their formative years in an environment dominated by negative 
attitudes toward Israel.Yet none of this is, or was, 
unavoidable.Significantly, Gold points out: “Studies confirm that when 
accurate information about Israeli policies, society and values is provided, the 
false [anti-Israel] arguments are uniformly rejected.”He goes on to urge 
that “our most critical challenge is to educate the young. Our students feel 
confident and empowered when they know the facts and can challenge group-think 
favoring Israel’s isolation, dismantlement or destruction. We are duty-bound to 
engage students.”And there you have it in a nutshell. The current situation 
reflecting the accumulated effect of over a decade of a well-orchestrated assault 
on Israel’s legitimacy is the most damning indictment of Israel’s public 
diplomacy and of those charged with its conduct.For despite all the 
well-placed diagnoses of sources of virulent Judeophobic sentiment across the 
world, much of the blame must be allotted to ineffectual Israeli response to the 
clearly gathering storm clouds.Indolence, impotence, ignorance Wail as 
we may at the falsehoods propagated by our enemies, this will have little impact 
in addressing what in many ways is emerging as the most ominous strategic danger 
facing the country.Of course, Israel will be subjected to diplomatic 
attack by its adversaries. That is what adversaries do. As Melanie Phillips 
observes, “The Arabs, the Palestinians, Muslims have organized for years. They 
have put money and thought and intelligence and shrewdness behind this 
[campaign].”But, far more than the actions of its foes, it has been the 
inaction of Israel in retaliating that has precipitated the current abysmal 
situation.I have written previously on the pitiful levels of resources 
that are devoted to Israel’s public diplomacy. We are now harvesting the bitter 
fruits of the misguided miserliness.For when Dore Gold and others 
complain that pro-Israeli students lack the basic knowledge to rebut the 
baseless accusations of their well-funded anti- Zionist rivals, who should be 
held responsible for leaving them so unprepared for battle? Why has there been 
no commensurate Israeli investment of “money, thought, intelligence and 
shrewdness” in repudiating this insidious offensive of unfounded invective? Why 
has the Israeli leadership allowed a motley collection of clearly fabricated and 
easily refuted falsehoods to balloon out of control and become what is now a 
threat of strategic proportions? Prisoner of process The answer is relatively 
simple – although many will find it difficult to accept. By entering the 
Oslowian “peace process,” and recognizing the legitimacy the Palestinian Arabs’ 
claim to statehood, Israel virtually ensured its current diplomatic 
beleaguerment.The reasons for this are twofold: • By acknowledging the 
Palestinians as worthy “partners for peace,” Israel has precluded any 
possibility of conveying to the world the true nature of its adversaries and 
hence precluded any chance of acquiring international understanding for the 
measures it requires to ensure its national security and the physical safety of 
its citizens.• The establishment of a Palestinian state west of the 
Jordan would – except under wildly optimistic, and hence irresponsible, 
assumptions – make the maintenance of day-to-day security within the Green Line 
untenable. Thus by acknowledging the legitimacy of the Palestinian claims for 
statehood in Judea and Samaria, Israel has locked itself into a situation in 
which it can only ensure the security of its population by denying the 
fulfillment of claims it itself acknowledges as legitimate.As long as 
Israel remains committed to the “peace process,” its diplomatic strategy will 
remain imprisoned by the exigencies of maintaining that process – or at least 
the appearance thereof.Accordingly, Israel will not be able to present 
Palestinian society as the brutal, backward, bloodthirsty society it really is 
without exposing itself to accusations of willfully derailing peace efforts. As 
long as this restriction persists, Israeli reticence in bowing to Palestinian 
demands will be seen as unreasonable and inexplicable obstructionism. Likewise, 
Israel’s inability to accurately convey the dangers involved in a Palestinian 
state inevitably portray Israel as arbitrarily denying the rights of 
Palestinians it itself professes to perceive as valid.Unsurprisingly, 
this creates a position which is increasingly incomprehensible and 
indefensible.Inevitable one-state debate It is impossible to 
overestimate the potential longer-term significance of what is to take place at 
Harvard this weekend, whatever the immediate impact might be. It is the initial 
step in a process enormously dangerous for Israel – a process it dare not 
disregard. It may turn out to be its “Pearl Harbor.”In this respect, 
well-meaning pro-Israel advocates such as Alan Dershowitz and David Harris are 
gravely mistaken in their endorsement of the two-state paradigm.Anybody 
with a firm grasp of the geographical, topographical and hydrological parameters 
of the area, together with a knowledge of the socio-cultural and religious 
characteristics of the relevant populations and an appreciation of the dismal 
events of the past quarter century, will recognize that it is an unrealistic pipe 
dream. Clinging to it plays into the hands of the enemy.For even under 
the wildly implausible assumption that the Palestinians genuinely desire a state 
for themselves, the bargain that needs to be struck is unattainable.The 
maximum Israel can offer without irresponsibly compromising its security is less 
than the minimum Palestinians can be reasonably expected to accept in satisfying 
their national aspirations.Conversely, the minimum that the Palestinians 
can be expected to accept for a tenable state exceeds the maximum that Israel 
can offer without rendering its security untenable.Accordingly, as 
Israel necessarily puts off agreeing to the establishment of a Palestinian 
state, the two-state principle will appear less and less viable. Inevitably this 
will be perceived as unjustified Israeli intransigence. This is precisely why 
paying lip service to an unattainable two-state solution plays into the hands of 
the enemy – for it creates situations that invariably cast Israel in a negative, 
disingenuous role.Thus adhering to it is not the key to Israel’s 
legitimacy. Quite the opposite. It is increasingly the source of its 
de-legitimization.Urgent strategic imperative Unavoidably, as frustration 
with the two-state principle increases, the quest for alternatives will begin. 
This was precisely the “hook” for the Harvard event.Unless a serious 
effort to formulate a logically consistent, operationally viable, 
Zionist-compliant alternative is undertaken with great urgency (see my 
“Palestine: What Sherlock Holmes would say”), the Harvard-formulated one-state 
paradigm will gain increasing ascendancy in the public discourse.Dealing 
with this rapidly emerging menace is Israel’s most pressing 
imperative.Failing to do so would indeed invite a new “Pearl 
Harbor.”
www.martinsherman.net
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Is Israel using Assad, or is he using Israel?</title>
<date>25/6/2012</date>
<content>
Regarding Israel’s opinion of the coming civil war in Syria, there is no black 
and white. Views are mixed. Views are either formed from an empathetic 
humanitarian ethos, or from an austere military-strategic ethos. The former view 
seeks to rid the world of any threat of genocide, no matter the details. The 
latter view poses the question: if the Assad regime falls, does it mean the 
Islamification of Syria? Would the new regime be a hit or a miss for Iran? One 
policy analyst, Khaled Abu Toameh, raised the issue of Islamification in a 
recent article. “What started as a secular Facebook revolution against the Assad 
regime is now beginning to look more like a jihad [holy war] led by Muslim 
fundamentalists,” he wrote. “The Muslim Brotherhood is clearly seeking to hijack 
the anti-Assad protests, in both the political and military fields.”




Does 
this remind you of Egypt? So what position should Israel take, if it must take 
any? Well, in an April 23, 2011, article, former deputy defense minister Efraim 
Sneh told The Washington Post, “We prefer the devil we know.... Although 
the Islamist forces are not the majority in the opposition, they are better 
organized and politically competent. And if we fantasize today that one 
day we’ll be able to take the secular regime in Syria outside the Iranian orbit, 
it may be more difficult, if not impossible, if the regime is an Islamist 
one.”Islamist or not, Yitzhak Laor penned an editorial for another 
Israeli daily on June 12, suggesting that when the Assad regime falls, the new 
regime, beleaguered by civil war, will amplify the demand for the Golan Heights. 
Still, much of the free world, Israel included, is having a hard time digesting 
the grizzly butchering in Syria. (At least 10,000 are dead so 
far).Deputy Prime Minister Shaul Mofaz recently criticized Russia for 
continuing to arm the Assad regime. He told Israeli radio, “This slaughter is 
being carried out not far from Israel’s borders. For understandable reasons, 
Israel cannot be directly involved. But I think that the West, led by the United 
States, has an interest in guarding the threshold [so] genocide does not take 
place.”In a recent article on the blog Electronic Intifada, entitled, 
“Pointing to Syria to divert attention from Israel’s crimes,” Jamil Sbitan, an 
American- Palestinian blogger, argued that Zionists are pointing fingers at the 
genocide in Syria in order to divert attention from their own practice of ethnic 
cleansing.What does he mean? Perhaps it is in reference to the fact that 
Israeli newspapers bear photographs of the carnage in Syria. The blogger from 
Electronic Intifada writes: “In addition to pink-washing [using Israel’s relative 
support of gay rights to sugarcoat the country’s apartheid nature] and 
green-washing [perpetuating the perception that Israel has 
environmentally-friendly policies to do the same], Zionist advocates are now 
using a different method: Assad-washing.”The one time that Israel was 
directly threatened by the situation in Syria was last April. Naksa Day 2011 
occurred only three months after the crackdowns began on the Syrian uprisings. 
When Palestinian rioters approached the border between Israel and Syria (the 
Golan Heights, which belong to Israel, and were captured during the 1967 war; 
and Quneitra, the portion of Syria on which the Golan Heights gazes on from 
above), hurling rocks and Molotov cocktails at Israel border police and IDF 
armored cars, the Jewish forces were commanded to open live fire.Had 
Israel solely intended to act in demonization of such cold-blooded murderers as 
Bashar Assad, (as the blogger from Electronic Intifada suggests) they would 
not have reacted so forcefully against the demonstrators.Israel’s strict 
policy towards the Palestinians is built on security. Israel’s security barrier, 
referred to almost academically as the “apartheid wall,” is not to sniff out the 
Arab blood and make life impossible, but to protect the liberal standards of the 
new Jewish state – still sans a constitution – from extreme Islamism; more akin 
to the Berlin Wall than the country where Akfrikaans is spoken.A point 
in case is presented in a new documentary entitled, Israel/Palestine – The 
Invisible Men, from JourneyMan Pictures, written and produced by Yariv Mozer, 
that apparently depicts the lives of two homosexual Muslims from the West Bank 
who must seek refuge in Israel – where it is illegal for them to be – from 
homophobic abuses by their family and government.When Israel dismissed 
April’s “flytilla” protest, pointing to human rights abuses in Syria and Iran, 
it must have hatched the myth that Israel was using Assad to hide its own 
atrocities. Pro- Palestinian activists aboard April’s “flytilla” demonstration 
were greeted at Ben-Gurion Airport with letters stamped and signed by Jerusalem 
begging activists to focus their humanitarian concern on the “Syrian regime’s 
daily savagery against its own people, which has claimed thousands of lives... 
[and] the Iranian regime’s brutal crackdown on dissent and support of terrorism 
throughout the world... [and]... the Hamas rule in Gaza, where terror 
organizations commit a double war crime by firing rockets at civilians and 
hiding behind civilians...”For the enemy of the state, it would be easy 
to make the argument that Israel, as perpetrators of war crimes and 
ethnic cleansing are just conducting a campy campaign to hide the horrors of 
their own government. But even Noam Sheizaf from the left-wing +972 magazine 
told a correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor, “Palestinians understand 
they will not see a sovereign state from the peace process, and they are trying 
to bring their issue back to the basic denial of human rights.... If I were a 
newsroom editor I would focus on Syria and Afghanistan as well...”One 
thing you can be certain of: Noam Sheizaf is not Assad-washing.
The writer 
is a freelance journalist based in Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel 2012: Tactical brilliance, strategic imbecility</title>
<date>22/11/2012</date>
<content>
The ultimate test of this agreement will be a test of blood.... If it becomes 
clear that they [the Palestinians] cannot overcome terror, this will be a 
temporary accord and... we will have no choice but to abrogate it. And if there 
is no choice, the IDF will return to the places which it is about to leave in 
the upcoming months. – Yossi Beilin, on the Oslo Accords, Ma’ariv, November 26, 
1993.Is it just me or is there something dreadfully wrong – almost 
grotesquely absurd – with the government not only asking a member of the Muslim 
Brotherhood to broker a deal for it in a conflict with... the Muslim 
Brotherhood, but, incredibly, also to adjudicate in the case of alleged 
breaches? 




Things can’t get any more topsy-turvy crazy than that, can they? Mad 
Hatters and March Hares The dementia that has seized the policy- making process 
in Israel, and the mindless prattle of the political pundits that accompanies 
it, has become so pervasive that it is increasingly difficult to 
grasp.Indeed, were the characters from Lewis Caroll’s fantasy Wonderland 
to tumble down a rabbit hole into Israel, they would be likely to find the 
events here so nonsensical and far-fetched, that they would make the Mad 
Hatter’s head spin with bewilderment, and the eyes of the March Hare glaze over 
with disbelief.True, Israel has made impressive – indeed in many 
respects, unprecedented – advances over the years. In many – probably most – 
areas it is on the cutting- edge of human endeavor. In terms of accomplishment 
in science and technology, in medicine and agriculture, IT and genetics its 
record of performance is virtually unsurpassed – especially if its minuscule 
size and short history are taken into account.Yet this impressive 
accumulation of achievement has done little to secure Israel from existential 
threats to its political and physical survival.For the past few decades 
– arguably from 1977, but inarguably from 1993 – successive governments have led 
the country into increasingly perilous predicaments, which are inexorably 
bringing its long-term durability into serious question.For this, 
leaders have been showered with international acclaim, and some even with a 
Nobel Peace Prize.There is good reason for the poor Hatter’s head to 
spin and the luckless Hare’s eyes to glaze.Googling the right to exist
To get an indication of just how acceptable it has become to debate Israel’s 
very right to exist, try the following: Choose the name of any county, and run a 
Google search to determine how many sites on the Web refer to its “right to 
exist.” The results are stunning and revealing.A search I conducted 
hours before submission of this column yielded the following results: Only one 
site deals with Somalia’s “right to exist,” while three deal with Mexico’s. A 
search for “Greece’s right to exist” produced 171 hits. “Sweden’s right to 
exists” came up with 183 hits, and Syria’s 1,700. Troubled Lebanon, torn by 
ethnic conflict and internecine violence, came up with 25,400 sites – which 
sounds rather a lot until you come to Israel.For when the “right to 
exist” of the Jewish state is googled – the only genuinely democratic state in 
the region, the only state that practices religious tolerance and societal 
pluralism, the only state that eschews gender apartheid and gay persecution – a 
staggering 6,780,000 hits are obtained.It is difficult to imagine any 
starker and more compelling evidence of just how legitimate it has become to 
discuss, and by implication, question, Israel’s legitimacy.Concessions 
counterproductive This underscores not only how futile Israel’s policy of 
territorial concession and political appeasement has been, but also how 
counterproductive it has proved.Time and time again, it has been 
irrefutably shown that that no matter what Israel does – or refrains from doing 
– harsh international condemnation persists unabated.To no avail, Israel 
has: • evacuated the Sinai peninsula; • relinquished its oil resources and 
forgone its strategic depth: • allowed armed militias to deploy adjacent to its 
capital and within mortar range of its parliament; • razed Jewish towns and 
villages in Gaza; • uprooted Jewish graveyards; and • laid waste settlements in 
northern Samaria.However, rather than elicit any gesture of goodwill or 
reciprocity, each concession has merely caused the other side to ratchet up its 
demands. Every concession made merely created the expectation of yet another 
one; every withdrawal, the clamor for further retreat.Yet despite the 
accumulated weight of indisputable evidence, no elected leader has shown real 
awareness of the need, much less the will, to terminate this self-defeating – and 
self-destructive – downward spiral.Strategic deterioration Despite 
dramatic techno-tactical advances, ever since Menachem Begin frittered away the 
strategic advantages and economic potential of Sinai in exchange for a few 
decades of uneasy and prickly non-belligerency with Egypt, Israel has been in 
strategic retreat.For whatever the reasons, it has declined from being a 
nation that within six days could rout three regular Arab armies (plus 
reinforcements from numerous other countries), obliterate the enemy air power 
and armor, and seize vast tracts of lands, to one that fails – repeatedly – to 
silence bombardment of its civilian population by small, lightly armed irregular 
militias, which have no air support (or even air-defense systems), armor or 
navy.In many ways, the emerging situation facing Israel today would have 
been inconceivable at the times when the decisions that that precipitated it 
were taken.Thus it is inconceivable that Menachem Begin would have 
agreed to evacuate Sinai if he had envisaged that it would degenerate into a 
lawless noman’s land, in the grip of Islamist warlords and ruthless criminal 
gangs pressing up against Israel’s long southern border while an Islamist regime 
was ensconced in Cairo. It is inconceivable that Yitzhak Rabin would have agreed 
to the far-reaching concessions made in the Oslo process, had he foreseen the 
kind of realities they would bring about.His final address to the 
Knesset, in which he conveyed his vision of the permanent solution with the 
Palestinians, would be dismissed as unrealistic extremism, were it adopted today 
by any incumbent politician.But as the status quo deteriorated, Israel’s 
leaders resigned themselves to the new circumstances, and merely braced for the 
next deterioration – until it has become almost impossible to imagine different 
realities or even different trends in realities, certainly none reminiscent of 
pre-Oslo or pre-Camp David conditions.After all, for most Israelis, 
these former realities are not even a distant memory.For if we assume 
that a person’s political awareness begins to emerge at the age of 15, then 
about 60 percent of today’s population is too young to have any meaningful 
experience of pre- Oslowian conditions. In the case of pre- Camp David 
conditions, the figure is over 80 percent.They were, for all intents and 
purposes, born into a syndrome which takes the notion of Israeli concessions and 
capitulation, of retreat and restraint, as an inevitable given, a natural 
element of the way things are meant to be.Terrifying, tragic trajectory It is against the backdrop of resignation and acquiescence that the terrible, 
tragic trajectory in which events are moving should be viewed.The 
terrorist organizations have enhanced their capacities beyond all recognition. 
The performance of their high trajectory weaponry has increased dramatically. 
Originally, the range of the Palestinian rockets was barely 5 km.; and the 
explosive charge they carried weighed about 5 kg. Today their missiles have a 
range of 75 km. and a warhead of 90 kg.If any intrepid pundit had, not 
too long ago, dared to predict that greater Tel Aviv and Jerusalem would be in 
danger from missiles launched from Gaza, he would have been dismissed with 
disdain and ridicule. Yet incredibly, now that the unthinkable has occurred, 
rather than remove the source of threat, the government is hoping to placate it 
via mediation by a distinctly adversarial mediator.There is no reason to 
believe that, as time goes by, the impressive development of Palestinian 
capabilities will not continue. Ranges will increase, war heads will be 
enlarged, precision improved, stockpiles augmented. More and more Israelis will 
be at risk.Coordination with other groups – such as Hezbollah in the 
north, or Salafists in Sinai – may well be enhanced, stretching the capabilities 
of Israel’s anti-missile defenses beyond their capacities.Cause for 
concern It is in the context of these (and other) potential dangers that the 
decision to curtail Operation Pillar of Defense seems so inadequate and 
inappropriate. And the wording of the cease-fire agreement gives great cause for 
concern.It might be possible to imagine a document that is vaguer, open 
to greater conflicting and fractious interpretation, riddled with greater and 
more numerous holes – but that would be very difficult.The agreement 
gives cause for concern not only because of what it includes, but because of 
what it doesn’t.In it, Israel undertakes to “stop the targeting of 
individuals” and agrees to the “opening the crossings and facilitating the 
movements of people and transfer of goods and refraining from restricting 
residents’ free movements and targeting residents in border areas”; however, 
there appears to be no mention of any prohibition on the importation of weaponry 
into Gaza to prevent the replenishment (or enhancement) of stocks depleted or 
destroyed in the fighting.It seems the Hamas and other Palestinian 
factions, who are allegedly party to the agreement, are free to re-arm, regroup 
and rebuild at will.None of this augurs well for the South – and beyond 
– especially since any alleged breaches of the agreement are to be dealt with by 
a less-than-amicable regime in Egypt.Danger of depopulation Only the 
wildly optimistic can hold out any hope that this agreement will bring the 
required stability to southern Israel.No matter how effective the Iron 
Dome is, people will not endure indefinitely having to scurry to shelter, to 
abort commercial activities and to suffer material, economic and emotional 
damages.If there is no hope that such dangers will not continue to hover 
over their heads, they will eventually seek alternative places to live and raise 
their children.Southern Israel will begin to depopulate and the Negev 
will be denuded of its Jewish presence, while Gaza-sourced rocket attacks on 
Eilat could turn the city into a ghost town.After all, Scandinavian 
tourists are not the residents of Sderot.Even if an Iron Dome battery is 
deployed near Eilat, it is unlikely to be a great draw for tourists – unless the 
plan is to attract extreme thrill-seekers, who are hardly numerous enough to 
provide acceptable levels of occupancy in the city’s hotels.Israel’s 
capital has been shelled from Gaza. It is difficult to know what more is needed 
to press home that a ground operation is not only necessary, but 
inevitable.The past few days have shown conclusively that Israel cannot 
effectively diminish Palestinian will to attack through standoff punitive 
action.It can only protect its citizens by physically eliminating the 
Palestinian ability to attack. It can only defend its civilian population from 
Palestinian assaults by taking – and keeping – control of the territory from 
which they are launched.Political correctness It is unclear what the 
Netanyahu government is waiting for.For Gaza to develop an effective 
air-defense system? Don’t dismiss the possibility.After all, no one 
thought their missiles could reach Gush Dan.Yes, of course there were 
political pressures to refrain from a ground assault, but leaders are elected to 
resist pressure, not to submit to it; to sidestep it, not to succumb to it; to 
divert it, not to yield to it.If the current government does not have 
the diplomatic competence to create the conditions necessary to provide security 
for its citizens, it should admit it.Political correctness cannot be 
allowed to prevent the pursuit of strategic imperatives.Until Israel 
overcomes this obstacle it will continue to resemble a luxurious mansion 
equipped with all the modern comforts and the latest accessories – but with 
fundamentally flawed foundations that gravely imperil the whole 
structure.
Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder 
and executive director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel’s error: Mass deportation of a friendly nation</title>
<date>26/3/2012</date>
<content>
With African refugees crowding her cities, Israel has no elegant solution to 
this serious social problem. So when news came that South Sudan had become the 
world’s newest nation, policy-makers were relieved: at least a subset of 
refugees could be easily, honorably and safely sent home.And they 
should. But Israel is acting precipitously in its forced mass deportation of 
South Sudanese, scheduled for the end of this month.




The South Sudanese 
are a very special people – in ways most Israelis do not understand, and at the 
same time they constitute a very small portion of the African refugee 
problem.Simon Deng, a popular South Sudanese leader, is in Israel now 
advocating for special treatment for his people. Deng claims that only 600 or 
700 South Sudanese live in Israel, but that they get mixed in the public mind 
with larger African populations, especially the Eritreans and the Sudanese 
Muslims from Darfur.Deng is a special person; an escaped slave from 
Southern Sudan who has become a well-known figure on campuses across America, 
telling American students about the decades-long mass murder and enslavement of 
Africans in Sudan by the Arab/Muslim regime in Khartoum.He has also 
become one of the most important allies of American Jewish students, besieged by 
perpetual campaigns against Israel and its supporters. No one can counter the 
thunderous calls against the “apartheid state of Israel” better than a man who 
knows, up close and personal, about the Middle East’s real apartheid.But 
today, Simon has come to Israel in the hopes of sheltering his people from 
Israel’s impatient rush to deport them. Let us be clear: nobody argues that the 
South Sudanese in Israel should not go home to South Sudan. But Israel, 
flummoxed by a mass of African refugees, torn between its heart – which knows 
the plight of the refugee only too well, and its head – which realizes it cannot 
become the destination of millions of Africans seeking a better life. Israel is 
erring in the way it’s handling Simon’s people.This, after all, is a 
people who will be our very good friends in a very hostile world.Salva 
Kir, president of South Sudan, pledges that Israel and his nation will be close 
allies. His embassy will be placed in Jerusalem, not Tel Aviv. For many reasons 
South Sudanese feel close to the Jews and to Israel. They became a nation 
fighting for their freedom from Arab/Muslim domination. South Sudanese tell me, 
“You were the first to win your freedom against Arab domination. We are the 
second. Maybe we are the second Israel.”Moreover, hundreds of 
thousands of blacks were enslaved in Arab raids on African villages over the 
decades-long war, termed by Khartoum’s leaders, a “jihad.” It was a Jewish-led 
anti-slavery movement in the US that sparked American interest in Sudan’s plight 
and, along with others, pressed president George W. Bush to intervene. Bush 
imposed a truce on both sides that included provisions for the South to decide 
its own future.Last January, the South achieved political independence 
when its people voted – over 98 percent – for partition. The abolitionist 
movement is beloved by the South Sudanese – and cursed as a Zionist plot by 
anti-Semites like Louis Farrakhan. Farrakhan’s Nation of Islam teaches that “the 
Jews” were behind the African slave trade, and but it has been severely 
embarrassed by reports that Arab/Muslims enslave blacks. Meanwhile, South Sudan 
has millions of people who will be stalwart friends of the Jews and advocates 
for Israel.Simon and his people are seeking only minor adjustments to 
the policy of a rushed, mass deportation: Why deport the 18 South Sudanese 
students currently in Israeli colleges and universities? Why not help get them 
student visas and nurture them as friends and leaders? Why rip any of the South 
Sudanese children out of school before they finish the school year? Why not give 
some more time – just a bit more – to those South Sudanese who are working 
productively at Israeli jobs? Can we make a special effort for this very special 
people to get them work visas? Not so that they will stay indefinitely, but just 
so they can save their funds, and make plans to go home? There are many special 
links between Jews and South Sudanese. Last March, as president of the American 
Anti-Slavery Group, I brought Orthodox Rabbi Josef Polak, head of Boston 
University’s Hillel, to South Sudan to participate in a slave redemption mission 
led by Christian Solidarity International which has freed hundreds of thousands 
of slaves over the years.Through Dinka interpreters, the rabbi explained 
to the just-freed slaves how the Jewish people – who were also enslaved, and not 
so very far from where we stood – commemorate our own redemption. We do it once 
a year, he told them. We have a tradition that has helped make us a strong 
people. Maybe you could remember your redemption in some similar way.It 
was 18 years ago that Jews in America first learned about the plight of the 
South Sudanese – that they were targeted by this century’s fascist power, that 
they were being massively slaughtered, that tens of thousands of them were 
enslaved – and that they were being abandoned by the “civilized” world. Many of 
us saw them as “the Jews of our time.”
We should continue to treat them 
as the very special people they are.The writer is president of the 
American Anti-Slavery Group, Boston.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jewish Ideas Daily: Among the literati</title>
<date>15/1/2012</date>
<content>
This article was first published by Jewish Ideas Daily and appears here with permission.Some days, I can’t help thinking back 25 years to my high-school French course, 
which is where I first encountered the concept of the juste milieu – the happy 
medium – and the difficulty of achieving it. Why is the happy medium so 
elusive? Why do I more often feel caught betwixt and between or, even among my 
fellow Jewish-American writers, alone? 




When I read about the new generation of 
Jewish immigrant writers from the former Soviet Union, I become acutely 
conscious of my privileges as a native-born American. But when I read interviews 
with certain American-born Jewish writers my age, I am keenly aware of my 
closeness to the immigrant experience – to my maternal grandmother, who escaped 
East European persecution, and my paternal grandparents, who escaped Nazi 
Germany.I remember that I am merely a second-generation college graduate 
and that my parents would likely not have been able to attend college were it 
not for what was then a largely free public university system. And when I hear 
other Jewish writers my age talk about how anti-Semitism is irrelevant to “our 
generation,” I am astonished. When I moved from Brooklyn at the age of nine to a 
non-Jewish neighborhood in a New Jersey suburb, I discovered country clubs and 
social dancing lessons – and the fact that they excluded me as a Jew.But 
these issues don’t get to the heart of the patterns of politics and outlook that 
separate me most from my ostensible peers. That heart is Israel.In a 
2009 column in The Forward titled “How I’m Losing My Love for Israel,” author 
Jay Michaelson reported, “It has become simply exhausting to maintain the 
ambivalence, the hugging and the wrestling, the endless fence sitting. My love 
of Israel has turned into a series of equivocations: ‘I do not support the 
expansion of settlements, but the Palestinians bear primary responsibility for 
the collapse of the peace process in 1999.’ ‘The Israelis acted overzealously in 
Gaza, but they must be entitled to defend themselves against rocket attacks.’” 
The “complexity and ambiguity,” he summed up, “wear one out.”Michaelson 
went on: “I admit that my exhaustion is exacerbated because, in my social 
circles, supporting Israel is like supporting segregation, apartheid or worse.” 
But, he explained, “I don’t think advocates of Israel understand exactly how bad 
the situation is on college campuses, in Europe, and in liberal or leftist 
social-political circles.”I have more than a passing acquaintance with 
the contemporary writing scene that forms part of Michaelson’s “liberal or 
leftist social-political circles,” and he is right. The situation there is 
bad.In defending Israel, you risk alienating friends, editors and 
critics. As open-minded as these “liberal or leftist” circles claim to be, they 
are as quick as their analogues at the other end of the spectrum to judge and 
scorn. There is no place for centrists. Like Jay Michaelson, I find it all 
exhausting.But unlike Michaelson, when forced to choose sides, I choose 
Israel. Unfortunately, for me, choosing Israel often means the opposite of 
engaging. Because I cannot find a juste milieu, I bow out. I exit.In 
2006 I resigned from the National Book Critics Circle, whose leadership had made 
the organization’s blog a mouthpiece for criticizing Israel, promoting works 
like Jimmy Carter’s book on Palestine and the Walt-Mearsheimer treatise on the 
“Israel Lobby.”In 2009 I unsubscribed from a popular women’s poetry 
listserv because it had become a reliable source of condemnation for Operation 
Cast Lead. In each case I made my choice after speaking up – and becoming a 
target of abuse, online and off. Rarely, another writer defended me. Slightly 
more often, I received appreciative private e-mails.It wasn’t enough. It 
still isn’t.THESE DAYS, my objections are even quieter – for example, 
unfollowing writers who devote their Tweets and Facebook posts to applauding the 
various flotillas and condemning Israel for enforcing the Gaza blockade (which 
even the UN deems legal). Though not about to launch any boycott campaigns, I 
won’t support anti-Israel writers by buying or promoting their 
books.Recently I declined to join the 2,000 writers, many of them 
Jewish, who signed an “Occupy Writers” manifesto supporting “the Occupy movement 
around the world.” I cannot join a blanket endorsement of a movement that may 
well grow to include more episodes like “Occupy Boston Occupies the Israeli 
Consulate” (you can find it on YouTube).What troubles me most is that 
too many Jewish writers, particularly those with whom I am naturally linked by 
age and education, not only haven’t objected to their friends’ routine 
demonization of Israel – not only have they decided that if they must choose 
between Israel and their literary friends, Israel must go – but they go out of 
their way to broadcast their criticisms.There was a time earlier this 
year when you could barely spend five minutes on Twitter or Facebook without 
encountering pieces like Allison Benedikt’s “Life After Zionist Summer Camp” or 
Kiera Feldman’s “The Romance of Birthright Israel.”Gil Troy described 
these essays for The Jerusalem Post as resembling 17th-century “captivity 
narratives”: After being “force-fed diets of Zionist folk tunes” and dazzled by 
“hunkalicious Israeli soldiers,” the writers “courageously flee their 
brainwashing into the welcoming bosom of the New York intelligentsia, rejecting 
Israel while embracing Palestinians, about whom they claim they never were 
taught.”But I’ll bet a years’ book sales that most of my literary 
acquaintances haven’t read Gil Troy: They consider the Jerusalem Post more 
“biased” than, say, The Nation (which published Feldman’s article) or The New 
York Review of Books.To suggest that anything the Post or Commentary 
have to say may merit attention is tantamount to recommending Fox News over 
MSNBC. (On the other hand, it doesn’t help when Commentary’s chief literary 
blogger, a smart man, derides the Occupy Writers petition as a “useful list of 
useful idiots.”)I know Israel isn’t perfect. I will listen to criticisms 
arising from a sincere concern for Israel’s health and security. I absorb 
critiques like Peter Beinart’s “The Failure of the American Jewish 
Establishment,” which raised a ruckus in The New York Review of Books. I pause 
whenever journalist Jeffrey Goldberg warns against misguided Israeli policy; I 
am convinced that he writes about Israel with all his heart, soul and 
might.I wish I could do the same. I believe that with a little training 
and lot more study, I could do a better job of making a case for Israel, even 
gaining the ability to acknowledge its flaws publicly. My responses might not 
remain so visceral. I wouldn’t have to resign, unsubscribe and unfollow so 
often. Since I am too old to be of interest to most programs that provide Israel 
advocacy training, you can imagine my delight when I saw in my local Jewish 
newspaper that a version of Write On for Israel would be offered for those of us 
on the far side of college graduation – and my disappointment when I received a 
more recent e-mail notifying me that the program has been delayed at least a 
year.But I’ll keep looking. There has to be a place where I can be an 
American writer and a Zionist, a place between the diatribes on the National 
Book Critics Circle blog and the sometimes equally inflammatory responses from 
the other end of the spectrum. There has to be a juste milieu.
The writer 
is the author of Quiet Americans: Stories. This essay is adapted from a 
talk she delivered at Temple B’nai Jeshurun (Short Hills, New Jersey), in 
partnership with the Jewish Book Network.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 25: Western Wall fashion</title>
<date>24/6/2012</date>
<content>
Western Wall fashionSir, – The article about Deborah Houben being apprehended 
by police for wearing a tallit in the Kotel plaza (“Woman detained at Kotel for 
wearing ‘male’ tallit”) constituted light comedy reading material for the June 
22 Jerusalem Post.First of all, the accompanying photo showed her 
wearing such a skimpy blouse that had she complied with police orders and 
removed her tallit she would probably have been handed some sort of scarf to 
conceal her chest and upper arms by haredi women sitting at the entrance to the 
women’s section. Her tallit was actually serving to cover her more modestly, 
whether intentionally or not.




Second, the police spokesman, quoting a 
High Court of Justice ruling, assumed that only “female style” tallitot may be 
worn, while Shmuel Rabinowitz, rabbi of the Western Wall, declared that the 
police were plain wrong and should have arrested all of the many women wearing 
any sort of tallit. He made the spokesperson sound positively 
befuddled.This begs the question: What is a tallit versus a scarf or a 
shawl? Rabinowitz declared that only he determines what the guidelines are at 
the Kotel. Therefore, it is apparent that anything functioning as a shawl or 
scarf around women’s upper bodies, no matter how decorative or colorful, and 
even if proffered by haredi women with the purest motives, must be inspected 
only by him to pass muster.The Western Wall rabbi should thus make 
himself available for these inspections throughout the day for all women coming 
to the Kotel who have included a scarf or shawl of any sort as part of their 
attire so as to avoid having them detained by the police or accosted by haredi 
men.Clearly, the rabbi must also take the time to inform the police that 
only he makes the rules at the Kotel, and not the High Court of 
Justice.ROCHELLE EISSENSTAT Jerusalem Not-so-smug Alice Sir, – One can 
certainly question whether author Alice Walker’s views are correct in regard to 
the facts of Israel’s treatment of it citizens of Arab origin. One cannot argue, 
however, against the author’s ability to control the distribution of her 
books.Alan Dershowitz (“Alice Walker’s bigotry,” Observations, June 22) 
correctly writes, “The laws of copyright were certainly not designed to 
encourage or even permit selective censorship based on national origin or 
religion.” But the laws of copyright clearly allow an author to approve or 
disapprove the terms of distribution of his or her work. That Walker exercises 
this right based on rather convoluted reasoning does not nullify 
this.Dershowitz further writes that Walker’s writings should still be 
published in Hebrew and “the royalties contributed to the NAACP and other civil 
rights organizations that understand the true meaning of fighting against 
bigotry and real apartheid.” Who is he to say that the majority of these 
organizations do not agree with Walker? STUART KATSOFF Tel Aviv Sir, – It is 
clear that Alice Walker’s decision to not have The Color Purple published by an 
Israeli firm was not motivated by bigotry. Instead, she is preventing a 
publishing company, which she feels benefits from the brutal treatment of the 
Palestinian people in the occupied territories, from profiting from her book. In 
fact, there is already a Hebrew translation of her novel, just not one sold by 
an Israeli publisher.If Alan Dershowitz were to prevent one of his books 
from being published by a Palestinian or Iranian publisher because of a desire 
to not support the regimes there, I think it would be unfair to accuse him of 
bigotry against the Palestinian or Persian people. It is the same case with 
Walker.DEVAN HAWKINS Boston Statesmen being statesmen Sir, – It seems we 
are caught up in the season for statesmen to be distributing medals one to the 
other, with both the presenters and the recipients relying on the public’s short 
memory (“Kissinger: Arab recognition of Israel not enough for peace,” June 
20).Of course we remember that not so long ago Henry Kissinger was held 
in the lowest regard by Israelis. The public is not stupid and we recognize the 
whole palaver for what it is: nothing more than an onanistic round of photo 
opportunities for all participants involved.Please save us from more of 
this! DANIEL ABELMAN Jerusalem Sir, – Why President Shimon Peres felt that 
former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger deserved to be given a medal from 
the State of Israel is a puzzle to me. Kissinger never did anything to connect 
with Judaism or to help Soviet Jewry or the State of Israel, even when the 
latter was attacked in 1973.I would also question his reference to his 
parents, who happened to have been neighbors with my parents in Manhattan’s 
Washington Heights neighborhood for years. His parents were quite unhappy, to 
say the least, when their son, who had been brought up Orthodox, brazenly 
decided not only to marry a non-Jewish women, but did so on Shabbat.The 
fact is that Kissinger always tried to run away from his Jewishness so as to 
prove that he was 100 percent American, although this did not fool his boss, 
Richard Nixon, who at times referred to him as a “Jewboy.”JOSHUA J. 
ADLER Jerusalem Beyond the pale Sir, – In “Tibi against naming Taibe space 
center after Ramon” (June 20), MK Ahmed Tibi is quoted as calling this move 
“distasteful and unjustified,” claiming the late astronaut Ilan Ramon, during 
his military service, attacked “civilian targets in Lebanon and also Iraq’s 
nuclear reactor.”There has never been a single shred of evidence that at 
any time Ramon was guilty of anything other than fulfilling his duty as an 
Israeli soldier, faithfully defending his country and all its citizens – one of 
whom happens to be this very MK. The fact that Tibi chooses to defame, discredit 
and denigrate Ramon’s good name puts him beyond the pale.Israeli law 
must be restructured to eject such a person if not from its midst, then at least 
from its seat of government, where he presently resides.DAVID S. 
ADDLEMAN Mevaseret Zion Sir, – Ahmed Tibi cannot be accused of dual allegiance. 
He has only one allegiance – to the Arab people.Israel may be stuck with 
him but he certainly has no place in the Knesset as he has no loyalty to the 
state. His actions influence Arab citizens to identify only as Palestinians and 
not as Israelis.Many of us remember Tibi as Yasser Arafat’s adviser. One 
can only wonder what he was saying when he would lean over to whisper into 
Arafat’s ear.What we can be sure of is that Ahmed Tibi is no friend of 
the State of Israel.BERNARD SMITH Jerusalem Sir, – Ahmed Tibi has 
considerable influence as an adviser to the Palestinian Authority. Having such 
influence he should be expected to discourage the naming of so many PA projects 
after those people who have succeeded in killing a large number of Israelis. His 
strong objection to naming the space center after Ilan Ramon sounds like a 
double standard.Tibi should make a major contribution to finding ways to 
bring the PA and Israel to the negotiating table. If he were serious in this 
direction many of the actions of both sides that cause friction and discomfort 
could be avoided.
DAVID GOSHEN Kiryat Ono
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Make a choice: Settlements or democracy</title>
<date>13/6/2012</date>
<content>
The events surrounding last week’s Knesset vote on the illegal Ulpana outpost 
seemed like a vindication of Israeli democracy for many of its citizens. The 
Supreme Court ruling to evacuate 30 families living on Palestinian land was 
upheld, as was the notion that Israel’s democracy and the rule of law can exist 
side by side with its expanding presence in the West Bank.This is 
fiction.




While Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s forceful opposition to 
the law did perhaps indicate that he was willing to take on the extremists 
within the settler movement when the rule of law was at stake, his reasons for 
doing so gave away his true agenda.“The solution we found strengthens 
settlements and preserves the rule of law,” said Netanyahu, directly after the 
vote.And in case anyone doubted the truth of the first half of his 
statement, he promptly announced the construction of 300 new settlement units in 
Beit El, before almost trebling that number to 851.The “solution” has 
indeed strengthened settlements, as well as the extreme political bloc that 
promotes them. It has also fundamentally damaged the rule of law and Israel’s 
hope of a truly democratic future.Netanyahu’s thinking is echoed in the 
general public’s attitude. A poll commissioned by OneVoice and published last 
week found the general public’s attitude echoed Netanyahu’s thinking. A majority 
of 64 percent of Israelis opposes illegal outposts in the West Bank (although 
there is no such thing as a legal settlement according to 100% of the 
international community). However, only 41% of Israelis think they present a 
risk to the future viability of the two-state solution.There is a 
profound cognitive dissonance at work here. The twostate solution is the only 
way to secure Israel’s democracy for future generations.Equally, the 
greatest threat to that solution is continued settlement expansion on land 
earmarked for a Palestinian state in any future agreement.While Israeli 
democracy would indeed be greatly tarnished by the government running roughshod 
over a Supreme Court ruling, it would be crushed forever by the closing of the 
window of opportunity for two states.Many Israeli politicians continue 
repeating the mantra “Jewish democracy” to describe the type of state many 
Israelis want, but at the same time, they acquiesce to facts on the ground that 
would require an impossible choice between those two values.Without a 
settlement freeze, millions of Palestinians residing in cities and villages 
where settlement construction encroaches heavily on their lives would either 
have to become citizens of Israel (much like the Palestinians of ’48) or else 
remain stateless forever. The first option results in an unworkable binational 
state that is no longer Jewish. The latter means an immoral and certainly 
undemocratic regime of apartheid.The pressures Netanyahu endures from 
the increasingly powerful lobby of the extreme right have left him trying to 
muddle through by following the court order on illegal outposts, but at the same 
time not confronting the real challenge of Israeli democracy, presented by his 
own policy of settlement expansion.Meanwhile, a growing number 
Palestinians have lost hope regarding the two-state solution, and demand instead 
equal rights as citizens of one state west of the Jordan.A counter-lobby 
of Israelis must exert even greater pressure on Netanyahu to realize the 
two-state solution. As suggested by Professor Alan Dershowitz’s latest article 
in The Wall Street Journal, Israelis need to join in a sustained campaign across 
the country that calls for a settlement freeze. This would not only serve to 
restart negotiations with the Palestinians, it would also ensure that when talks 
resume, there is enough belief among them in the possibility of achieving a 
viable state.The alternative makes the debate of last week on illegal 
outposts a marginal issue, facing as it does an obvious need for Palestinian 
civil rights, either as citizens of a yet-to-be-established Palestinian state or 
as citizens of a binational Israel. This is the real choice for Israelis: 
settlements or democracy. Israel cannot have both.
Tal Harris is 
executive director of OneVoice Israel. The OneVoice movement leads parallel 
grassroots efforts in Israel and in Palestine toward the solution of two states 
for two peoples.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Media Comment: It's election time!</title>
<date>14/11/2012</date>
<content>
Writing in the November 7 Guardian, Dan Gillmor had this opinion of the recent 
US presidential election: “America’s top journalists have pretty much gotten out 
of [the] business [of holding candidates to account]... I’ve never seen a worse 
performance in a major political campaign. On issue after issue – again, with 
some important exceptions, many in the alternative or new media – the press 
simply couldn’t be bothered to do its job.”He was especially critical of 
“Big Journalism’s tendency to suck up to power, not confront it.” His dislike 
for Mitt Romney and the Republican Party was more than apparent, nevertheless, 
he also noted that “Obama has largely been given a pass by news organizations on 
his own worst deeds.”




For him, journalism’s “decline overall is simply 
too stark to deny.”Observers more attuned to foreign policy issues saw 
the coverage of the Benghazi attack and Obama’s refusal to term it terror as an 
instance, to quote one critic, when the media “suppressed evidence in order to 
help a Democratic president. Simply shameful, as was the media’s disregard of 
any scandal or story that could have jeopardized the Obama 
reelection.”An uncritical press combined with media personnel prejudiced 
against one candidate can be deeply affect the chances of a candidate to get 
elected. We only need recall Barack Obama, referring to the love the press 
expressed for him, joking at the October 2009 White House correspondents’ 
dinner, “Most of you covered me. All of you voted for me.”Here in 
Israel, we have entered our own election period and already foibles and 
insidious behavior are observed, a situation that demands close monitoring as 
well as vigorous civic action to call this behavior to account and stop 
it.There are academic papers claiming that voter decision-making during 
election campaigns is not significantly affected by the media.They base 
themselves on the assumption that especially during the campaign period, 
information abounds. Voters are able to update their thinking sufficiently 
frequently during the campaign period so as to make decisions which are largely 
independent of one bias or another. But academia aside – and as we all know, 
especially in the social sciences it is very difficult to “prove” such 
assertions – the fact remains that every candidate is always interested in 
favorable and broad media coverage.There isn’t one media adviser who 
suggests to his boss that the media may be ignored. We certainly know that the 
media has the ability to set an agenda. This sets a baseline for the voter who 
may then evaluate politicians based on how they dealt with the issue. The fact 
that one day after the elections the agenda turns out to be meaningless is 
irrelevant, setting the agenda has done its electoral job.To prevent 
such situations from developing, reporters have a duty to be “careful not to get 
co-opted,” as America’s National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor once 
stated.A clear example of agenda setting issues is polls. Professor 
Amiram Goldblum, a radical left-wing activist, initiated a biased poll to show 
that Israelis are proapartheid.Haaretz and fellow extremist Gideon Levy 
publicized this broadly. It was immediately picked up worldwide. The fact that a 
few days later, all involved were forced to admit that the conclusions drawn 
from the poll were in fact baseless and false could not undo the damage. Israel 
was falsely colored as a racist, apartheid state, backed by supposed “evidence” 
from an Israeli newspaper.Perhaps with this in mind, public opinion 
pollsters were warned by the Knesset’s Central Election Commission to follow 
legislated guidelines or face punishment, in some cases of up to six months in 
jail or a fine of up to NIS 29,000.Poll results must be communicated to 
the Committee with detailed information on who commissioned the poll, how it was 
conducted and how the results were analyzed. Two days before election day, 
public opinion polls are no longer allowed to be published at all. It is a fact, 
that pollsters, like any normal human being, do not like to be the bearers of 
bad news.A poll commissioned by Meretz to see whether it passes the 
minimum quota needed to be elected might lead to conclusions which are quite 
different from one commissioned by an extreme right-wing party. People 
considering voting for small parties are affected by such results, as certainly 
some of them do not want to see their vote wasted.Not less important are 
the various appearances and interviews given to candidates. For example, Eldad 
Yaniv, who heads a new party called “A New Country,” was given a prime-time 
seven-minute interview on Channel 2 News, on November 5.Seven minutes on 
TV is the length of time allotted by law by the Central Elections Committee to 
any new party. The interview was not a “tough” one. Questions dealing with Mr. 
Yaniv’s political failures in the past (he was a strong supporter of the 
disengagement from Gaza) were just not tabled.His not exactly successful 
efforts to create a new national left-wing agenda, including the publication of 
a radical manifesto with controversial and some would say defeatist content, 
were ignored.His financial links and related heavy involvement with the 
recent social protest campaign were not investigated nor discussed.He 
was allowed to come across as a penitent or a Robin Hood, with interviewer Tzion 
Nanus’s virtual wide-eyed identification.One could characterize the 
interview as flattering of, if not fawning on, Mr. Yaniv. No other politician, 
so far, from across the spectrum, has received such gracious 
treatment.As is obvious from the election campaign in the US, political 
debates are not only captivating, but impress the voter. President Obama could 
not afford to refuse presidential debates. Candidate Netanyahu, in the previous 
election, did not enter any public debate. Will the press allow Netanyahu to get 
away with this? Doesn’t the voter deserve to be able to judge directly the 
values and performance of the various candidates from the candidates themselves 
rather than being filtered through political commercials? The Internet, the 
truly free media communications network, plays an ever-increasing role in our 
life and certainly when it comes to election campaigns. The social media 
outlets, from Facebook to Twitter and beyond, are a whole new world. Yet the 
mainstream media still dominates our sources of information. It is not enough to 
say that the media should provide us with a fair campaign. We, as citizens, 
should do all that we can to impress upon the media that it must be fair and, if 
not, that we will punish media outlets who do not obey the accepted ethical 
guidelines. This is, at the end of the day, to assure not only their 
accountability but more importantly, to protect our democratic 
system.
The authors are, respectively, vice chairman and chairman of 
Israel’s Media Watch (www.imw.org.il).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Changing of the guard</title>
<date>3/3/2012</date>
<content>
The departure of Supreme Court president Dorit Beinisch last week couldn’t have 
been more symbolic. But for all the wrong reasons. Some commentators in 
the Hebrew press noted that her last case was typical of her involvement in 
social justice issues. In true Beinisch style, she ruled against 
state-determined criteria for receiving social benefits. But above all, it 
seemed sadly typical that her last ruling after five and a half years as head of 
the Supreme Court should be in a case that has been going through the legal 
system for seven years. Talk about slowly grinding wheels of 
justice.Beinisch, on a panel of seven judges, ruled that owning or 
having use of a car cannot be considered a reason to make a person ineligible 
for income support. Car ownership in this day and age cannot be considered a 
measure of means and personal wealth. Ironically, the day the ruling was handed 
down, citing lofty principles of human dignity, the headlines were screaming 
about the planned price hike in the price of gasoline, which looked likely to 
hit an all-time high of approximately NIS 8 a liter. Suddenly car ownership 
looked beyond the means of even most middle-class wage earners.




It was, 
of course, also typical that nobody knew whether the price really would go up at 
midnight on February 29 or whether a last-minute deal would be 
reached. The country is turning last-minute deals into a national sport. 
One day the Pri Hagalil food factory is closed, putting hundreds out of work in 
an area which suffers from chronic unemployment, and three days later it’s open 
again – for now. The ports went on strike, for a few hours, before an agreement 
was reached. Even the Ammunition Hill war memorial, as I noted last week, was 
closed for a few hours before the funding for its continued operation was found, 
until next time.Israelis are good in crisis situations. They are also 
prone to creating crises. Beinisch’s last day in court managed to create its own 
old-new crisis.Shimon Peres hosted a reception at the President’s 
Residence to bid farewell to Beinisch as Supreme Court head and welcome her 
successor, Asher Dan Grunis. The entertainment was purely instrumental, 
presumably to avoid more news items about women singing in public and the 
reaction of the ultra-Orthodox.The unexpected sideshow was not about who 
sang, but who didn’t. Supreme Court Justice Salim Joubran drew fire from 
right-wing MKs for standing quietly and not singing the national anthem. This of 
course is also typical. Instead of being proud that, despite what the 
world thinks, Israel is not an apartheid state, and that an Israeli Arab can 
work his way through the system to the position of Supreme Court judge, MKs 
including David Rotem (Israel Beiteinu), Michael Ben-Ari (National Union) and 
Moshe Feiglin (Likud) complained that Joubran, a Christian of Lebanese Maronite 
descent, can’t quite bring himself to belt out the words to Hatikva: “As long as 
deep within the heart/A Jewish soul stirs/And to the ends of the East, 
forward/An eye looks out, towards Zion/Our hope is not lost/The hope of two 
thousand years/To be a free people in our land/The land of Zion and 
Jerusalem.”Sitting as a proudly free Jewish woman in Jerusalem, I bet 
that those same MKs would fight any attempt to change the words to the national 
anthem to make it more inclusive.In one fell swoop, the hawks in effect 
equated Joubran with, say, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, whose 
comments on the status of Jerusalem also made headlines last week. Speaking at 
the International Conference for the Defense of Jerusalem in Qatar’s capital 
Doha, Abbas questioned the Jewish connection to Jerusalem and accused Israel of 
using “ugly means” to erase the Arab-Islamic and Christian links.Rotem 
and Ben-Ari don’t so much pick their battles as provoke their own wars. They are 
not strengthening the Jewish nature of the state, they are going against 
it.Ben-Ari intends furthering what has been 
dubbed the “Joubran bill,” 
according to which only a judge who served in the IDF or did civil 
national 
service would be eligible to serve as a Supreme Court justice.Rotem, who 
chairs the Knesset Constitution, Law and Justice Committee, said he 
plans to ask 
Justice Minister Yaakov Neeman to force Joubran to resign. Despite his 
own position, Rotem does not seem to realize that contempt for Joubran 
shows a 
contempt not only for the court in which he sits, but also for the 
principles of 
justice.BEINISCH’S RETIREMENT has been branded 
as the end of an era – 
not so much the Beinisch era, as that of her predecessor Aharon Barak. 
Barak’s 
philosophy, which continued to be felt under Beinisch, could be summed 
up in two 
words “judicial activism,” or, in Hebrew, “hakol shafit” – everything 
can be 
tried in court. Not surprisingly, this approach led many to feel that 
the courts 
were becoming politicized and overly interventionist.New Supreme Court 
President Grunis has a different view. For example, just a week ago he 
dissented 
from the High Court of Justice’s majority decision against extending the
 Tal 
Law, which legislated exemptions from military service. He maintains 
that the 
court had no business interfering with the issue that should be left up 
to the 
legislators.The Barak/Beinisch philosophy that 
almost anyone can 
petition the High Court on almost anything resulted in some 10,000 
petitions a 
year. No wonder it takes seven years for cases to be determined. This is
 likely 
to change.Grunis is the type of judge who likes 
to preserve the right to 
remain silent. He can best be judged, therefore, by his rulings – and 
the 
wording of his decisions. Grunis’s rulings are known to be brief and to 
the 
point. He is not seen as someone out to promote an agenda. But he is an 
Israeli 
Supreme Court judge, and as such he stands for the defense of the 
country’s 
democratic nature no less than his predecessors. Despite his reluctance 
to 
overturn legislation, for example, he voted, like Beinisch, against the 
privatization of prisons, ruling it would be a serious violation of the 
basic 
rights of human dignity and freedom. In another well-known ruling, 
however, he maintained the Citizenship Law, which prevents Palestinians 
who 
marry Israeli Arabs from automatically receiving Israeli citizenship or 
residency. “Human rights should not be a recipe for national suicide,” 
Grunis 
ruled.His name in recent reports has usually 
been followed by the word 
“restraint” just as Barak’s was automatically linked to “activism.” That
 does 
not, of course, mean he won’t have an impact.Perhaps the most important 
task ahead of him is to restore public confidence in the legal system. 
Restraint 
and the lack of a clear political identity go a long way towards 
this.
“There are judges in Jerusalem,” said prime
 minister Menachem Begin 
in a statement of faith in the judicial process.It is perhaps fitting 
that the week in which the country marked the 20th anniversary of 
Begin’s death, 
Grunis took over as head of the Supreme Court.Grunis’s message, in 
recognizing that not everything can be ruled upon judicially, is that 
the 
country’s lawmakers have to take responsibility and deal with 
controversial 
issues. The judges in Jerusalem sit very close to the Knesset and the 
legislators, too, need to show courage and principles.The writer is 
editor of The International Jerusalem Post.liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Construction, destruction and peace protesters</title>
<date>27/10/2012</date>
<content>
‘Will there be a siren?” and “Should we go to the shelter or outside?” These 
were the two questions I was most frequently asked by friends and colleagues 
ahead of last week’s major earthquake drill.Each time I answered (“no” 
to the first question; “it depends which is closer” to the second) I couldn’t 
help but think how very Israeli the situation was. Israelis are expected to know 
what to do in an oh-so-oxymoronic “routine emergency.” It’s the unexpected 
emergencies (like tremors) that we have trouble with.




Having to figure 
out whether this is a “the ground’s trembling under my feet” type of potential 
disaster or “there are missiles falling from the sky” situation – an act of 
nature or an act of war – is a routine no one wants to get used to.The 
well-oiled Palestinian PR machine (and we know where the oil wells are located) 
constantly churns out an image of a people under siege.Writing on a day 
when I first checked how friends in the South are coping with an increased 
missile barrage from Gaza, permit me to say that if anyone’s under siege it is 
those residents of the Negev, Ashkelon and elsewhere who have to stay close to 
their shelters – very close, because, depending on where they live, they have 
between seven seconds and half a minute to grab their children, older relatives 
and pets and get to safety. As the cynics note, even Olympic sprint legend Usain 
Bolt wouldn’t be able to do it from a distance of 200 meters, let alone a mother 
of three from Sderot, an old lady in Beersheba or a young boy in 
Ashkelon.When I received a press release from Adalah-NY: The New York 
Campaign for the Boycott of Israel gleefully informing me that “New Yorkers will 
protest at Carnegie Hall with music, songs, chants and street theater against 
the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra (IPO) and its complicity in Israel’s apartheid 
policies against the Palestinian people,” I actually laughed. After a day glued 
to news reports of missiles and mortars being lobbed at my friends’ homes and 
worrying about the soldiers – children of friends – serving in the area, it 
wasn’t hard to think of the planned protest as a bad joke.Just after I 
received Adalah’s threat/promise (when the daily missile tally was approaching 
80 projectiles), my e-mail inbox received another statement to the press, this 
one announcing that “the UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace 
Process, Mr. Robert Serry, marked the annual United Nations Day, celebrated on 
24 October around the world, by a visit to the UN Gaza office and an UNRWA 
project in Gaza.“‘During my visit, there was another escalation of 
violence between Israel and Gaza, which I deeply deplore. I call on all parties 
to show maximum restraint and return to the calm,’ Mr. Serry said.”Serry 
has obviously had no more luck bringing peace to even this tiny part of the 
region than his counterparts have had in Syria, where some 35,000 have been 
killed in recent months, but that’s just an aside.While Israel came 
under a wave of rocket fire, and criticism for responding, Gaza turned into a 
strange tourist attraction. A group of international activists, including 
several lawmakers, attempted to break the sea embargo on the Gaza Strip – the 
embargo placed to try to prevent more weapons reaching the area.The 
Swedish-owned, Finnish-flagged Estelle was more a “ship in the night” than a 
flotilla and I hate to give its passengers extra publicity.I would like 
to point out, however, that had they truly wanted to reach Gaza, they could have 
tried legally crossing the border from either Egypt or Israel.In any 
case, Gaza seems to be managing without their help, which included (according to 
another press release launched into my inbox) 41 tons of cement. Or so it would 
seem from the visit by the emir of Qatar.When Emir Hamad bin Thani 
inaugurated a new housing project in Khan Yunis together with Hamas Prime 
Minister Ismail Haniyeh on October 23, Haniyeh said the housing project will 
provide homes for 3,000 families.I couldn’t have been the only person 
thinking I’d rather have bin Thani as a friend than an enemy: If he can get 
thousands of homes built in Gaza – while a chorus of human rights organizations 
large enough to fill Carnegie Hall protests that Israel is causing a 
humanitarian disaster there – just think what he could do in Jerusalem, for 
example. Sorry, bad example. The same chorus, lining up behind the European 
Union representative Catherine Ashton does not want housing in Jerusalem, at 
least not for Jews. Some 30,000 residents live in the capital’s Gilo 
neighborhood, but the plans to add more housing units there have been shot down 
by the international community as “detrimental” to the peace process. (That’s 
admittedly one stage under “deplorable,” but in diplomatic terms it’s still 
close to “Don’t do it.”) Most Gilo residents in their early teens or older, by 
the way, can sympathize from bitter experience with Israel’s sporadically 
besieged southerners: Rockets from the Palestinian-controlled areas around 
Bethlehem rained down on the neighborhood during the second intifada. The 
attacks were, in fact, the type of behavior that the opponents of disengagement 
from Gaza often noted.The disengagement/pullout/withdrawal/ expulsion – 
whatever you want to call it – is significant in this context. After all, Israel 
removed every last citizen – even those who had to be exhumed from cemeteries – 
and for five years the only Israeli in Gaza was abducted soldier Gilad Schalit. 
His release in exchange for more than 1,000 Palestinian terrorists last October 
was hailed by Hamas as a victory and “the way to go.”In common with the 
Qatari emir, incidentally, I happen to think that construction of homes, 
hospitals – and yes, even more five-star hotels and shopping malls to host any 
“peace activist” who actually does make it to Gaza’s beautiful beaches – is a 
good thing.A peace treaty is obviously a long way off, but economic 
stability could lead to some quiet at least. In the meantime, all sorts of 
questions wander through my mind: For instance, the emir might be able to travel 
to Gaza – I suspect Hamas is open to a new patron given the plight of its 
Iranian backer – but what would happen were Palestinian Authority President 
Mahmoud Abbas to try to set foot on Gaza’s shores? Hamas and its jihadist allies 
don’t mind hosting Western parliamentarians and selfstyled peace activists, but 
the Fatah leader would likely be met by “open arms” of the more sinister kind: 
gunfire.Something else to ponder is how you both construct a 3,000-unit 
housing project and maintain that the Palestinians should retain their refugee 
status throughout the generations.Many Israelis, from the prime minister 
down, have pointed out that those truly concerned with a humanitarian crisis 
should turn their attention elsewhere – to the casualties of the civil war 
raging in Syria, for instance, or the unsung human rights victims throughout the 
Arab world, even post-Arab Spring. I say the Gazans, and that includes the 
women, Christians and other minority communities there, also deserve freedom, 
but it’s not Israel that’s repressing them. And by the way, I recommend 
listening to the music played by the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra rather than 
the noise made by Hamas and its supporters.
The writer is editor of The 
International Jerusalem Post.liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Theater of the absurd</title>
<date>7/4/2012</date>
<content>
There is a tendency for op-ed writers discussing anything related to the theater 
to include two phrases: “All the world’s a stage” and “The show must go 
on.”Having got them out of the way, I can tackle the latest drama 
involving Israel – which takes the first phrase to its absurd extremes and turns 
the second into a much shakier version of the cliche.




Sense and 
Sensibility scriptwriter and star Emma Thompson, showing a remarkable lack of 
both attributes, is the latest big name calling for a cultural boycott of 
Israel.In Britain or not in Britain? That is the question being bandied 
around by certain stars of stage and screen, including two-time Oscar winner 
Thompson and regular Oscar nominee Mike Leigh, who last week put their names to 
a petition expressing “dismay and regret” that Habimah, Israel’s Tel Aviv-based 
national theater company, had been invited to participate in a six-week 
Shakespeare festival taking place at London’s Globe Theatre.The stage 
was set for the latest boycott calls when Habimah held performances in the Ariel 
cultural center, over the Green Line.“Habimah has a shameful record of 
involvement with illegal Israeli settlements in Occupied Palestinian Territory,” 
says the protest letter, published in Britain’s Guardian newspaper on March 
29.“We ask the Globe to withdraw the invitation so that the festival is 
not complicit with human rights violations and the illegal colonisation of 
occupied land.”This is the call by people who seem to have lost the 
plot.The festival, which begins on April 23, Shakespeare’s birthday, 
includes 37 international companies performing the Bard’s plays in 37 
languages.Apparently, the artists opposed to Israel’s inclusion have no 
problem with the participation of such luminaries of human rights as China – the 
National Theater of China is scheduled to perform Richard III – or the 
Palestinian Ashtar Theater, which will perform Richard II.I don’t have a 
problem with their inclusion either. It’s the boycott that I 
oppose.Similarly, I don’t object to Iran participating in the Academy 
Awards – although I’m patriotically disappointed that it happened to beat 
Israel’s entry, Footnote, to gain the Oscar for the best foreign language film 
in February.I do mind Syria still sitting on the United Nations Human 
Rights Council. If leaders in Iran, Syria and the Palestinian territories were 
to concentrate on exporting culture rather than a culture of terror, I’d be the 
first to give them a round of applause.Unfortunately, the first 
connotation of the word “bombing” where I’m sitting has nothing to do with 
box-office sales.Ariel may or may not be part of Israel depending on 
your political persuasion, but its taking center stage in the latest boycott 
effort shows that it is inarguably part of the Middle East. And for the record, 
the vast majority of Israelis do think of it as part of a consensus.Its 
residents, hungry for culture rather than the bloodthirsty monsters they are 
portrayed to be, are a lot like you or me.No Israeli government – not 
even the most concessionary – has suggested giving up major centers like Ariel, 
the Etzion bloc or Ma’aleh Adumim, although such protests are obviously intended 
as curtain raisers for this step.It’s strange that instead of using 
theater to cross cultural divides – and who better than Shakespeare to 
demonstrate the timeless universality of human emotions – the self-appointed 
elite of the cultural world prefers to exploit it to create even greater 
divisions and disharmony.Assuming the show does indeed go on, it will 
presumably be the target of picketing and heckling (and, hopefully, nothing more 
physically harmful).You may recall that in a different culture clash, a 
performance by the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra in London’s Albert Hall in 
September was so disrupted by pro-Palestinian protesters that the BBC’s live 
broadcast had to be abandoned.In its more than 100-year history, Habimah 
has not steered away from controversy. The national theater, which recently 
returned to its newly refurbished iconic building in Tel Aviv, is well known for 
a repertoire that includes the work of late anti-war satirist Hanoch Levin, for 
example.It’s a free country (yes, despite what you might have read 
elsewhere): People in Israel, like those in the United Kingdom, openly speak 
their minds.Israeli artists and intellectuals – who continue to be the 
heart of the ever-dwindling number of hard-core left-wingers, come to think of it 
– have also condemned performances in Judea and Samaria, particularly in Ariel 
and more recently in Kiryat Arba. That’s their right, even if I happen to think 
they’re wrong.People are “free” to speak their minds in the Palestinian 
territories, too, but given the latest spate of arrests of journalists by the 
Palestinian Authority, it takes a great deal more courage than someone like Emma 
Thompson putting her name on a letter in the Guardian.Peace-loving 
protesters and BDS supporters would undoubtedly reject any suggestion that they 
have something in common with the terrorists who try to shoot down peace and 
coexistence. But, as I have noted before, such attacks are an inevitable result 
of the delegitimization process.Attacks begin with “settlers” – who are 
barely considered real people, not worthy even of a theater – but they do not 
stop there. They have a way of developing into attacks that reach the very heart 
of the country, or anywhere where Jews can be found.I wonder if the 
petition signers really understand their lines, or are simply repeating what 
they have been taught to declaim. Perhaps they just like being in the limelight, 
and bashing Israel is an easy way to grab headlines. (Though, Heaven 
knows, being demonstrably anti-Israel is hardly news.) Ironically, in London, 
Habimah is scheduled to perform The Merchant of Venice, leading me to wonder, to 
paraphrase Shylock: If you prick a settler, will he not bleed? How absurd this 
latest drama is can be seen in who are the most vocal local proponents of the 
“Israel is an apartheid state” myth. Possibly those who have the best stage are 
the Arab Knesset members such as Deputy Speaker Ahmed Tibi and Haneen Zoabi, 
whose very presence in the Israeli parliament says something.Lately, I 
have also seen a large number of stories about Omar Barghouti, who is pursuing 
his doctoral studies at Tel Aviv University while continuing to call for 
boycott, divestment and sanctions against Israel, and even the very 
establishment where he is learning.Shakespeare might not have had a word 
for it, but I call it “chutzpah.”And for the actress at the center of 
the London protests, I have one four-word question: Et tu, Emma Thompson? The 
writer is editor of The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>New scandal impacts on Anglo-Jewry</title>
<date>18/7/2012</date>
<content>
Mick Davis, head of the United Jewish Israel Appeal, UK Jewry’s principal Jewish 
and Israel fundraising umbrella organization, has appointed an extremist critic 
of Israel to act as “PR and communications manager” – the leading spokesman for 
that body.The shocking details are outlined below.




However, a 
review of the background needs to be related in order to set this shameful 
episode in its proper context.Let me state at the outset that I have 
never met with Davis, who also heads the Jewish Leadership Council (JLC), an 
unelected body comprising primarily of wealthy Jews who purport to speak on 
behalf of the Anglo-Jewish community.Despite the fact that Davis refers 
to me as the “mad Australian,” I hold no personal animus against him.I 
did however previously criticize him as a purported senior Jewish communal 
leader for engaging in what I considered to be outrageous statements relating to 
Israel.Late last year, Davis called on British Jews to criticize Israel 
and had the chutzpah to censure the Israeli prime minister for lacking the 
courage “to promote the peace process.” He also employed the terminology of 
Israel’s enemies, predicting an “apartheid state” unless Israel changed its 
policies.His most contemptible remark, quoted in the Jewish Chronicle 
which will continue haunting him, was the arrogant assertion that “the 
government of Israel has to recognize that there are actions which impact 
directly on us as Jews living in the UK...When they do good things, it 
is good for us: when they do bad things, it is bad for me...The impact 
on me is as significant as it is on Jews living in Israel... I trust them to 
recognize this.”Davis made these remarks in the UK, a country in which 
demonization and delegitimization of Israel is at an all-time high and has now 
emerged as the global center of the BDS (boycott, divestment, sanctions) 
campaign against Israel.IN ANY self-respecting Diaspora Jewish 
community, even a mining tycoon like Davis making such outrageous remarks while 
holding a mainstream leadership position, would have been obliged to withdraw 
them and apologize or resign.In the US, despite the fact that Jewish 
leaders are considered more liberal than their European counterparts, no 
mainstream Jewish leader would conceivably continue in office after making such 
offensive remarks.However, Davis – supported by his acolytes – retained 
his position.He was recently in Israel to receive an honorary doctorate 
from Bar-Ilan University.During his visit, he participated in a Knesset 
subcommittee meeting headed by Einat Wilf of Independence, to discuss UK Jewry’s 
response to the intensifying anti- Israeli and anti-Semitic onslaughts which 
have grown exponentially in recent years.Davis conceded that BDS had 
become somewhat of a threat but substantially understated the prevalence of 
anti-Semitism in the country. To bolster his case, he somewhat weirdly claimed 
that the chief rabbi spoke on television for 10 minutes while the queen did so 
for only five minutes. Thankfully, his views were sharply contested by other 
Anglo-Jewish representatives.He also boasted that the anti-Semitic 
candidate for mayor, Ken Livingstone, who kowtowing to Muslims had undertaken to 
make London a “beacon” for Islam, had been narrowly defeated. He omitted to 
mention that his JLC had assisted Livingstone in drafting a letter designed to 
placate the Jewish community. He also failed to mention that the JLC had 
pressured Jewish students to cancel lectures by Brooke Goldstein, an expert on 
lawfare, and pro-Israel Muslim Kasim Hafeez on the grounds that such speakers 
would “disrupt” interfaith relations and create tensions.All of this is 
taking place against the background of an unprecedented breakdown in relations 
between the Jewish community and the Church of England. Its Synod this month 
dismissed pleas from the Jewish Board of Deputies, interfaith groups and the 
chief rabbi and endorsed an extremely anti-Israeli Christian-Arab body 
(EAPPI).In the debate, the Archbishop of Canterbury drew a parallel 
between the Holocaust and Israeli checkpoints stating “half an hour at Yad 
Vashem will persuade you, if you need persuading, why Israel needs to exist 
securely. Half an hour at a checkpoint will persuade you, if you need 
persuading, there are forms of security that are indefensible and 
unsustainable.”To its great credit, the usually passive Board of 
Deputies responded with dignity, hopefully signaling that it is now adopting a 
more courageous and assertive stance in favor of Israel and Jewish issues. 
President Vivien Wineman retorted: “The Jewish community does not need lessons 
from the Anglican church on injustice and peace, themes which originated in our 
tradition. Moreover, to hear the debate at the Synod littered with references to 
‘power lobbies,’ the money expended by the Jewish community, ‘Jewish sounding 
names’ and the actions of the community ‘bringing shame on the memory of victims 
of the Holocaust’ is deeply offensive and raises serious questions about the 
motivation of those behind his motion.”It is in this torrid and hostile 
atmosphere that Mick Davis, head of the UJIA – an organization whose primary 
concern is to raise funds for Israel – saw fit to appoint as its principal 
spokesman Joe Millis, a far-left extremist who has publicly called for a boycott 
of goods from Israeli settlements, stressing that he includes east Jerusalem 
(The Old City and adjacent Jewish suburbs) in his boycott because it was 
unquestionably “occupied territory.”WHEN CHALLENGED, Millis’ response 
was “Sue me.” He alleged that “Israel is being murdered in its sleep by zealots” 
and stated that “Israel isn’t Judaism. And it is becoming a footnote in 
history.”Millis even went to the extent of accusing Israel of behaving 
like Iran or Syria, saying, “Just when people in neighboring countries are 
laying down their lives to create democracies, Israel wants to be Iran or Syria 
lite.”Millis, who lived for a while in Israel and was employed by the 
Jewish media, is entitled to his abhorrent opinions – although even far-left 
groups like J Street would not publicly endorse such bilge.But for 
Davis, chairman of the UJIA, who has himself already achieved notoriety for 
previous outbursts against Israel, to appoint such a person as principal 
spokesman for a key UK body engaged in Israel can only be described as an 
unconscionable act which no self-respecting Jewish community should 
tolerate.Some of our non-Jewish friends are simply confounded by these 
antics. For example, Robin Shepherd – driven out of his position as a Senior 
Fellow at Chatham House for failing to toe the anti-Israeli line and who 
published A State beyond the Pale: Europe’s Problem with Israel, a brilliant 
book supporting the Jewish state – said he was genuinely shocked and 
perplexed.Among other activities, he now publishes a widely read and 
highly respected Internet publication, “The Commentator.” When contacted about 
this issue he told me that as a devoted friend of Israel, he was very reluctant 
to become enmeshed in the internal affairs of Anglo-Jewry. But, he continued, 
“in all honesty, if Israel is now being compared to Syria’s Bashar Assad or the 
genocidal haters of Iran by the chief spokesman of the UJIA, what next? Truly, 
fresh from apartheid analogies, is it Nazi Germany analogies next? I am deeply 
saddened. To be honest I am at a loss to know what to say to 
you.”If I were living in the UK, I would say enough is enough. I would 
hope that the vast majority of rank-and-file Jews, irrespective of political 
attitudes, will voice their outrage when they learn of this despicable 
appointment. Mr. Millis should be dismissed forthwith and Davis must apologize 
to the Jewish community or resign, or better still, do both.
The writer’s 
website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at 
ileibler@netvision.net.il.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Nobel winner’s problem with ‘a peculiar people’ and Israel</title>
<date>4/6/2012</date>
<content>
When Nobel laureates speak, peace-seekers generally listen. Thankfully, 
Methodists recently voted for a balanced approach to the Middle East, rejecting 
Rev. Desmond Tutu’s support of a harsh anti-Israel resolution. Presbyterians 
will soon be voting on similar measures, and they too will have to weigh the 
appeal of Tutu’s strong “moral” censure of the Jewish state.Tutu had 
worked hard to influence the vote to divest Methodist pension funds from three 
American companies doing business with Israel. He penned a letter to delegates 
at the quadrennial General Conference of the United Methodist Church, and 
published an op-ed in The Tampa Bay Times as the conference met. But Tutu 
deployed language – both recently and in the past – that crossed from political 
agitation to incitement.




“In our struggle against apartheid, the great 
supporters were Jewish people,” Tutu wrote in the past. “They almost 
instinctively had to be on the side of the disenfranchised, of the voiceless 
ones.”Yet he also descended into rank anti-Semitism.“Whether 
Jews like it or not, they are a peculiar people.They can’t ever hope to 
be judged by the same standards which are used for other people.”In a 
scathing indictment of Israel, he claimed that it has “oppressed more than the 
apartheid ideologues could ever dream about in South Africa.”Could it be 
that Rev. Tutu has forgotten how brutal were the racial policies of apartheid? 
Or is he engaged in conscious revisionism when he finds that Israel – where 18 
percent of citizens are Arabs who vote, criticize the government, have 
representatives in Knesset, attend all universities and contribute a justice to 
the Supreme Court – treats Arabs worse than the Afrikaaner treated blacks? Tutu 
declaims with prophetic rage: “God formed a very particular relationship with a 
particular group of people; Hebrews who were oppressed as slaves in another 
land. As time moved on, this people disobeyed God and time and time again the 
prophets had to call them back to their deepest values.”He makes it 
perfectly clear that he is not speaking of the Biblical Israelites alone, but 
the Jews of today.“Prophetic voices have been calling this empowered 
people who were once oppressed and killed, to their deepest values of justice 
and compassion, but they have refused to listen.”Why does he not invoke 
the Bible to condemn the sins of Palestinians: terror, suicide bombing, racial 
incitement? Where’s the biblical fire and brimstone against those in Nigeria, 
Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and Iraq who persecute and murder Christians? While 
churches are bombed and countries are cleansing themselves of Christian and 
other religious minorities, Rev. Tutu – and the churches pondering divestment 
resolutions against Israel – are silent. Where does the Nobel laureate’s animus 
come from? From two sources. While Tutu is a social progressive, he appears to 
be an old-school theologian. He simply cannot let go of centuries of Replacement 
Theology, in which all covenants with Jews were voided in favor of the New Jews, 
i.e. Christians. References to a Holy Land are interpreted allegorically; Jews 
should not lay claim to any piece of real estate, or expect to return to the 
Middle East. In fact, the Jewish return to their ancestral home came as a rude 
and unwelcome surprise to old-guard theologians.American Jews have 
enjoyed decades of goodwill bridge-building with Christians. The Vatican’s 1965 
Nostra Aetate, inspired by a saintly Pope who truly respected Jews, was a 
sea-change for the Catholic Church. Many evangelicals have been effusive in 
their philo-Semitism and support for Israel. But such is not the case among some 
Protestant denominations where classic rejection of Jews, conscious or 
otherwise, often persists without challenge.While many mainline 
Protestants see a theological basis for respecting Jews and Judaism based on 
Romans 9-11, and many others simply understand the secular arguments for six 
million Jews as modern stakeholders in the Holy Land, others cannot bear the 
thought of a resurgent and empowered Jewish people. Jews were supposed to become 
footnotes to history, not chapter headings. Tutu remains caught in a theological 
time warp.In the aftermath of the Holocaust, many Christians 
reconsidered their relationship with Jews. Two Popes – John XXIII and John Paul 
II – confronted the Holocaust with honesty, and made decisive changes in Church 
conduct. Tutu’s encounter with the Holocaust apparently took an opposite 
turn.Tutu’s mentor was Mohandas Gandhi, who had a blind spot for the 
lives of Jews. Faced with the rising specter of Hitler’s threats against the 
Jewish people, Gandhi was asked what Jews ought to do. In 1938, he essentially 
counseled them to commit suicide: “The calculated violence of Hitler may even 
result in a general massacre of the Jews.... But if the Jewish mind could be 
prepared for voluntary suffering, even the massacre I have imagined could be 
turned into a day of thanksgiving and joy.”Gandhi compounded this 
outrage as the conflict between Jews and Arabs in the Holy Land heated up, 
incited by Hitler’s ally, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem. Gandhi insisted that the 
Jews had no place there, “only by the goodwill of the Arabs....There are 
hundreds of ways of reasoning with the Arabs, if they will only discard the help 
of the British bayonet.”One such was for the Jews to “offer satyagraha 
to the Arabs and offer themselves to be shot or thrown into the Dead Sea without 
raising a little finger against them.”Tutu, the student seems to have 
learned well from his teacher.But instead of disappearing, three years 
after the liberation of Auschwitz, the Jewish people rose from the dead to 
declare the modern State of Israel. Six decades later, against all odds, the 
Jewish state thrives.Most rank and file churchgoers have room for two 
narratives. They seek ways to improve the lot of their Palestinian 
co-religionists without rejecting the Jewish people’s right to pursue their 
national and spiritual future. That tolerant vision – not Tutu’s willful 
blindness – may be the best last hope for peace.
Rabbi Abraham Cooper is 
associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Rabbi Yitzchok Adlerstein is 
director of Interfaith Relations for the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: Obama’s doublespeak Russia, Israel</title>
<date>9/4/2012</date>
<content>
US President Barack Obama’s recent open mic comments to President Sergei 
Medvedev of Russia are troubling, which explains why Obama and the White House 
have decided to make light of them. Obama told Medvedev that he and Putin have 
to give him “space” on missile defense until his reelection when he’ll have far 
greater “flexibility,” presumably because he no longer has to answer to the 
American people.A great debate has been waged this year as to whether 
President Obama is reliably pro- Israel and deserves the support of the 
pro-Israel community. The president made his case to AIPAC by listing a long 
record of promoting military and intelligence cooperation with the Jewish state, 
arguing that “I have Israel’s back.”




For the first three years of his 
presidency, Obama largely declared Israel’s settlements to be illegitimate and 
put near-unilateral pressure on Israel to make peace without any expectations 
from the Palestinian side.Ever since his self-confessed “shellacking” 
during the mid-term elections, part of which was due to his perceived 
unfriendliness to the Jewish state, the president decided to make nice with 
Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and treat him with the same respect he accords 
other world leaders, albeit without the warmth of the two-armed embrace he 
reserved for Hugo Chavez or the bow he accorded the King of Saudi 
Arabia.At the UN in September, 2011, the president strongly supported 
Israel against a Palestinian attempt at unilateral statehood. He deserves credit 
for the effort. Then, he talked tough to Iran and imposed even greater 
sanctions. The president has gotten much better in his posture vis-à-vis 
Israel.But the all-important question here is: Why? Based on his 
actions, rather than his rhetoric, I believe the answer to the president’s new 
posture toward Israel lies in his words to President Medvedev. He has no 
“flexibility” before an election in which Jewish votes and financial support are 
critical to what will be a very close race. And he therefore cannot be trusted 
to refrain from exerting undue pressure on Israel after the election to push 
through a peace deal that will likely not lead to peace but will simply 
compromise Israel’s security.Herein lies my mystification at the bizarre 
story of 15 presidents of Orthodox synagogues in Passaic encouraging their 
congregants to switch registration to Democrat in order to vote for Steve 
Rothman over Bill Pascrell in the upcoming Democratic primary in New Jersey’s 
ninth district. This is because Pascrell is perceived to be less friendly to 
Israel, since he was one of 54 Congressman who signed the J Street letter 
criticizing Israel’s blockade of Gaza.Leaving aside the questionable 
ethics of the advice, are they seriously suggesting that any Democratic 
supporter of President Obama is going to be as sound on Israel as, say, 
Republican Speaker John Boehner and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor who both 
invited Prime Minister Netanyahu to address a joint session of Congress? PRESIDENT OBAMA has elevated committed Jews like Dan Shapiro to be our 
Ambassador to Israel, and Orthodox Jews like Jack Lew to be his Chief of Staff. 
But being a great friend of the Jewish people does not automatically make you a 
great friend of Israel. After all, President Obama has yet to even visit Israel 
as president. The principal problem is his belief that Israeli 
intransigence, rather than, say, Islamist terror or Palestinian rejection of 
Israel as a Jewish state, is the principal obstacle to peace in the Middle East. 
In this sense President Obama follows in the footsteps of Jimmy Carter and Bill 
Clinton.It was for this reason that I was also perplexed at Dr. Ben 
Chouake’s comments in The Jewish Week when he said that he and his organization 
would be supporting Rothman. Rothman is the same Congressman who declared 
in May, 2010, while Obama’s policies toward Israel were still abysmal, that 
Obama was “the best president on US-Israel military and intelligence cooperation 
in American history.”Doesn’t the pro-Israel community have a right to 
expect that a Congressman who claims to be staunchly pro-Israel will break with 
the president when he mistreats Israel, even if they are the same party? Witness 
the difference between Congressman Rothman and Senator Charles Schumer, both 
Democrats. When the Obama administration publicly upbraided Israel over 
its policies of building in Jerusalem, Senator Schumer, as reported in Politico, 
went public in April, 2010, calling the Obama’s stance 
“counter-productive.”He threatened to “blast” the administration if the 
State Department did not back down from its “terrible” rebuke of Netanyahu. 
“This has to stop,” he said of the administration’s policy of publicly 
condemning Israel’s construction of housing in Jerusalem. “I told the President, 
I told Rahm Emanuel and others in the administration that I thought the policy 
they took to try to bring about negotiations is counter-productive, because when 
you give the Palestinians hope that the United States will do its negotiating 
for them, they are not going to sit down and talk... Palestinians don’t really 
believe in a State of Israel. They, unlike a majority of Israelis, who have come 
to the conclusion that they can live with a two-state solution to be determined 
by the parties, the majority of Palestinians are still very reluctant, and they 
need to be pushed to get there... If the US says certain things and takes 
certain stands the Palestinians say, ‘Why should we negotiate?’” Schumer 
said.But Rothman’s reaction to the president’s pressure was silence. One 
would think that, given the considerable leverage that NORPAC has right now with 
Rothman, in choosing to support him over Bill Pascrell, his democratic 
challenger, Chouake would at least extract a guarantee that if Obama goes back 
to his old ways of putting undue pressure on Israel, Rothman will break with the 
president. But to simply give Rothman a blank check and unconditional 
endorsement as being so strongly pro-Israel is to invite a repeat of Rothman’s 
inaction.Say what you want about Jimmy Carter, at least his disdain for 
Israel and its leadership was out in the open and consistent. Here is a man who 
outrageously compared Israel in his book Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid to 
apartheid South Africa. Likewise Clinton, who, as president, treated Netanyahu 
mostly with contempt, attacked him yet again in September of last year as an 
obstacle to peace.But Obama’s doublespeak when microphones are off and 
on is troubling. If the president dislikes Netanyahu, let him not play games 
with the American Jewish community and feign friendship for votes. After all, 
Obama came to the White House as the anti-politician, a man who was going to 
change the ways of Washington. A leader who was going to say what he means and 
mean what he says.
How disappointing to discover he is guilty of the same 
beltway double-speak he once condemned. How worrisome to ponder what his 
policies on Israel will be once he has greater “flexibility.”The writer, 
the international bestselling author of 27 books including his the acclaimed new 
bestseller Kosher Jesus, is a candidate for the United States House of 
Representatives in New Jersey’s Ninth Congressional District.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 6: The Abbas statement</title>
<date>5/11/2012</date>
<content>
The Abbas statement Sir, – The flurry of excitement over Palestinian Authority 
President Mahmoud Abbas’s recent interview on Channel 2 (“Peace divide,” 
Editorial November 5) evokes a weary feeling of déjà vu.




I recall the 
hysteria stirred up by the Guardian regarding the so-called “Palestine Papers” 
incident in January 2011. Notorious for its anti-Israel stance, the newspaper 
went to town castigating the Palestinian leadership as weak and craven for 
surrendering “land which the Palestinians have lived on for 
centuries.”Now Abbas has acknowledged, in English and on Israeli TV – 
both important qualifications – that the “right of return” is an impractical 
concept in any twostate solution, only to see the headline in the Guardian: 
“Mahmoud Abbas outrages Palestinian refugees by waiving his right of 
return.”NEVILLE TELLER Beit Shemesh Sir, – What will Mahmoud Abbas say 
in Arabic when we sign a “peace agreement?” What will Hamas and Islamic Jihad 
do? Fall in line? I doubt it.HENRY TOBIAS Ma’aleh Adumim Land for water 
Sir, – The article “Holy Sepulchre in row over unpaid NIS 9m. municipal 
water bill” (November 4) got me thinking.I would love to stop paying my 
water, electric and other bills. I just don’t think I would get free water or 
anything else for very long. The fact that the Jerusalem Municipality let this 
problem go on for years is a shame.Now the Greek Orthodox Church is 
threatening the Israeli government with closing this major Christian tourist 
site because it doesn’t want to pay.Since the patriarchate owns so much 
property around Jerusalem, and because we need land for homes, hotels, etc., 
let’s just take what it owes in land instead of money.DORRAINE GILBERT 
WEISSJerusalem Right on Poland Sir, – Bravo for an excellent article by Greer 
Fay Cashman (“A bittersweet return to Poland,” Travel Trends, November 
4).Newspaper articles about Poland are too often negative.This 
article was especially well balanced and objective. It also touched my sense of 
nostalgia.I feel grateful to a land that was a haven of refuge to my 
Jewish people for most of a thousand years, when persecution roared against us 
in many other countries of Europe. Having personally made more than a dozen 
visits to my birthplace and other communities in Poland, I agree with Cashman’s 
portrayal of today’s Poles as being friendly to Israel and desirous of learning 
more about Jewish culture.The Jerusalem Post is a news channel of truth, 
and Cashman is doing a commendable service to promote the good relationship 
between Israel and Poland. Keep up the good work.HILLEL GOLDBERG 
Jerusalem Let us join in Sir, – I agree with Liat Collins (“Frighteningly small 
world,” Comment & Features, November 4) that we need to help each other to 
face natural disasters.But to use her word, it is “surreal” to me that 
my country, the Republic of China (Taiwan), is neither a member nor an observer 
of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), whose 
18th session is to be held later this month in Doha.There are now 195 
parties to the convention. It’s unfair to the 23 million people in Taiwan that 
the Republic of China is not. It is also a loophole in the global efforts to 
reduce carbon emissions.Undaunted, Taiwan has voluntarily pledged to the 
UNFCCC that it will cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30 percent below 
the business-as-usual (BAU) level by 2020.Carbon emissions are not an 
abstract concept in Taiwan. President Ying-Jeou Ma declared in May that 
developing an environment characterized by low carbon emissions and high 
reliance on green energy is one of the five pillars of the country’s long-term 
development goal.Taiwan has the will, expertise and resources in 
developing green energy. We would like to join hands with the 195 parties in 
environmental protection and technological cooperation.LIANG-JEN CHANG 
Tel Aviv The writer is representative at the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office 
UNICEF Israel Sir, – Many thanks for the excellent article you published on 
November 2 regarding the Israeli Fund for UNICEF (“Judy Shalom Nir-Mozes named 
UNICEF Israel chairwoman”).We strongly believe that Shalom Nir-Mozes 
will advance our vision to guarantee all children education, health, equality 
and the right to be heard out of the belief that Israel must be a strong partner 
with nations of the world in the humanitarian community.We aim to make 
UNICEF a household name and touch the heart of every Israeli. Shalom Nir- 
Mozes’s leadership position in Israeli society will certainly enhance the 
advancing of our mission.It is important to clarify, however, that we 
are an Israeli NGO that works together with UNICEF’s headquarters in New York 
and Geneva, but maintains its independence. Our mission is to make the State of 
Israel part of the international circle of industrialized nations that are 
partners in UNICEF’s mission to save children’s lives.With Shalom 
Nir-Mozes’s strong voice we are confident we will reach our goals on behalf of 
all children in need.SARIT HENIG Tel Aviv The writer is deputy director 
of the Israeli Fund for UNICEF Apartheid? NotSir, – Having lived more than 50 
years in South Africa, I am amazed when South African politicians claim that 
Israel is an apartheid state (“South African ruling party conference supports 
Israel boycott,” November 1).The former deputy president Baleka Mbete 
even accused Israel of being worse than apartheid South Africa. Were she to 
spend only a few days in Israel, she would see that there is absolutely no 
resemblance to any aspects of apartheid and that Israel is a wonderful example 
of a democratic state.When one reads in the same article that a German 
delegate at the international conference said that Israel cannot be compared to 
the apartheid regime, one realizes that the official South African attitude is 
one of blatant prejudice aggravated by the frequent pronouncements of 
Rev.Desmond Tutu, who himself actively fought apartheid in the 
past.Frankly, as one who always opposed apartheid, I feel disgust at the 
attitudes of current South African leaders.MONTY M. ZION Tel Mond 
Support groups needed Sir, – With regard to “Four myths about doctor-assisted 
suicide” (Comment & Features, November 1), the best way to deal with 
depression over terminal illness is to join the right kind of support group or 
create your own.Gaman (http://www.gamani.co.il) is a closed Facebook 
group with over 600 members, young women in Israel with breast 
cancer.Some are survivors, some are in treatment and some are 
terminal.These women have chosen life and optimism. They share personal 
experiences and advice.They listen, question, debate, laugh and, 
especially, love.Gamani has social gatherings, lectures, fun days, 
workshops and trips. On October 26, members, families and friends met at the Tel 
Aviv port for a huge flashmob dance to raise awareness of the need for early 
detection and call all breast cancer patients to join the group.There is 
an answer for women in Israel with breast cancer. But what of others? We need 
more groups like Gamani.SHOSHANA LEPON Beit Shemesh 
CORRECTION The 
article “Remembering Isaac Ochberg, father of orphans” (Arts & 
Entertainment, November 5) was written by Lionel Slier, and not as noted.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘One state’ means no state</title>
<date>23/4/2012</date>
<content>
The next round of Israeli-Palestinian talks is in the offing, but it will 
probably turn out to be as futile as the last one. At least as long as the 
Palestinian leadership persists in its unrealistic preconditions, 
i.e. Israel to accept a priori the 1967 armistice line as the border of 
the proposed Palestinian state, and stopping all construction beyond that line, 
including in Jerusalem.Students of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict can 
without difficulty rattle off a list of failed international, mostly though not 
exclusively American, as well as Israeli peace initiatives (including MK Shaul 
Mofaz’s recent hodgepodge of hastily dusted off ideas – as reported in The 
Jerusalem Post). However, it might be more fruitful at this point to come to 
grips with the underlying reality behind this ongoing failure, namely the fact 
that the Palestinian body-politic has over the decades persistently shirked any 
peace plan or formula predicated by the acceptance of Israel as the rightful 
nation-state of the Jewish people, never giving up hope that one day it would 
disappear.




The Arabs’ rejection of the 1947 UN partition plan and the 
ensuing military aggression by seven Arab armies were a clear signal of this, as 
was their refusal to accept UN Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 in the 
sense that they were phrased, i.e. permanent peace based on secure and mutually 
recognized borders. One could go on and mention Arafat’s walkout at President 
Clinton’s Camp David or Mahmoud Abbas’ rejection of Olmert’s and Livni’s 
wholesale concessions. Nor can one ignore the on-and-off attempts to reverse the 
course of history by resorting to force of arms and terrorism.The 1967 
war was an Egyptian-Syrian-Jordanian effort to strangle Israel, while in the 
1973 Yom Kippur War, the Egyptian army commander General Murtagee exhorted his 
troops to “conquer the land which had been stolen from the Arabs in 
Palestine.”Though Israel’s enemies may have grasped by now the 
impossibility of destroying Israel by military force or terrorist acts, because 
of Israel’s overall military superiority and its strategic alliance with the US, 
many of them haven’t given up hope of ultimately achieving the same result by 
other means. Economic boycotts were tried, and failed, but destabilizing Israel 
from within by flooding it with “returning refugees” has not been taken off the 
table. Then there is always the subterfuge to forgo negotiations altogether if 
those might lead to acquiescing to Israel’s permanent existence, by going to the 
UN.The latest, though not necessarily the last, Palestinian stratagem is 
the so-called “one-state solution.” The former Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed 
Qurei, a.k.a. Abu-Ala, has endorsed this move and even his antagonist 
Abbas has, albeit halfheartedly, raised it from time to time, and according to 
press reports, he now intends to “warn” Israel’s prime minister that “if the 
two-state solution dies” – he would press for adopting the onestate 
way.The Washington Post’s former Jerusalem correspondent, Joel 
Greenberg, a few months ago wrote about a network of “young Palestinian 
activists” who see the creation of a Palestinian state in the areas occupied by 
Israel in 1967 as inadequate, calling instead for the creation of one state 
“that would also include the area of Israel, with equal rights for Jews [and] 
Arabs, and Palestinian refugees allowed to return.” In other words, finis the 
Jewish State! NONE OTHER than Harvard University’s Kennedy School (Harvard’s 
motto is “Veritas,” Truth...) has recently sponsored a “One-State Conference” 
jointly with several pro-Palestinian and anti-Semitic groups with the clear aim, 
as one observer described it, of giving “an academic seal of approval to the 
de-legitimization of Israel,” among other things, pairing “apartheid” and 
“Israel” and refuting the Jewish people’s very existence as a national entity 
under international law.Not surprisingly, there are those on the 
anti-Semitic Left and Right who support a one-state solution, confidently 
expecting that this would result not only in the destruction of the Zionist 
dream, but also in a situation where the continued existence of the remnants of 
the Jewish population there would be tolerated, at best, as second-class 
citizens.But strange as it may seem, there are also some on the Israeli 
patriotic Right who delusionally support the one-state concept, though, of 
course, for opposite reasons. The very idea of giving up parts of the 
Land of Israel is anathema to them, outweighing any reference to potential 
matters of demography or democracy.Some of them quote Jabotinsky to 
bolster their stance, forgetting that his perception was of an Arab minority 
living in a Jewish majority state in which, after renouncing their extremism, 
they would enjoy equal, civil and national rights.He even believed that 
Arabs should then be given the opportunity to appoint a deputy to a Jewish prime 
minister – and vice versa, eventually an Arab prime minister with a Jewish 
number two (the more skeptical Ben-Gurion never entertained such 
ideas).
By any stretch of the imagination, also considering what’s 
happening around us, can such a scenario seriously be considered today? 
Palestinian separate statehood may or may not be the ideal solution to the 
Palestinian problem. There may be different ones, some of which were considered 
and perhaps too rashly shelved in the past, and there may be others still on the 
drawing boards. Even Israeli-initiated unilateral steps may have their day 
again. But the one-state idea, whether raised by the Left or the Right, is not 
one of them. This, by the way, is the view not only of Prime Minister Binyamin 
Netanyahu, but also of most Israelis.The writer is a former member of 
Knesset and Israel’s past ambassador to the U.S. and serves at present as a 
Special Envoy for the Prime Minister.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestine attempts land grab at World Heritage Committee</title>
<date>5/7/2012</date>
<content>
Palestine, as a full member-state of UNESCO, is also a state party to the World Heritage Committee, currently meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia. Membership endows rights and obligations which the latest member deliberately ignores to promote its irresponsible aims.The late Israeli diplomat Abba Eban coined the expression “The Palestinians never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity.” So it was at the UN Committee for the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, held four weeks ago in Paris at UNESCO.




Featured as a discussion on “The Rights of Youth and Women,” that anti-Semitic hate-fest (“the Jews murder our children and rape our wives”) became a planning session for more coordinated boycotts of Israel.Two weeks ago, the Palestinian delegation to “Rio + 25” hijacked a UN conference on water agriculture and biodiversity (vital issues for their people), to disseminate propaganda on “the Judaization of Jerusalem” and “the apartheid wall.”So it is now the turn of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, meeting in Russia. Beyond the deadline to register a nomination, Palestine used a stratagem to claim an “emergency basis” inscription of heritage over the Birthplace of Jesus, the Church of the Nativity and the Pilgrim Route, Bethlehem.This was a provocation, in that the three custodians of the Nativity Church, the Greek Orthodox Patriarch Theophilos, the Armenian Patriarch Torkom Mancogian and the Catholic Franciscan Custos of the Holy Land Pierbattista Pizzaballa diplomatically expressed their objection to Palestinian Authority chairman Mahmoud Abbas.Released by the Associated Press on April 11 and signed by the three prelates, was the statement that “Following the meeting of March 19 and after having carefully considered all of the possibilities, we are now able to give our final opinion on the proposal to include the Basilica of the Nativity, with the whole old city of Bethlehem, in the World Heritage List. In our opinion, we do not think it opportune to deal with this request.”This did not faze the Palestinians, who on June 11 (according to an AP despatch in the Daily Star of Lebanon of June 23), released what was purported to be a support statement signed in type by the Greek Orthodox and Catholic clerics, with the Armenian notably missing.According to a UNESCO official who requested anonymity,that letter "gave some delegations the impression that the churches had changed their opinion and were no longer opposed to the inscription"SIMILARLY, THE WHC’s advisory body, ICOMOS (International Council on Monuments and Sites) had noted that the nomination could not be considered “under the conditions, concerning damage or serious and specific dangers... Decides not to inscribe the Birthplace of Jesus, the Church of the Nativity and the Pilgrimage Route, Bethlehem, Palestine on the World Heritage List on an emergency basis.”That should have ended the matter, just as a similar ruling, that the Le Chauvet-Pont d’Arc Grotto was not in danger, led to a swift withdrawal by France.But Palestine has other designs. At one time, its proposal had read “Greater Bethlehem,” which led to the speculation as to whether the Tomb of Rachel was to be included in the protected zone. We should recall that both Rachel’s Tomb and the Cave of the Patriarchs in Hebron were recently designated as mosques by UNESCO’s Executive Board.Another site on their wish list is the village of Bittar (the site of the final stand of Bar-Kochba’s rebellion against the Romans). The village was awarded the UNESCO Melina Mercouri Prize for its ancient Roman irrigation system. The subtext, however, is the route of Israel’s security barrier, currently before the Israeli Supreme Court. If awarded World Heritage status, the Palestinians believe, a court decision will no longer be necessary. This is an exercise of direct intervention for leverage over Israel’s sovereign right to self-defense.Palestine has also filed a so-called “Tentative List” of a dozen other sites, including Ancient Jericho, Mount Gerizim, the Old City of Nablus (Shchem) and its environs, Old City of Hebron and its environs and Sebastia. The last is within the 1949 Green Line and the Scrolls pertain, we thought irrefutably; to the Jewish people.Palestinian supercessionism has now moved beyond Jewish sites to those of Christianity, Samaritans and first-century Essenes.Indeed, Algeria, acting as enforcer on behalf of Palestine, presented a new draft which became the basis for the vote. Remarkably, it justified the claim by saying that “Bethlehem is holy to Christians as well as to Muslims. It is a strong symbol for more than two billion believers in the world.” Algeria’s Ambassador added: “I am a Muslim,we are talking about Jesus, our prophet.”The Palestinian delegate’s triumphant reaction was more political menace than cultural heritage: “Israel colonizers threaten the existence of the Palestinian people... we will present many more nominations [of sites] in danger from Israel.”The international community deleted the scenes, 10 years ago, of the five-week occupation by Palestinian terrorists of the Nativity Basilica, leaving five dead priests and holy objects desecrated. The perpetrators were affiliated with Abbas’s PLO, now to become responsible stewards of Jesus’s birthplace.It is France that bears the greatest responsibility for this outcome.Indeed, inscription would have been impossible without its vote, which its ambassador unabashedly announced before the otherwise secret ballot. “France will assist Palestine with a management plan for the site,” he added. The three other European states, Switzerland, Estonia and Germany, were all identified as voting against.In an ironic two-step schizophrenia, five minutes after the Bethlehem vote for Palestine, the WHC respectfully debated and inscribed the Carmel neanderthal caves as an Israeli heritage site. Sadly, this exception does not break the rule.Palestine’s hunger for theft of other narratives has been fed by international donors. Work in Nablus and Hebron was funded by austerity-fraught Spanish taxpayers, to the tune of $3 million.It is little known that, since the 1967 reunification of Jerusalem, the Old City, at least in the WHC, is still dealt with by the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, in negotiation with Israel.The Jerusalem question, this year, was divided into two, and no debate was permitted.On the first, the Mughrabi Ascent to the Temple Mount, a consensual Jordanian-Israeli text was adopted. Regarding the second, an annual agenda item on the Old City and its Walls, the parties showed no willingness for discussion and the matter was postponed for a year.It is a pity that this cannot be the procedure for all Holy Land sites Israel offered the Palestinians to likewise consider jointly the heritage claims on their radar screen. The response is a rampage of irresponsible demands for land grabs.It behooves the Jewish people to work with its friends to prevent further depredations against Christian properties and to prioritize campaign in international organizations to defend against theft of the Jewish heritage.
The author is director for International Relations of the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘Palestine’ in perspective</title>
<date>6/9/2012</date>
<content>
“A Newsweek investigation reveals abuses at almost every level of the 
Palestinian Authority. Many top ministers staff their offices with 
cronies, dole out valuable contracts without oversight and create their own 
monopolies, which crush competition and drive up prices paid by hard-pressed 
consumers. The courts are powerless... 14 separate police forces enforce the 
whims of PA officials rather than laws aimed at protecting ordinary 
Palestinians.” – Newsweek International, June 19, 2000 “If you trawl through 
comparative global economic and social statistics, it is not difficult to paint 
a bleak picture of Arab failure, based on a broad pattern of underperformance in 
investment, productivity, trade, education, social development and even culture 
[sic]. The total manufacturing exports of the entire Arab world have recently 
been below those of the Philippines (with less than one-third the population) or 
Israel (with a population not much bigger than Riyadh’s” – The Economist, July 
23, 2009 In a recent Washington Post op-ed, entitled “The Palestine Romney 
doesn’t know,” Zahi Khouri – who identified himself as a proud 
American/hardworking businessman/job creator/faithful Christian/Palestinian – 
took serious umbrage at the unflattering comparison that Mitt Romney, on his 
recent visit to Jerusalem, drew between the accomplishments of Palestinian 
society relative to those of Israeli society.




The most charitable way to 
characterize his attempt to contradict Romney’s assertion would be to dub it 
“highly partisan.”Indeed, whether the result of deliberate distortion or 
innocent ignorance, the entire article was a gross misrepresentation of facts, 
both past and present.Gross misrepresentation of factsTHE WEAKNESS of Khouri’s arguments is apparent 
from the very outset. He launches into his endeavor to invalidate the 
foundations of Israel’s achievement, which has placed the country on the cutting 
edge of human endeavor in science and technology in fields as diverse as 
medicine, telecommunications, irrigation and water treatment, by trying to 
belittle its contribution to... citrus farming.So while Khouri is 
correct that the Jaffa orange (also known as the “shamouti”) was developed 
originally by Arab farmers, his allegation that the prestige of the Jaffa brand 
has been “expropriated” by the Jews seems somewhat inappropriate.In his 
“Report on Immigration, Land Settlement and Development” in Palestine (1930), 
compiled for the British authorities – a document in no way sympathetic to the 
Zionist enterprise – Sir John Hope-Simpson wrote the following on the topic of 
the “Origin of orange cultivation”: “The cultivation of the orange, introduced 
by the Arabs before the commencement of Jewish settlement, has developed to a 
very great extent in consequence of that settlement. There is no doubt that the 
pitch of perfection to which the technique of plantation and cultivation of the 
orange and grapefruit have been brought in Palestine is due to the scientific 
methods of the Jewish agriculturist.”Clearly then, although it seems 
that citrus growing was originated by the Arabs, it was the Jews who developed 
it into a major industry.So even if Khouri’s claim that “Jaffa oranges 
are a Palestinian [read “Arab”], not Israeli [read “Jewish”], trademark” has a 
smattering of historical truth to it, we are still left to puzzle over why other 
Arab countries on the eastern Mediterranean coast – such as Lebanon and Syria – 
where Jaffa oranges are grown, never developed the industry in the same way as 
the Israelis did.The heritage of humousALMOST COMICALLY, Khouri tries to attribute an absurd 
misconception to Romney, of which he then tries to disabuse him. He accuses 
Romney of being “duped into thinking that oranges, falafel and humous – staples 
of Palestinian cuisine for generations – are Israeli products.”It is 
difficult to know what is more staggering: whether Khouri actually believes 
Romney’s praise for Israel’s achievement is predicated on his misconception of 
the true origins of unscrupulously plundered recipes for the preparation of 
chickpeas (falafel and humous); or whether he believes that said recipes somehow 
prove that Palestinian accomplishment is comparable to that of Israel in, among 
other things, computer sciences, electronics, genetics, medical equipment and 
drugs, optics, solar energy, bio-technology, aeronautics, agriculture and 
agricultural engineering.With all due respect to humous, is this what 
Khouri is really raising as the flagship of Palestinian enterprise? Attributing agricultural acumenINDEED, THE 
choice of agriculture seems an injudicious choice of activity by which to try 
and illustrate Israeli-Palestinian parity.Sir John Hope-Simpson again, 
on agricultural development in Mandatory Palestine: “The condition of the Arab 
fellah [farmer] is little if at all superior to what it was under the Turkish 
regime.No definite policy of agricultural development of the country 
held by the Arabs has been adopted.”By contrast, he reported that: “The 
sole agencies which have pursued such a consistent policy have been the Jewish 
[ones], public and private. With this exception agricultural progress of any 
kind has been haphazard and of small extent or value. The Jewish settlers have 
had every advantage that capital, science and organization could give 
them.To these and to the energy of the settlers themselves their 
remarkable progress is due.”Over half a century later, and after three 
decades of allegedly oppressive Jewish “imposed hindrances,” the agricultural 
activities of the Palestinians had been transformed dramatically. In his largely 
Arabophilic treatise on the hydrology of the Middle East, Rivers of Eden (Oxford 
University Press), acclaimed agricultural expert and 2012 World Food Prize 
laureate Dan Hillel describes this metamorphosis: “The Israeli occupation 
changed local agriculture profoundly. It introduced modern technology, including 
mechanization, precision tillage, pest control, plastic covering of crops for 
temperature control, high yielding varieties, postharvest processing of produce, 
marketing, and export outlets. It also introduced efficient methods of 
irrigation, including sprinkler and especially drip irrigation. Consequently, 
output increased greatly, and farming was transformed from a subsistence 
enterprise to a commercial industry.”Indeed, up to the signing of the 
Oslo agreements, the area of land under cultivation by the Palestinian Arabs 
more than doubled under “Israel oppression,” and the agricultural output 
increased 12-fold! 'Occupation' and educationKHOURI GOES on to make the following breathtaking contention: 
“Ask our fellow Arabs in Lebanon, Jordan or elsewhere in the Persian Gulf region 
and they will tell you: Palestinian culture, with its premium on education and 
hard work, has been a force for hope, development and 
prosperity.”Premium on education? Really? Virtually the entire system of 
higher education in the “West Bank” and Gaza was created post-“occupation.” 
Indeed, prior to “occupation,” there were no institutions of higher learning of 
any significance in the “West Bank” or Gaza (including Bir Zeit, which was 
originally established in 1924 as a girls’ school but only attained full 
university status in the 1970s), leaving us to ponder how this professed 
Palestinian “premium on education” expressed itself.“Palestinian 
culture... a force for hope, development and prosperity”? I guess Khouri must 
have missed the 2011 piece entitled “The Palestinians’ Long Wait in Lebanon” in 
The New York Times – hardly a Zionist mouthpiece – on the plight of the 
Palestinians in that country.It describes the fierce discrimination, 
dubbed by one Arab journalist as “apartheid,” that has left the Palestinians in 
dire poverty and resulted in crushing unemployment – over 60% of the 
workforce.He probably didn’t spot the determination of the immigration 
judge cited in Ahmed v. Ashcroft (Third Circuit, US Appeals Court) which 
specified “Palestinians in Saudi Arabia are relegated to officially sanctioned 
second-class status incorporated into the legal and social structure of Saudi 
Arabia.”Likewise, the polls that show that the majority of the 
Palestinians resident in the Arab world would like to acquire the citizenship of 
their county of residence must have escaped his attention, as apparently did the 
Los Angeles Times interview (January 4, 2004) with Arab League spokesman Hisham 
Youssef.In it, Youssef unabashedly declared that the Palestinians’ 
“fellow Arabs” were deliberately prohibiting them from attaining the citizenship 
they desired and keeping them “in very bad conditions” – read “penury and 
privation” – so as to “to preserve their Palestinian identity.”So it 
would seem that the Palestinians’ “fellow Arabs” express their view of the 
Palestinians as “a force for hope… and prosperity” by holding them in a state of 
despair and destitution. Go figure.Christians under Palestinian cultureAS A “faithful Christian” he seems 
curiously unaware of – or unconcerned by – the ravages his co-religionists have 
been forced to endure under “Palestinian culture.”While Israel is the 
only Middle Eastern country where the Christian population has increased (over 
four-fold since independence) it has been drastically eroded in the 
Palestinian-administrated areas. A recent report in The Guardian (December 23, 
2011) reported that in Gaza celebrating Christmas and displaying crucifixes are 
taboo, and described how the remnants of the minuscule Christian population live 
in constant fear.But such harassment has not been confined to the 
Hamas-dominated Gaza. Indeed, shortly after the commencement of the Palestinian 
Authority’s rule, The Times of London (“Tensions darken festive mood in 
Bethlehem” – December 22, 1997) wrote of the dire predicament of the Christians 
under that regime: “Life in Bethlehem has become insufferable for many members 
of the dwindling Christian minorities. Increasing Muslim-Christian tensions have 
left some Christians reluctant to celebrate Christmas in the town at the heart 
of the story of Christ’s birth.”The paper cited reports that 
“[Christian] cemeteries have been destroyed, monasteries broken into, and their 
telephone lines disconnected.” It conveyed the grave concern expressed by Dr. 
George Carey, then archbishop of Canterbury, who “said after a visit to the Holy 
Land in 1993: ‘My fear is that in 15 years Jerusalem [and] Bethlehem – once 
centres of a strong Christian presence – might become a kind of Walt Disney 
Christian theme park.’” If not culture – then what?KHOURI’S PENCHANT for self-aggrandizement exposes his 
lack of perception and proportion. He boasts: “I returned to Palestine in 1993 
to launch the first Coca- Cola bottling plant in the West Bank. It was granted a 
Best Country Bottling Operation award in May by Coca-Cola, a testament to my 
colleagues’ ingenuity and determination.”While Khouri should be 
commended on his success, a plant for topping up bottles of foreign-sourced soft 
drink, however well-run, is – with all due respect – hardly a staggering 
industrial achievement in the second decade of the 21st century. Not really on 
the cusp of creative advancement.Is Khouri really suggesting it is 
somehow indicative of the comparable energy and enterprise that launched leading 
industrial giants such as Teva, Elbit, Checkpoint, Israel Aerospace Industries – 
to name but a few examples of Israeli entrepreneurship? There are, of course, 
refined, erudite and capable Palestinians and Khouri is – in all likelihood – 
one of them. But sadly, these manifestations of individual competence and acumen 
do not seem to translate into societal success – either within the Palestinian 
world, or in the wider Arab world of which they claim they are 
part.Indeed, as Tom Friedman pointed out in a rare moment of 
intellectual integrity, “One reason the Arab world has stagnated while Asia has 
thrived is that the Arabs had no good local models to follow.” (New York Times, 
April 3, 2012).This is a point driven home by The Economist, which notes 
that: “From 1980 to 2000 Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, 
Syria and Jordan between them registered 367 patents in the United 
States.Over the same period South Korea alone registered 16,328 and 
Israel 7,652. The number of books translated into Arabic every year in the 
entire Arab world is one-fifth the number translated by Greece into 
Greek.”It is of course, not immediately obvious how one could compile a 
compelling case to attribute such dismal culture-wide under-achievement to 
“Israel’s imposed hindrances.”A culture of denial?KHOURI’S VENOM verges on the ludicrous 
when he snipes spitefully: “Israel did not make the desert bloom.” After all, 
even the briefest visit to the inhospitably arid regions of the Arava and Negev 
would suffice to repudiate Khouri’s mendacious malice.It would reveal 
not only tens of thousands of hectares of extensive dry farming, producing tens 
of thousands of metric tons of grain, but also modern, cutting-edge greenhouses 
and the flourishing, innovatively irrigated orchards that yield impressive 
quantities of some of world’s finest horticulture produce – most for export 
markets in the West.Deserts, Mr. Khouri, don’t come much more blooming 
than that.But resolutely impervious to readily visible fact, Khouri 
brings the non sequitur to rarely attained levels when he appears – inexplicably 
– to attribute the astounding – and globally acknowledged – success of Israeli 
agriculture “to a deal struck with the British viceroys of Mandate Palestine” 
almost seven decades ago.Grudgingly, Khouri admits that “Israelis far 
outdo Palestinians in net wealth. In fact, [Romney’s] estimates of the disparity 
were too conservative: Israel’s per capita gross domestic product is roughly 
$32,000 to the Palestinians’ $1,500.”He goes on to observe, correctly, 
that “Remarkably, that $1,500 figure is roughly half of what Palestinians 
claimed in 1993, when the Oslo accords were signed” but then, somewhat 
discordantly as “a proud American,” gripes that “the US-sponsored peace process 
has made us poorer.”This of course is a baseless grievance that flies in 
the face of facts. For in fact the US had no hand in brokering the Oslo deal, 
which was the unfortunate product of direct Israeli-Palestinian negotiations – 
although later it did contribute generously to Palestinian coffers in a vain 
effort to help it succeed – somehow making Palestinians poorer.So while 
it is indeed true that Palestinians did fare far better under Israeli 
“occupation” than under their own corrupt, cruel and less-than-competent regime, 
this is attributable – exclusively – to their own deeds and misdeeds; to what 
they did and to what they did not do.But rather than recognize 
Palestinian responsibility for the Palestinians’ plight, Khouri typically adopts 
the well-known Palestinian stratagem of blaming everyone and anyone – the 
British, the US the Israelis – except themselves for their own unenviable 
plight.Water-the dry factsONE OF the most galling allegations that Khouri hurls is that 
Palestinians are being deprived of water by Israel.On the contrary, the 
Palestinians’ hydrological situation has improved beyond all recognition under 
Israeli administration, not only in absolute terms compared to initial 
pre-“occupation” conditions, but in relative terms compared to that of 
Israelis.Whether one focuses on overall consumption of fresh water; per 
capita consumption of fresh water; consumption of fresh water relative to 
Israelis; accessibility of running water to households; the area under 
agricultural cultivation; or the size of the agricultural product, the 
conditions for the Palestinians were dramatically enhanced by Israeli 
rule.Moreover, from 1967 to the years just before Oslo, Palestinian 
household consumption of water rose precipitously – by almost 600%, 
significantly higher than the 230% rise in Israel.Similarly, water 
conveyance to households also increased impressively. Whereas in 1967 only 10% 
of the “West Bank” Arab population was connected to a running water system, the 
figure today stands at 95%. So much for discriminatory deprivation! As 
mentioned, Palestinian agricultural performance improved spectacularly as well – 
both in terms of area cultivated and quantities produced, even though water 
allocations were not increased. (Significantly, in recent years Israeli farmers 
have had their freshwater allocations slashed by 50% and more.) Demand not discriminationKHOURI COMPLAINS 
that “[i]n the West Bank, for example, Israeli settlers consume on average 4.3 
times the amount of water as Palestinians.”However, he fails to mention 
that Israel conveys more water from inside the pre- 1967 borders into the “West 
Bank” than the total consumption of the entire Jewish population in the 
settlements across the “Green Line.” In other words, there is a net inflow of 
water from pre-1967 Israel to the Palestinians, which more than compensates for 
the settlers’ sorely maligned lawns and swimming pools.Indeed, while 
claims that per-capita consumption of water by Israelis is much higher than that 
of the Palestinian population are true, this is principally a result of 
differences in demand – not supply – because of differences in lifestyles. 
(Clearly, the fact that a millionaire in an opulent penthouse in Manhattan will 
use far less water than an equally affluent owner of a sprawling estate in Bel 
Air is not a matter of discriminatory deprivation.) Significantly different 
rates of consumption are found between the Jewish and Arab populations within 
pre-1967 Israel – and between different socio-economic groups within the Jewish 
population – without anyone raising the claim that this is the result of 
purposeful deprivation.Interestingly, per-capita consumption in the 
frequently vilified settlement of Kiryat Arba is 25% lower than in the Beduin 
city of Rahat – and 90% lower than in up-market Savyon. What perverse 
discrimination does that indicate? “Imagine our potential without Israel’s hindrances…”ACCORDING TO Khouri: “Palestinian development 
of all kinds is severely hindered by the Israeli occupation.” In fact, it soared 
under Israeli administration and wilted under Palestinian rule.He 
continues, “Yet Palestinians have not given up. Palestine has one of the highest 
literacy rates in the Arab world” – forgetting to note that is was under Israeli 
administration that literacy rose precipitously.He claims that “Our 
youth continue to graduate from our universities” but fails to mention that none 
of these existed prior to 1967.He crows that Palestinians are “opening 
businesses and gaining skills. Our private sector innovates and grows” – when in 
fact, despite massive international aid – among the highest per capita in the 
world – the Palestinian economy is still unsustainable, comprised mainly of a 
bloated public sector and a minuscule private one, generating a GDP dramatically 
lower than disposable income.He concludes his duplicitous diatribe with 
the following words: “If Romney had any historical perspective, he would dispose 
of his racist judgments about Palestinian culture and instead imagine our 
potential without Israel’s imposed hindrances.”Apart from the fact that 
Romney of course never made any reference to race, but rather to culture, there 
is really no need for him to imagine how a Palestinian-dominant society would 
fare “without Israel’s imposed hindrances.” All he needs to do is look at 
Jordan, where the Palestinians comprise a clear majority, and at the performance 
of the Jordanian economy, which is manifestly unencumbered by “Israel’s imposed 
hindrances.”What he would find is a GDP per capita barely one eighth 
that of Israel’s – hardly something that helps Khouri make his case.
It 
does, however, help Romney make his.Martin Sherman 
(www.martinsherman.net) is the founder and executive director of the Israel 
Institute for Strategic Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>PostScript: Beware, Greased lightning</title>
<date>19/1/2012</date>
<content>
Think of the power. Without being judgmental about what was said, it was 
stunning, though not unexpected, that within hours of this paper’s editor making 
what he thought were private remarks at a supposedly closed forum of WIZO ladies 
in Tel Aviv about a conversation with the prime minister, they were all over the 
place. Recorded by cellphone, disseminated by the Internet, passed on by 
bloggers, picked up by the wires, by 4:45 on Thursday afternoon on googling 
“Steve Linde WIZO,” I got 829,000 results in 0.5 seconds – not bad for an editor 
of a paper whose hard-copy sales are probably much less.That our world 
has changed, we all know and appreciate. We have also been made aware of many of 
the negative consequences of the Internet, like bullying on social media, sexual 
entrapment of minors, illegal gambling, pornography and precise instructions for 
making nuclear weapons, among other things. But there seems to be one issue 
beyond resolution: How does one contain gossip and slander? Who is accountable 
for passing on malicious, unchecked defamation of people, businesses, plays, 
restaurants and the butcher shop across the road now competing with mine? How 
does one hold accountable “SnailHump” or “PurpleSneeze” and the others, who blog 
away, saying whatever they like, to whoever they like, and can’t believe seeing 
their rubbish multiply like flies on a hot day, and actually being taken 
seriously by some.




Apparently, in the good old days, when slander was 
taken seriously they used to pour hot lead down the throats of the guilty. It is 
said that because a person’s tongue is the only part of the human body that has 
no limits, the Creator placed it in jail, a jaw surrounded by teeth, lest people 
allow it to run away with them. And now, no jaw, no teeth and no jail, just 
infinite addresses instantaneously reached by people with no accountability, 
telling the world that your sister works in the oldest profession known to man, 
and now go prove you don’t have a sister.Obviously, one of the worst 
victims of this all is Israel itself. If states could sue, the revenues Israel 
could garner from claims would probably be greater than the amount the country 
raises from taxes; academics in England would be washing dishes to pay their 
lawyers, and the Swedish journalist who wrote that we kill little Palestinians 
for their organs, would be waiting for the lead to warm up.One click on 
“Israel-apartheid” gives you 684,000 results, while “Israel racist’ shows a mere 
35.5 million and counting. More often-than-not an entry into one of these is 
enough to make your hair stand on end, and not recommended for Jewish cardiac 
patients. Imagine the cumulative effect of 35 million such screeds? On the 
surface of things the new media we are speaking about are highly 
sophisticated.In a perverse way, however, they also enable uncivilized 
barbarity. There is little as dangerous as a rumor. They have started wars and 
led to the deaths of millions. They cause suicides and sturdy businesses to 
collapse.But now, these two base instincts and agents of evil, rumor and 
gossip, have an ally in their destructive tasks, like never before: the 
Internet. What could possibly serve them better? If one takes a step back and 
looks at it all, one can imagine that this is not a dissimilar experience to 
what happened when fire was first discovered.A lot of people probably 
got burned, and much property was lost to flames, until it was understood how to 
deal with it. Like fire, the Internet too is a blessing and a curse, and can 
burn and destroy if not handled with care and the respect it 
deserves.What it all boils down to is that every day yet another example 
comes along that demonstrates what a wonderful, but precarious, gift we have 
been given. Here, all it took was a partial leak, apparently taken out of 
context, from a closed conversation with a group of well-meaning women, to start 
a small tsunami that by now must be way up there on Google’s totem pole, and by 
early afternoon had the prime minister and his underlings running around in 
circles trying to do damage control.And poor Steve Linde, one minute 
having buns and tea at a seaside hotel in Tel Aviv, the next at the center of a 
brouhaha over Haaretz and The New York Times, whose editors had just learned 
from him that Israel’s prime minister considers their papers more of a threat to 
Israel than Iran.This is not a wildfire we are speaking about, but 
greased lighting. Wildfires spread and can be contained; here the bolt can be 
lethal, irreversible and indelible.
Users beware.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Postscript: Time for Israel to join the world</title>
<date>6/7/2012</date>
<content>
Israelis in particular and Jews in general love to complain about how much the 
world hates us, as if the hatred of others is what makes Israel 
legitimate.It is time to move on, to take the victimhood out of the 
modern Jewish state, now approaching 65, and to live our lives without 
constantly having to explain ourselves to others, or to seek their 
approval.




It is time to live by our actions and deeds, and to bury 
hasbara – the Hebrew word for explaining the country’s positions that has no 
precise translation into any known language, and with good reason.It is 
time to stop whining and complaining, and looking for media bias behind every 
sentence or headline. It is time to stop knee-jerk reactions to every claim by 
every blogger, to every insult hurled in Israel’s direction. You want to call me 
an apartheid state? Go ahead. Screw you! That said, it is time for Israel to 
become part of the family of nations, for becoming part of the UN’s humanitarian 
mechanism, instead of hiding behind the legitimate, but irrelevant, claim that 
the majority of the UN’s members hate us.Instead of wasted speeches and 
cries of “foul,” prove them wrong. Flood UN humanitarian mechanisms with 
Israelis who have so much to contribute in every field; use the UN to show off 
Israeli ingenuity in agriculture, health, educational techniques to the world. 
Integrate Israeli soldiers and police into international peacekeeping forces, 
and use Israeli technologies to help fight international piracy.Let 
Israeli actions replace the spin doctors, the message mongers and the 
apologists. Israel should fight to become more active in the 
International Red Cross. Israel’s contribution here can be 
tremendous. Few countries have more experience in disaster management, 
field medicine, search and rescue, whatever, than Israel.Instead of 
berating the UN and the ICRC, looking for excuses why Israel should detest these 
organizations, Israel would do well to embrace them. Spurning them means 
international isolation; embracing them is the path to international 
acceptability. If you want to join the world, you have to join 
it.Isolationism is a losing strategy. The lager is no longer an 
effective form of defense. Israel was voted into being by the family of 
nations, has developed into a productive member of that family, and now has to 
share its experience with others; to give back from where it came.This 
country has so much to be proud of it is almost a sin that it feels the need for 
a ministry of information, or public diplomacy, as it is politely called. We 
have trained diplomats and spokespeople to make Israel’s case and the more 
Israel becomes a productive part of the international community, the easier 
their work will be.I am not blind to the inherent prejudice in such UN 
organs as the Human Rights Council, or that the ICRC was vitriolic in its 
opposition to the Magen David Adom being recognized as an international symbol, 
while it recognized the Red Crescent. I know of the absurdities in some of the 
UN’s structures and that countries with horrible human rights records occupy 
seats meant for saints, and of Israel’s troubled relations with the ICRC, 
specifically over Palestinian prisoner issues.So what? It would seem all 
the more reason to change our relationships with these organizations through 
positive interaction, not constant complaining about them; to make them see how 
absurd their slurs and accusations are, how different the real Israel is from 
the one they continue to vilify.Israel’s aid in international disasters 
has been sporadic. When there is a problem we are there if invited, and usually 
manage to do an excellent job to the point where former adversaries, like Sri 
Lanka, have become friends. The work Israeli teams did in Haiti was exemplary 
and received kudos from around the world.These efforts have all been 
unorganized and spontaneous, yet the praise has been tremendous. If these are 
solidified and turned into permanent ongoing functions in the structures of the 
international community, Israel will need no hasbara – its name will speak for 
itself.It is always said that one should recognize one’s enemy, but also 
opportunity.The world needs Israel’s help to solve hunger and disease, 
to teach and help the less fortunate, to police and keep order, to be an example 
to others, not a magnet for abuse and discrimination.Judge Richard 
Goldstone, the author of the report on Israel’s actions in Gaza during Operation 
Cast Lead in 2008-9, which was initially so devastating for Israel, later said 
that had Israel cooperated with him and his commission at the time of the 
inquiry his report would have been totally different.Instead of 
continuing to demonize Goldstone, it would be good to listen to what he 
subsequently said and draw the necessary conclusions. Israel has nothing to hide 
and little to apologize for. The great pity is that we were too fixated on the 
prejudices of others rather than on recognizing our own strengths, and pointing 
fingers at others rather than acting like a sovereign nation with much to 
contribute to a world that in many parts is less fortunate than us.It is 
time for Israel to stand up for what it is, not keep on explaining what it 
isn’t; to join the family of nations, not spurn it.
The writer is a 
senior research associate at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel 
Aviv University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>PostScript: Time to get smart</title>
<date>5/1/2012</date>
<content>
Israel’s legitimacy, over the past few years, has become the battle cry of 
Israel and its supporters. With no wars, suffering, mass immigration and other 
heart-wrenching situations to flesh donor dollars out of ever-tightening 
wallets, saving Israel from those who seek to delegitimize it has become the new 
cause; the new war.The pre-occupation with delegitimization has been 
accelerated by the preponderance of ministries created to cater to the political 
needs of the current coalition, such as the Strategic Affairs Ministry, the 
Ministry for Information (Public Diplomacy) and several others, which have more 
staff than ideas, and budgets they need to justify.




For them 
delegitimization has fallen as manna from heaven. Here was no one’s turf and 
everyone’s turf, where the new strategically oriented ministries could claim a 
piece of the action without stepping on anyone’s toes and, at the same time, 
justify their existence.Fighting those who seek to channel Israel into a 
parallel identity with apartheid South Africa with the goal of crippling it 
through isolation and sanctions is a national imperative. Israel is 
dependent on trade, allies, imports and support of the world’s democracies 
currently happy to be identified with Israel in the international arena. Those 
who proactively work to remove Israel from the family of nations, cast it as a 
pariah, and place next to North Korea on the axis of evil, want to achieve 
through manipulation and lies what the Iranians are threatening to do by force: 
Bring Israel to its knees and, ultimately, make it another short chapter in the 
tempestuous history of this region.Their war has been immensely 
facilitated by the age of ever-developing new media, which make the opportunities 
for dissemination endless and responsibility for content nonexistent. The 
horizons of this battlefield are limitless and unlike Iran’s threats, which are 
bare knuckled, coarse and easily identifiable, delegitimization is smart, 
bloodless and, critically, impervious to deterrence. And whereas 
conventional war, even the most advanced versions of it, has defined dimensions 
– land, sea, air, cyberspace – here there is none. All the world’s a stage for 
this new type of warfare, and way beyond.Obviously it is impossible to 
compare the damage to Israel physically from a military onslaught to one of 
words, laws and instruments of hatred being applied against Israel’s legitimacy, 
but the potential for damage, if the phenomenon is not clearly identified, 
understood and contained, is great.This is smart, persistent warfare 
against Israel’s foreign relations, economy, alliances and image, which is 
amorphous despite its often pinpoint impact, as when senior Israeli officials 
could not travel to England, for example, and the boycotts and strikes of 
Israeli products and academics in several parts of the world.The danger 
with delegitimization is that both the attacks and the responses to them are all 
over the place, from the countless NGOs that claim the subject to be theirs, the 
new ministries that have taken to the challenge like a bee to honey, the defense 
establishment and the Foreign Ministry, always mindful of their turf, and those 
abroad raising money in the name of dealing with the new demon.There 
does not exist, however, to the best of my humble knowledge, any single 
responsible, authoritative and unified national body dealing with it, where the 
potential damage to Israel is assessed and its trends analyzed, where a doctrine 
and strategy is being worked on, where information is shared and the hundreds of 
smatterings on the subject are brought together in some cogent way.The 
war to delegitimize Israel can only become more intense with time. The tools for 
this warfare are constantly improving, free, intellectually challenging and 
converge to serve a host of Israel’s enemies from anti-Semites to Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad, and had better be clearly understood.Israel has been very 
good at fighting its physical battles and its wars. It has managed to contain 
Iran in a serious way. The attacks against its legitimacy have until now 
been sporadic and noncoordinated. One of these days, however, someone 
smart is going to understand the dimensions and potential of this new weapon, 
and Israel would be very well advised to concentrate its efforts on being 
prepared. Smart threats require smart responses, and these cannot be 
found when everyone is dealing with the subject and no one seems to be 
cooperating.Obviously the Prime Minister’s Office has to be the leader 
in this. It has the organizational capacity, the authority and the 
budget.Israel has paid a terrible price for the lack of coordination 
between government agencies when facing threats in the past, among them in the 
public diplomacy realm during the Second Lebanon War and the second intifada. 
Here, despite the alarm bells and frenetic energy being expended on the issue, 
no coordinated preemptive effort seems to be in the works, and history seems to 
be in the process of repeating itself.It truly is time to get 
smart.
The writer is a senior research associate at the Institute for 
National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University. His most recent book is The 
Anatomy of Israel’s Survival, published by Public Affairs, New York, in the 
fall.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Reality Check: What about Dov Henin?</title>
<date>23/12/2012</date>
<content>
Left-of-center voters looking for a party to vote for next month should 
seriously consider following Shelly Yacimovich’s example – and vote Hadash. The 
Labor Party leader famously voted for this non- Zionist, Jewish-Arab party in 
1996 because of her admiration for Tamar Gozansky, a Hadash legislator prominent 
in championing workers’ rights, rights of the individual and women’s rights 
during her 13 years as a Knesset member.Gozansky’s role in Hadash has 
since been filled by Dov Henin, another hardworking MK who this year won the 
Israel Democracy Institute’s Outstanding Parliamentarian Award 2012, which is 
presented to parliamentarians with outstanding records in promoting 
legislation.




(For those readers who might consider Israel Democracy 
Institute awards a closed left-wing shop, it should be noted that Henin shared 
his award with United Torah Judaism’s Uri Maklev, while Zevulun Orlev of Bayit 
Yehudi was cited as the most distinguished committee chairman for his leadership 
of the Knesset Committee on the Rights of the Child.) Like Gozansky, Henin has 
campaigned vigorously for workers’ and women’s rights, and on top of this he has 
also spearheaded the environmental cause in the outgoing Knesset, working with 
MKs from across the political spectrum to enact an impressive number of new 
laws. In the 2008 Tel Aviv municipal elections, backed by the Green movement, he 
fought an impressive campaign against the shoe-in establishment candidate, Ron 
Hulda’i, winning almost 35 percent of the vote as the head of the Ir Lekhulanu 
(“City for All”) party, significantly reducing the size of Hulda’i’s 
majority.In other words, Henin is exactly the type of hard-working, 
principled politician with a broad worldview that one wants to see in the 
Knesset. Unfortunately, under Israel’s proportional representation system, a 
voter can only vote for a party, not an individual, and there are serious 
concerns as to Hadash’s commitment to an inclusive Israeli civil-rights agenda, 
encompassing both the country’s Jewish and Arab populations.Given the 
party’s history of joining up with Arab separatist parties such as Balad in 1996 
and Ahmed Tibi’s Ta’al in 2003, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that Hadash’s 
predominantly Arab leadership have fewer problems supporting the Palestinian 
nationalist cause than they do accepting the Jewish people’s right to national 
self-determination.BUT STILL, as a protest vote, a vote for Hadash has 
much to recommend it for traditional Labor supporters dismayed by Yacimovich’s 
attempt to turn Labor into a centrist party, indistinguishable from the 
non-ideological and highly opportunistic lists headed by Tzipi Livni and Yair 
Lapid. A sharp increase in Hadash’s electoral strength from regions where it 
traditionally has failed to poll would send a very clear message of 
dissatisfaction with Yacimovich’s blunting of Labor’s diplomatic 
principles.As the incumbent, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has every 
incentive to ensure that this election campaign be as somnolent as possible, and 
so far he is doing an excellent job, helped by Yacimovich’s unexplainable 
passivity. Reworking his 1996 campaign, which first brought him to the Prime 
Minister’s Office, Netanyahu is once again making Jerusalem the 
focus.Back then, while running as the underdog, Netanyahu unleashed the 
slogan “Peres will divide Jerusalem” to frighten the undecided voter against 
voting for the then-Labor leader. Today, thanks to the supine opposition he’s 
facing, Netanyahu’s main concern is a loss of support among right-wing voters, 
and so he’s looking to prevent Likud voters defecting to the increasingly 
extremist Bayit Yehudi by announcing plans to increase settlement building, 
particularly in Jerusalem and the E-1 area near Ma’aleh Adumim.The cost 
of these statements to Israel’s international standing is worrisome.The 
US State Department last week accused Israel of engaging in a continuous 
“pattern of provocative action,” noting in a statement that “these repeated 
announcements and plans of new construction run counter to the cause of peace. 
Israel’s leaders continually say that they support a path towards a two-state 
solution, yet these actions only put that goal further at risk.”In fact, 
just a couple more terms of Netanyahu and his ilk in power will ensure there 
will be no possibility of ever reaching a two-state solution between Israel and 
the Palestinians, creating an immoral apartheid state in which a Jewish Israeli 
minority will rule over a non-Jewish Palestinian majority.Such a state 
will not last for long and the Zionist dream will be over.These 
elections should be a wake-up call for all those Israelis seeking a modern, 
secular, non-messianic country that wants to live in peace with its neighbors 
behind internationally recognized borders and in which all its citizens, Jew and 
non-Jew alike, are treated equally by the state. Yacimovich’s decision to 
challenge Netanyahu solely over economic policy is nothing more than rearranging 
the chairs on the deck of the Titantic. Netanyahu and his policies are leading 
Israel to disaster; a vote for Yacimovich’s Labor will do nothing to prevent 
this.
The writer is a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Richard Beinart and Peter Goldstone – Part II</title>
<date>7/6/2012</date>
<content>
How could we give permission [for there] to be a state of Islam and a state of 
Jews? It [the two-state notion] is a kind of apartheid....For the 
Palestinians and the Israelis, I am sure that the one democratic state will be 
the only solution – Badran, Khaled Jaber’s grandfather, April 2012 




We need all 
[of] Palestine... Israel as a Jewish state is a big lie. It’s a big lie. [Israel 
is] a European colonial imprint.... It’s a matter of time.... They will go away 
the same way that France went from Algeria and Italy from Libya. – Falastin, 
Khaled Jaber’s mother, April 2012.Readers will, of course, recall that 
Khaled Jaber was the five-year-old Palestinian boy filmed sobbing at his 
father’s arrest by Israeli police, and who, according to Peter Beinart, provided 
much of the impetus for him to write his recent book, The Crisis of 
Zionism.Sauce for the gander It is, of course, true that the Jaber 
family’s rejectionist political perspectives are neither moral exoneration for 
any alleged injustices/iniquities in Israeli policy toward the Palestinians, nor 
definitive proof of universal or wide-spread sentiments of similar enmity among 
the wider Palestinian population.However, neither is the Jaber incident 
– even if one accepts Beinart’s unquestioning and questionable interpretation of 
what happened – a fair representation of overall Israeli conduct vis-à-vis the 
Palestinians, any more than the brutal beating of Rodney King by the LAPD is a 
representative reflection of official US policy vis-à-vis ethnic 
minorities.But since Beinart did extrapolate from the Khaled Jaber 
incident, implying that it is illustrative of the unfair and oppressive burden 
imposed on the un-enfranchised Palestinians living under Israeli occupation, he 
should neither be surprised, nor in a position to protest, when others 
extrapolate from other localized events/expressions to illustrate the imprudence 
and implausibility of his views.Inimical icons Beinart is on record 
stating that even if he had known the Jaber family’s political beliefs, it would 
not have changed his decision to feature Khaled’s story in the book’s 
introduction, saying: “The point I was trying to convey in that story was simply 
about a small example of the reality of what it means to live as a population 
that doesn’t have citizenship or the equal rights given by full citizenship and 
the consequences of that. And that seems to me a reality that is important, 
irrespective of the political views of the people who are suffering.”As 
mentioned earlier, this is not a position that can be dismissed apriori. 
However, few will deny that it seems more than a little incongruous that the 
very family through which Beinart chose to convey the pressing need for a 
two-state arrangement vehemently rejects the admissibility of such an 
arrangement –irrespective of Israeli policy.Actually, it’s worse. For it 
turns out that the Jabers are not a typical Palestinian fellah (peasant) family 
eking out a meager living from arid lands denied irrigation by iniquitous 
Israel.As The Jerusalem Post reported, Badran is a professor at one of 
Hebron’s two universities – both established in the 1970s under the Israeli 
administration of the town – prior to which it had no institutions of higher 
learning.He is also designated a “senior member” of the radical Popular 
Front for the Liberation of Palestine which has been involved in some of the 
more gruesome terror attacks over the past half century.An uncanny knack
The Jabers have an uncanny knack for attracting the attention of the 
international media. The briefest of Google searches reveals that the incident 
Beinart seized on was not the Jaber family’s first brush with Israeli forces 
over illicit water use filmed by an international TV network.Indeed, 10 
months prior to Sky News showing the young Khaled wailing over his father, 
Fadel, being arrested, lo-and-behold Al Jazeera also appeared to document a 
confrontation with Israel authorities over the Jaber family illegally tapping 
into water pipes.Unsurprisingly, the network broadcast a distorted and 
deceptive account of the water realities in the “West Bank.”It accused 
Israel of depriving Palestinian farmers of their rightful share of water, 
blithely disregarding – as did Beinart – that it is the Palestinian Authority 
which is responsible for providing Palestinian consumers with water, but does 
not even use all of the quota allotted it.Although the Israeli forces 
did dismantle the illegal connections, no one was arrested for “water-theft,” 
and a dapperly dressed Badran vowed to continue to defy the authorities and 
reinstall them.Hmmm.First Al Jazeera, then Sky News with the 
Jabers within the space of a few months? Of course, this may be sheer 
coincidence – but it does make you think. Just maybe there may be something to 
the Israeli claim that Fadel Jaber was arrested for disturbing the peace and not 
for stealing water.And perhaps there just might be something to the 
Israeli claim that the poignant scene of the wailing Khaled was less than 
authentic.Radical, rejectionist, ruthless The Jabers’ association with 
the PFLP is interesting because it shows what inappropriate “icons” they are to 
illustrate Beinart’s claims. For both their personal opinions and their 
organizational affiliation illuminate aspects of Palestinian society that 
underscore the foolhardy futility of Beinart’s political 
prescription.The PFLP, in which Jaber has a leading role (the PFLP 
website describes him as “a leader”) is the second largest faction in the PLO – 
after Abbas’s Fatah – and is one of the most radical and rejectionist of all 
Palestinian groups.It “pioneered” armed aircraft hijackings in the ’60s 
and ’70s – including the Entebbe episode.It was involved in some of the 
most horrific acts of terror – from the 1972 massacre of almost 30 passengers at 
Lod (now Ben-Gurion) Airport in conjunction with the Japanese Red Army to the 
brutal 2011 murder of the Fogel family, whose killers were closely associated 
with the organization.The PFLP was also responsible for the 
assassination of Israeli tourism minister Rehavam Ze’evi at a Jerusalem hotel in 
2001.It opposed the Oslo Accords and any recognition of Israel, recently 
winning praise from Hamas for suspending its participation in the PLO’s 
Executive Committee.The PFLP is not an Islamist organization.It 
was established by a Palestinian Christian, George Habash, whose animosity 
toward Israel pre-dates any “nondemocratic occupation” in Judea, Samaria or 
Gaza, going back to the 1950s.The same is true of one of Habash’s most 
notorious lieutenants, Wadie Haddad, who also worked for the KGB and reportedly 
dismissed the infamous international terrorist Ilich Ramírez Sánchez (Carlos) 
from his PFLP team for failing to execute hostages.Neither the heinous 
history of the organization nor the bloodstained biographies of its founders 
deterred grandfather Jaber from eulogizing Haddad (and Habash) earlier this year 
in a radio broadcast, prominently reported on the PFLP’s website, praising their 
myriad acts of murderous international terror as unwavering loyalty to the 
Palestinian cause.Same incident, different portrayals Why is all this 
relevant to the assessment of Beinart’s critique of Israeli policy and its US 
supporters? Because it focuses on one on the major defects in Beinart’s 
argumentation: His total disregard for the nature of Palestinian society, its 
deep-rooted hatred of Israel and the widespread rejection of Jewish sovereignty, 
within any borders whatsoever, as a policy- relevant factor.Beinart’s 
haste to accept the emotive superficiality of the 55 second video that spurred 
him write his book results in a picture of Israel as cruel, discriminatory 
oppressor, wreaking suffering on a passive, disenfranchised civilian 
population.However, a little research into the incident, and the figures 
it involved, would convey a very different portrait of reality.It would 
show Palestinian society as one of pervasive and abiding enmity toward Israel – 
because of what it is, not what it does – that embraces all segments including 
non-Muslim secular movements. The Jabers would not be depicted as poor agrarian 
peasants, toiling in the parched fields, deprived of adequate water by Israeli 
malice, but educated intellectuals actively affiliated with one of the most 
extreme terror organizations on the planet and utterly opposed to any 
conciliation with a Jewish state.In the former portrait, all the onus is 
on Israel to act to end the conflict; in the latter, Israeli action is 
irrelevant for ending the conflict, a portrait in which – as Daniel Gordis 
pointed out in his debate with Beinart – there is “nothing Israel can do to end 
the conflict – not even land for peace.”What about Wafa? If one wanted 
to choose an iconic figure to convey the unforgiving realities Israel faces in 
its interaction with Palestinian society – and one that vividly illustrates the 
harsh veracity of Gordis’s observation – one could do no better than Wafa 
al-Biss.Biss is a young Palestinian woman from Gaza, who in 2004 was 
admitted to Beersheba’s Soroka University Medical Center with serious burn 
injuries. At the hospital, she received emergency – probably life-saving – 
treatment. Her parents and her Gaza doctors praised the dedication of the staff 
and the quality of the treatment.She was allowed return for periodic 
check-ups to monitor her progress.Then in the summer of 2005, on one of 
these visits, she was caught at a border crossing, trying to smuggle more 10 kg. 
of explosives in her clothing. Her plan was to blow herself up in an attack 
intended to kill the very doctors who had saved her life, along with as many 
patients and bystanders as possible.Her dispatchers were not Hamas 
operatives, but the Fatah affiliated Al-Aksa Brigades.Biss, although 
contrite and pleading after her capture, has since her release in the Schalit 
exchange waxed considerably more defiant, urging youngsters to follow her 
example of suicide attacks against Israel and further abductions of IDF soldiers 
to secure the release of more Palestinian prisoners.So there lies the 
rub: Dedicated humanitarian aid by Israel is reciprocated with murderous 
Palestinian actions against the very people who provided the aid.Now, 
while Wafa al-Biss’s conduct may not be a template that all Palestinians 
embrace, judging from the enthusiastic reception she received on her return, it 
certainly seems to be extremely popular, even in official PA 
circles.Reality not ‘stereotypes’ Beinart warns that “depicting 
Palestinians as violent and hateful” is criticized by young liberal US Jews “as 
stereotypical and unfair, citing their own Muslim friends” hinting perhaps that 
they cannot be hoodwinked by duplicitous rightwing propaganda, as they have 
their own sources of information regarding the real nature of Muslim 
society.Sadly for Israel, US Jews’ experience with their Muslim friends 
has little practical relevance in terms of policy input or political doctrine. 
After all, the realities that Israel must contend with to ensure the security of 
the state and the safety of its citizens is not generated by populations of 
affable, educated Muslims who have chosen to live in an open, democratic 
society.The realities it has to deal with are populations that produce 
societies like those in Sudan and Syria, in Algeria and Afghanistan, Iran and 
Iraq; that beget organizations such as the Taliban, al-Qaida, Hezbollah, Hamas, 
Al-Aksa Martyrs Brigade and Islamic Jihad.One can only hope that Beinart 
is not seriously suggesting that the genteel interactions that liberal US Jews 
may have with refined, well-mannered followers of the prophet on leafy US 
campuses or in elegant suburban salons has any bearing on the policy decisions 
Israel has to make vis-à-vis the Palestinians –who embrace the likes of Wafa 
al-Biss, or at least eschew any censure of her, her past actions and future 
intentions.Liberal democracy Sderot-style It is increasing difficult to 
understand precisely to which interpretation of reality Beinart is trying to 
tether his political perspectives. Indeed, he has increasingly been compelled to 
concede that the Palestinians may be unable to make the compromises necessary to 
achieve his two-state vision.However, that in no way brings him to admit 
the probability of error. Instead he makes the extraordinary demand that even if 
such a vision is presently unattainable, Israel somehow has an obligation to 
preserve the possibility of its eventual implementation, for an indeterminate 
period of time during which the Palestinians will presumably, but inexplicably, 
morph into more amenable beings.In the interim, Jewish settlements are 
to be left to wither and disintegrate, and Jewish settlers paid to relocate (a 
proposal, which when made regarding Jews, is considered “enlightened” and 
“liberal” but when made regarding Arabs, suddenly becomes “racist” and 
“fascist”).Worse, Beinart has now declared economic war on any Jew 
residing east of the 1949 armistice lines with his recent proposal in The New 
York Times for a BDS campaign against economic entities operating there – a 
proposal that South Africa seems to have seized on.So what is the 
plausible outcome of the reality Beinart aspires to? The renunciation of Jewish 
claims to the Jewish homeland and its irrevocable transfer to Muslim control – 
which, given the developments of the Arab Spring, greatly increases the 
probability that that control will be in the hands of implacable Islamist 
extremists.So Beinart is actually advocating bringing the realities of 
bombarded Sderot to Rothschild Boulevard in central Tel Aviv, and millions more 
civilians into the range of weapons being used today against Israel from 
territory transferred to Palestinian control. Millions more Israeli civilians 
forced – at the will of Judeophobic extremists – to cower in bomb 
shelters.If this is not his intention, he offers precious little to 
explain how this is to be avoided. Or – if it can’t – why millions of 
traumatized Israeli children are a price worth paying to assuage the 
intellectual discomfort he and his ideological cronies apparently 
suffer.Is Peres legitimizing BDS? Beinart’s proposals underscore that he 
either has no clue or no scruples when it comes to Israeli realities. Either of 
these should be enough to disqualify him as a speaker at the 2012 Israeli 
Presidential Conference later this month. For not only does he urge Israel to 
adopt an undifferentiated policy toward those who endorse its existence and 
those who endorse its eradication, he advocates immunizing the Palestinians in 
their quest to destroy Israel – and even facilitating and rewarding their 
efforts to do so.But it is perhaps his proposal to impose economic 
boycott (albeit partial) on the nation’s produce that is the most outrageously 
intolerable.Unless the presidential invitation is withdrawn, it is 
almost unavoidable that it will be interpreted as presidential endorsement of 
anti-Israeli BDS measures.How else could it be seen? The consequences 
will be incalculable.
www.martinsherman.net
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Center-Left and extreme Right</title>
<date>1/11/2012</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu did not bomb Iran, but last week he threw a 
political bombshell at our political system.There are pragmatic 
self-interest considerations to the unholy alliance between “Bibi” Netanyahu and 
Avigdor “Yvette” Liberman. The ideological motivations for it go deeper, they 
relate to the perception of political power and leadership – a crude right-wing 
view of a strong national leader with total disrespect for opposition and 
minorities.




It’s not the right-wing of Menachem Begin, who respected 
democracy, but rather an outlook prevalent today in the European extreme 
right-wing parties of nationalism, driven by populism, and not necessarily 
always by the rule of law. Judges, journalists and parliamentarians are viewed 
as conspiratorial obstacles.Liberman proclaims that he wants a 
presidential system – a strong leader, preferably President Yvette, not far from 
his caricature dictator image on the Eretz Nehederet satirical TV show: The 
leader dictates rather than serves; now he has been appointed crown prince, the 
next in line. As long as it guarantees four more years of “Bibi-tocracy” (by 
then altogether 11 years), then it is fair play for our prime 
minister.In this, it is Netanyahu who has crossed the red line of 
endangering our very democracy, not to mention jeopardizing the basic respect 
for human rights, for equality, and for virtually any other principle outlined 
in our Declaration of Independence.The good thing about Liberman is that 
he never hides his views; he says what he means. The dangerous thing is that he 
actually means what he says. If he could, he would outlaw much of the 
left-leaning civil society, as he attempted in his party’s legislative efforts. 
He is racist toward Arabs, as exemplified by hundreds of statements and by the 
legislation attempt on – “no loyalty, no citizenship.” He threatened to bomb the 
Aswan Dam in Egypt (2001) and to depose Mahmoud Abbas (2012). These are his real 
aspirations and now, if elected, he can pursue them.The new Likud 
Beytenu alliance has turned these elections from a referendum on policies to one 
on the very nature of our socio-political system. A Netanyahu-Liberman victory 
would endanger our very democratic and Jewish nature, isolate us regionally and 
move the clock forward on a binational state which would be boycotted the world 
over.Historically, in battles like this, it is rarely the Right that 
wins, but rather it is the weak Left – unable to articulate the real dangers and 
the real alternatives – that loses. Indeed our Left – or Center-Left as the 
politicians prefer to define themselves – suffers from almost a Weimarian 
weakness. It is internally fragmented, terrified to state positions forcefully, 
unable to define an honest, comprehensive policy agenda, afraid of being treated 
as traitors, lacking the energy and coherence to fight for values and interests; 
on this, it could learn quite a lesson from the new Israeli Right.The 
initial reactions of Ms. and Mr. Center-Left were typical – the various party 
leaders focused less on the dangerous new alignment on the Right and more on why 
they should lead the opposite camp, and why they would not align with the 
others. Ego over country, at least for the time being.Then there is Yair 
Lapid, who stutters something about the need for peace, but spoke at Ariel 
University as he aspires to be Mr. Consensus, the quintessential Israeli; maybe 
in a beauty contest, but not in a political one.As for Kadima, it is a 
sinking ship, but out of that Titanic, Ehud Olmert or Tzipi Livni may yet rise 
as the person to lead the leaderless camp.Yet most important, the forces 
of the Center-Left must articulate a new agenda and a new policy for the country 
at this critical crossroads – a clear alternative to the new extreme Right, 
without apologies and fear of being branded as unpatriotic. This is, after all, 
a struggle for the very soul of Israel.This new agenda for Israel should 
be composed of several key elements: a) Democracy and equality – Israel’s 
democracy, based on our Declaration of Independence and a series of basic laws, 
is not yet well enshrined in our political system and public opinion. The recent 
polls, published in Haaretz, about the rampant racism among more than 60 percent 
of young Israelis is a dangerous red light. We are in need of a constitution, 
turning the Declaration of Independence into constitutional law, making the 
existing basic laws part of the constitution, and also securing in other areas 
real equality for all our citizens – irrespective of gender and religion, 
securing freedom of speech and of faith as well as the rights of minorities, the 
separation between the executive, legislative and judicial branches, and a 
clearer separation between state and religion – including the supremacy of state 
legislation over religious law, the adherence to Jewish and humanitarian values 
and the outlawing of expressions of racism.Israel’s dramatic 
nation-building process was based on our being a free and democratic society 
with respect for “the different” and “the other.” Without a strong democracy, 
there is no strong Israel.b) Social justice – Israel, as a country of 
immigrants, has aimed at creating equal opportunity and social services for the 
most needy with significant success.Yet in recent years, the rich have 
become richer and the poor have become poorer, while the wide middle class 
suffers under the yoke of a high cost of living.The protest movement has 
highlighted the lack of just distribution in our society, bringing hundreds of 
thousands to the streets and squares in the 2011 Israeli Spring.The 
middle class is the backbone of our society – and its representatives must be 
part of offering a “New Deal” for Israel’s economy and society. A new deal 
regarding fair taxation, affordable health costs for all (not “Bibicare”), 
affordable housing (not just for settlers and friends of Shas), affordable 
education (including higher education with greater subsidies for all) and the 
economic strengthening of the weakest sectors: the periphery, the haredim and 
the Israeli- Arabs. This can be financed by the next government with three 
conditional policies: • A significant reduction in the defense budget (along the 
lines of the Trajtenberg recommendations); • Ceasing to pour money – hundreds of 
million shekels every year – into the settlements; • Attracting the 
international private sector to invest in our economy.All these 
necessary conditions depend to a large degree on our ability to promote a peace 
process within a framework of good international relations, particularly with 
the United States.c) Peace and security – Although Netanyahu and Shelly 
Yacimovich seem to be in agreement that the issue of peace in the region should 
be sidelined, this is the most critical and necessary component of any social, 
economic and constitutional reform in Israel. In America, it may be “the 
economy, stupid,” but in Israel it’s “the peace...”Without a serious 
process leading to a two-state solution, the next government will lead our 
country to a binational state, to being a minority in our own country, with 
apartheid and without democracy and social justice. Therefore the new agenda for 
Israel must center around the effort to revive the peace process with the 
Palestinian Authority, based on the Barack Obama and Bill Clinton 
visions.If our next government adopts these American plans, we will not 
only have a Palestinian partner in Ramallah, but it will also bring Egypt, 
Jordan and Turkey closer to us fostering regional cooperation – both critical in 
the aftermath of the Arab Spring. Such policies would also make for a more 
potent anti-Iran coalition in order to prevent it from developing nuclear arms 
and to confront growing Muslim radicalism and violence in the broader 
region.d) Part of the family of nations – Our current policies and the 
bellicose discourse of our foreign minister have isolated us in the 
international scene more than ever before. Israel’s popularity ratings are 
plunging in Europe, not to mention in the rest of the world. In the United 
States there is a great discomfort with our prime minister’s meddling in the 
presidential elections on the side of Mitt Romney, Paul Ryan and Sheldon 
Adelson.We are a small country, very dependent on international support. 
In a world that is increasingly moved by collective diplomacy, we can be either 
part of international coalitions or out of them, isolated and even boycotted. A 
new Israeli foreign policy must adjust to the existing international system and 
to values which will strengthen our national security.Israel, with the 
establishment of the new right-wing alignment, is at a historic crossroads. We 
have to make a choice on January 22 between two very different policies, sets of 
values and worldviews. Between on the one hand the view of the new extreme Right 
of a greater Israel at the expense of a Jewish democracy, of a “greater Israeli” 
at the expense of the middle class, the minorities, the Left and the values of 
our founding fathers and of an Israeli “go it alone” policy at the expense of 
our place among the nations and our relations with our number one strategic 
ally.Or, on the other hand, a new agenda for Israel, of a stronger 
democracy, rejecting racism, with social justice for the middle class, with an 
active peace and security policy in coordination with the United 
States.The new agenda will have to be carried by the political forces 
from the Center-Left. These forces and leaders should above all formulate, 
clearly and courageously, their policy platform, rather than battle about who 
should be in which electoral list and place – putting country before ego. The 
best people should come to the forefront, Olmert, Livni, Lapid, Yacimovich, 
maybe with disillusioned moderates from what was the Likud, and, who knows, 
maybe even with Arye Deri, in a composition, united or not, that can give our 
people a chance to choose between two conflicting visions of our 
future.
The writer is president of the Peres Center for Peace and served 
as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Escapism and the peace process</title>
<date>8/11/2012</date>
<content>
The president of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen), in a rare 
but important interview to our Channel 2 News a week ago, made the strongest 
appeal yet to Israeli public opinion, suggesting that there is a realistic, 
moderate partner on the other side of the Green Line.“For me, Palestine 
is the West Bank, Gaza and east Jerusalem. All the rest is Israel,” he 
said.




He added, maybe for the first time negating publicly the “right of 
return” to sovereign Israel: “I am from Safed. I want to visit it, but not 
return to live there.”He defines himself as the last Palestinian leader 
to compromise with Israel. He may just be right.This was an important 
yet futile attempt to convince Israeli public opinion, at election time, that 
there is a Palestinian issue to deal with, that there is a partner for peace, 
and to sway Israeli public opinion toward moderation.On the other hand, 
the Hamas-Hezbollah-Tehran axis ferociously condemned Abu Mazen for his 
moderation – they want us to believe that the only way is bloody confrontation 
and to move us toward the extreme.Binyamin Netanyahu and Avigdor 
Liberman suit them well, a viable peace process endangers their bellicose 
interests and their Islamic fundamentalist ambitions.Yet, with the 
exception of President Shimon Peres, Abu Mazen’s message of peace went unnoticed 
by an electorate persuaded by all political contenders that there is no place 
for the Palestinian issue on our national agenda.For the new odd couple 
of Israeli politics, “Biberman,” this is a major achievement. In their 
ideological and political hearts, they still cling to the dangerous notion of a 
Greater Israel – from the Sea to the River. Our next-in-line leader, Liberman, 
is even a settler living in the West Bank.Moreover, the prime minister 
skillfully manipulated the Israeli, and to a large degree the international, 
agenda away from the Palestinian issue to the Iran issue, which is very valid in 
itself, a threat to Israeli and world security, yet in reality, it does not 
eliminate the Palestinian issue, and its centrality to the region. On the 
contrary, progress on the Palestinian issue would make an anti-Iran coalition 
easier and more effective.Sadly, the opposition – already aiming at 
their heart of hearts for their ministerial seats in Netanyahu’s next cabinet – 
is also escaping the Palestinian peace process. Shelly Yachimovich, even on the 
memorial day for the late prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, spoke at the Knesset 
about “a territorial compromise in the West Bank,” driving Labor back to the 
days of Yigal Allon, or even worse, in style and content, to the days of Golda 
Meir, who contended that there is no Palestinian people. And, as in the days of 
Golda, her party servilely agrees.Yair Lapid had to go to no other 
university campus than Ariel in the West Bank, to make a confused speech about 
possible negotiations without a real settlement freeze, although he probably 
knew better.For him, between Left and Right, there is 
Ariel.Those who advance the social agenda in Israel, from the promising 
Moshe Kahlon through Shas and the former protest movement leaders – now 
candidates in the Labor list – also neglect to see, or admit, that without a 
viable peace process with the Palestinians, the heavy defense costs and 
settlement waste will not allow for economic growth and social justice. Yet they 
all escape the hot potato of the Palestinian issue, ignoring a time 
bomb.Indeed a dangerous time bomb, especially since our region, in the 
aftermath of the Arab Spring, will follow the voice of the Arab people, which 
has become more relevant in legitimizing regimes. And the Arab constituency, 
with the exception of the fundamentalists, empathizes with their Palestinian 
brethren living under occupation. In the past, relationships in our region were 
influenced by a balance of forces. We won the wars and were strong. Today, with 
terrorism being more potent and turning increasingly ballistic, and with an 
almost universal ability to develop and acquire arms of mass destruction, a 
military balance in our favor is not sufficient.In our time, it is the 
motivation to use those weapons that count more, and therefore we must add to 
the balance of power, a balance of motivations.And that motivation in 
the Arab world, not enamored with Israel in the first place, hangs mostly on the 
state of the Palestinian issue. At times of a viable peace process, our 
relations with Egypt, Jordan, the Gulf and the Maghreb kept 
improving.During political stalemate, facts on the ground speak louder 
than any political demagogy, in Israel or the Arab world. Seven million Jews and 
5 million Arabs live from the Sea to the River. According to demographic 
projections, already by 2025, we will be a minority in our own country – a 
Greater Palestine, rather than a Greater Israel. We can then choose between 
Bosnian-like warfare and apartheid as in South Africa. We will then – at a time 
that is not far off – not only lose our national character, but also our 
democratic political system, our growing economy, our security and our very 
moral fabric.We have a decade left to prevent the settlers dream come 
true, or rather the nightmare that awaits us.The mere existence of 
350,000 settlers, the government’s favorite children of Israel, makes a solution 
increasingly difficult for those who lack the courage to face reality instead of 
hiding from it.As time goes by without a political solution, the 
extremists on all sides thrive.On the other side, the Right has been 
invaded by skillful settlers – Liberman and Moshe Feiglin in “Likud-Beytenu,” 
Naftali Bennett and Ya’acov Katz on the religious Right.On the Arab 
side, it is also the people who believe that they have a monopoly on patriotism 
and nationalism and a direct line to the almighty, who, without political 
progress, grow more influential – Hezbollah, the Salafis, al-Qaida and Hamas. 
Their ambition is to turn Arab societies into Islamic republics, à la Iran, and 
the hatred and struggle against Israel is a perfect vehicle for this. The last 
thing on their minds is the destiny and well-being of the Palestinians; it is a 
tool to recruit the young into their fold.If indeed our leadership 
continues to ignore the relative moderates, such as Abu Mazen, and to avoid the 
Palestinian issue, backed by the so-called opposition, we will be left in a 
binational state, characterized by violent confrontation between the extremist 
religious on both sides, isolated from the rest of the world.There is, 
of course, an alternative – come the end of January there will be someone to 
work with on peace in the White House, and Israel will have a new government. If 
this government wants to prevent a danger greater than Iran, it must engage 
seriously with the Palestinian president. It must dramatically change 
orientation to recognize the centrality of resolving the Palestinian conflict to 
our national security, understanding that with courageous, unpopular decisions – 
along the lines of the Obama and Clinton visions, on the basis of the 1967 
lines, with mutual land swaps including the establishment of three settlement 
blocks, Jerusalem as a capital of two states, yet a united city, with stringent 
security measures and no right of return for Palestinian refugees to sovereign 
Israel – the moderates will be strengthened and the fundamentalists weakened. 

This is still achievable and demands that all sides face reality and confront 
virulent opposition rather than engage in dangerous escapism and extreme 
nationalism.The writer is president of the Peres Center for Peace and 
served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Women to the front</title>
<date>5/1/2012</date>
<content>
Last week a woman was harassed for refusing to sit in the back of a bus, in 
order – “God forbid” – not to be seen by men. This did not happen on the 
outskirts of Tehran, but rather on the outskirts of Jerusalem.In nearby 
Beit Shemesh, eight-year-old Na’ama Margolis was assaulted for walking 
immodestly on the wrong side of the street, the side worthy of men 
only.




I have much respect for religion in general and for the Jewish 
religion in particular, but these phenomena have as much to do with religion as 
apartheid has with human rights. They are not only illegal, but a blatant form 
of discrimination and an assault on basic human rights and values. They place 
Israel in a dubious club of nations discriminating against women.The 
Middle East as a whole is a case in point. In most countries of the region, 
women suffer as second-class citizens. It is a truism that the more women are 
liberated, the more they become part of the socio-political process of their 
country, the more advanced and democratic the country becomes, and vice-versa. 
As an example, I’d like to examine Tunisia on the one hand, and Saudi Arabia on 
the other.Tunisia has since the days of its late president and 
nation-builder, Habib Bourguiba, granted women greater equality than most Arab 
societies.Throughout the years, and continuing today, emphasis was 
placed on girls’ education, including higher education; on women’s participation 
in the market and the political process. As early as the ’90s, about a quarter 
of the members in the Tunisian parliament were women. In most other Arab 
countries women have fewer than 10 percent of parliament seats. No wonder then 
that young women played a central role in the Yasmin Revolution, leading 
demonstrations and writing courageous blogs, such as that of the much applauded 
Lina Ben Mhenni.Saudi Arabia, on the other hand, adheres to an 
ultra-orthodox interpretation of Islam and has institutionally turned women into 
second-class citizens at best. It is a highly patriarchic society, in which 
women are practically enslaved to men – without the right to vote or even drive 
and with little employment and strict clothing restrictions.The 
situation of women in most Arab countries is probably among the least advanced 
in the world, and is somewhere in between Saudi Arabia and Tunisia, perhaps with 
the exception of Palestine (the West Bank), where the participation of women in 
the student bodies, as well as in the workforce and in the political struggle 
for independence, is very high, Hanan Ashrawi being a case in point.The 
Arab Spring has brought in its wake greater liberation of Arab women – many of the leaders of the demonstrations throughout our region 
were women, such as heads of NGOs calling for the downfall of dictators, like 
Tawakul Karman, who has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for her courageous 
resistance to the outgoing Yemenite regime.This is also reflected in the 
growing participation of Arab women on social networks, particularly Facebook 
and Twitter, where one-third of active users are women, a proportion constantly 
on the rise. This is exemplified in the YaLa – Young Leaders movement I have 
initiated on Facebook, where 38% of the 22,000 members from Israel and the Arab 
world are women.Women’s rights movements have recently emerged even in 
Saudi Arabia, such as the Women2Drive movement.While the situation in 
the region is still bleak, and the growing strength of the Muslim Brotherhood 
does not bode well for women, the trend is a rather positive one from a sad 
starting point. The Arab world as a whole is going through an unstable 
transition period with an amalgam of Islamism and liberalism; the position of 
women in society can serve as a compass as to where countries are 
headed.Regarding Israel, historically we can pride ourselves on the role 
women played in our nation-building process. In all walks of life, with the 
exception of politics (despite Golda), women have played a leading role in 
institution-building, in culture, in academia, in the workforce and even in the 
armed forces. And yet, women have not reached full equality in our society. This 
is true in objective terms in unequal wages, under-representation in economic and 
business institutions and in gross under-representation in the Knesset and 
government (a sole woman minister).This situation is even worse if we 
look at the basic male-chauvinistic attitude of Israeli men, derived from army 
and religion, as sadly expressed in the many cases of sexual harassment. To a 
large degree we are still a patriarchic society. This is probably the background 
for the lame reaction to recent events.The situation in Beit Shemesh is 
abhorrent and committed by an extremist group of haredim, the Sikrikim, but we 
have witnessed further limitation of women in the public sphere, such as in 
relation to women’s singing in ceremonies in military and civilian forums. Most 
alarming is the hesitant reaction of public opinion, with the exception of the 
media – only a few thousand participants in the Beit Shemesh demonstration last 
week, and the social protest movement of the summer was not awakened by what is 
obviously a blatant social injustice. The government, in turn, has at best paid 
lip service but dares not confront the haredi parties and Shas.This 
situation poses a real threat to our democracy, especially alongside the 
legislation efforts against the Supreme Court, the Arab minority and freedom of 
the press, and the price-tag phenomenon of the extremist settlers, 
etc.The women of Israel know that they cannot count on the men to remedy 
this. Therefore, at the front line of the struggle we should see women, as 
already exemplified by the statements of Limor Livnat, Tzipi Livni, Shelly 
Yachimovich and Zehava Gal-On, as well as our chief justice, Dorit Beinisch, and 
organizations led by women in the model of the “Four Mothers” organization that 
was instrumental in liberating us from Lebanon; the Machsom Watch women 
attempting to liberate us from occupation and the social protest movement which 
to a large degree was led by women. Democracy by women, for women.The 
same should be hoped for the Arab world. 2012 may well become the year of 
women’s empowerment. Important women such as Angela Merkel and Hillary 
Clinton are leading the way to a more peaceful world. It should be hoped that 
the women struggling for democracy in Israel and the Arab world will also take 
an instrumental part in the long awaited peace negotiations in our 
region.Yes, the women should be in the front! 
The writer is president of 
the Peres Center for Peace and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo 
Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ship to Gaza: The latest Scandinavian stunt?</title>
<date>13/8/2012</date>
<content>
You’ve got to hand it to the publicly funded pro- Hamas and anti-Israel lobby 
that goes by the name of “Ship to Gaza.” They sure know how to score an own 
goal.“Ship to Gaza” is a Scandinavian (mostly Swedish and Norwegian) 
organization, part of the infamous “Freedom Flotilla” that routinely attempts to 
break Israel’s legal blockade of the Hamas-run terrorist enclave in the Gaza 
Strip.




A couple of days ago the latest “Ship to Gaza” venture, the SV 
Estelle, weighed anchor and set sail from Gothenburg in Sweden to Gaza. It 
started its voyage by sailing first to Oslo in Norway, which is about as much in 
the wrong direction as can be – but then everything about this propaganda 
exercise is ill-conceived and poorly executed.“Ship to Gaza” claims to 
want an end to the “humanitarian crisis in Gaza.” Its fanatical, virulently 
anti-Israel collaborators from Sweden and Norway refuse to comment on or even 
acknowledge the fact that Gaza is being marketed by none other than Hamas as a 
luxury destination for Arab tourists on account of its 5-star hotels, lavish 
shopping malls, Olympic-standard swimming pools, acclaimed restaurants and 
wonderful beaches (albeit patrolled by Hamas to enforce modest Islamic dress 
code – but only for female bathers). Truth is an inconvenient obstacle to 
propaganda.Indeed, the Red Cross unequivocally stated more than a year 
ago that there is no humanitarian crisis in Gaza.The Red Cross is 
supported in its statement by Palestinian strongman Mohammed Dahlan, who says 
Gaza is “not lacking anything” – and he should know better than a group of 
well-funded conspiracy theorists living in far-off Oslo and 
Stockholm.“Ship to Gaza” sets sail to support the Hamas regime at the 
same time as Egypt under Islamist President Mohamed Mursi accuses Islamist Hamas 
of aiding the attack that left 16 Egyptian soldiers dead a week 
ago.Egypt has accordingly shut the border crossing between Egypt and 
Gaza and is in the process of using heavy machinery to demolish the myriad 
smuggling tunnels under the border that are the financial mainstay of the Hamas 
regime.Ordinary Egyptians are venting their anger against the Gaza 
regime, saying “There is nothing called Palestine.”Interestingly, this 
is a view to which Hamas officially subscribes, itself stating unequivocally 
that there are no Palestinians, that the Gaza Arabs are in fact Egyptian, Yemeni 
and Saudi immigrants.One-time Palestinian Authority leader Mohammed 
Dahlan, formerly based in the Gaza Strip until his ouster by Hamas, says “Hamas 
is laying siege to the Gaza Strip, and neither Hamas nor the people at “Ship to 
Gaza” disagree with him.Of course, the “siege” of Gaza is not total – 
Israel transits all Gaza’s legal imports of food, medicine, building materials, 
fuel and so on, and admits increasing numbers of Gaza inhabitants for hospital 
treatment in Israel – facts that Scandinavia’s “Ship to Gaza” crew conveniently 
ignore.With excruciating timing, this is when they instead choose to 
embark on an embarrassingly out-of-sync voyage of solidarity with the Hamas 
regime. Talk about being out of touch with reality.So just who are the 
people behind “Ship to Gaza”? They are extreme-left ideologues, armchair 
revolutionaries and Islamist supporters who express no desire to engage in any 
“Ship to Syria” voyage to aid the beleaguered Palestinian refugees in that 
war-torn country, or “Ship to Lebanon” to come to the aid of Palestinians there 
who are prevented by apartheid law from owning property or engaging in certain 
professions. Nor do they embark on a “Ship to Saudi Arabia” voyage to protest 
against the fact that the Islamist Kingdom of Saudi Arabia actually has 
apartheid roads on which non-Muslims are not allowed to travel. Apparently this 
is not overtly racist enough to trouble the selective conscience of the “Ship to 
Gaza” people.Imagine if the US had roads on which black people were 
prohibited from driving, or if in Israel there were roads on which Muslims were 
banned from travelling. By law! The Swedes and Norwegians behind “Ship to Gaza” 
don’t seem particularly interested in human rights in the Muslim world, only in 
delegitimizing the Jewish state.To gain some understanding of the 
peculiarly Scandinavian ideologies behind the “Ship to Gaza” movement, it is 
worth noting that one of its foremost supporters, Norwegian self-titled “peace 
scholar” Johan Galtung, was recently suspended by the Swiss World Peace Academy 
after he remarked that Jews control the world media and that the infamous 
Protocols of the Elders of Zion should be on everyone’s must-read list. It is 
not the first time Galtung has expressed similarly controversial 
views.Galtung’s expulsion was motivated by his “reckless and offensive 
statements to questions that are specifically sensitive for Jews.”Dr. 
Manfred Gerstenfeld, former chairman of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs 
and author of Behind the Humanitarian Mask: The Nordic Countries, Israel and the 
Jews, notes that anti-Semitism and anti- Israeli invective are more common in 
Scandinavia than anywhere in the non-Muslim world. The Scandinavians behind 
“Ship to Gaza” have an excruciating ability to pick the worst ideologies and the 
worst ideologues, but then that is what defines their organization.A 
parallel take on the virulent atmosphere against Jews and Israel in Scandinavia 
– an atmosphere that inspires and funds “Ship to Gaza” – can be noted in Elliott 
Abrams’s excellent Weekly Standard op-ed, “Scandinavia and the 
Jews.”Indeed, the anti-Semitic aura is so rife in parts of Scandinavia 
that the Simon Wiesenthal Center recently took the unprecedented step of issuing 
an advisory against travel to Malmö, Sweden’s third-largest city, because 
Islamist sentiment fanned by controversial mayor Ilmar Reepalu is forcing the 
city’s Jews to leave en masse. So troubling is the situation that US President 
Barack Obama’s special advisor on anti-Semitism, Hannah Rosenthal, was sent to 
Malmö to have discussions with the city’s unrepentant mayor 
Reepalu.Scandinavia is thus securing its place as a bastion of 
anti-Semitism and vicious anti-Israel sentiment, and it is here that “Ship to 
Gaza” gains its nourishment, finances and support.With Egypt now sealing 
its Gaza border and no other way out being available, perhaps this is the one 
time Israel should make an exception to its rule and actually allow the SV 
Estelle to dock in Gaza – and its cargo of human propagandists to languish 
forever in the Gaza Strip to which they are so keen to travel.
The writer 
is the deputy chairman of the West Sweden branch of the Sweden-Israel Friendship 
Association.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Shylock – to ban or not to ban?</title>
<date>13/2/2012</date>
<content>
Adolf Hitler’s favorite Shakespearean drama is now at the center of an ironic 
tug of war in London, between a Jewish theater troupe that wants to perform it, 
and an anti-Israel group that wants to shut it down.Wait, what? There 
were no less than 50 productions of The Merchant of Venice in Nazi Germany 
during Hitler’s first six years in power. Understandably, the fuhrer saw it as a 
powerful tool for advancing anti-Semitism. With its portrayal of the cruel and 
wily Shylock, the Jewish money-lender who lusts for “a pound of [Christian] 
flesh,” the play in some ways encourages the worst medieval anti-Jewish 
stereotypes.




Not everyone sees it that way, of course. Actor Yossi 
Gerber, who portrayed Shylock in an earlier Israeli production of the play, says 
that Merchant – with its famous Shylock monologue about Jews being human like 
everyone else – is “anti-anti- Semitic.” Ilan Ronen, who will direct the new 
Habima version in London, says it “allows us to attack the hatred of Jews and 
fear of strangers.”As it happens, the opponents of the new production 
are upset not by the choice of Merchant but by the fact that the organizers of a 
London-based Shakespeare festival invited an Israeli troupe to participate. 
According to their web site, the protesters, known as Boycott from Within, 
regard Israel as “evil” and “an apartheid state,” and use the Arabic word for 
“catastrophe,” nakba, to characterize the creation of Israel in 1948.It 
would not have been a complete shock, though, if they had supported the choice 
of Merchant, when one notes how the Shylock slur has been used by some Arab 
denouncers of Israel. In a sermon last year, Muhammad Badi, leader of Egypt’s 
Muslim Brotherhood, cited Shylock as revealing “the true character” of Jews, 
while Hafez Barghouti, editor of the Palestinian Authority newspaper Al- Hayat 
Al-Jedida, has described Israel as “the Shylock of the lands and settlement” and 
Israeli banks as “Shylockstyle banks that empty our pockets.”American 
Jewish defense organizations have long been concerned about the impact of the 
stereotypes in The Merchant for Venice, and for good reason. Shylock references 
abound in American literature going back to the 19th century and even seeped 
into the political arena.Just weeks after General Ulysses Grant expelled 
all Jewish merchants from Union-occupied areas of Tennessee, Mississippi, and 
Kentucky in 1862, Confederate Tennessee congressman Henry Foote declared that 
unless the Confederacy took similar steps, “the end of the war would probably 
find nearly all the property of the Confederacy in the hands of Jewish 
shylocks.”As early as 1912, the Central Conference of American [Reform] 
Rabbis urged the College Entrance Examination Board to remove Merchant from its 
lists of plays “to be intensively studied” as a prerequisite to college 
admission. The Anti-Defamation League in 1917 launched a campaign to ban the 
study of Merchant in American high schools on the grounds that “Shylock is 
erroneously pictured as typical of all Jews.” Several hundred schools acceded to 
the ADL’s request.After World War II, perhaps reflecting the fact that 
American Jews now felt more secure in American society, the ADL changed its 
position. When parents in Brooklyn in 1950 tried to force the New York City 
Board of Education to drop The Merchant of Venice (and Oliver Twist, with its 
repulsive Jewish villain, Fagin) from high school curricula, the ADL likened the 
effort to “book-burning.”There is, however, a middle ground between 
banning a controversial play and presenting it, unvarnished, to audiences that 
might not appreciate the context or implications of what they are viewing. 
Perform the play, but have a historian speak before it begins, and have a panel 
discussion when it concludes. In classrooms, use The Merchant of Venice as a 
teachable moment, just as teachers confront issues of racial stereotyping when 
their students read, for example, The Adventures of Huckleberry 
Finn.Bernard Weinraub’s hit off-Broadway play, The Accomplices, stirred 
its share of controversy in 2007-2010, with its frank account of President 
Franklin Roosevelt’s indifference to the Holocaust and the efforts by the 
Bergson Group activists to shake America’s conscience. I was invited to take 
part in a post-performance “Talkback” on stage, along with the playwright, 
several of the actors, and Dr. Rebecca Kook, Peter Bergson’s daughter. The 
discussion helped clarify historical and moral issues that the play 
raised.A similar approach to The Merchant of Venice, whether in London 
or anywhere else, might help make the best of an otherwise bad 
situation.
Dr. Rafael Medoff is director of The David S. Wyman Institute 
for Holocaust Studies, www.WymanInstitute.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sinai Today: Iron Dome diplomacy</title>
<date>29/11/2012</date>
<content>
How did we get here? How is it possible? Consider the irony that after all these 
years Jews have become better soldiers than speakers, better at brute force than 
at persuasion.Israel has won the military battles, but lost on the 
battlefields of public diplomacy and world opinion, where it struggles to keep 
up with its enemies, who, over the decades, have managed to make their narrative 
of the conflict the dominant one in the world.




Even the most sympathetic 
voices often assume that the root cause of the conflict is Israel’s so-called 
“illegal occupation” and the denial of the democratic and national aspirations 
of millions of Palestinians. Many people grudgingly acknowledge that it is 
difficult to negotiate with extremists such as Hamas, whose human rights abuses 
and terrorism are well known, but nevertheless see Israel as having the moral 
responsibility, as well as political and military power to solve the 
conflict.What is the way forward? The situation seems so dire that many 
have given up hope, attributing the lost narrative to anti-Semitism, 
fatalistically asserting that no matter what Israel does, the justice of its 
cause will never be seen, much less acknowledged. Whilst there is certainly some 
truth in this, I strongly believe, speaking from personal experience, that to 
accept the lost diplomacy and public relations battle is a terrible strategic 
mistake.Living and working in South Africa, which is a country that has 
a natural sympathy for the Palestinian cause, given the shared history of the 
ANC and the PLO, it has been my experience that aside from a small percentage of 
hardened antagonists, the vast majority of people are fair-minded and open to 
hearing Israel’s side of the conflict, provided it is rationally argued and well 
presented.Reclaiming the narrative requires a radical revolution in 
Israeli government philosophy and policy.The Iron Dome, the main 
celebrity of the latest Gaza war, epitomizes the kind of paradigm shift that has 
to take place. The Iron Dome has become the newest symbol of Israel’s creativity 
and strength in establishing itself as the regional super-power with armed 
forces which inspire the admiration of friends and the trepidation of 
foes.Israel now needs what one could call “Iron Dome diplomacy.” The 
same kind of brilliance, resources and creativity that have dazzled the world 
with the Iron Dome, needs to be harnessed to dazzle the world in the realm of 
diplomacy and public relations. A paradigm shift is needed. Israel must invest 
the time, strategic thinking, financial and human resources necessary to create 
diplomatic and public relations capabilities to match its military 
supremacy.Some things have improved, like the recent proactive cyber 
campaign during the Gaza war. “Pillar of Defense” was a much better name than 
“Cast Lead,” which must surely go down in history as the worst public relations 
name for a military operation to protect Israeli citizens, but which made it 
sound aggressive and even brutal.Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has 
become Israel’s most effective public spokesman to the world, and the government 
now has its own dedicated public relations ministry.But this is merely 
tinkering with the system.What is needed is a paradigm shift to “Iron 
Dome diplomacy,” which requires a comprehensive and integrated strategy to 
persuade world opinion of the justice of the cause of the State of 
Israel.In broad strokes, it requires the Israeli government to, firstly, 
build a communications organization to rival the IDF in budget, human resources 
and strategic thinking. Teams of the best and the brightest must be assembled to 
create a worldwide dazzling and sustained communications campaigns in all print 
and electronic media, in a scientific manner testing messaging through polls and 
focus groups in key countries across the world.“Iron Dome diplomacy,” 
secondly, requires developing a comprehensive and proactive plan to create and 
strengthen international alliances with leading people and organizations in all 
areas of society, such as government, business, religion, academia and media. 
This means Israel must develop an organization, on the same level of excellence 
as its security forces, which can proactively reach out to these groupings in 
important countries, and engage with them through meetings, seminars and trips 
to Israel.Proactive and systematic analysis of the dynamics of a 
particular country to identify prospective allies and adversaries and to develop 
appropriate programs to interact with them is crucial.An example of what 
is not “Iron Dome diplomacy,” is that recently a multi-party delegation of South 
African MPs who were planning to visit Israel were informed by the Israeli 
government that they could not host them due to the upcoming elections. Although 
the visit was later postponed because of the war, the decision to allow the 
delegation to be hosted by those hostile to Israel demonstrates a complete lack 
of commitment to defending and improving Israel’s global reputation.At 
the heart and soul of these ambitious operations, whether creating media 
campaigns or diplomatic alliances, must be the conviction of the justice of the 
cause of the State of Israel. The belief that – accepting the obvious frailties 
of human error – the Jewish people and state have morality on our side, whether 
in terms of our biblical and historical rights to the land of Israel, or the 
numerous peace-making efforts over the decades, including Israeli attempts to 
create a Palestinian state through a negotiated settlement, only to be rebuffed 
time and again.The conviction in the morality of the IDF needs to be 
conveyed through examples which demonstrate that Israel’s armed forces behave 
with more restraint than any military in the history of human civilization. 
Israel’s disproportionate contribution to human development needs to be spoken 
about and expanded upon. Israel’s humanitarian efforts, and especially using its 
creativity in technology, medicine and science, should be dramatically increased 
to help alleviate human suffering around the world, which fulfills the mitzvot 
of kindness and Kiddush Hashem, builds alliances and goes to the essence of the 
global debate around the morality and justice of the cause of the State of 
Israel.This paradigm shift would be a revolution philosophically and 
historically. In Israel’s early years its leaders realized that a Jewish state 
in the Middle East would only survive if it had powerful military capabilities. 
Public relations and diplomacy, by contrast, were traditionally regarded as an 
afterthought at best, and un-Zionistic, at worst. For many of these leaders, 
leaving behind the exile to create a new kind of Jew and a free and independent 
country was expressed in the famous words of former prime minister David 
Ben-Gurion: “It doesn’t matter what the gentiles think, but what the Jews 
do.”Israel now needs a new way, one which is rooted in our eternal Torah 
principles. The Sages of the Talmud instruct us to implement the moral and 
strategic imperative of “darchei shalom” – good relations between the Jewish 
people and the nations of the world. This is not merely an abstract ideal but a 
practical halachic principle: any action taken to avoid causing hatred towards 
Jews from the nations of the world, what the Talmud calls “eivah,” is governed 
by the laws of “pikuach nefesh” – the mandate to save life, for which most other 
mitzvot are suspended.The Halacha’s wisdom is particularly relevant in 
today’s political climate, which requires Iron Dome diplomacy and public 
relations to shoot down the barrage of lies and defamations that are just as 
lethal to the future security of Israel as suicide bombers and terrorist 
rockets. Negative attitudes towards Israel are actually life-threatening, to 
Israeli and Diaspora Jews. Crucial military and policy decisions are made due to 
Israel’s poor diplomatic standing in the world. Safety of soldiers and civilians 
is compromised because Israel not being able to deploy appropriate military 
strength for fear of world reprisal. Because of its weak public image, Israel is 
forced to fight under constraints that no other country in the recorded history 
has ever had to contend with.Powerful international forces seek to 
delegitimize and demonize the State of Israel. This campaign presents an 
existential threat to Israel. Having grown up in South Africa during the height 
of the international sanctions and boycott campaign, I can tell you that a 
country treated as a pariah struggles to survive.Apartheid South Africa 
at the time was a very strong country from a military and economic point of 
view, and yet the sustained pressure of sanctions and boycotts broke the morale 
of white South Africans and, thankfully, contributed to the eventual demise of 
the apartheid regime.The international boycott movement directed against 
Israel seeks to draw the false and libelous analogy between South Africa and 
Israel. And even though it is a campaign based on lies and hatred, nevertheless 
it has a chance of succeeding, and needs to be fought with the same 
professionalism, comprehensive strategy and determination as any military battle 
would require. It is a matter of “pikuach nefesh” – life and death.
The 
writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sinai Today: Open letter to South Africa Deputy FM</title>
<date>16/8/2012</date>
<content>
Dear Mr. Ebrahim, You are a minister of the South African government, appointed 
to advance the interests of the Republic and the people of South Africa in an 
impartial and rational manner. As a citizen and as a national religious leader 
of South Africa, I object to the way in which you are abusing your high office 
to promote your own personal agenda. You obviously have a “blind spot” when it 
comes to Israel; you lose your sense of objectivity and rationality when dealing 
with the Jewish state.




Most recently you have used your platform and 
title in an active campaign to prevent South Africans – and especially members 
of government – from visiting Israel. This is but one example of your irrational 
obsession with Israel to the detriment of the proper execution of your 
governmental duties. You have acted in breach of your government’s own foreign 
policy, in terms of which South Africa and Israel have full diplomatic 
relations.Your actions hark back to apartheid-style control of 
information and censorship. Why would you try to prevent South Africans from 
traveling to Israel and seeing the situation for themselves? Do you think, 
Mr.Ebrahim, that the South African people are not as clever as you are, 
that they cannot think for themselves and that they need to be protected from 
the facts? Maybe you are afraid – and rightly so – that if people go to Israel 
and see the situation for themselves their perspective will be completely 
different. Are you worried that they will see that, in fact, there is no 
apartheid in Israel? South Africans visiting Israel will find a multiracial, 
multi-ethnic vibrant society where more than 1.5 million Arabs live as full and 
equal Israeli citizens, vote as part of a single national voters’ roll and have 
full legal rights in all areas of society. Are you concerned that when South 
Africans travel on buses, visit parks, malls, hospitals and university campuses, 
attend the Israeli parliament and the Supreme Court they will find Jews and 
Arabs living and working together in complete equality? They may hear, for 
example, that, in fact, it was an Arab judge who convicted former Israeli 
president Moshe Katsav on rape charges.Maybe you are afraid that South 
African Christians will find that Israel is the only country in the Middle East 
where they can practice their religion freely without fear; that South African 
women will find that Israel is the only country in the Middle East where they 
can be fully equal citizens; that South African trade unionists will discover 
that Israel is the only country in the Middle East where there are legal and 
active trade unions which protect workers’ rights; that South African 
journalists will see that Israel is the only country in the Middle East where 
freedom of expression is properly upheld.Are you worried that our fellow 
South Africans may learn that successive Israeli governments have supported the 
establishment of a Palestinian State as part of a negotiated peace agreement? 
Are you concerned that South Africans may speak to Ehud Barak, the dovish former 
prime minister of Israel who desperately tried at the Camp David and Taba 
negotiations to create a Palestinian state, only to be rebuffed by the 
Palestinian leadership? Are you concerned that South Africans might hear for 
themselves directly from the current Israeli government how it seeks to return 
immediately to the negotiating table without preconditions, and that it is the 
Palestinian leadership that refuses to do so? Maybe you are worried that our 
fellow South Africans may discover that the so-called “separation wall” is 
actually a security fence, that prior to its being erected waves of suicide 
bombers killed more than 1,300 Israelis and wounded over 10,000, and that since 
its erection these attacks have stopped. Maybe you are afraid that South 
Africans might speak to members of Hamas, who openly call for the destruction of 
the State of Israel and the murder of all Jews in Israel and around the 
world.Mr. Ebrahim, your personal bias against Israel prevents you from 
fulfilling your legal and ethical duties as minister of international relations, 
who, with impartiality and sound judgment, is supposed to further peace, justice 
and South African strategic interests in the world.Your actions to 
discourage South Africans from traveling to Israel are but one manifestation of 
your extremist views. In so doing you are jeopardizing South Africa’s 
international credibility and strategic interests. It is indeed the ideological 
allies of Hamas and Hezbollah – Israel’s sworn enemies – who have also launched 
a terror campaign against Christian communities throughout Africa. In recent 
months scores of churches have been burnt and hundreds of Christians have been 
murdered because of their faith.Nigeria, one of our key African 
partners, has borne the brunt of some of the worst attacks. As a leading African 
nation, South Africa must condemn these attacks and express support of and offer 
assistance to its fellow African governments in Nigeria, Somalia, Sudan and 
elsewhere. To South Africa’s shame, you have remained silent. You have been too 
hesitant and weak in condemning Syrian President Assad’s actions which have 
resulted in the deaths of more than 20,000 of his citizens and the displacement 
of nearly 150,000 refugees.These are but a few examples of how your 
prejudice precludes you from fulfilling your role as a minister of this 
government. You seem to forget that your mandate is to serve the interests of 
the people and the government of South Africa and not your own personal 
allegiances. A judge who is biased or perceived to be so is legally and 
ethically required to remove himself from the case, in the interest of 
integrity, justice and truth. These same values require that you do the same and 
resign. Especially during such turbulent times, how does a minister of 
international relations discourage people from traveling and seeing for 
themselves? Why do you repeat the sins of the apartheid regime and shun dialogue 
with and understanding of the “other”? Peace cannot be achieved by withdrawal 
and isolation; as the Book of Psalms (34:15) says: “Seek peace, and pursue 
it.”The dream of peace will only become a reality when people 
pro-actively pursue it, and move beyond their prejudices and preconceptions and 
truly understand the complex realities of the Middle East in an open-minded and 
balanced way. Your actions support the forces of extremism, hatred and violence, 
and undermine the forces of tolerance, freedom and peaceful 
negotiations.For the sake of peace and justice, we need more 
information, not less; we need more dialogue, not less; we need more connections 
with other societies, not less.You clearly do not believe so, and hence 
you are unfit to hold public office. Do the honorable thing: 
Resign.
Sincerely, Chief Rabbi Dr. Warren Goldstein
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Singling out Israel and the S. African constitution</title>
<date>23/8/2012</date>
<content>
The constitution of post-apartheid South Africa is the supreme law 
of the state. No other law or government action can supersede it and it 
enjoys high international acclaim as one of the most progressive constitutions 
in the world.Since discrimination contradicts the basic concept of the 
new South Africa, the constitution provides complete equality under the law as 
entrenched in Section 9, which expressly forbids “singling out” or choosing a 
person or a group for unfair special treatment.




In this context, recent 
actions by South African Minister of Trade and Industry Dr. Rob Davies and 
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Ebrahim Ebrahim are 
disturbing. In their blatant singling out of Israel for unfair treatment, their 
actions are inimical to the ideals of the new South Africa.Their actions 
deserve censure as unconstitutional, and if allowed to go unchallenged they will 
blemish the lofty concepts of a constitution of which South Africa is 
justifiably proud.As I am not a lawyer but an engineer, I realize that 
my interpretation of the equality provisions of the constitution may not be 
strictly applicable to discriminatory criticism of foreign states. Nevertheless, 
the moral equivalence cannot be ignored.Former Canadian justice minister 
Irwin Cotler has stated, “The singling out for discriminatory indictment of one 
state undermines the whole UN system.”It is a sad reflection on our 
ability to reason rationally that a whole generation of journalists and 
policy-makers continues to single out Israel and settlements as the sole source 
of all the problems of the Middle East, ignoring the obvious Shia- Sunni divide 
and the fact that Middle East violence began long before one settlement was 
established and even before Israel was created.Let’s look at the 
discriminatory ministerial actions.Labeling regulations Davies has 
announced his intention to introduce regulations requiring that products made in 
the West Bank be labeled as “Made in the occupied Palestinian 
territories.”I would strongly support an even-handed law that requires 
“truth in labeling” aimed at ensuring that consumers are fully informed about 
the origin of goods, including those made in the West Bank.But it is 
illogical to exclude from such labeling regulation other goods that consumers 
may wish to avoid if known to be made under objectionable conditions, such as 
carpets made in Pakistan by child slave laborers.The Bonded Labor 
Liberation Front reports that between 200,000 and 300,000 children are involved 
in the carpet industry in Asia. “World & I” describes how these children 
work from toddlerhood to adolescence from 4 in the morning to 11 at night 
without breaks. They are kept hungry so they will stay awake and work longer 
hours.Goods made in the West Bank should be appropriately labeled, but 
not as made in the OPT, as this is an ill-defined term with many confusing 
differences of opinion about what it actually means.Many interpret it to 
refer to territory regained by Israel in 1967, but Palestinian Authority 
President Mahmoud Abbas denies this. He announced on September 16 that the real 
borders are those laid down in the 1947 UN partition resolution. And others such 
as Omar Barghouti, a founder of the Boycott, Divest and Sanctions movement, 
regard OPT as every inch of Israel, including Tel Aviv and Haifa. To avoid the 
confusing interpretations of OPT it is obviously preferable to use the 
unambiguous names Samaria and Judea.There can be no denying that to 
require that a label of origin be attached to a product produced in Judea or 
Samaria by adult Jewish and Arab workers who willingly work for living wages but 
not to a carpet made by five-year-old slaves in South Asia would be shamefully 
discriminatory.And nearer to home, true labeling would give sensitive 
consumers the opportunity to avoid buying products such as “blood diamonds” from 
Zimbabwe. According to a BBC report, one of the world’s most significant diamond 
fields is a place of torture in Zimbabwe where some miners are unable to walk on 
account of beatings. The company that runs the mine is headed by a personal 
friend of President Robert Mugabe.Discouraging travel to Israel In 
another recent example of unconstitutional singling out of Israel, Deputy 
Minister Ebrahim Ebrahim implied that it is official SA government policy to 
discourage South Africans from visiting Israel. Denying that the policy amounted 
to a boycott of Israel, he stressed that SA still maintains diplomatic relations 
with the country.At a press conference in Pretoria he said, “There has 
been a policy of discouraging, because we believe Israel is an occupying power 
and is doing all sorts of things in the Palestine occupied territory which has 
been condemned by the entire international community.”The obvious 
discriminatory nature of this policy lies in its blatant avoidance of applying 
the same measures to any of many other occupied and disputed territories. For 
the sake of brevity I refer to only one example, Northern Cyprus, which has been 
illegally occupied by Turkey since 1974. While discouraging cooperation with 
Israel, South Africa is elevating relations with Turkey in the wake of Deputy 
President Kgalema Motlanthe’s visit to Ankara last June, an event, by the way, 
that I applaud since I strongly advocate dialogue between states irrespective of 
differences.The discriminatory treatment of Israel is nevertheless 
glaring, as Turkey continues its occupation of northern Cyprus despite the 
unanimous UN General Assembly Resolution 3212 (1974) that called for speedy 
withdrawal of all foreign troops as well as General Assembly Resolution 33/15 
(1978) that deplored the continued presence of Turkish foreign armed forces on 
Cyprus.According to the Cyprus Bar Association, the European Commission 
of Human Rights found Turkey guilty of grave violations of human rights in 
Cyprus having flouted the Genocide Convention, the UN International Covenants on 
Human Rights, the Hague Regulations, the 1949 Geneva Conventions and the 
European Convention on Human Rights.
Fortunately, Ebrahim Ebrahim does 
not reflect unanimous South African opinion. Expressing outrage, the African 
Christian Democratic Party wrote objecting to the “double standards by requiring 
of it [Israel] a behavior not accepted or demanded of any other democratic 
nation. We wonder why Ebrahim never called on South Africans not to visit Syria 
or any other country engulfed by war and violence in the Middle East.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Small victories</title>
<date>4/4/2012</date>
<content>
In most circumstances Israel finds itself in the docks of assorted international 
forums – like the discredited UN Human Rights Council – which invariably 
function as kangaroo courts. Against that bleak background, even minor and 
partial victories are to be savored.Such was the case Tuesday when the 
chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in the Hague, Luis 
Moreno-Ocampo, rejected – albeit solely on technical grounds – a Palestinian 
Authority request to investigate Israel for alleged war crimes during Operation 
Cast Lead.




Moreno-Ocampo concluded that the principle of universal 
jurisdiction isn’t applicable to the ICC. Hence its intervention can only 
be sought by the UN Security Council or a recognized state. Since the PA, for 
all its efforts, lacks state status, its request couldn’t be acceded 
to.Thereby Israel escaped yet another round of mock judicial proceedings 
(like those of the UNHRC’s which culminated in the Goldstone Report) where the 
principles of law and of elementary impartiality are perverted and where the 
verdict is prepared well in advance of the sham trial.Moreno-Ocampo’s 
ruling was, needless to say, anathema to so-called human rights groups which 
thrive on Israel-bashing. Marek Marczynski, head of Amnesty International’s 
“International Justice Campaign,” bitterly decried the decision, labeling it 
“dangerous” and averring that it “opens the ICC to accusations of political bias 
and is inconsistent with the independence of the ICC.”Marczynski was 
hardly alone. The very fact that in an exceedingly rare instance Israel was 
given a break of sorts was broadly repudiated as the epitome of favoritism 
towards the Jewish state. Israel is otherwise consistently victimized by 
unrelenting prejudice which Amnesty and its like never protest and, in fact, 
drum up with relish. These inherently anti-Israel NGOs clearly couldn’t abide 
the PA’s failure to secure sovereign status via the back door.This in 
and of itself affords us a sense of qualified comfort – better this than another 
spectacle of the sort staged perennially by the UNHRC. That said, we shouldn’t 
let this go to our collective head. This is far from unequivocal 
success.No one sided with our position. All the Hague prosecutor noted 
was that legal standing –the right to initiate a law suit at the ICC – isn’t 
automatic for anyone or any entity.In theory, this state of affairs is 
eminently reversible in a given convergence of conditions which might facilitate 
Security Council recognition of a fully-fledged Palestinian state. In other 
words, the PA merely suffered a setback. It didn’t lose the war of 
demonization and delegitimization which it vigorously wages against 
Israel.The very fact that it pursues such an aggressive agenda against 
Israel in every available or seemingly available international arena is what 
should raise the eyebrows of all fair-minded opinion-molders the world over. 
Despite the pose of aggrieved seekers of peace, the Palestinians in reality 
carry out an antagonistic and intimidating propaganda offensive geared to make 
Israel an out-and-out pariah among the nations, much like the erstwhile 
apartheid South Africa.In a fairer world this would be judged as giving 
the lie to PA lip service to goodwill. Those who truly desire coexistence don’t 
attempt to tarnish and vilify their presumed peace-partner. But this is 
precisely what the PA did by going to the Hague in the first place, as it did by 
going to the UNHRC in Geneva or the UN Security Council and General Assembly in 
New York. Although this is warfare by diplomatic means, it still undeniably 
constitutes warfare.However, ours is hardly a fair world and hence we 
ought not hold our breath and expect even fellow democracies to sometimes 
acknowledge the justice of our case. Indeed, EU members Austria and 
Belgium – along with two non-EU democracies, Switzerland and Norway – voted for 
the UNHRC’s probe of “the implications of Israeli settlements on the civil, 
political, economic, social and cultural rights of the Palestinian 
people.”
In the face of such deplorable hypocrisy, we frankly cannot hope 
for unconditional victory in international forums. Therefore, it’s gratifying to 
occasionally at least win by points. It’s nothing to scoff at in our existence, 
so long as we don’t lose proportions.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Strategy to combat delegitimization good, could be better</title>
<date>19/6/2012</date>
<content>
As leaders from Jewish communities around the world gather in Jerusalem for the 
Presidential Conference, strategies to defeat the efforts aimed at depriving 
Israel of legitimacy will again be examined.For more than 10 years – 
since the 2001 UN World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa – the 
leaders of this war have exploited human rights rhetoric and international legal 
claims to push their objective to eliminate Israel as the nation state of the 
Jewish people. Their strategy is to portray Israel as an “apartheid,” “racist” 
and “colonial” state that is so “criminal” that it is beyond rehabilitation. The 
message is driven by and is echoed through hundreds of NGOs, creating a very 
dangerous moral atmosphere.




The “vehicle of choice” to pursue this 
strategy is the global BDS – boycott, divestment and sanctions – campaign, which 
is being pushed in communities and on university campuses around the world. This 
campaign, and the overall strategy, also targets and isolates supporters of 
Israel.Sabeel, a pro-BDS, anti-Semitic NGO that promotes Palestinian 
liberation theology, hosted a conference at which an activist admitted that “the 
actual goal of divestment and the broader BDS movement is to isolate Israel, and 
make it embarrassing to support Israel.” Often, in local Jewish communities, 
fringe anti-Israel groups with “Jewish” in their names provide cover for these 
types of extreme anti-Israel campaigners, including those that use anti-Semitic 
rhetoric.In this, it is critical to engage with individuals and groups 
that have lent their names to this cause, sometimes without understanding the 
goals. The Israel Action Network has begun significant work in this regard, 
developing alliances with key labor unions that are targeted or co-opted by the 
delegitmization campaign.Ending this passive support for BDS is an 
important step towards marginalizing the NGOs that promote these 
campaigns.IN ADDITION, when these NGOs and the BDSers invade campuses, 
Jewish students and local communities have strategically organized to fight BDS 
resolutions in their student unions. Similarly, when the demonizers publicize 
calls for boycotts at local food co-ops, the community responds.But, in 
this war, it is necessary to change the main tactics and strategy from reactive 
to proactive, in order to undermine the credibility and influence of the NGO 
engines that drive the attack. This strategy will expose the fringe and anti- 
Semitic nature of many of the BDS movement’s central actors, and expose the lie 
that BDS is a grassroots protest against Israeli policy.The fact is that 
hundreds of millions of dollars over the past decade from both European 
governments and private donations have gone to hundreds of NGOs that sustain and 
advance this campaign.The powerful NGO campaigns of false allegations 
targeting Israel creates the environment where NGO delegitimization events occur 
almost daily. On June 6, for example, Amnesty International published a report 
accusing Israel of wrongdoing regarding administrative detention of terror 
suspects.Although the claims were entirely unsubstantiated, based on 
unverifiable information, and comprised largely of a one-sided Palestinian 
narrative, it was immediately highlighted in the international 
media.While the Israeli government and major pro-Israel organizations 
were made aware of this report’s impending release, they were still unable to 
effectively counter the onslaught of entirely predictable negative media 
coverage.Reactions, which are tactical, are becoming somewhat more 
effective in combating BDS, but the counterattacks remain 
insufficient.To win this war, these resources need to be focused 
intelligently on naming and shaming the promoters of demonization that exploit 
human rights, as well as their funders, particularly in European 
governments.
The writer is communications director of NGO Monitor, a 
Jerusalem-based research institution dedicated to promoting universal human 
rights and to encouraging civil discussion on the reports and activities of 
nongovernmental organizations, particularly in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Strong talk, no plans</title>
<date>7/4/2012</date>
<content>
Much has been written about the Israel-related rhetoric circling around the 
Washington, DC, Convention Center during March.Speeches were given by 
the most senior players in the puzzle that is called Israel in America. Analyses 
swamped the news websites during both the AIPAC and J Street conferences. 
Analogies, quotes and highlighted excerpts served as bases for many of the next 
day’s op-eds. Bombastic language and grandiose expressions were utilized to 
bring these lobbies’ voices to center stage.




For those who missed it, 
keywords for the AIPAC conference would be “nuclear power,” “Iran,” “security,” 
“military attack,” and, um, “ducks.” At the much smaller J Street conference, 
keywords would focus on words like “imagine,” “ideally,” “peace,” “human rights” 
and “settlements.”Clearly the two conferences are on opposite ends of 
the political spectrum. While AIPAC fidgeted with a military attack on Iran, the 
other concentrated on the two-state solution and the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict, toying around with definitions of Zionism and Israeli 
democracy.To an alien from outer space, these two conferences would seem 
so remote from one another that it would be hard to recognize that their goals, 
at least on paper, are similar. Both maintain that their positions are 
pro-Israel and pro-peace; both are dedicated to the state of Israel and its 
prosperity. Both are unwaveringly committed to the Jewish State. Yet both 
consisted of strong talk, and no plans.AIPAC launched military rhetoric 
from many of its speakers, gaining countless standing ovations and wild applause 
from its 13,000 conference-goers.Short of Obama signing off the order to 
send military jets to Tehran, every orator – from AIPAC’s executives to GOP 
candidates – spoke extensively about Iran and the viable option of a military 
attack on its nuclear facilities.Nonetheless, none actually prophesized 
about the aftermath. What would be the plan for after such an attack be? How 
would Israelis cope with counterattacks? How would it actually affect Israeli 
domestically? From rock-star Netanyahu to celebrated Santorum, no real plan was 
outlined for the future.Strong talk, yes, but zero plans.J 
Street cornered their end of the Israel advocacy market with much talk as well. 
Interesting speeches were given by a myriad of Israeli and American speakers, 
with many slogans – including apartheid – launched in the plenary sessions. 
Freeze settlements! Partition the land! The messages, although completely within 
most of the Israeli consensus, were a bit of preaching to the choir. They were 
lightweight and spineless. No backbone to support it. No actual plan as to how 
to conceivably work toward a twostate solution, while maintaining a Jewish and 
democratic state Strong talk, but no plans.Ironically, it was former 
prime minister Ehud Olmert’s speech at the closing J Street gala which did hint 
at empirical planning, only it obviously was spoken in retrospect. Olmert, 
awaiting his trial in Israel, outlined how “close” he was to striking a deal 
with the Palestinians while he served as prime minister, but of course this has 
little significance today. He too, had strong talk, but no workable 
plan.Don’t get me wrong. Idealist values and imagining a better future 
wins hearts and minds much more than de facto declaring war on Iran with the GOP 
candidates mindlessly egging the idea on. But American Jews, and indeed 
universal supporters of Israel, must realize that talk is talk, and those who 
ultimately live with the policies are the Israelis themselves. A good speech and 
catchy slogans can be inspiring, emotional, and ambitious – but a good policy 
goes the extra mile.
The writer is a speechwriter and a member of the 
Atlantic Council’s Young Atlanticist NATO Working Group.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Students convene at CAMERA advocacy conference</title>
<date>2/9/2012</date>
<content>
They came from all over the US and Canada: Jews and non-Jews, those who had just 
been to Israel for the first time on Birthright trips, Israelis and those who 
have yet to make it to Israel. In a few weeks their school year will begin and 
these “defenders of Israel” will face hostility and formidable challenges as 
they attempt to uphold what is moral. They will work tirelessly to persuade 
others to acknowledge the good in a nation that has been unfairly vilified and 
ostracized by so many.Almost 40 students from dozens of schools convened 
in Boston for CAMERA’s Student Leadership and Advocacy Training 
Conference. The conference took place August 19 to August 21 at the 
Boston University Hillel. It focused on combating anti-Israel campaigns 
and promoting accurate news coverage and commentary about Israel and the Middle 
East on campus.




From a student in Texas who was fired from her position 
as a news reporter for the school paper because of her support for Israel, to 
students in California who endured professors spewing steady doses of 
anti-Israel rhetoric, just about everyone had a moving story that highlighted 
the importance of the conference. But now students were acquiring the tools to 
counter this and gaining a supportive community to give them the fortitude to do 
it. As participant Yoni Kaplan said, “no longer do any of us feel alone in the 
fight.”The strength of these conferences is that “it brings together the 
most passionate, most talented, and most dedicated proponents from around the 
continent and forges them into a network,” as Mr. Kaplan, president of a CAMERA 
Campus Activist Project (CCAP)-supported pro-Israel organization at Tulane 
University put it.Rita Usher, who attends a historically black college 
in Alabama, explained, “I knew that Israel was important to me... I was told 
that this wasn’t my fight, that the importance of Israel and its well-being 
should be irrelevant to me, all because of the color of my skin. After 
the conference I realized that the color of my skin did not matter. I felt more 
empowered to do what is right, and that is to support a nation in its quest to 
safety and truth.”It was striking to hear from students about how alone 
they felt on campus in a sea of anti-Israel sentiment. Indeed it brought 
back my own memories of starting college during the height of the second 
intifada, overwhelmed by an anti-Israel newspaper, anti- Israel professors and 
anti- Israel student groups. This was years before CAMERA had established its 
Campus Fellows and CCAP programs – providing constant support, education, 
funding and resources for these Israel groups.Unfortunately, what I 
faced on campus now appears tame relative to the actions of anti-Israel groups 
that have evolved to become far more organized, and far more 
extreme. Thankfully, now there are resources to help the next generation 
of pro-Israel activists.On the first day of the conference, Navid Elie, 
a student from California, expressed shock, telling the room that he had no idea 
that he had signed up for something that intense. By the end of the conference, 
he approached us with a smile on his face, exuberant about how much he had 
learned. He confidently declared, “Now I feel ready.”From CAMERA’s 
Christian Media Analyst Dexter Van Zile we heard an especially stirring story 
about how he came to defend Israel, and left his congregation after it became a 
beacon for anti- Israelism. Simmons College professor Dr. Richard Cravatts gave 
a powerful lecture regarding the challenges of Israel activism on 
campus. Sharon Singer, the director of public affairs and social media at 
the Consulate General of Israel in Philadelphia, spoke about how to restore 
factual portrayals of Israel in university settings.Students discussed 
the boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) movement targeting Israel, took part 
in writing and role-playing workshops, and covered event-planning 
strategies. After learning about anti- Israel arguments, in a rapidfire 
session, students were given 30 seconds to respond to common slurs such as that 
Israel is an apartheid state.The goal was relevancy. Rena Nasar 
of Baruch College, describing the conference, said, “I felt that this conference 
really got down to the core issues pro-Israel students face every 
day.”It is on the campus front that some of the most important work is 
being done to defend Israel against falsehoods and challenges to its 
legitimacy. These students feel besieged at their universities. This 
fall, hundreds of thousands of students will be exposed to the conflict for the 
very first time, tens of thousands will contemplate going to Birthright or have 
just gone on their first trip to Israel.Other experienced pro-Israel 
activists will be returning to campus. Learning in depth about the conflict in 
such conferences can be an invaluable experience for students, some of which had 
never spoken up or defended Israel before. Now they can help restore balance to 
their school papers, lecture halls and conversations among their 
peers.
The writer is the Campus Coordinator at the Committee for Accuracy 
in Middle East Reporting in America (CAMERA). CAMERA, now in its 30th 
anniversary year, is the premier Israel and Middle East news media monitor. The 
nonpartisan organization has 65,000 members in more than 12 countries, with 
websites in English, Hebrew and Spanish.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: Racism against Jewish immigrants</title>
<date>6/11/2012</date>
<content>
When Ziona Mangistu was making her decision to come to Israel no one bothered to 
tell her that no matter how long she lived in the country, paid her taxes, sent 
her children to the army, and worked at a government job, in the eyes of a 
significant portion of Israel she would always be a “cushi”, a “stinking 
Ethiopian” who “veteran Israelis” would castigate and tell her to “go back to 
your country.”It is odd of course, because actually Israel is as much 
her country as it is Yael Dayan’s or Nurit Peled’s country, or any of the other 
figures from the elite families; it is as much Mangistu’s country as it is the 
country of any citizen.




Mangistu worked as a monitor on Israeli school 
buses and was ordered by the school not to board children who had been suspended 
from school, along her route in Kiryat Bialik. On October 30th the father of a 
suspended student boarded the bus and punched her in the face after attacking 
her with racist slurs and saying, “stinking Ethiopian, we will have you sent 
back where you came from.” The severity of the attack resulted in Mangistu being 
hospitalized. When she returned to the school the principal told her not to file 
a police complaint, she said. After the media and the mayor became aware 
of the incident, the irate father was momentarily detained by the police and 
then immediately released to five days of house arrest.Mangistu’s story 
encapsulates a small slice of life. Because she is not considered a full 
part of Israeli society, neither from a “good veteran family”, nor a kibbutz nor 
the “right neighborhood,” she doesn’t receive the same service as the 
rest.If you want to predict how the legal system treats people like 
Ziona, all you have to do is ask where they came from.Lest anyone think 
this is an exaggeration, just recall that Pini Cohen received three years in 
prison for throwing a shoe at Dorit Beinish, the Supreme Court judge. No one 
advised Beinisch against reporting the crime; there was no “catch and release” 
wink-wink, nod-nod for the perpetrator. Why would a school principal advise a 
government employee, connected to the school, who has been hospitalized after a 
racist assault. not to file a police complaint? Is it because the principal is 
friends with, or related to, the attacker or that the employee, Mangistu, has 
the wrong color skin and comes from the wrong socioeconomic background? Mangistu’s blood-stained shirt is a symbol of a national sickness in Israel – 
hatred of immigrants – and ineffective, or corrupt police forces and judges that 
too often release criminals who have harmed people from lower socioeconomic 
backgrounds. Rather than covering up incidents like this, institutions, such as 
schools must protect their employees. The lack of protest on behalf of this 
victim and the appeasement of the coward who beats on women are symbols of a 
society that is quiescent in the face of savagery.THE KNEE-JERK hatred 
directed at Mangistu is part of a larger motif. Two weeks ago, after the 
decision by Likud and Yisrael Beitenu to run on a combined list, the left wing 
Israeli political party, Meretz, immediately released a campaign poster, at 
first online, that asked “where were you in the war against the Israeli Putin?” 
Later the ad appeared on the front of the Israeli daily Haaretz. The attack on 
“the Israeli Putin” was directed at the national origins of the head of Yisrael 
Beitenu, Avigdor Liberman.Because he was born in Russia, some Israelis 
consider him “Putin,” since he is one of the few Russians Israelis are familiar 
with. Liberman is slandered as “Putin” because he wasn’t born on a kibbutz, or 
in Ramat Aviv – a wealthy part of Tel Aviv. As an immigrant he is forever 
slandered as a foreigner who will threaten our democracy as 
Prof.Alexander Yacobson writes, “Israeli democracy is weighed down by 
Soviet traditions.” The insinuation is that prior to the 1991 mass immigration, 
Israel was a perfect utopia, and then the evil immigrants ruined it.It 
is interesting that the same left that considers itself secular and has no 
problem eating pork, is the one that mocks Russian voters for Yisrael Beitenu as 
members of “the pork party.” When Meretz members eat pork it is the good pork, 
the whiter pork, but when Russians do it, it is considered 
“foreign.”With the one hand Israel was run as a one-party state for the 
first 20 years of its existence and with the other, Israelis – like author Amos 
Alon – accuse the immigrants of harming democracy, “we know where it comes 
from. Either from the Arab countries or Eastern Europe.” This sad truth 
about the hatred of immigrants, no matter how long they have been in the 
country, was clear when Amir Oren wrote in his article “A ploy too far” that 
“Liberman will be the defense minister, hear all the nuclear and intelligence 
secrets… the movie plot is clear, an immigrant youth from the Soviet Union, the 
kingdom of the Communist Party and KGB, climbs diligently up the political 
ladder to make it to the prime minister’s chair.” Thus Levi Eshkol, the Labor 
party insider, born in the Ukraine who was prime minister in 1967 was not a 
threat to national security, or perceived as an immigrant spy, but Liberman is. 
Eshkol was from the good generation of immigrants, like Ben-Gurion; whereas any 
immigrant who has come since, isn’t fully part of the national 
narrative.A SURVEY and study conducted by Dr. Karin Amit showed that 
immigrants from Ethiopia and Englishspeaking countries feel less Israeli, the 
more Hebrew they learn. This is because they initially believe, when they 
receive their identity cards, that they are now citizens.Even though 
Ethiopians and English speakers, along with Russians, are disproportionately 
represented in the Israeli army, they find out that no matter how many of them 
lay down their lives for their small country, they are not fully accepted as 
Israelis by a section of society.David Ben-Gurion, Chaim Weizmann, Golda 
Meir, they were all of the generation that could become fully Israeli despite 
being immigrants, but no leader can emerge today, who is considered fully 
Israeli, who is born abroad. That is why some Israelis respond to an argument 
with someone like Mangistu with “go back where you came from.” But why should 
the racist have more rights to the country than Mangistu? Israel must challenge 
this anti-immigrant rhetoric or it risks sinking under the burden of xenophobic 
strife.Inconvenient statistics Recently there was a great deal of 
hullabaloo over a poll conducted by the Israela Goldblum fund, crafted by a 
series of far-left academic activists: Mordechai Bar-On, Amiram Goldblum, 
Michael Sfard, Alon Liel and Camil Fuchs. The questions were written in such a 
way as to confuse or lead respondents to support a hypothetical apartheid (the 
survey was entitled, “Topics of equality and Apartheid”). The poll revealed that 
42 percent of Israeli Jews don’t want to have Arabs in their schools or in the 
same building they live in. The polling data, of only 503 people, was broken 
down into groups of ultra- Orthodox Jews, Russians and secular Israelis. Even 
though the surveyors wanted to separate the “new” secular Russians from the 
“old” secular Israelis, it turns out their answers to many of the questions were 
remarkably similar.But lost in the commentary were interesting 
statistics.Only 24% of the supposedly “racist” Russians said they were 
bothered by living in a building with Arabs, whereas 27% of the veteran secular 
Israelis didn’t want the Arabs sleeping in the next apartment. The decision to 
make Russians a separate category is motivated by Israeli elite society’s 
racism, perceiving the Russians as different from “secular” society. Russians 
have been in Israel for more than 20 years, longer than Israel existed within 
the pre-1967 Green Line, longer than the period from the First Zionist Congress 
to the Balfour Declaration, and yet they are still – according to academics like 
Goldblum, Bar- On and Fuchs – considered separate from the rest of Israel. That 
is brutal testimony to the “othering” of the Russian immigrants.Perhaps 
a more interesting survey would reveal –among academics and intellectuals – 
under what conditions a Jew born in Russia can ever be considered a “secular 
Israeli,” and not a “Russian.” Will it only be after he is dead and buried on 
Mount Herzl that they will call him “Israeli,” or even then will he still be a 
spy from the Soviet Union? Another statistic that would be interesting to reveal 
would be: How many Israelis who live in communities where it is impossible for 
Arabs to live – such as a kibbutz with its acceptance committee – answer survey 
questions by saying they don’t mind living with Arabs? How many members of 
kibbutzim whose children all go to the “kibbutz high school”, say they don’t 
mind Arabs in the school, when they know very well that Arabs are not permitted 
to attend their school – since Arabs are not permitted to become kibbutz 
members? If one lives in a community that actively discriminates against Arabs, 
one shouldn’t be rewarded by being branded “progressive” in a survey for 
feigning tolerance. A “progressive” society built on segregation cannot be 
considered less racist than another society that admits its 
xenophobia.Knesset lists reveal problems as well Israel’s major 
political parties conduct primaries to decide who will run in what position on 
their Knesset lists. Some parties reserve a place for a “new immigrant” or an 
“Arab, Druse or Beduin.” The existence of these slots seems to illustrate an 
interest in diversity, but it also reveals the degree to which, without them, 
the “others” won’t ever be elected on their own. Isawi Freij, a member of Meretz 
who announced this year that he not going to accept the reserved slot as “the 
Arab” on the list. If Meretz members don’t elect him for one of the top slots he 
won’t run.
This should be true for the rest of society. If the parties 
can’t self-diversify and represent all the groups that vote for them, this is a 
fundamental problem. It is particularly harmful to Ethiopians. Not only do they 
not receive a reserved place on the list, there are no parties that actively 
work hard enough to promote Ethiopians to run for the Knesset. The prospective 
absence of a black Jew in the next Knesset is a black mark on society as a 
whole.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: You can’t sell Israeli liberalism</title>
<date>20/6/2012</date>
<content>
The IDF spokesman’s office created a stir in early June by releasing a photo of 
two ostensibly homosexual soldiers holdings hands. But the great gay photo-op 
turned into a flop when it was outed as a fake. The hasbara (public diplomacy) 
message “did you know the IDF treats all its soldiers equally?” was lost in the 
commentary. The packaging of the photo may not have been as ill-conceived as the 
2007 ad campaign the government helped arrange in which former female soldiers 
were used as models by Maxim magazine. CNN paraphrased the story as “soldiers 
show skin for PR campaign.”These campaigns are ham handed, but behind 
them is an important issue. They are designed to show off the liberal, 
open-minded side of Israel and to present to those either critical of Israel or 
who don’t care about the country a positive image of it as a free-spirited 
nation. Great efforts are also made to show the West that Israel has a tradition 
of free debate, and intense self-criticism in movies, academia and the media is 
held up as a sign of how vibrant the country is.




THE PROBLEM is that this 
assumes Israel is hated by Western leftists primarily because it is not 
open-minded enough. Let’s test this assumption by taking it to its logical 
extreme. If every soldier in the IDF carried a rainbow-colored gun and the 
checkpoints were made of gingerbread, would Israel’s image among those who 
critique it change? No.That there even exists something as ill-conceived 
as the Russell Tribunal on Palestine, a group of international “judges” who have 
accused Israel of being more apartheid than Apartheid South Africa, sheds light 
on this issue. Would Alice Walker, one of the “judges,” who has refused to have 
her book rereleased in Hebrew because of her hatred of Israel, be convinced to 
change her mind because Israel tolerates gays? Why? Because Israel’s negative 
image is not predicated on it not being Western enough, but rather on it being 
too Western. Let’s take this premise to its logical extreme, as well. If the 
entire country converted to Islam, wouldn’t its image in the West improve? 
Israel’s hasbara misfits falsely assume the country is on the same playing field 
as Ramallah, Khartoum or Timbuktu. But it isn’t.When one looks at what 
Samuel Huntington described as the “fault line” between civilizations, it 
doesn’t only delineate cultural differences, but differences in Western value 
judgments. Whatever is on the “Western” side of the line is held to a 
progressive, leftist standard. Whatever falls on the other side of the line is 
judged according to the post-colonial “resistance” model, in which no moral 
judgments can be made.One can test this pretty simply by considering how 
certain values translate abroad. In March, a 16-year-old girl, Amina Filali, was 
forced to marry her rapist because of Article 475 of the Moroccan penal 
code.Will one less hippy tourist who “loves Morocco” not go to that land 
of rape and honey next year because of this outrage? Countries like Indonesia 
and Malaysia are cesspools of religious fanaticism and intolerance, but one 
wouldn’t know it because of the way their values are translated to us. The fact 
that the threat of riots forced Lady Gaga and Erykah Badu to cancel performances 
in those countries, due to “offensive” material in their shows, should have 
symbolized the dark fanaticism of these countries. But Gaga and Badu came and 
went, and the Indo-Malaysian reputation remains unscathed.AFTER MONA 
Eltahawy penned an essay in Foreign Policy about Arab women’s rights, daring to 
suggest that Arab women were suffering due to religio-cultural discrimination 
against them, the multi-culture lobby was outraged.Max Fischer in the 
Atlantic noted that “Arabs have endured centuries of brutal, authoritarian rule, 
and this could also play a role [in the culture’s misogyny].A Western 
female journalist who spent years in the region, where she endured some of the 
region’s infamous street harassment, told me that she sensed her harassers may 
have been acting in part out of misery, anger, and their own 
emasculation.”See, sexual harassment is due to dictatorship: “Enduring 
the daily torments and humiliations of life... might make an Arab man more 
likely to reassert his lost manhood by taking it out on women.”Except 
the men under the Soviet dictatorship or living under the Chinese boot in Tibet 
aren’t known to harass women in the streets.But this isn’t the issue. 
The problem is we aren’t dealing with a value system capable of simply 
condemning sexual harassment (i.e. sexual harassment = bad, period), we are 
dealing with a value system that first asks “what is the offenders’ 
race/ethnicity/religion” and only then, depending on the answer, decides whether 
the offense is excusable or not.Everything can be tolerated under this 
mindset: rape, honor killing, slavery, female genital mutilation, murder, 
genocide, ethnic cleansing, racism, discrimination, the death penalty, abortion 
rights, gay rights, freedom of speech, freedom of worship, etc.THE 
WEST’s attitude toward Israel is part of the West’s understanding of it as part 
of the “self.” Palestine is part of the “other.” Even those sectors of Israeli 
society that seem to be “other,” like Mea She’arim’s ultra-Orthodox Jews, for 
example, are subsumed into the Western “self.”I remember one non-Jewish 
Croatian woman who worked for the UN and who used to bash the haredi 
(ultra-Orthodox) population every time she got the chance. Yet she used to 
travel to Gaza often, and enjoyed the “culture” she found there. She explained 
her hatred for the haredim by saying, “I expect more from the 
Jews.”Confronting this mentality is impossible because there is no 
common ground between the enlightenment philosophy of the equal rights of man 
(and woman) and a worldview in which people are judged differently based on what 
culture they claim to have come from.With regard to Israel’s conflict it 
is thus impossible, short of mass conversion to Islam, to join the “other,” and 
it is impossible to drag Palestine onto the side of the “self.” No matter how 
much Israel loves gay rights and bikinis, nothing will change, because when it 
looks at Israel, the West sees itself.
The modern Western boiling down of 
actions to “self/other” represents a post-enlightenment philosophy according to 
which there are no absolute human rights, or absolute standards of morality. In 
this conception, even though Israel’s support for gay rights and its robust 
culture of critique are correct and moral, they will never gain it points 
abroad.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Europeans’ skewed view of circumcision</title>
<date>5/7/2012</date>
<content>
In May 2007, a small group of religious leaders met, in the EU headquarters in 
Brussels, with the three most significant leaders of Europe: Angela Merkel, 
German Chancellor and at the time president of the European Council, Jose-Manuel 
Barroso, president of the European Commission, and Hans- Gert Pöttering, 
president of the European Parliament.The meeting was one of those 
semi-formal occasions at which little is said, and a great deal of time taken in 
saying it. Concerned at the return of anti-Semitism to Europe within living 
memory of the Holocaust, I decided that the time had come to break protocol and 
speak plainly, even bluntly.




I gave the shortest speech of my life. 
Sitting directly opposite the three leaders I said this: “Jews and Europe go 
back a long way. The experience of Jews in Europe has added several words to the 
human vocabulary – words like expulsion, public disputation, forced conversion, 
inquisition, auto-da-fé, blood libel, ghetto and pogrom, without even mentioning 
the word Holocaust.That is the past. My concern is with the future. 
Today the Jews of Europe are asking whether there is a future for Jews in 
Europe, and that should concern you, the leaders of Europe.”It took less 
than a minute, and after it there was a shocked silence.We adjourned for 
lunch, and over it Angela Merkel asked, “What would you like me to do, Chief 
Rabbi?” I did not have an easy answer for her then. I do now.It is: 
reverse, immediately, the decision of the Cologne court that renders Jewish 
parents who give their son a brit mila, even if performed in hospital by a 
qualified doctor, liable to prosecution.It is hard to think of a more 
appalling decision. Did the court know that circumcision is the most ancient 
ritual in the history of Judaism, dating back almost 4,000 years to the days of 
Abraham? Did it know that Spinoza, not religious but together with John Locke 
the father of European liberalism, wrote that brit mila in and of itself had the 
power to sustain Jewish identity through the centuries? Did it know that banning 
mila was the route chosen by two of the worst enemies the Jewish people ever 
had, the Seleucid ruler Antiochus IV and the Roman emperor Hadrian, both of whom 
set out to extinguish not only Jews but also Judaism? Either the court knew 
these things or it did not. If it did not, then how was it competent to assess 
the claim of religious liberty? If it did, then there are judges in Germany 
quite willing to say to religious Jews, in effect, “If you don’t like it, 
leave.”Do judges in Cologne today really not know what happened the last 
time Germany went down that road? The case – like the banning of shechita 
(ritual slaughter of animals) by the Dutch parliament, now thankfully reversed – 
illustrates the deep difficulty Jews are facing in Europe today. Both cases 
initially had nothing to do with Jews. They were directed predominantly against 
Muslims, whose population vastly outnumbers that of Jews in almost every country 
in Europe.They are part of the backlash against the misguided policy, 
adopted by most European countries in the 1970s, known as multiculturalism. This 
was meant to promote tolerance.Its effect was precisely the opposite. It 
encouraged segregation of ethnic minorities, not integration, and instead of 
getting people to ignore differences it made an issue of them at every 
stage.The Muslim communities of Europe have been in the frontline of 
both the policy and its discontents. The result has been that in Germany the 
court, and in the Netherlands the parliament, have sought to ban a Muslim 
practice, while the Jewish community has suffered collateral damage in both 
places.That is part of the problem, but not all of it.I have 
argued for some years that an assault on Jewish life always needs justification 
by the highest source of authority in the culture at any given age. Throughout 
the Middle Ages the highest authority in Europe was the Church. Hence 
anti-Semitism took the form of Christian anti-Judaism.In the 
post-enlightenment Europe of the 19th century the highest authority was no 
longer the Church. Instead it was science. Thus was born racial anti-Semitism, 
based on two disciplines regarded as science in their day: the “scientific study 
of race” and the Social Darwinism of Herbert Spencer and Ernst Haeckel. Today we 
know that both of these were pseudosciences, but in their day they were endorsed 
by some of the leading figures of the age.Since Hiroshima and the 
Holocaust, science no longer holds its pristine place as the highest moral 
authority.Instead that role is taken by human rights. It follows that 
any assault on Jewish life – on Jews or Judaism or the Jewish state – must be 
cast in the language of human rights.Hence the by-now routine accusation 
that Israel has committed the five cardinal sins against human rights: racism, 
apartheid, ethnic cleansing, attempted genocide and crimes against humanity. 
This is not because the people making these accusations seriously believe them – 
some do, some don’t.It is because this is the only form in which an 
assault on Jews can be stated today.That is what the court in Cologne 
has done. It has declared that circumcision is an assault on the rights of the 
child since it is performed without his consent. It ignored the fact that if 
this is true, teaching children to speak German, sending them to school and 
vaccinating them against illness are all assaults against the rights of the 
child since they are done without consent. The court’s judgment was tendentious, 
foolish and has set a dangerous precedent.In historical context, 
however, it is far worse. By ruling that religious Jews performing their most 
ancient sacred ritual are abusing the rights of the child, a German court has 
just invented a new form of blood libel perfectly designed for the 21st 
century.Chancellor Merkel, the answer to your question, “What would you 
like me to do?” is simple. Ensure that this ruling is overturned, for the sake 
of religious freedom and the moral reputation of Germany.
The writer has 
been Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth since 
1991.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The French water report</title>
<date>22/1/2012</date>
<content>
On December 13 the Foreign Affairs Committee of the French National Assembly 
published a monumental, 320-page report on the geopolitics of water, penned by 
Socialist Member of the National Assembly Jean Glavany.The report dealt 
with two current international water conflicts: a conflict between Kazakhstan 
and Uzbekistan over the Aral Sea Basin in Central Asia, and the case of the 
Jordan River Basin, involving Israel, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and the West Bank. 
In the case of the Jordan River Basin, most of the emphasis is on 
Israeli-Palestinian relations.




While the basic facts presented in the 
report appear to be fair, the conclusion relating to Israel caused an uproar in 
Jerusalem – especially the title of a box within the report: “Water, Revealing a 
New Apartheid in the Middle East.”After analyzing the history of the 
term “apartheid” and admitting that “Palestine is not South Africa, and 2010 is 
not 1990,” the report nevertheless accuses Israel of conducting an apartheid 
policy in the West Bank.The report is critical of the disparity in water 
allocation between 450,000 Jewish “colonial settlers” (in the words of the 
report) and 2.3 million Palestinians. The report also accuses Israel of blocking 
attempts by the Palestinian Authority to develop its meager water resources, and 
sealing Palestinian wells and cisterns.While the report admits that 
Israel is acting most of the time within the framework of the agreements 
relating to water resources in the Oslo Accords, it emphasizes the basic 
injustice of Israel’s de facto control of their implementation.The most 
worrying aspect of this whole affair is that while Israel knew all along that a 
report was being prepared by the National Assembly, and although senior Israeli 
water experts, as well as Minister of Energy and Water Uzi Landau, actually met 
with MNA Jean Glavany when he visited Israel last May, no one in the Israeli 
Embassy in Paris bothered to follow up progress on the report, or ask to see a 
draft before it was published. The report was first seen in the Foreign Ministry 
on the website of the National Assembly, several days after its publication. 
Someone in the Israeli Embassy in Paris fell asleep on watch.IT IS 
perfectly legitimate to argue that Israel’s occupation policy in the West Bank 
has shifted since 1967 from one of benevolence to daily occurrences of brutality 
against the background of objective security concerns. But while one could argue 
that Israel is in breach of the Fourth Geneva Convention relating to occupied 
territories, the situation is not as black and white as presented in the French 
report.In the first place, the term “apartheid” applies when one 
population group is systematically segregated and discriminated against in a 
single, sovereign state. As long as the West Bank is not annexed to the State of 
Israel, the term apartheid simply does not apply, though other strongly critical 
terms might certainly be applicable when speaking of Israel’s conduct vis-à-vis 
the Palestinians.Even King Abdullah of Jordan, who recently stated that 
in the absence of a two-state solution the result will either be with a single 
democratic state, or a single apartheid state, avoided terming the current 
situation as apartheid.But there are additional facts that must be 
emphasized. The first is that up to the Six Day War Jerusalem and most of the 
West Bank were connected to running water only two or three days a week, so that 
the situation today, despite the major increase in the Palestinian population, 
has unquestionably improved.The second is that even if Israel were to 
distribute the available water equally between the Palestinians and the Jewish 
settlers in the West Bank, and were to agree to share the aquifers more fairly 
with the Palestinian Authority, the whole area of Mandatory Palestine (Israel, 
Jordan and the West Bank) suffers from an acute water shortage, which can only 
be resolved by means of effective regional effluent purification projects, and 
massive desalination plants along the coast of Israel and the Gaza Strip. This 
applies no matter what shape the eventual political settlement in our region 
will take.
One final point ought to be mentioned. All the Israeli 
Committees of Inquiry that investigated the water crisis in Israel in recent 
decades, including the most recent National Committee of Inquiry on the 
Management of the Water Sector, that published its report two years ago, failed 
to deal with the regional issue, which is considered political, and therefore 
outside the bounds of a purely professional investigation. This might prove to 
have been a mistake, at least in terms of Israeli hasbara.

The writer was 
a Knesset employee for many years, and wrote the final report of the 
Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Israeli Water Sector, in 2002.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Middle East’s real apartheid</title>
<date>5/3/2012</date>
<content>
In light of Israel Apartheid Week, which hit cities and campuses throughout the world recently, supporters of the Jewish state find it difficult to agree on the best response to this hate fest. Some suggest emphasizing Israel’s peacemaking efforts, others propose rebranding the country by highlighting its numerous achievements and success stories. Still others advocate reminding the world of “what Zionism is – a movement of Jewish national liberation – and what it isn’t – racist.” Each of these approaches has its merits yet none will do the trick.Peace seeking and/or prosperity are no proof of domestic benevolence and equality. The most brutal regimes have peacefully coexisted with their neighbors while repressing their own populations; the most prosperous societies have discriminated against vulnerable minorities. South Africa was hardly impoverished and technologically backward; the United States, probably the most successful and affluent nation in recent times was largely segregated not that long ago.




Nor for that matter is the apartheid libel driven by forgetfulness of Zionism’s true nature. It is driven by rejection of Israel’s very existence. No sooner had the dust settled on the Nazi extermination camps than the Arabs and their western champions equated the Jewish victims with their tormentors.“To the Arabs, indeed Zionism seems as hideous as anything the Nazis conceived in the way of racial expansion at the expense of others,” read a 1945 pamphlet by the Arab League, the representative body of all Arab states. A pamphlet published by the PLO shortly after its creation in 1964 stated: “The Zionist concept of the ‘final solution’ to the ‘Arab problem’ in Palestine, and the Nazi concept of the ‘final solution’ to the ‘Jewish problem’ in Germany, consisted essentially of the same basic ingredient: the elimination of the unwanted human element in question.”Indeed, it was the Palestinian terror organization that invented the apartheid canard in the mid-1960s, years before Israel’s occupation of the West Bank and Gaza.This charge, of course, is not only completely false but the inverse of the truth. If apartheid is indeed a crime against humanity, Israel actually is the only apartheid-free state in the Middle East – a state whose Arab population enjoys full equality before the law and more prerogatives than most ethnic minorities in the free world, from the designation of Arabic as an official language to the recognition of non-Jewish religious holidays as legal days of rest.By contrast, apartheid has been an integral part of the Middle East for over a millennium, and its Arab and Muslim nations continue to legally, politically and socially enforce this discriminatory practice against their hapless minorities.Why then should an innocent party be under constant pressure to “come clean” while the real culprits are not only left unscathed but also given a worldwide platform to blame others for their own crimes? Rather than engage in incessant apologetics and protestations of innocence, something Jews have been doing for far too long, Israel should adopt a proactive strategy, call a spade a spade and target the real perpetrators of Middle East apartheid: the region’s Arab and Muslim nations.Arab/Muslim apartheid comes in many forms, and some victims have been subjected to more than one.• Religious intolerance:Muslims historically viewed themselves as distinct from, and superior to, all others living under Muslim rule, known as “dhimmis.” They have been loath to give up this privileged status in modern times. Christians, Jews and Baha’is remain second-class citizens throughout the Arab/Muslim world, and even non-ruling Muslim factions have been oppressed by their dominant co-religionists (e.g. Shi’ites in Saudi Arabia, Sunnis in Syria).• Ethnic inequality: This historic legacy of intolerance extends well beyond the religious sphere. As longtime imperial masters, Arabs, Turks and Iranians continue to treat long-converted populations, notably Kurds and Berbers, that retained their language, culture and social customs, as inferior.• Racism: The Middle East has become the foremost purveyor of anti-Semitic incitement in the world with the medieval blood libel widely circulated alongside a string of modern canards (notably The Protocols of the Elders of Zion) depicting Jews as the source of all evil.Likewise, Africans of sub-Saharan descent are held in deep contempt, a vestige of the region’s historic role as epicenter of the international slave trade.• Gender discrimination:Legal and social discrimination against women is pervasive throughout the Arab-Islamic world, accounting for rampant violence (for example domestic violence or spousal rape are not criminalized) and scores of executions every year, both legal and extra-judicial (i.e. honor killings). Discrimination against homosexuals is even worse.• Denial of citizenship: The withholding of citizenship and attendant rights from a large segment of the native-born population is common. Palestinian communities in the Arab states offer the starkest example of this discrimination (in Lebanon, for example, they cannot own property, be employed in many professions, move freely, etc.). The Bidun (stateless peoples) in the Gulf states, and hundreds of thousands of Kurds in Syria have been subjected to similar discrimination.• Labor inequality: Mistreatment of foreign workers (especially household servants), ranging from sexual abuse to virtual imprisonment and outright murder, is widely tolerated throughout the Middle East, especially in oil-exporting countries that host large expatriate labor forces.• Slavery: The Arabic-speaking countries remain the world’s foremost refuge of slavery, from child and sex trafficking in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states to actual chattel slavery in Sudan and Mauritania. Indeed, Islamists throughout the Middle East have had no qualms advocating the legalization of slavery.• Political Oppression: Many Middle Eastern regimes are little more than elaborate repressive systems aimed at perpetuating apartheid-style domination by a small minority: Alawites in Syria; Tikritis in Saddam’s Iraq; the Saudi royal family; the Hashemite dynasty in Jordan.Possibly the world’s most arresting anachronism, these endemic abuses have until now escaped scrutiny and condemnation. Western governments have been loath to antagonize their local authoritarian allies, while the educated classes have absolved Middle Easterners of responsibility for their actions in the patronizing tradition of the “white man’s burden,” dismissing regional players as half-witted creatures, too dim to be accountable for their own fate.It is time to denounce these discriminatory practices and force Arab/Muslim regimes to abide by universally accepted principles of decency and accountability. This will not only expose the hollowness of the Israel delegitimization campaign but will also help promote regional peace and stability.
History has shown that gross and systemic discrimination is a threat not just to the oppressed minorities, but also to the political health of the societies that oppress them. Only when Arab and Muslim societies treat the “other” as equal will the Middle East, and the rest of the Islamic world, be able to transcend its malaise and look forward to a real political and social spring.The writer is research professor of Middle East and Mediterranean Studies at King’s College London, director of the Middle East Forum (Philadelphia) and author, most recently, of Palestine Betrayed.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The myths of 1967 and today’s realities</title>
<date>5/6/2012</date>
<content>
The 1967 Six Day War was the result of the renewed Arab effort to “wipe Israel 
off the map” – a renewal of the 1948 war that ended in a temporary cease-fire, 
with no interest among most Arab leaders in a long-term peace agreement with 
Israel. This is the reason that there were never any pre-1967 borders between 
Israel and the west bank of the Jordan River – one of many myths that distort 
the international perception of the conflict.Another myth is the belief 
that in this war, Israel occupied the “Palestinian east Jerusalem and the West 
Bank.” In fact, this territory had been occupied by Jordan in the 1948 war, and 
from these positions, Israel was repeatedly attacked. Sacred and historic Jewish 
Jerusalem was systematically closed off and desecrated during this period – and 
in 1967, the Jewish presence was restored. And while the Israeli government 
adopted a policy of trading land for a long-awaited peace, the Arab League, 
meeting in Khartoum, slammed the door in the face of any negotiations or 
agreements, forever. This was the unplanned and impromptu beginning of 
settlements, built on the foundation of Arab rejectionism.




But that was 
then, and now, 45 years later, the myths are firmly entrenched in university 
campuses around the world (not exactly seats of knowledge on the Middle East), 
among foreign journalists, diplomats, political leaders and even many 
Israelis.Notwithstanding the Oslo agreements, which created a 
semi-autonomous Palestinian Authority, with a semi-sovereign government, the 
population of about 1.5 million living in the West Bank (Judea and Samaria in 
the both the Bible and the British mandate) is generally seen as living under 
Israeli occupation, a modern form of colonialism.In some ways, the 
victory of 1967 and the stalemate that followed became a trap for Israel, as the 
Palestinians have long realized. Beyond falsely appropriating the term 
“apartheid,” and campaigns for BDS (boycotts, divestment and sanctions), the 
occupation and unsettled legal status of these territories is a major drain on 
Israel’s limited resources.In addition to defending against mass terror, 
deadly missiles and lethal attacks on the roads, there is a disturbing degree of 
lawlessness and anarchy among a small percentage of Jews who have set up 
outposts in these areas.In 1977, prime minister Menachem Begin, a 
committed democrat who also strongly affirmed the Jewish right to live in any 
part of the historical homeland, rejected calls for annexation. He understood 
that Israel could not include this territory without granting the Arab 
population full democratic rights, which would jeopardize the Jewish cultural, 
political and societal framework of the country. This fundamental reality has 
not changed.Since then, Israeli efforts to extricate itself from this 
trap have failed. Begin’s autonomy plan for the “Arab residents of the Land of 
Israel” – developed in the context of the peace negotiations with Egypt – which 
was meant to counter Jimmy Carter’s pressure to create a Palestinian homeland to 
be led by Arafat and the PLO, went nowhere. Later, the façade of peace presented 
in the Oslo process ended in mass terror, and the unilateral withdrawal from 
Gaza, including of all Israeli military forces, also did not end well. Each 
failure increased the degree to which the accidental framework created by the 
1967 war was being set in concrete.The 2003 Sharon-Bush understandings 
could have resulted in a fundamental change, with American recognition of the 
permanence of Israeli “consensus settlement blocs” along the 1949-1967 “Green 
Line,” in exchange for Israeli limitations elsewhere. But then the Obama 
administration withdrew the US endorsement, in what turned out be a colossal 
error.As a result, the post-1967 status quo continues, without a 
conscious and carefully weighed examination of the costs and benefits to Israel 
of permanent occupation, in the absence of defined borders or an acceptable 
system of law and democracy. At the same time, the fringe ideologues on the 
Right and Left have pressed their mythologies. These myths include voluntary or 
forced transfer of millions of Palestinians, and, on the other pole of the 
political spectrum, naïve “instant peace” based on return to the pre-1967 lines, 
without any guarantees to prevent future missile attacks and mass 
terror.Forty-five years after the 1967 war, we desperately need a 
coherent policy, whether based on the negotiation of defensible borders (an 
unlikely option, given the Palestinian leadership), an interim agreement that 
moves in this direction, or a resumption of the process of setting our borders 
unilaterally.Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and the other 93 members 
of the coalition government have the responsibility to formulate an overall 
policy, rather than continuing to lurch from crisis to crisis.None of 
these options are ideal, but doing nothing and letting others impose their 
distortions and interests on Israel is certainly the worst possible 
option.Reliance on post-1967 myths is no way to determine the fate of 
our nation. The longer we wait, the greater the difficulty and the higher the 
costs.
The writer is professor of political science at Bar-Ilan 
University and president of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The problem with going negative</title>
<date>21/3/2012</date>
<content>
Some are saying that it’s now time for Israel supporters to go on the offensive 
and accuse Arab countries of apartheid. Efraim Karsh, for example, argues that 
“Rather than engage in incessant apologetics... Israel should adopt a 
proactive strategy... and target the real perpetrators of Middle East 
apartheid: the regions Arab and Muslim nations.”Similarly, British 
journalist Melanie Phillips asserts “we must also show that those who stand 
against Israel stand for illegality, aggression and lies. We must 
delegitimize the delegitimizers!” One fellow pro-Israel advocate recently 
suggested that we should organize on campus “Arab or Muslim Apartheid 
Week.”




They are right, of course, that much of the Arab world engages in 
what might be termed ethnic, gender, religious and racial 
“apartheid.”The Freedom House annual report on the state of freedom in 
the world finds once again that Israel is the only “free” country in the Middle 
East. The UN commissioned Arab Human Development Report, written by leading Arab 
scholars, points to the pathetic state of freedom in literally every Arab 
country.I am all for outside organizations highlighting systematic 
discrimination in the Arab world. It’s extremely important work. It’s just not 
pro- Israel advocacy and will do little to better Israel’s standing. Karsh and 
Phillips are also right that the pro- Israel community should be more proactive 
and less defensive. But we should do it in a very different way than what they 
suggest.Those who argue that Israel supporters should go on the attack 
advance faulty zero sum logic – if they go down, we go up; if we go up, they go 
down. They reason that if Americans come to view the Arab nations as the real 
perpetrators of apartheid, then they’ll necessarily come to see the Jewish state 
as the champion of freedom.Years of public opinion surveys, however, do 
not bear this out. Americans are quite capable of simultaneously showing less 
sympathy for Arabs and Israelis, and vice versa.THE GALLUP Polls of the 
past 20 years show remarkable inelasticity in sympathy for Arabs and 
Palestinians. Their numbers have generally stayed between 10 and 20 percent, 
with a couple dips below 10%. Their numbers can’t get much lower. This past year 
showed a slight increase in sympathy for Palestinians (from 17% to 19%) and a 
more significant increase in sympathy for Israel (from 63% to 71%), an all-time 
high for the Jewish state.College students also show less interest in 
the Palestinian narrative than we might expect. According to a recent poll 
conducted by The Israel Project and American Israel Cooperative Enterprise, only 
1% of college students believe that Palestinians share American values, compared 
to 32% who believe Israel does. There’s plenty of room for Israel’s numbers to 
go up; there’s very little room for Palestinian numbers to go 
down.Unlike the Palestinians, Israel is in a position of strength on the 
US front and has a lot to lose. Israel depends on US support, from selling 
bunker busting bombs and top-of-the-line fighter aircraft, to casting vetoes at 
the UN Security Council.Going on the attack might make us look overly 
aggressive – like Israel’s detractors, who turn off the average American. When 
you drill down in focus groups, it becomes apparent that Americans and 
especially college students are turned off to what they perceive as the heated 
rhetoric coming from both sides. Their reflexive response is to say “a pox on 
both of your houses.”Borrowing from the anti-Israel playbook, however 
tantalizing, is simply not a sound strategy for the American scene. It may bring 
us down with them. Karsh and Phillips may be on to something for Europe, where 
there’s much less to lose than in the US. Palestinians enjoy a considerable 
advantage in sympathy in EU countries. Paradoxically, the lower the support for 
Israel in a country, the more aggressive we can be in attacking the other 
side.Irredentist Muslim and Palestinian causes are held in relatively 
high esteem in Western Europe, so exposing them can only bring their numbers 
down and, moreover, has less downside risk given the low esteem in which Israel 
is held.The special relationship between the US and Israel is predicated 
on the strong sense among most Americans that Israelis and Americans share a set 
of values. Americans don’t need to be convinced that the Arab world has yet to 
embrace these values. They already know it. They may need convincing, however, 
that Israel still does.
The best strategy is to show the positive face of 
Israel – its democracy, its freedom, its quest for peace, its innovative 
economy. While such a strategy is no silver bullet, it’s the best we can do. 
Let’s do it much better than ever before.The writer is the executive 
director of The David Project, a nonprofit that positively shapes campus opinion 
on Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think About It: The primaries that were</title>
<date>2/12/2012</date>
<content>
Following the primaries in their respective parties, neither Binyamin Netanyahu 
nor Shelly Yacimovich are completely pleased with the results.What is 
bothering them? Though Netanyahu is no bleeding-heart liberal, he is clearly 
perturbed by the weakening of the more moderate section of his party, and the 
strengthening of the extreme Right. When he realized that Benny Begin, Dan 
Meridor and Michael Eitan had been excluded from the Likud list, he looked like 
someone who had swallowed a lemon, and immediately assured the former two that 
he was planning on keeping them at his side.




This was adding insult to 
injury. The members of the Likud had just stated that they did not want the 
three in their list, after Netanyahu hadn’t done enough to change their minds, 
and as men of honor they have accepted the verdict with resignation.If 
Netanyahu feels that the Likud has moved too far to the Right, and that this 
will destroy what remains of Israel’s international standing, the way to mend 
the situation is not by disobeying the verdict, but by trying to build a solid 
coalition with the Center and Left of Center parties, which together are 
expected to get at least 40 seats. That this will not be to the liking of the 
majority in his own party is clear, but this is Netanyahu’s opportunity to 
demonstrate some real leadership, for a change. Blessed are the 
believers.The movement of the Likud to the Right was a foregone 
conclusion since the establishment of Kadima in November 2005, when most of the 
more moderate wing of the Likud defected together with Ariel Sharon. Only one 
former member of Kadima – Tzachi Hanegbi – has returned home.And what is 
bugging Yacimovich? First of all, even though she managed to get most of the 
candidates she favored into the Labor list, so did her main rival in the party, 
Amir Peretz. This means that she is not going to have an easy time with her 
parliamentary group, whether she decides to join the next coalition or remain in 
opposition.The problem for Yacimovich is not just that Peretz, in the 
“best” self-destructive Labor tradition, is expected to start challenging her 
leadership the day after the elections, but that Peretz is not ashamed to 
identify himself as a Leftist.Furthermore, most of the candidates on 
Labor’s new list who speak out openly in favor of Israel making every effort to 
reach a settlement with the Palestinians, and against the provocative expansion 
of Jewish settlements in Judea and Samaria in order to kill any chance of such a 
settlement, had Peretz’s support, and were cold-shouldered by 
Yacimovich.Incidentally, it is not that if a serious opportunity arises 
to reach a settlement with the Palestinians, based on a painful territorial 
compromise, Yacimovich will reject it. It is that she feels that since “Left” 
has turned into a dirty word in large sections of Israeli society, for tactical 
reasons it is desirable to try to market the Labor Party as Centrist.I 
think this is a cowardly approach. Yacimovich is a Social Democrat, and social 
democracy is left wing – moderate left wing, but nevertheless left wing. You 
cannot fight against people’s prejudices and/or ignorance by denying being what 
you are. During the many years that prime minister David Ben-Gurion repeated the 
slogan (in connection with the coalitions he was willing to establish) “Without 
Herut and Maki,” Menachem Begin never claimed that he was not a Herutnik – not 
even after he created an alignment with the Liberal Party.Recently a 
right-wing acquaintance asked me whether Labor would be joining Netanyahu's next 
coalition. I answered that I do not know, but in the unlikely situation it 
decides to do so, I hope it will insist on getting the Interior 
Ministry.My interlocutor answered: “Oh no, the Left in the Interior 
Ministry will freely hand out citizenship to the Palestinians.” Certainly the 
answer to this spurt of prejudice and ignorance is not to say: “Don’t worry, 
Labor is Center,” but to explain that the Zionist Left wants more than anything 
else that Israel should maintain its Jewish majority, and that it is the extreme 
Right, which refuses to accept any territorial compromise, as a result of which 
Israel will turn into a bi-national or apartheid state, which will cause the 
Jews will lose their majority.Incidentally, Yacimovich’s declaration 
that Labor is not Left is going to benefit Meretz, which has started to stick 
posters all over the country saying “Left-wingers – Come Home.”Many 
left-wingers who had considered voting Labor have now changed their minds. For 
the very same reason Amram Mitzna, who until several weeks ago was still 
considering running in the Labor primaries, has decided to run in Tzipi Livni’s 
list, because she, at least, has placed the peace process at the top of her list 
of priorities.None of this benefits Labor.Finally, the folly of 
Yacimovich’s position on this issue came to light on Friday morning, when the 
official Likud reaction to the results of Labor’s primaries was that Labor had 
selected an extreme Left list, which is led by someone who had voted for Hadash 
(an allusion to the fact that Yacimovich admitted having once in the past voted 
for Tamar Gozhansky).Though the current Labor list is certainly less 
security minded than any of its predecessors, following the defection of Ehud 
Barak, together with another four “bitchonistim,” from the Labor Party in 
January 2011, it is no more “extreme Left” than it is “Center.”
The 
writer is a former Knesset employee.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think About It: Who’s afraid of social democracy?</title>
<date>11/11/2012</date>
<content>
The other day I happened to take a glance at Israel HaYom, and my eye caught the 
headline of an article by the paper’s neo-liberal economic correspondent Zahi 
Sternlicht, entitled “The US has Chosen Socialism.”Why socialism? 
Because, according to Sternlicht, Barack Obama chose to deal with the economic 
crisis in the US by nationalizing the banks and, to add insult to injury, 
nationalized the health system as well. “Old school socialism,” Sternlicht 
called it.




Two points should be made:• It was president George W. Bush 
who signed the Troubled Asset Relief Program into law on October 3, 2008, (a 
month before Obama was first elected president) earmarking $700 billion for the 
bailout of the banks. In the course of the first Obama administration this sum 
was greatly reduced, and the most recent figure (last week) shows that the 
outlay is now estimated at “only” $42.10b.Furthermore, exactly 25 years 
earlier, on October 6, 1983, Israel’s finance minister decided to earmark up to 
NIS 20b. to bail out the Israeli banks from the consequences of the bank shares 
crisis. The government at the time was a Likud government, and the finance 
minister was Yoram Aridor, who was soon replaced by Yigal Cohen-Orgad – both 
Likudniks. Labor was “safely” in opposition at the time.• Obama didn’t 
nationalize the American health system. What he did was introduce a 
rather watered-down version of his original plan for national health 
insurance.It should be noted that since Otto von Bismarck first 
introduced national health insurance in Germany back in 1883 (even though he was 
a deep-seated opponent of socialism), national health insurance is considered 
one of the cornerstones of the progressive modern state in the whole of Europe, 
and in Israel, where no one even questions its necessity, though many criticize 
its implementation.But the Israel HaYom economic correspondent is not 
the only one who accuses Obama of being a socialist. Many of his republican 
opponents in the US do the same. In the United States, where socialist ideas 
never caught on (a fascinating subject in itself), and where McCarthyism after 
World War II left tens of millions of Americans either brainwashed regarding the 
dangers of communism and socialism, or in a state of total shock, one might 
forgive people for their ignorance on the subject. But in Israel?Socialism in 
its most extreme form calls, inter alia, for the nationalization of the means of 
production, state control over social services, the idealization of labor in the 
meaning of gainful employment, the right of workers to organize, and full 
equality among human beings as a target to be strived for.Today, 
“socialism” in all European-style democracies (including Israel), is in fact 
“social democracy” that accepts the mixed economy in which the state and private 
entrepreneurs share in the running of the economy and society, each in the 
spheres where its marginal advantage is greatest; that believes that all 
citizens of a state are entitled to a basic decent existence for which the state 
is largely responsible, though the individual is also expected to take 
responsibility for his fate; that understands that neither private enterprise, 
nor public enterprise, nor even trade unions can operate properly without checks 
and balances, and some measure of control; and that unbridled capitalism (what 
we call in Israel “swinish capitalism”) is the greatest enemy of “social 
justice.”Besides believing in certain economic and social principles, 
Social Democracy is all about accepting pluralism as a basic reality, and 
willingness to compromise. This basic attitude is valid not only for domestic 
affairs, but also in international relations. In this sense social democrats 
have a lot in common with liberals, and moderate conservatives, but almost 
nothing in common with extremists of any sort, including fanatic communists, 
neo-conservatives and neo-capitalists, and religious fundamentalists, be they 
Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jewish, or whatever.In this complex puzzle 
there is nothing about Obama that is not purely liberal, or which justifies his 
being labeled a social democrat (not that being a social democrat is anything to 
be ashamed of!).Labor Party chairman Shelly Yacimovich (whom The- 
Marker’s economic correspondent Nehemia Shtrasler – another neo-liberal – 
insists on calling a neo-Bolshevik) is a typical social democrat. This includes 
her pragmatic approach to the Jewish settlers in Judea and Samaria (that angers 
many so-called “peaceniks”), who she insists on viewing as human beings, despite 
her strong belief in the two-state solution, and in the danger of the bi-national 
state, or the apartheid state, in the direction of which the settlers are 
inadvertently (or in some cases deliberately) pushing the State of 
Israel.The Labor Party will be holding a primary for its list toward the 
elections to the 19th Knesset on November 29. Not all the newcomers to 
the Labor party who are planning to run in this primary may be considered social 
democrats (for example, I have my doubts about journalist Merav Michaeli), but 
there are some interesting names, some more radical, and others more pragmatic, 
but none of whom would be insulted to be called a socialist.These 
include the director-general of the Macro Center for Political Economics, Dr. 
Roby Nathanson; Prof. Yossi Yonah from Beersheba University, who played an 
active in the social protest of 2011; hi-tech and social entrepreneur Erel 
Margalit; retired police commander (Investigations and Intelligence Division) 
Moshe Mizrahi; and Georgianborn MK Nino Abesadze, formerly from 
Kadima.
As to Zahi Sternlicht – neo-liberalism is perfectly legitimate, 
as long as one gets one’s basic facts right. And as to Nehemia Shtrasler – his 
personal vendetta against Yacimovich has simply got out of control.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think smart, think constructively</title>
<date>1/6/2012</date>
<content>
On Wednesday night, after two days of listening to intense discussions on 
Israel’s strategic problems at a conference at work, I find myself in south Tel 
Aviv. As we drive past the ruins of the old bus station and into Africa, it 
feels like the day I went back to visit the home where I was brought up in 
Yeoville, Johannesburg, this well after the end of apartheid and after the 
Nigerians and Angolans moved in.For the first time in more than four 
decades in Israel, I tell my wife that there is no way she’s parking on the 
ill-lit streets around us, (and we live in Abu Tor in Jerusalem, where our car 
insurance agent suggests we leave a rattlesnake in the car at night). We spend 
some time looking for a safe haven, settling on in front of a 
two-story-shabeen-type restaurant crammed into a single-floor apartment on such 
and such street, which was well lit and had humans around, all Africans. Even 
the frame shop next door had black models in the frames they were trying to 
sell.




Across the road was Levinsky Park. In the middle a long, silent and 
respectful line of people recently arrived from Sudan and Eritrea. Food and soup 
was being handed out by beatnik types, one called, immodestly, Mother Theresa, 
but who very well could merit the name. Night after night these good people come 
out and feed these refugees, by any definition of the word, who come into Israel 
after a nightmare journey, are put on a bus by soldiers, and after a cursory 
check of their identity, are loaded on a bus again and let off in the middle of 
urban Tel Aviv with absolutely nothing in their possession, other than, perhaps, 
the phone number of a relative who survived the journey through war-torn Sudan 
and cut-throat Beduin in Sinai before them.I then follow my determined 
spouse down to the Shapira quarter, always a desperately poor place in the city 
and home to some its most famous soccer hooligans, where locals are protesting 
the rise in crime, drop in property values, harassment and their parks being 
taken over by ever-increasing numbers of unemployed, penniless African refugees 
who are dropped off by the buses every day, sometimes several times a day and, 
as a result, become and create victims, through no fault of their own.At 
the conference I attended, the prime minister pledged that he would find a 
solution to the problem. The security fence along the Egyptian border, he said, 
was nearing completion. As for the 60,000 Africans here, he continued, 
international law makes it complicated; that their countries of origin have to 
willingly accept these refugees back, or a third party has to be found to accept 
them, something the Foreign Ministry is, according to Binyamin Netanyahu, 
diligently working on. In the meantime, he said, there was not much that could 
be done other than providing more policing and crime prevention.There 
is. Instead of being put on a bus and taken to the middle of Tel Aviv, refuges 
should be taken to an instantly built kibbutz somewhere in the South. Those 
hanging around Levinsky Park, who are happy to clean toilets to stay alive and 
become objects of near-slave labor conditions at the hand of heartless 
contractors and cleaning firms, would be taken there as well.Here there 
would be a clinic, kindergarten and schools.But more important, here 
they would learn trades and skills they can either take home with them, or to 
the new countries they decide to immigrate to. These can be in first-aid and 
nursing, arid agriculture, water conservation, dairy management, education and 
special needs.In the time they spend here these poor people, who have 
been through the inferno of East Africa, escaping war and madness in their own 
wretched countries, people with no hope or possessions, dropped off into the 
cruel world of money-hungry people and poor, frightened and unwilling Israelis, 
could be given hope and a profession, something of value to take back home with 
them, or to the countries that agree to let them come in.From a burden, 
these refugees who have reached the supposed Promised Land can learn and benefit 
from the experience; Israel would be doing something good for the world, the 
same type of magnanimous gesture that Menachem Begin made when he welcomed 
Vietnamese boat people into Israel in the late 1970s, when others refused to do 
so.Israel has so much to offer.This is the time. We don’t need 
more police to control the situation, but a policy that is smart, constructive 
and has Israel be what it was supposed to be: A light unto the nations. An 
amnesty date will be set, and monetary incentives will be offered to those who 
come into the program and when they leave to start new lives. They will be 
Israel’s best ambassadors; not the magnets for hatred and fear and the unwitting 
spark of racism in Israel.I saw many things from my perch on a shaky 
table outside Babba Pizza at the heart of Wednesday night’s demonstration. I saw 
the hooligans stirring up the crowds, and the fascists who take advantage of any 
opportunity for a fight, and a culture- clash between those demonstrating 
against the Africans, and those who came out on behalf of the 
refugees.There was not a Black to be seen, by the way. This was Israel 
at war with itself.Here we have the opportunity for real Tikkun Olam. It 
would be a sin not to take it.
The writer is a senior research associate 
at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Unity, not uniformity</title>
<date>9/8/2012</date>
<content>
The Jewish people is facing three major challenges, both in the Diaspora and in 
Israel. They are the three A’s: anti-Semitism, assimilation and threat of 
annihilation.They only way to overcome these challenges is by coming 
together. This is nothing new.




The vanishing Diaspora Jew? Diaspora Jews 
face the twin dangers of anti-Semitism (often under the guise of anti-Zionism) 
and assimilation.More than 60 years after the Holocaust, anti-Semitism 
is still a major problem around the world. In parts of Europe, it is on the 
rise, mainly from poorly assimilated Muslim youths. While not state-sanctioned 
as in its previous form, it still has the potential for violent – and deadly – 
results as evidenced by numerous attacks against Jews and the Toulouse massacre 
committed by Mohamed Merah in March 2012.Anti-Zionism is also widespread 
in large parts of the left side of the political spectrum in Europe, in the US 
and in Canada.Demonization, delegitimization and double standard (Natan 
Sharansky’s famous three D’s), which turn criticism of the State of Israel into 
anti-Semitism, are too often part of the political discourse.Attempts to 
boycott, divest and sanction the State of Israel are a staple of liberal 
Churches, unions and left-wing parties, while the same are basically silent on 
gender apartheid in Saudi Arabia, on repression of gays and lesbians in the 
Muslim world or the lack of democracy in large swaths of the globe 
today.Too often we hear: “I’m not anti-Semitic, I’m simply 
anti-Zionist.”What does being anti-Zionist mean? It means denying the 
right of self-determination to the Jewish people, a right recognized for every 
other nation on the planet.To deny the Jewish people this fundamental 
right is racism – specifically, anti-Semitism.It is also a form of 
hatred: It expresses the desire to obliterate an entire country, to want to see 
the State of Israel cease to exist, to disappear.How is that not 
anti-Jewish? The other danger facing the Jews is of course assimilation. It is a 
painless, slow death. It is not a physical death, but it is a religious, 
national and cultural death nonetheless.The Jewish intermarriage rate is 
more than 70 percent in the ex-Soviet Union, which can be explained as the 
result of decades of Soviet attempts to eradicate any Jewish 
distinction.In Western countries, where Jews are in the main 
comfortable, assimilation comes from being generally accepted by the host 
society (with of course the important caveat of the anti-Semitism discussed 
above).Intermarriage rates – a good indication of acculturation and a 
certain distance from one’s Jewish identity – are high and rising: more than 50% 
in the United States, more than 40% in France and the UK, around 35% in 
Canada.If nothing is done, ultimately, we may well be witnessing the 
death of the Diaspora, where only a small core of Orthodox Jews will remain. The 
recent numbers published by the New York Jewish Federation might very well be 
giving us a preview of this phenomenon.Forty-one percent of the world’s 
Jews now live in Israel; in a quarter of century, it will be more than half, 
mainly because of assimilation in the Diaspora.Finally, I would be 
remiss not to mention that, in high-immigration societies such as the Europe and 
Canada (and soon in the US), Jews are finding themselves to be collateral damage 
in those societies’ attempts to correct the problems they believe are brought by 
a high level of Muslim immigration.The debate over circumcision that we 
are witnessing in Germany, Austria and other countries, as well as over 
religiously prepared foods, are examples of that.Israel as Asterix’s 
village Asterix is a very popular comic character in French-speaking countries 
and in many other countries around the world. Every Asterix book begins with a 
mention that Asterix’s Gaulish village is surrounded by Romans.The same 
may be said about Israel.It is not being anti-peace to note that 
Israel’s geopolitical position is tenuous.Egypt – Israel’s peace partner 
since 1979 – has seen both its presidency and its parliament fall into the hands 
of the Muslim Brotherhood, with important, unpredictable and yet-to-be-seen 
consequences.Hamas is strengthening its hold on the Gaza 
Strip.Syria is in the grips of a deadly civil war, with Islamists 
playing a growing role.Hezbollah is not only in control of south 
Lebanon, it is rearmed, has more missiles than before the 2006 war and is in de 
facto control of the Lebanese government.Iran’s regime is still pursuing 
nuclear weapons and its president is still calling for Israel’s 
annihilation.And closer to home, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud 
Abbas has sidestepped every Israeli attempt to return to the negotiation 
table.Finally, the Arab world in its entirety is becoming more unstable 
and Israel’s main trading partners (the European Union and the United States) 
are facing serious economic difficulties. It is clear that Israel has its work 
cut out for it.United, not uniform There is only one way that Jews can 
face these challenges: united. However, we have the unfortunate tendency to 
divide ourselves.“I’m an Israeli Jew, I’m a Canadian Jew, I’m an 
American Jew or I’m a European Jew.”“I’m an Ashkenazi Jew or I’m a 
Sephardi Jew.”“I’m a Reform Jew, a Reconstructionist Jew, a Conservative 
Jew or an Orthodox Jew.”“I’m a secular Jew or I’m an observant 
Jew.”It seems to me that too often, we put the emphasis on the 
adjective, rather than on the noun: Jew.Isn’t it time that we worked 
better together? When we do, we can accomplish great things, for example 
organizations like Nefesh B’Nefesh and Birthright.We don’t have to be 
the same. Just united.There is no need to agree on everything to agree 
to work together. We simply have to agree that we are one people.Unity, 
not uniformity.
That is quite a program. Let’s start today! The writer is 
a lawyer working for Canada’s Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs. A Member of 
Parliament from 1997 to 2006, he is the author of A Quebec Jew: from Bloc 
Québécois MP to Jewish Activist, which won the 2012 Helen and Stan Vine Canadian 
Jewish Book Award (Memoirs).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN vote: From ‘occupation’ to border dispute</title>
<date>10/12/2012</date>
<content>
The recent vote in the United Nations General Assembly to give non-member 
observer state status to the Palestinian Authority contains no new legal or 
diplomatic information – except that claims about Israel’s subjugation and 
denial of Palestinian self-determination are no longer tenable. Unwittingly, the 
UN recognition negates claims of Israeli apartheid, disarms Palestinian threats 
of insisting on a one-state solution, and makes clear that all that remains is a 
rather standard conflict between two states over borders.First, it bears 
noting what the vote doesn’t do. The GA vote does little to increase the 
recognition of the Palestinians as a state because the vast majority of nations 
already recognize Palestine through full, formal diplomatic relations. Indeed, 
the Palestinians’ level of recognition rivals Israel’s.




Compared to that, 
changing the degree of its non-membership in the GA is fairly trivial. The 
apparent diplomatic victory is itself a consolation prize for the collapse of 
Abbas’s bid last year for actual UN membership for Palestine, which was rejected 
at the Security Council.The truly historic aspect of the acknowledgement 
of PA statehood is that it contradicts the repeated tropes about Israeli 
oppression, occupation and apartheid. Statehood is a precondition of UN 
membership, not a result. There are no “peoples under occupation” with GA 
“state” status.Indeed, the resolution acknowledges that the Palestinians 
have established all the trappings of a state. Abbas’s application to the 
Security Council last year made clear that they already had an independent, 
functioning state. It has a central bank and security forces, its own 
(virulently anti-Semitic) media, tax system and penal system. Palestine even an 
Internet suffix and international telephone exchange.It has long been 
functioning as a state, conducting foreign relations, making deals and acting 
entirely independently of, indeed contrary to, the will of Israel. This is not a 
Bantustan overseen by Israel, as all its recent actions prove. In the wake of 
the UN vote, Palestine opened a defense ministry and began discussing issuing 
passports. No people under occupation have all these trappings of 
self-determination and statehood.The Palestinians managed to create a 
functioning and independent government because the Israeli military control over 
most of the territories was phased out through the Oslo Accords. Today, well 
over 95% of Palestinians live in territory administered by the Palestinian 
government.SO WHAT is the UN bid about? Certainly not statehood. Israel 
supports Palestinian statehood more than any other nation, having offered it in 
negotiations repeatedly.Rather it is over borders. This is evident from 
the resolution’s specifically describing the borders of the new non-member: 
typically, membership determinations are entirely distinct from border 
delineations.The PA does not just want statehood and self-determination 
for the Palestinians. They insist that their state include what in the Oslo 
Process was dubbed Area C – regions that are overwhelmingly 
Jewish.Roughly four percent of Palestinians live in Area C, while 100% 
of Jews in the West Bank live there.Yes, Israel still on occasion 
conducts security operations in the Palestinian areas in the West Bank, and can 
affect life in the Palestinian territories. But this does not negate the reality 
of their self-determination, just as the fact that Hamas decides when school is 
open in the South does not negates Israel’s independence.Forget 
occupation and apartheid.Now Palestine is a state in the eyes of the UN. 
It happens to have territorial dispute with its neighbors.Such 
controversies are commonplace, and do not undermine international legitimacy. 
India, China, Russia, Japan and many other nations have longstanding 
controversies over frontiers.But if Israel was what it is often made out 
to be – a brutal occupier imposing its rule on others – how is it that the 
Palestinians managed to establish all the institutions of a state?
Eugene 
Kontorovich is a professor at Northwestern University School of Law, and an 
expert on international law.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Washington watch: Remembering Yitzhak Shamir</title>
<date>4/7/2012</date>
<content>
To call Yitzhak Shamir taciturn is a bit of an understatement. He was a man of 
few words and prominent among them was “no,” especially when it came to dealing 
with President George H.W. Bush and his secretary of state, James A. Baker III 
and their plans to forge a peace between Israel and the Arabs.Bush came 
to office just weeks after the outgoing Reagan administration had announced 
recognition of the PLO. Shamir personally got the word of Reagan’s decision just 
hours before the announcement in a phone call from Secretary of State George 
Shultz, and the premier’s chief of staff immediately phoned his contacts on 
Capitol Hill urging them to “start a firestorm of opposition” to block the 
move.




It was too late. Too many members of Congress shared the Reagan 
administration’s frustration with what they considered Shamir’s intransigence 
and did not seriously object when Reagan decided to recognize the PLO on his way 
out the door as a favor to his successor.After the Gulf war the Bush 
administration sought to use its victory and undisputed role as the world’s sole 
superpower to launch a comprehensive peace process. Shamir wasn’t interested. He 
rejected territorial compromise and Palestinian statehood, convinced that 
Israelis were only deluding themselves if they thought the Arabs would accept 
them and live in peace with a Jewish state.Shamir, who died Saturday at 
96 after a long bout with Alzheimer’s disease, had opposed the peace treaty with 
Egypt and once boasted that he never gave up a single grain of Israeli 
soil.BUSH LATER demanded Israel freeze settlement construction and 
threatened to withhold loan guarantees for resettlement of Jewish refugees from 
the crumbling Soviet Union. When the Jewish community mounted a campaign to free 
the funds, Bush complained during a White House press conference, “I’m one 
lonely little guy” up against “some powerful political forces” made up of “a 
thousand lobbyists on the Hill.”That proved a turning point for Bush and 
in Jewish voting for Republican presidential candidates. Many saw it as 
challenging the loyalty of Israel’s supporters; Shamir reportedly saw it as a 
sign of anti-Semitism. Reagan had won 39 percent of the Jewish vote in 1980 and 
Bush, riding his coattails in 1988 got 27 percent. But four years later “the 
lonely little guy” got only 11% of the Jewish vote, and the Republican party 
still has not been able to climb back to anywhere near the Reagan 
level.Personal relations between Shamir and Bush were so frosty at times 
that they barely spoke, if at all. Anger with Shamir’s stubbornness led Baker to 
tell the House Committee on Foreign Affairs that if the Israeli leader was 
interested in resuming the peace process he could call the Secretary at 202- 
456-1212. That wasn’t really Baker’s number; it was the switchboard at the White 
House.Privately Baker told a cabinet colleague who complained that the 
administration was losing Jewish support, “[Bleep] the Jews, they didn’t vote 
for us anyway.”Despite the intensity of the animosity between the two 
governments, Bush was instrumental in helping bring Jews out of the Soviet Union 
and Ethiopia to Israel.On one crucial issue Shamir took great political 
risk to cooperate with a Bush White House request. He had been asked not to 
respond to Iraqi missile attacks and other provocations during the first Gulf 
War in the interest of helping Washington hold together its fragile coalition 
that included most Arab states. Shamir agreed despite considerable pressure from 
some of his closest associates to retaliate in response to 39 Scud 
attacks.In another instance Shamir was too willing to go along with the 
Reagan administration on an issue that put the prime minister in opposition to 
most of Israel’s best friends in Congress, including nearly all the Jewish 
members. That issue was South Africa.WHEN CONGRESS threatened to cut off 
aid to any country selling weapons to the apartheid government, Shamir shrugged 
off the warnings that Israel would not be protected.He continued to 
ignore the warnings when the legislation passed both chambers and seemed 
vindicated when Reagan vetoed the legislation, but his government finally acted 
after the veto was overridden.Shamir later told me that he felt safe 
ignoring all the warnings because President Reagan had personally assured him 
the legislation would never pass and that even if it did he’d veto it. The 
Israeli government then said it would sign no new contracts with South Africa, 
but few if any existing ones were cancelled.Unlike some politicians, 
Shamir was not one to say yes when he meant no. He took pride in standing up to 
American pressure as a matter of ideology, but it cost him his 
premiership.He lost the 1992 election to Yitzhak Rabin in large part 
because of his failure to successfully manage the American 
portfolio.
bloomfieldcolumn@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>What people of conscience need to know about Norway</title>
<date>30/4/2012</date>
<content>
Casual observers of the Middle East are no doubt aware of the deeply 
anti-Semitic and anti- Zionist attitudes in the leadership of the Muslim 
Brotherhood, Hamas, Hezbollah and Iran. These groups make little attempt to 
conceal their desire for a world without Israel, and care not whether this goal 
is achieved through the so-called “right of return” which would grant millions 
of Palestinians the “right” to live in Israel, or through the liquidation of the 
“Zionist entity.” Any rational observer knows these actions would end Israel as 
the state of the Jewish people.Nor do these groups devote much attention 
to distinguishing whether this aim should be achieved through violent jihad or 
by the expulsion of Israelis.




They often insist a peaceful and just 
solution can be achieved only if Jews return to their previous homes in the 
former Soviet Union, Morocco, Iraq or Germany.The ubiquitous demand for 
the “liberation of Palestine” is understood by any rational observer to be an 
appeal not solely for the liberation of the West Bank but a euphemism for the 
destruction of Israel. In the end, they want Israel not to exist – to be 
destroyed, and care little how it happens.However, a new and 
not-so-subtle threat has emerged from one of the more peaceful places on earth – 
Scandinavia. Norway has never posed a direct threat to Israel nor has it 
advocated Israel’s liquidation.However, many in its government, and some 
large businesses, have recently displayed a pattern of strong anti-Israel and 
often anti-Semitic attitudes which would make Islamist radicals very 
proud.Why would a very tolerant, progressive and democratic government 
espouse such prejudicial views? Why is this significant for Jews and all persons 
of conscience? Western nations are typically categorized as advocates of 
liberty, democracy, human rights and tolerance.The Kingdom of Norway is 
no exception and prides itself as a universal champion of these noble 
values.For instance, in December 2010, the Norwegian government released 
a 12-page brochure affirming that “The protection of human rights is one of the 
main pillars of Norwegian foreign policy, and providing support for human rights 
defenders is a central part of these efforts.”Therefore, it would be 
incumbent upon Norway to practice what it preaches. However, Oslo’s recent 
behavior reveals a proclivity toward singling out Israel among all other nations 
for international opprobrium.Norwegian leaders and officials attempt to 
justify their anti-Israel actions based on the narrative that Israel occupies 
Palestinian land. They typically avoid specifically targeting Jews, for fear of 
being labeled anti-Semitic, but their actions nonetheless exhibit traits of 
“genteel anti-Semitism.”Norway once played an instrumental and 
nonpartisan role, during the Oslo Peace Accords in the 1990s.Then-prime 
minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat made compromises and 
offered mutual recognition. Arafat renounced terrorism.Norway’s position 
has since dramatically changed.In January 2006, Socialist politician 
Kristin Halvorsen proposed a boycott of Israeli products, while insisting that 
her views did not reflect the government. Oslo may have distanced itself from 
Halvorsen’s controversial remarks, but it has refused to follow the United 
States and European Union’s classification of Hamas as a designated terrorist 
organization.“We condemn organizations that are involved in terrorism,” 
said Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, “but Norway has considered the situation 
as such that having lists where we put an organization and call it a terrorist 
organization will not serve our purposes.”Støre has also insisted that 
Israel dismantle its security wall built in response to the wave of suicide 
bombings from the West Bank.Additional anti-Israel actions further 
raises the question of whether Norway objects to specific Israeli policies or is 
anti-Jewish. In 2008, Socialist politician Ingrid Fiskaa asserted to a Norwegian 
newspaper that the United Nations should fire “precision guided missiles against 
Israeli targets.”Trine Lilleng, a Norwegian diplomat to Saudi Arabia, 
emailed dozens of pictures to friends of Holocaust pictures juxtaposed with 
images from Israel’s war with Hamas in December 2008 to portray Jews as 
Nazis.Moreover, during Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s 
anti-Israel tirade at the Durban II Conference in Geneva, Norway remained in 
attendance while most other Western nations either boycotted the conference or 
walked out.NORWEGIAN ANTI-ISRAEL and anti-Jewish sentiment appears to be 
a “top-down” phenomenon. A 2010 report from NGO Monitor which provides 
information on organizations claiming to advance human rights revealed that Oslo 
provides tens of millions of kroner annually to West Bank and Gaza NGOs. Some of 
these organizations are blatantly anti-Israel and promote anti- Israel 
boycotts.Norwegian Church Aid denounced Oslo’s decision to withhold aid 
to the Hamas regime in Gaza in 2006, and has met with senior Hamas leader Ahmed 
Yousef.The Norwegian People’s Aid, funded by the Foreign Ministry, 
described Israel as “apartheid” and accused it of “war crimes.”The 
University of Trondheim in Norway tried to impose an academic boycott against 
Israeli universities in 2009, but the motion ultimately failed. On November 9, 
the Norwegian University of Science and Technology hosted a six-session seminar 
featuring Norwegian scholars on Israel’s alleged use of anti-Semitism as a 
political tool. In a letter to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, the Simon 
Wiesenthal’s director for international relations Shimon Samuels described the 
seminar as “a new stage in Norwegian incitement to Jew hatred.”In 
October 2010, Norway’s Foreign Ministry announced that it would not permit the 
German shipbuilder HDW to test its Dolphin class submarine, built for the 
Israeli navy, in Norwegian territorial waters.This despite the fact that 
HDW leases a base from Norway to test its submarines in deep water.The 
most recent example of Norway’s genteel anti- Semitism was exemplified by Roar 
Arnstad, CEO of a Norwegian pharmaceutical chain called VITA, with his decision 
to boycott Ahava cosmetics manufactured in West Bank settlements. Arnstad 
justified the decision based on the logic that Israel’s occupation of the West 
Bank was illegal and that therefore it would be immoral to purchase Israeli 
products from occupied territory. Arnstad denies holding anti-Semitic beliefs 
and claims his policy is only against the Israeli occupation, but if this was 
indeed sincere, he would apply the same boycott to other occupying 
nations.But Norway does not propose academic boycotts against 
universities in China, Britain, Turkey, Armenia, India or Morocco, nor does it 
enact sanctions and divestment programs. Singling out Israel is anti-Semitism 
and this demonstrable fact cannot absolve the Norwegian government of its own 
bigotry.I would like to remind the Norwegian government and corporate 
CEOs of the European Union’s examples of the ways in which anti-Semitism 
manifests itself: “Claiming that the existence of a State of Israel is a racist 
endeavor, applying double standards by requiring of it a behavior not expected 
or demanded by any other democratic nation; and drawing comparisons of 
contemporary Israeli policy to that of the Nazis.”
So tell us, do you 
boycott cultural and academic events in Britain (occupier of the Falkland 
Islands), China (occupier of Tibet), Russia (occupier of the Kuril Islands), 
Iran (occupier of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa Islands), Morocco 
(occupier of Western Sahara), Armenia (occupier of Nagorno-Karabakh) and Turkey 
(occupier of Northern Cyprus)? Do you ban imports from these countries? 
Moreover, do you criticize suicide bombings and rocket attacks against civilians 
with the same fervor with which you criticize Israeli policies? For many, 
regarding Norwegian policies – enough is enough. If Vidkun Quisling was alive 
today and read the anti-Israel an anti-Semitic statements that were coming out 
of Norway, a big smile would appear on his face.The writer completed a 
PhD in Middle East Studies from King’s College, London.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>When Israel had a champion at the UN</title>
<date>29/5/2012</date>
<content>
Jeane Kirkpatrick experienced an epiphany shortly after Ronald Reagan appointed 
her America’s permanent representative at the UN in 1981 when Israel’s 
ambassador Yehuda Blum came to her office for his first official 
visit.She had been appalled during the previous four years by what she 
regarded as the Carter administration’s contemptuous attitude toward the Jewish 
state, and particularly by the way that preceding UN ambassadors Andrew Young 
and Donald McHenry had, respectively, criticized the Jewish state as “stubborn 
and intransigent” (and met secretly with the PLO representative), and voted for 
Resolution 465 condemning Israel’s occupation of “Arab territories including 
Jerusalem.”




But she didn’t realize how deeply these attitudes had 
penetrated the US mission until she saw the way the career foreign service 
officers she inherited from the previous administration dismissively referred to 
Blum by his first name and rudely interrupted him on this first visit. She 
sternly pointed out to them that Blum was a Holocaust survivor who spoke nine 
languages, and angrily ordered them out of the room.“You can see what it 
has been like for Israel here,” Blum told her after they sat down. Kirkpatrick 
replied, “It will be different now. No one will be treated better in this 
mission than Israel.”And this was true. She and Blum cooperated on 
several initiatives and often escaped with key staff members for private 
strategy dinners at a small restaurant in Brooklyn they both favored. The 
personal relationship was political for Kirkpatrick. Seeing the hatred of Israel 
in her first days at the UN, she told her colleague Richard Schifter with a 
stricken look on her face, “I think the Holocaust is possible again. I didn’t 
think so before I came to the UN, but I think so now.”She brought this 
feeling to president Reagan who agreed with her that the US had to stand against 
“the obsessive vilification of Israel.” Along with preventing the spread of 
Marxism-Leninism in Central America and driving a stake through the heart of the 
Soviet Union, this became Kirkpatrick’s chief objective during her time at the 
UN.After the bombing of Iraq’s Osirak nuclear reactor in 1981, she 
argued strenuously that the US should simply abstain from the resolution 
advanced by Iraq after the attack calling for sanctions against Israel but was 
overruled by the State Department.She then worked behind the scenes to 
get the resolution watered down to a condemnation and made her feelings known 
when even this question was called by raising her hand reluctantly to half mast 
and allowing a look to cross her face of someone who has just detected a fecal 
odor in the room.Kirkpatrick defended Israel by her unyielding critique 
of what it faced at the UN. Charging that diplomacy regarding the “Arab- Israeli 
conflict” at the world body “has nothing to do with peace, but is quite simply a 
continuation of war against Israel by other means,” she said that the UN, as a 
result, had become a place where “moral outrage was distributed like violence in 
a protection racket”; a place where Israel is regularly and routinely attacked 
for manufactured crimes amidst deafening silence “when 3 million Cambodians died 
in Pol Pot’s murderous utopia... when a quarter million Ugandans died at the 
hands of Idi Amin... and when thousand of Soviet citizens are denied equal 
rights, equal protection of the law; denied the right to think, write, publish, 
work freely or emigrate.”She pointed out repeatedly that hatred of 
Israel deformed all aspects of UN operations: “A women’s conference is suddenly 
transformed into a forum for the denunciation of Israel” because of assertions 
that “the biggest obstacle to the realizations of women’s full enjoyment of 
equal rights in the world is Zionism....A meeting of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency becomes so absorbed in negotiations and debate over a 
resolution to expel Israel that it almost forgets to worry about nuclear non 
proliferation.”Kirkpatrick experienced this malign obsession personally 
when she headed a delegation to the International Conference on African Refugees 
in March 1981.The day before it opened, the Arab States, led by Libya, 
moved to bar Israel’s delegate. Kirkpatrick announced that if this happened, the 
US would walk out and withdraw the $285 million it had pledged to the refugee 
problem. She dared the African countries and their Arab allies to choose between 
their “vile rhetoric” and money that could help their people.They chose 
the money.She saw clearly that isolating and stigmatizing Israel was the 
USSR’s “great project” at the UN, an effort undertaken with diabolical ingenuity 
by the accusation that the Jewish state was guilty of racism – the greatest of 
sins in the post-colonial period when newly minted states were regularly 
entering the world organization – and by making Israel morally equivalent to 
apartheid South Africa.She presciently saw that this accusation would be 
justified not by facts or proof, but by “a systematic assault on language and 
meaning.”She picked up on the first signs of this brazenly methodical 
effort to turn the narrative of the Holocaust inside-out by rebranding the 
Palestinians “the Jews of the Arab world” and the Israelis “ Nazis,” and she 
understood the likely consequences: “by successfully claiming that Israel was 
guilty of genocide, any attack against the state and people of Israel was 
justified.”The passionate indignation  over the treatment of Israel at the UN Jeane Kirkpatrick carried with her until her death in 2006 is nowhere visible in the Obama presidency whose cold friendship for the Jewish State has justly been compared to the Carter administration’s.  But his treatment of Israel is also often cited as one of the reasons Carter lost to Ronald Reagan who immediately installed at the UN a woman who believed that “to defend Israel was to defend America and western civilization itself.”  So perhaps the historical analogy carries with it a ray of hope after all.
The 
writer is the author of the recently published Political Woman: The Big Little 
Life of Jeane Kirkpatrick (Encounter Books, 2012).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why is the NIF panicking?</title>
<date>21/3/2012</date>
<content>
The New Israel Fund is a well-established and influential organization, but its 
disproportionate responses to criticism and challenges suggests that below the 
façade of power and responsibility, its leaders are in panic.For years, 
NGO Monitor research has systematically demonstrated that a significant portion 
of NIF grants have funded groups that invoke “apartheid” rhetoric, lead BDS 
efforts and even call for the end of Israel as a Jewish state, among other 
demonizing activity counterproductive to the pursuit of peace.




We 
repeatedly have asked to meet with NIF, to share our information, and to help 
them better monitor their grantees. In almost every instance, their public 
relations gurus – born from the cutthroat worlds of Washington, DC, and Israel’s 
political wars – have responded with personal attacks, false allegations and 
other uncivil rhetoric that takes the conversation in an entirely negative 
direction.The latest instance occurred in an NIF-sponsored article that 
referred to NGO Monitor as “ultra-nationalist,” a “mouthpiece for the extreme 
right,” and insinuated that that we are motivated by a “racist” agenda of a 
state “without Arab citizens” or one in which “those citizens docilely accept 
second-class status.”Every allegation is unfounded; if NIF leaders would 
sit down with us they would see the falsity in these dubious 
claims.Another particularly egregious error in the op-ed was the 
allegation that NGO Monitor has “opine[d] that it should be illegal for Adalah 
and other NGOs to receive funding from democracies abroad.” This allegation from 
the NIF is clearly and entirely false – NGO Monitor’s position on these issues 
is highly visible and easily verified.From The New York Times, to The 
Forward, to The Jerusalem Post, NGO Monitor has clearly stated that while we 
support full funding transparency, we oppose draft legislation seeking to place 
limits on foreign funding for political NGOs. In no case has NGO Monitor stated 
it should be “illegal” for Adalah or other Israeli political advocacy NGOs to 
receive funding from “democracies abroad.”As part of this campaign, NIF 
has developed an imaginary image of Adalah designed to validate continued 
funding, regardless of the facts. Daniel Skoatch, NIF’s executive director, 
recently told NIF funders and supporters that Adalah is “Israel’s leading 
Arab-Israeli civil rights organization and an NIF grantee.” This and other NIF 
statements whitewash Adalah calls for governments to “re-evaluate their 
relationship with Israel,” and erase the words of Adalah’s general director, 
Hassan Jabareen, urging activists “to highlight the inherent undemocratic state” 
and to “use that as part of campaigning internationally.”As NIF’s record 
of mistakes and embarrassments grows, the hysterical efforts to blame the 
messengers have worn thin. The same tactics were used when, in 2004, we 
publicized NIF’s fellowship award to Shamai Leibowitz, who promoted BDS in the 
US, among other activities inconsistent with NIF’s declared objectives. NIF also 
lashed out at a whistleblower who protested that some of its Israeli activists 
“want to annihilate the State without ruling out violent means, who believe that 
the State of Israel was born out of sin and who apologize for its existence, who 
loathe Israel and its symbols... who devote their lives and efforts 
towards turning Israel into a bi- or multi-national country... They also equate 
Israel’s actions with those of Nazi Germany.”The recent Wikileaks 
embarrassment – in which NIF’s associate director in Israel at the time told US 
Embassy officials “that she believed that in 100 years Israel would be majority 
Arab and that the disappearance of a Jewish state would not be the tragedy that 
Israelis fear since it would become more democratic” – is the clearest evidence 
that key NIF decision-makers are pursuing agendas unaligned with the 
organization’s mission and principles.This mistaken appointment led 
directly to funding of groups which are centrally involved in the BDS campaigns, 
such as the Coalition of Women for Peace. It took two years for NIF to finally 
end this funding, only after repeated attacks against NGO Monitor and our 
research exposing the details.There are numerous other examples, from 
grantee activities to rhetoric from NIF officials, which further affirm the 
simple point that a major problem exists. It may be easier for NIF to present 
the situation as “NGO Monitor vs. NIF,” but this is disingenuous. NGO 
Monitor is not against NIF. Our task is to help funders for this and other 
organizations by providing checks and balances against the abuse of power, and 
ensuring that moral guidelines are upheld.
Instead of lashing out in 
panic, NIF officials should end their polarizing discourse, agree to a 
constructive dialogue with NGO Monitor, and work together to promote a vibrant 
and justice-based society based on the twin pillars of Zionism and 
democracy.Gerald Steinberg is president of NGO Monitor, a 
Jerusalem-based research institution dedicated to promoting universal human 
rights and to encouraging civil discussion on the reports and activities of 
nongovernmental organizations, particularly in the Middle East. Jason Edelstein 
is communications director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>With malice aforethought: Media bias</title>
<date>14/11/2012</date>
<content>
One of the strange paradoxes of our age is the unholy alliance between many 
self-designated Western social progressives and assorted tyrants, homophobes, 
religious extremists and anti-Semites in the Middle East.It’s a 
dalliance which leaves the few brave Arab- Muslim voices openly questioning the 
assumptions underpinning their dysfunctional societies bereft of the support 
whence they should most expect it.




Israel is the common ground, where 
anti-Semitism, ignorance, fanaticism, self-interest and, yes, sheer malice, 
intersect and trump the enormous gulfs of culture and ideology. The remarkable 
but flawed democratic Israel with all its cultural, linguistic, political and 
religious diversity is reduced to a symbol of Western-Jewish militarism and 
racism – hated and envied in equal measure.Such attitudes are especially 
prevalent in much of the English, post-apartheid popular press in South Africa. 
And, among these, the Cape Times is one of the most notorious. The vast majority 
of Jewish South Africans support Israel despite diverse political views; and the 
systematic bias which has pervaded the coverage of Israel by the Cape Times and 
some other media has been both distressing and infuriating.Many feel 
impotent and rejected. A few have found their home among Israel’s enemies and 
work feverishly to blacken her name. They are much treasured by certain 
newspapers and the hyperactive Boycott, Disinvestment and Sanctions movement in 
this country.While everyone knew what was afoot, there remained the 
small matter of proof. So I undertook a systematic survey of the coverage by the 
Cape Times of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for the year 2012, ending on 
September 12. The findings are contained in an approximately 4,000 word report 
which establishes conclusively the obsessive, pervasive and systematic bias in 
the treatment of Israel and Zionism by the Cape Times.In one month, from 
20 June to 20 July, no less than 59 items dealt with Israel or Zionists or 
Zionism when nothing special was going on there. Only on the Letters page was 
there some plausible parity of treatment, though the most acrimonious and 
overwrought anti-Israel letters always received top exposure. But for the rest, 
in the reports and commentaries, not a single pro- Israel item 
appeared.Interestingly, these always appeared in clusters, invariably 
initiated by an overtly anti-Israel commentary, letter or report given top 
exposure.Reports were used in particular to repeat verbatim and thereby 
reinforce anti-Israel messages contained in the commentaries or 
letters.Since the data were so strong, the question arose: could these 
results reflect an unusual statistical aberration? So the study was extended to 
the other months not examined and excluded letters, since these were not the 
primary source of bias.In this section of the study two questions were 
asked: How did the Cape Times treat atrocities committed against Israeli or 
Jewish civilians? And, secondly, what were the topics selected for coverage and 
judgement? Three atrocities were examined: the Bulgarian bomb attack, the 
Toulouse-Montauban shootings (including three children and a rabbi) and the 
Fogel family murders.In brief, only the Bulgarian bomb attack was 
actually reported by the Cape Times, while the other two were essentially 
ignored. Nevertheless, the paper did find space to present other either 
irrelevant or anti-Israel articles at the time these atrocities took 
place.With respect to selection of topic, there was an obsessive focus 
on real or potential anti-Israel issues, which took up 75 percent of the 70 
items meeting the selection criteria. Not a single positive report appeared on 
Israel’s achievements or aspects of Israel’s daily life or any of its 
humanitarian activities.The remaining 25 percent of items dealt with 
Iran, Palestine or anything else relevant to the focus of this study. Not one of 
these dealt with Iran’s vicious rhetoric against Israel, independent evidence 
that Iran may be following a militarized nuclear program, Arab-Muslim homophobia 
or gender inequalities, the relative democratic freedoms enjoyed by all Israelis 
relative to their neighbors or the anti-Semitic and anti-Zionist incitement so 
common in the region.This superficial treatment does not do full justice 
to the “reality distortion field” created by the Cape Times. And even the fuller 
report does not fully mine the many subtle ways the anti-Israel message is 
conveyed by skilled and experienced journalists, adept at maintaining plausible 
deniability when only single items are considered.Such coverage does not 
happen by chance. In recent weeks there has been a precipitous fall in the 
coverage of Israel by the Cape Times, possibly as a precautionary measure having 
caught wind of this study. But the day following the release of the report, two 
prominently displayed and headlined “anti-Israel” items appeared. Since then the 
trend has continued with three more mainly anti-Israel commentaries and reports 
published.The message was clear: mess with us at your peril.Such 
exposure may elicit a yawn rather than outrage: after all, what’s new about 
media bias? Such a reaction would be a mistake. A sense of outrage is essential 
if we are to combat this scourge which afflicts many more important media 
outlets than the Cape Times. Honest Reporting and others are doing a sterling 
job in exposing lies masquerading as legitimate reporting.
This report on 
the Cape Times is another contribution to this ongoing battle for integrity in 
the media.The writer is a retired medical academic and member of the 
Academy of Sciences of South Africa. He is currently an independent political 
commentator with a nonexclusive focus on Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yalla Peace: Out of place with irrationality</title>
<date>3/4/2012</date>
<content>
I have always felt more out of place in the Arab-Israeli conflict than author 
Edward Said felt out of place in his life, the title of his brilliantly written 
memoirs.The difference, though, is that I use my circumstances to push 
for compromise while Said, who was a close confidant of my mentor, Ibrahim Abu- 
Lughod, eventually used it to push hard against Israel. Clearly, as he moved 
away from the peace process that he and Abu-Lughod were in a large part 
responsible for launching in the 1980s, Said found himself more and more in 
conflict with peace based on compromise.




A brilliant theorist and writer, 
Said was the most misunderstood Palestinian since Jesus, in a large part because 
his writings became the foundation of Palestinian activist ideology but failed 
to reach the public masses in the West that needed to better understand 
them.The failure of the peace process has driven many Palestinian 
activists to irrationality, fueling their anger. Many Israelis have found 
shelter from the failure of peace by burying their heads in the sands of moral 
challenges of their occupation policies.After years of failed peace, 
Palestinians and Israelis are left in a purgatory of anger, failure and flashes 
of violent conflict. That doesn’t create an environment that encourages harmony 
or understanding. Last week I wrote about how I distinguished between boycotting 
the settlements and boycotting Israel, the core of the argument that writer 
Peter Beinart has made so clearly.I did so because that argument about 
the issue of boycotts is essentially the essence of the obstacles standing in 
the way of Palestinian-Israeli peace. The moderate middle ground has become that 
place where the irrationality of Palestinian and Israeli reality is exposed for 
what it really is: a destructive desire for vengeance and 
revenge.Finding that moderate middle ground is not easy because people 
on both sides spend so much time responding to each other in anger. A letter 
writer asked me in The Jerusalem Post to identify the products from the West 
Bank settlements that I would boycott so he could go out and buy them. I am sure 
he is already buying those products, but his ability to make that statement in 
response to a reasoned moderate middle ground perspective shows you how 
desperate the situation has become for a secure Palestinian and Israel 
future.There were no letters supporting my view that boycotting Israel 
was wrong while boycotting the settlements was right.The irrationality 
of how we engage the conflict has risen. The most recent example is the 
accusation that Israel is an “apartheid state.” Palestinian activists are 
hosting “Israel Apartheid Week” events, although it is lasting longer than one 
week.Technically, Israel is not engaged in apartheid, the system of 
separating people based on race. In reality, Israel discriminates against its 
citizens based on their religion: non-Jewish Israelis who are Palestinian Arab 
are routinely victimized by discrimination and even racism.It’s worse in 
the occupied West Bank, which haters and deniers of Palestinian rights 
disrespectfully refer to as “Judea and Samaria.” Calling the West Bank Judea and 
Samaria in the face of collapsing peace based on two states is the equivalent of 
describing the Jewish state as “the Zionist entity.”Despite all the 
grievances that Palestinians have against Israel, calling Israel an apartheid 
state is wrong. It’s an example of throwing kerosene on an already raging fire. 
It references some similarities involving legitimate grievances by Palestinians 
against Israelis while ignoring legitimate grievances of Israelis against 
Palestinians.And in a way, exaggerating a legitimate grievance 
delegitimizes that grievances.The Palestinian activists who push 
Apartheid Week don’t really use the term because they care about addressing the 
grievances accurately. These exaggerations are quite common on both sides. The 
real challenge of Israelis and Palestinians who share a sense of moral justice 
and embrace principle along with peace based on compromise is to overcome these 
exaggerations.Rather than exaggerating the conflict, we should be 
reinforcing the peace.Each side deals with the conflict in different 
ways, neither of which help.When I was a student at the University of 
Illinois, I noticed Israelis, who had a state, would organize celebrations of 
Israel. In contrast, the Palestinians, who did not have a state, spent most of 
their time protesting against the Israeli state.Israelis “celebrated” 
while Palestinians “protested.” The celebrations and the protests were both 
provocative to the other. Israelis can’t celebrate while closing their eyes to 
the discrimination that exists. And Palestinians can’t protest against Israel’s 
bad policies without acknowledging their own bad policies.This parallel 
polarity only inflames the conflict and reinforces irrational behavior on both 
sides. It encourages violence. It provokes normally rational human beings to do 
irrational things.
Of course, we wouldn’t be humans if we were always 
rational. I think, though, that we must continue to try.The writer is a 
Palestinian American radio talk show host.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yalla Peace: Put the civility back into civil rights</title>
<date>17/4/2012</date>
<content>
Pro-Palestinian activists organized a “Welcome to Palestine” protest to put a 
spotlight on what they charge are Israeli violations of civilian rights in the 
occupied West Bank.The protests were peaceful and far different in 
nature from the 2010 protests organized using boats in which nine civilians 
including one American were killed by Israeli soldiers who stormed the 
ships.




But like everything in the tragedy of Arabs and Israelis, the 
issue of justice was thrown out the window and each side had their defenders who 
took issues to an extreme to justify what their side did and to exaggerate what 
the other side was doing.The Israelis responded on several levels. On 
one hand, the Israeli Ministry of the Interior provided foreign airlines a No 
Fly List and threatened them with sanctions if they allowed any of the 
identified pro-Palestinian activists to board their flights to 
Israel.The IDF was placed on alert and confronted the protesters. In one 
case, an Israeli soldier was videotaped slamming a Danish protester in the face 
with his M16 rifle. The act of violence was unprovoked, although maybe the 
protesters expressed some words the soldier did not like.Israeli 
officials quickly condemned the soldier’s actions, which was good. But will that 
soldier really be punished or are the Israeli condemnations just for show? The 
incident immediately became the focus of an international debate with both sides 
calling each other names and trying to excuse their own actions.Unlike 
the “flotilla” protests, these protests were far better organized and were 
inherently peaceful. The protesters entered Israel through Israeli security, 
while the boats were boarded in international waters, causing the clashes and 
the deaths.Protesters in the video were seen being pushed back by the 
police, a common tactic anywhere and not just used by the IDF. The soldiers were 
grabbing the protesters’ bicycles, and arrested some of them.The 
Israelis immediately tried to compare the Welcome to Palestine protests with the 
flotilla protests. And they began describing the protesters as 
“anarchists” and people who are there to cause trouble.The Palestinians 
used their usual provocative language, calling Israel an “apartheid state” even 
though in my opinion the term does not apply. It’s an exaggeration of Israel’s 
policies toward non-Jews, which are discriminatory but not excessively so in the 
context of a conflict that has been ongoing for more than 64 years.Both 
sides are demonstrating actions that do not encourage peace. Their actions are 
driven by confrontation.The protesters can’t claim to be adherents to 
the practices of civil rights protesters like the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. or 
Mahatma Gandhi. King and Gandhi both insisted that no one resort to any form of 
violence even as a defense or form of resistance.That included 
refraining from using incendiary language to provoke the governmental abuse they 
faced in America in the 1960s and in India in the 1940s under British 
control.The Palestinian protesters may be working toward that goal, but 
they are not there yet. The language they used was incendiary and intended as a 
form of provocation. You cannot claim to be peaceful protesters seeking 
civil rights when part of your goal is to provoke.Israel’s response is 
no better. You can’t claim to be a democracy and then enact policies that, one 
after another, deny basic human rights. Many of the Palestinians in 
Israeli jails are dissidents jailed because of their views. There is no 
qualitative measure that distinguishes between one imprisoned dissident and 
1,000 imprisoned dissidents.I want to see the Israelis back off and 
monitor the protesters, not harass or confront them. They have an absolute right 
to protest against Israeli government policies.I want to see Israelis 
stop making excuses for the actions of soldiers. So many Israelis I know 
condemned the soldier’s actions only to insist he was an exception to the rule, 
when we all know that not to be true. They always point to someone else, saying 
that they have done worse. That’s not an excuse.I want to see 
Palestinians protest with true civility, with the leaders setting the precedent 
before the protests, eliminating the incendiary language and 
name-calling. They should set aside anger and declare their goals more 
clearly.Are they fighting to “destroy” Israel or to achieve compromise 
with two states? Seeking one state given all that we have gone through is on its 
face a provocation, and that doesn’t just apply to Palestinian extremists but to 
Israeli fanatics, too.The goal is peace. You do not build peace using 
violence. You achieve peace by embracing one consistent policy of human rights, 
law, ethics, morality and principle.
Still, these protesters are moving 
in the right direction. The Israelis should support them.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yes, anti-Semitism is still a problem on campus</title>
<date>6/11/2012</date>
<content>
Mitchell Bard and Jeff Dawson’s new study, “Israel and the Campus: The Real 
Story,” led many newspapers to trumpet that anti-Semitism is not a problem on 
American campuses.They pointed to the study’s finding that significant 
anti-Israel incidents occurred at only about three percent of schools, with most 
occurring in only a handful of colleges. But the headlines got the wrong 
take-away message from the study, given the implications of these numbers, the 
study’s other findings, and our experiences on the front lines of anti- Israel 
campus activism over the past 11 years. Fortunately, not all schools are a 
problem, but the challenge is serious and should not be minimized.




Nearly 
half of the students interviewed for the study – 43% – reported that 
anti-Semitism is a problem at their schools. The authors acknowledge this is a 
“shockingly high” level.If a similarly high percentage of any other 
campus minority reported experiencing prejudice, most people would consider it 
unacceptable, and mobilize to take action.The authors suggest that 
campus anti-Semitism/anti-Israelism have been with us since the 1950s, so there 
is no reason for undue concern.But this long-range view misses the great 
difference between earlier decades and today. Israel simply had not been the 
burning issue on campuses in earlier decades. That changed abruptly in 2000 when 
Palestinians launched the terrorist war known as the second 
intifada.Simultaneously, an alliance of extremists launched an 
aggressive anti-Israel propaganda campaign to disparage Israel.The 
campaign came to be known as the new anti-Semitism, with “Israel” replacing 
“Jew,” but with the same accusations, irrationality and fanaticism that 
characterized traditional anti-Semitism. In the West, its epicenter was college 
campuses. The Palestinian-Israel conflict became the most inflammatory campus 
issue, the focus of student activism and of panels, demonstrations and 
agitprop.During the past decade, the anti- Israel campaign has become 
more organized, more savvy, and more aggressive, especially since 2005. Red 
lines have repeatedly been crossed.Extremist views, such as calling for 
the destruction of Israel and blood libels, became more commonplace.Many 
pro-Israel students tell our campus professionals that they have become too 
uncomfortable to openly admit they support Israel. The study overlooks this 
progressive radicalization of dialogue and atmosphere.The study seemed 
to suggest that anti-Israelism on campus is not so serious because there were 
only 674 incidents from 2010 to 2011, and they were clustered in the 
spring.This number, which in any case is unacceptably high, doesn’t 
accurately reflect the situation.Anti-Israel agitation usually erupts 
when Israel undertakes defensive military operations, but there were no such 
operations in 2010-2011 that could be used to rally anti-Israel followers. In 
addition, the Arab “spring,” and especially the carnage in Syria, diverted focus 
away from Israel.Another factor may have been the University of 
California’s new, unequivocal rebuke of anti-Israel extremists who try to shut 
down pro- Israel events. This may have temporarily subdued anti-Israel activists 
at the UCs and other campuses.Nor should we take comfort from the 
finding that anti-Israel events occurred at “only” 108 out of 4,000 schools, and 
that one-third occurred at only 10 schools. These were not obscure schools. The 
list included some of the largest, most prestigious and influential schools in 
the country: Harvard, Columbia, four University of California campuses including 
UCLA and the University of Maryland.Activities at these schools make 
national media headlines. When an anti-Israel student wrote a Harvard Crimson op 
ed in October that accused Israel of deliberately preventing SAT tests from 
reaching Palestinians in Ramallah to deprive them of educational opportunity, 
the incident hit mainstream newspapers.The US State Department itself 
felt compelled to publicly explain that the tests had been held up in customs 
because the office was closed during the Jewish holidays, and the test had 
simply been rescheduled.Indeed, anti-Israel activists try to get their 
events and propaganda associated with big-name schools. In November, for 
example, Students for Justice in Palestine will hold its second national 
convention at the University of Michigan. One of the scheduled sessions is a 
video conference with Khader Adnan, a West Bank leader of Palestinian Islamic 
Jihad who had been caught on tape in 2007 inciting a crowd, saying, “Who among 
you will be the next suicide bomber?” The campus study reports that student 
government resolutions calling for divestment from companies doing business with 
Israel have been defeated at all but one school. This is good, but not 
reassuring. The purpose of such resolutions is not passage, but rather forcing 
debate to spread anti-Israel canards and make them seem familiar and even 
normal.The study cites Dr. Sam Edelman’s observation that, “The 
delegitimizers have adopted Nazi Julius Streicher’s strategy of throwing mud at 
Israel in the expectation that some of it will stick.”In addition, 
pro-Israel students had to devote enormous time and effort to counter these 
resolutions, which were only narrowly defeated, and Jewish students keenly felt 
the fallout of embittered relations on campus.More divestment 
resolutions and boycott efforts are expected for this academic year.More 
importantly, as Bard and Dawson point out, the most serious problem is 
anti-Israel faculty. Their numbers have grown for several reasons: the vogue of 
post-modern, post-colonial ideology leavened with the Israeli “new historians”; 
active recruitment since 9/11 of faculty from the Middle East to teach about the 
region; and the Saudis’ infusion of hundreds of millions dollars to set up 
special Middle East study programs.Often, these professors lead the 
anti-Israel charge, and co-sponsor anti-Israel events, as Harvard’s Middle East 
Studies department has.They hire other faculty who share their views. 
They use their classrooms and reading lists to spread their bias against Israel, 
sometimes bullying students in their classes who disagree with them. Students 
are captive audiences, and dependent on their professors for their 
grades.The study indirectly suggests that these professors and campus 
activists may have had an impact: 25% of students interviewed believe Israel is 
an apartheid state; 48% are not sure whether Israel protects the rights of its 
Arab minority while only 10% said that Israel does protect minority 
rights.It would be naive to minimize the impact these professors have on 
broader society. Their prestigious positions lend credibility to their op-eds, 
textbooks, books, speeches, tours and media interviews.Many are involved 
in outreach programs to teachers in K-12 who take courses for continuing 
education credits, as they do at Georgetown University. Through these outlets, 
anti-Israel professors can normalize the worst canards against Zionism, Israel 
and Jews.However, the situation is not all bleak. As Bard and Dawson 
point out, pro-Israel organizations and students have mobilized to respond. When 
StandWithUs started 11 years ago, Jewish students were stunned and had no idea 
how to counter anti-Israel allegations or the aggressive strategies of the 
anti-Israel activists and faculty.That has changed 
dramatically.StandWithUs was among the first groups that mobilized to 
empower students to defend Israel by providing educational materials, advocacy 
training, and support for their campus events. In many cases, the anti-Israel 
campaign backfired, producing pro-Israel student leaders motivated to teach 
their campus communities about Israel. Several organizations now work with these 
students. Some pro-Israel faculty have also stepped forward to insist on 
restoring academic and professional standards, and to sponsor Israel education 
events.
Despite the positive developments, we should not let misleading 
interpretations of the study or glib headlines lull us into complacency. The 
challenge remains, and we must do all we can to meet it. Israel and our 
pro-Israel students deserve no less.Roz Rothstein is the co-founder and 
CEO of StandWithUs. Roberta Seid, PhD, is the director of education and research 
at StandWithUs.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Zionism is in our DNA</title>
<date>8/5/2012</date>
<content>
The history of science and Zionism are intricately related. Both are movements 
rooted in the rationalism of the 19th century that placed humanity at the heart 
of its own destiny.Israel’s first pioneers were optimists who believed 
in the power of people to change the course of history. Their tools would be 
science and technology.




This was to be the New-Old Land, a utopia 
envisioned by Theodor Herzl that would transform the desert region into a land 
of milk and honey.This is the force and strength of Zionism that led to 
the creation of Israel and it is this unbounded energy that has turned the 
country into the world’s leading “Start-Up Nation.” It is not by chance that 
Israel’s first and fourth presidents – Chaim Weizmann and Ephraim Katzir – were 
first and foremost scientists, or that a number of world class research 
institutions were founded during the early years of the Jewish Yishuv, long 
before it was even clear if there would ever be a sovereign Jewish nation in 
this far away land.This year the Technion – Israel Institute of 
Technology marked its 100th centennial, while the Hebrew University of Jerusalem 
is only a few years younger.There are those who claim that Israeli 
higher education is “threatened” by “anti-Zionist” faculty members.Over 
the next few weeks, we can expect to see advertisements in the English-language 
press calling upon members of all the university boards to take action against 
these people.But the truth is that all of this attention has transformed 
a few academics with extreme views into a symbol for all of Israeli academia. 
This approach does a genuine disservice to the significantly larger, silent 
majority who is busy at the work of teaching and research, more often than not 
in ways that will be to the country’s benefit.In February of this year 
the Foreign Ministry released a report that showed that the Israeli and Jewish 
press was distorting the importance of Israeli Apartheid Week – an annual event 
that is organized on college campuses around the world – by “magnifying the 
issue rather than playing it down.”According to the study, initiated by 
the ministry’s director of civil society affairs, “Taking the apartheid 
framework [and the IAW activity itself] as the starting point for our actions 
paradoxically may strengthen the IAW brand and message, rather than weakening 
it.”A similar process is going on here.In the name of “saving 
Israeli academia,” some groups are doing real damage to the image of many of the 
country’s most successful universities.In a world where Israel already 
has enough enemies, it is distressing to see time and resources dedicated to 
fighting this non-battle.The Israeli university system is always 
checking itself and being checked by the Council of Higher Education and the 
various funding bodies that grant competitive peerreviewed research grants. By 
all international standards, Israeli universities are a huge success story that 
is in no way threatened by the political views of some people.As 
president of the only university in Israel created by a decision of the Israeli 
government to be a catalyst for development of the Negev region, I know that 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev integrates the highest standards of 
intellectual discourse and research with the pioneering spirit that has defined 
its very development.As chairperson of the Committee of University 
Heads, I have had the privilege to see the same spirit and commitment on 
campuses across the country.I encourage you to visit an Israeli 
university today and learn more about how higher education has and is 
transforming this country. Let’s face it: Zionism is in our DNA.
The 
writer is a professor and geneticist who is currently serving at the president 
of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and as chairwoman of the Committee of 
University Heads in Israel.
</content>
</article>

