<article>
<title>BGU faculty threatens legal action over closure</title>
<date>25/10/2012</date>
<content>
Ahead of the Council for Higher Education’s decision to close Ben-Gurion University’s political science department, Prof. David Newman, dean of the Faculty for Human and Social Sciences, said the department is prepared to take legal action if the council does not cancel its decision.“There’s going to be a meeting in the MALAG [Israeli CHE], where the university presents its case to demonstrate that the professional considerations of the sub-committee were wrong,” Newman said.




“Most of the senior political scientists in Israel and the world back up the university’s case, and we hope that the necessary mutual compromise will be reached.”He added: “There is a strong possibility that if this is not resolved, the university will take the Council for Higher Education to court, which will be a first in the history of Israel’s higher education and would not be to the benefit of Israel’s scientific and academic standing.”MALAG decided last month to close the political science program after investigating claims made by right-wing organizations such as Zionist NGO Im Tirzu, which said its faculty was teaching students radical leftist political opinions. Im Tirzu also called the program “unbalanced” and “very disturbing.”The decision will be reconsidered next week.Department head Haim Yacobi responded that “the claims are very well-engineered, I would say, by groups who have a political agenda...It’s okay to have a political agenda, there is nothing wrong with that. But the problem is that their strategy has been adopted by people who have official responsibility.”Their truth is taken as a fact, he added, but has no basis in reality.“We shouldn’t be naive, it’s part of a wider agenda.”Yacobi, who took up his position two months ago and has been dealing with the controversy ever since, explained that he does not believe that MALAG will shut down the department – an opinion which his staff and faculty members share. “It cannot happen. We can be very critical toward Israel’s politics, but we are not at a stage where a department at a university can be closed because of political interest – and I hope we never reach this point,” he said.“Closing a department because of political reasons is a very, very dangerous thing to do,” added Yacobi.He expressed his frustration with the current situation and stated he is very proud of the achievements of the political science department.Regarding the attacks on his faculty members, Yacobi said: “To be honest, I really don’t care what my colleagues are doing after they are teaching here or whatever they’re doing on the weekend.“I think if we reach a stage where I would judge the work of my colleagues or my students according to their political, social affiliations, it will be a very dark moment,” he added.Lynn Schler, who teaches African studies at the department, said that even though her course is not being directly criticized, she still feels the scrutiny.“It feels incredibly like ‘Big Brother’ monitoring,” she said. “This sort of house cleaning on the basis of who falls in line with certain visions of what can and should be said, that’s what worries me, the ‘thought police.’” Students in the program, Lior Levin and Liraz Yaffe, said they feel they are receiving a “mind-opening” education and are exposed to “a broad spectrum of approaches.”“Even if we are aware that some of our professors have a certain background, we don’t see it in class, they stick to the syllabus. Personally, I’ve never heard a lecturer express a political opinion in a clear way,” Levin said.“Our teachers shouldn’t feel like they are walking on eggshells and be afraid to say things,” Yaffe, a third-year student, said.Although she supports her professors, Yaffe said she is still concerned about the consequences of the controversy.“I’m worried that when I’m going to look for a job, my degree will be less valued than the same one from another university.”Disagreement with the department’s teaching methods does not only come from external groups, however. BGU Professors Israel David, of the industrial engineering and management department, and Dan Censor, of the electrical and computer engineering department, have openly expressed their critiques of the program.“I don’t want the department to close, but I am in favor of kicking out malignant elements,” said David, specifically pointing to Prof.Neve Gordon, who is known for his radical left-wing political opinions and is currently on sabbatical at Princeton University in the US.According to David, Gordon has often mentioned the term “apartheid” when talking about Israel. “I’m not against the department because I’m Zionist, that’s not what makes me get involved in this at the age of 50-something. The reason is, and I hope this will be heard, that I am fed up with people pissing on my head. There are a few people here that piss on everyone, on this university,” he said.David also said that the department’s website states its goal as helping students bring about “economic and political change.”“That is not the mission statement of a university program,” he said. “It’s the platform of a political party.”He further discussed the department’s threat to take the issue to court, saying the money that would go toward such an action would be taken at the expense of other important university initiatives.Censor, for his part, said: “I see the whole department as accomplices in the offense. I think they are in a status of ‘useful idiots,’ they are contributing in destroying their own environment.”Whatever the MALAG’s decision, he said, it will be significant and “will change the face of Israeli academia in Israel for the better.”Censor added that the idea to sue CHE is “absurd” and “surrealist.”David and Censor agree that the program’s methods and persistence in contradicting MALAG hurts the university’s reputation – and their jobs. Censor noted that he had been denied the opportunity to present research at a conference, and he is convinced it was due to the controversy.“It’s a bleeding wound that will never close,” he said of the program.The CHE is set to meet on Tuesday.
At the same time, students from the department are expected to protest in its favor in front of the building in Jerusalem.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Edelstein addresses conference on Israel-bashing</title>
<date>21/2/2012</date>
<content>
“Friends of Israel are still more numerous than those who hate us,” Public 
Diplomacy and Diaspora Affairs Minister Yuli Edelstein told the Conference of 
Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations on Monday.Edelstein 
had come to Jerusalem’s Inbal Hotel to talk to conference participants about the 
best way to combat Israel-bashing, which he said had become a very popular 
subject.




His advice was to tell the truth. “The more accurate the picture 
of Israel, the easier it will be for us to deal with those on the Israel-bashing 
campaign,” he said.Edelstein observed that there is a tendency to become 
nostalgic and say how terrible things are today in comparison to a number of 
years ago. But “if we look at 30- or 40-year-old press clippings, we’ll find it 
was no picnic,” he said.Similarly, he noted, in those days it was not 
pleasant to be a pro-Zionist activist on university campuses outside of 
Israel.The difference between now and then, in Edelstein’s perception, 
is that present-day anti- Israel campaigns are wellthought- out and better 
organized.“We have to keep in mind that it’s not new and that our 
enemies realize that it’s dangerous to attack us on the battlefield,” he said. 
“A soft war has less casualties, but is no less dangerous for the State of 
Israel.”Edelstein said he is frequently asked why Israel is not 
investing billions of dollars to fight the bashing, but says he responds that 
even though the country is not currently investing such sums, “we’re on the 
way.”The very fact that his ministry was created illustrates the 
government’s realization that there is a need to address this issue, he 
said.Edelstein refrained from pointing the finger at any organization, 
institution or individual that could be characterized as Israel’s number one 
enemy. As far as he was concerned, “our main enemy is ignorance. Before we 
acknowledge that, we won’t get anywhere.”He said ignorance is rampant in 
regard to any place of conflict, citing Rwanda as an example, and said that most 
people – including himself – do not know the details of this 
conflict.Likewise, he said, most people do not understand the nuances of 
the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians – and in the innocence of their 
ignorance are prepared to believe allegations that are untrue.“For most 
of the world, what happens here is just another conflict,” he asserted. “People 
who know the real Israel would never believe that this is an apartheid 
state.”Edelstein took issue with those Jews – including Israelis – who 
give way to despair and adopt a certain attitude, saying “Forget it, ‘they’ are 
all against us – why bother to fight it.” He asked whether anyone in the 
audience could imagine a sports team appearing on the field with that kind of 
attitude.To illustrate the importance of believing in one’s ability to 
win, Edelstein referred to the victory last week of Dr. Yehuda David, who had 
been sued for libel in a French court by Jamal al-Dura, the father of 
Muhammad.The younger al-Dura was allegedly killed by the IDF in an 
exchange of gunfire between Israeli and Palestinian forces during the second 
intifada in 2000. It was subsequently proven that if the boy had been killed, it 
was not by Israelis, and serious doubts were raised in several quarters as to 
whether he was really dead. It was suggested by some investigators that the 
whole episode had been staged in order to discredit Israel.To counter 
this, the boy’s father revealed his own bullet scars, which he claimed to have 
suffered at the time his son was shot in 2000. This was refuted by David, who 
said he had operated on the elder al- Dura as a result of these very injuries in 
1992, when he was attacked by Hamas forces who suspected him of cooperating with 
Israel.Many people had tried to convince David to back off, said 
Edelstein, who had been in frequent contact with him during the trial. They told 
him not to bother to rehash the story, that the rest of the world was 
anti-Semitic and that if he persisted, it would cause yet another 
uproar.But David had remained adamant – and in the end he 
won.“The Supreme Court of France said loud and clear that Dr. David was 
telling the truth,” said Edelstein. “We won’t be able to achieve anything if 
we’re not sure of the facts, and that first and foremost we will 
win.”Edelstein admitted that there are Israelis who actually support the 
bashing campaigns, and it is not easy to understand their motives: “Sometimes we 
are so open that the brains fall out – but this is Israeli 
democracy.”Just as he was critical of these Israelis, he was equally 
critical of the people he characterized as “jerks,” who wrote vile Internet 
talkbacks in reaction to the tragic deaths of Palestinian children in a school 
bus accident last week. These talkbacks advocated that all Palestinian children 
should be killed.“We should blush and be ashamed,” Edelstein said. He 
also noted that the first people who arrived at the scene and tried to save the 
children were settlers, and that the first ambulances came from settler 
communities.He emphasized that there were no politics involved: “It was 
about being normal. It was about being Jewish. It was about being 
Israeli.”Concerned about the ethical complexities between legitimate 
criticism of the government and Israel-bashing per se, Edelstein said he has 
been consulting with a group of apolitical professors, with the aim of 
formulating a code of ethics to clarify what is legitimate criticism and what is 
not.The lines which cannot be crossed must be defined, Edelstein said, 
and this will not be easy because he is reluctant to exclude people from the 
Israeli consensus. He is similarly loath to exclude American Jews from their 
community’s consensus.
But he was explicit on one issue: Disagreements 
must be tackled with dialogue and not with violence.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Kinneret water level rises 13 cm. in 5 days</title>
<date>18/1/2012</date>
<content>
The Kinneret's water level rose a total of 13 cm. following several days of heavy rain.The rainfall Tuesday night added 2 cm. of water to the 11 cm. registered over the weekend, bringing the lake's water level to 213.385 m below sea level, slightly below the "bottom red line" of 213 m below sea level.




RELATED:Government slams French water 'apartheid' report The
 Kinneret is one of three main water sources – the other two are the 
mountain and the coastal aquifers. In total, the country is short about 2
 billion cubic meters of water, an amount equivalent to the consumption 
of all the households in Israel for three years.The weather on 
Wednesday is expected to be partly cloudy with a chance of isolated 
light rain from the North to the Northern Negev, according to the Israel
 Meteorological Service. Temperatures remain unseasonably cool.Sharon Udasin contributed to this story.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Kinneret water level rises 55 cm. in 1 month</title>
<date>1/2/2012</date>
<content>
The water level of the Kinneret rose by 55 centimeters in January, 
however, it remained below the "bottom red line" by ten centimeters. 
From Tuesday to Wednesday the rainfall added another two centimeters of 
water into the lake.The
 Kinneret is one of three main water sources – the other two are the 
mountain and the coastal aquifers. In total, the country is short about 2
 billion cubic meters of water, an amount equivalent to the consumption 
of all the households in Israel for three years.




RELATED:Government slams French water 'apartheid' report The
 Israel Meteorological Service forecast for Wednesday frequent showers 
from the North to the Negev, accompanied by scattered thunderstorms and 
strong winds. Temperatures were forecast to drop, becoming 
unseasonably cool. Rain was expected to weaken Wednesday evening and 
overnight. Sharon Udasin contributed to this story.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinian academics act against Israel ties</title>
<date>29/8/2012</date>
<content>
Al-Quds University President Dr. Sari Nusseibeh is once again under attack for 
agreeing to cooperate with Israeli universities and 
academics.Palestinian academics on Tuesday published a statement 
strongly criticizing Nusseibeh for being part of a German-sponsored 
Israeli-Palestinian academic project aimed at enhancing understanding between 
different cultures.




The project has been initiated by al-Quds University 
and the Hebrew University in cooperation with The University of 
Berlin.The academics denounced the project as a form of normalization 
with Israel and pointed out that cooperation between Israeli and Palestinian 
academics was in violation of a ban issued by the Palestinian Council for Higher 
Education.The academics also noted that the joint project was in 
violation of local and international campaigns promoting academic boycotts of 
Israel.In their statement, the Palestinian academics urged Nusseibeh to 
end all forms of “normalization” with Israeli universities until Israel “ends 
its occupation.”The statement added: “While we praise the important role 
of al-Quds University as a national icon, we call on the university and its 
president to abide by the position of most Palestinian academics against 
normalization with the state of apartheid and occupation.”The statement 
also noted that Nusseibeh’s cooperation in the past with Hebrew University had 
thwarted a decision by British academics to initiate a boycott of Israeli 
universities and professors.“Normalization projects are today the 
strongest weapon employed by Israel in its battle – which has been unsuccessful 
so far – against anti-Israel boycott campaigns,” the statement read.Late 
last year, Nusseibeh came under attack from various Palestinians, including top 
Fatah leaders, for planning to meet with Israeli peace activists at a hotel in 
east Jerusalem.The meeting was canceled after Palestinian protesters 
demonstrated outside the hotel and put pressure on the hotel management to call 
off the gathering.
Since then, the protesters have been waging a campaign 
against Nusseibeh, accusing him of promoting “normalization” with Israel. They 
have also repeatedly called on the Palestinian Authority to dismiss Nusseibeh 
from his job.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Police close Temple Mount to Jews on Tisha Be'av</title>
<date>29/7/2012</date>
<content>
Police closed the Temple Mount to Jewish visitors on Sunday morning, the fast of 
Tisha Be’av, due to fears of “provocation” – despite a promise on Saturday night 
that the holiest site in Judaism would be open to Jewish 
worshipers.Nearly 100 right-wing activists arrived at the entrance to 
the Temple Mount only to be informed that the site was closed to 
Jews.







Jews face the Western Wall on Tisha Be av. (photo credit:Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)Man seen from above mourning on Tisha Be av. (photo credit:Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)Haredi man at Western Wall marks Tisha Be av. (photo credit:Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)Jews sit on floor mourning loss of Temples on Tisha Be av. (photo credit:Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)Haredim observe Tisha Be av. (photo credit:Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)



                        The activists held a reading of Lamentations (Eicha), the 
traditional text of Tisha Be’av that commemorates the destruction of the 
Temples, outside the entrance to the Mount.“There were indications from 
Muslims and from Jewish worshipers that there would be a possibility of 
incidents taking place on the Temple Mount, so after a security assessment made 
in the early hours of this morning, the decision was made by Jerusalem district 
police in order to prevent any incidents,” police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld 
said.“The time has come for the racist policies of the police to end,” 
MK Michael Ben-Ari (National Union) said, accusing Public Security Minister 
Yitzhak Aharonovitch (Yisrael Beytenu) of “implementing apartheid policies” by 
barring Jews from the site.“The fact that this happened on Tisha Be’av 
shows how much the Temple Mount is not in our hands,” said Likud activist Moshe 
Feiglin, who compared the decision to a “modern destruction” of the 
Temple.
Feiglin said Jerusalem police head Asst.-Ch. Nisso Shaham had 
promised the Temple Mount would be open to Jews on Sunday. On Thursday, Shaham 
was forced to take a leave of absence following an investigation into 
allegations of sexual harassment and assault of policewomen.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘We feel safe here’</title>
<date>28/11/2012</date>
<content>
Pastor Umar Mulinde’s love for Israel has only grown since he began treatment here for the burns he sustained in a horrific acid attack in his home country of Uganda on Christmas Eve last year.“I really love being here in Jerusalem,” said Mulinde, wearing a mask to hide his burns.




“My family and I love Israel and feel safe here.”In a wide-ranging interview on Monday with Steve Linde, The Jerusalem Post’s editor-in- chief and other staff at the newspaper, Mulinde explained his journey from being a Muslim to his conversion to Christianity and his untiring support for the Jewish state.The pastor said he was attacked by a presumed Muslim terrorist in the east African country because of his outspoken sermons in favor of Israel, and his screening of pro-Israel films.But the attack, which left him with severe burns and without an eye, had failed to sway him.“There is a lot of biased information about this country [Israel] and a need to get balanced information,” said Mulinde, seated in the Post editorial lounge with his wife, Evelyn, and their two children.Mulinde’s efforts to debunk prejudices against Jews and Israel had led him to arrange for a film presentation on Jerusalem.He recalled that as he left the event in Kampala – the capital of Uganda – a man confronted him. He had felt “a splash of a very hot substance” on his head and managed to pivot away to avoid his entire face from being doused with acid.The assailant screamed “Allahu Akbar” during the attack. Mulinde said at that moment, he realized that the assailant had been a Muslim terrorist.Seriously disfigured by the acid, Mulinde has been receiving free treatment at the burn unit of Sheba Medical Center. His entire head is bandaged and one of his eyes is covered by an eye-patch.Evelyn, his wife, described the family’s reaction to her husband being doused with acid.“It was so traumatizing for me and the kids,” she said, remembering how they had cried, knelt down and prayed together.Mulinde also delved into the period of Ugandan history under the notoriously anti- Israel president Ida Amin, whose military dictatorship reigned from 1971-79 and engaged in a blood-soaked repression against dissenters.“Idi Amin declared Uganda an Islamic state and ushered in Shari’a law,” said Mulinde.“Any country that practices Shari’a law will not have good relations with Israel. And less than 10 percent of the country was Muslim at the time.”Uganda’s Christian population now comprises 84% of the country, with an estimated 12% Muslim.Mulinde said he was born a Muslim in 1973, and his family rejected him when he converted to Christianity as a 20-year-old. He said he had experienced an Islam “filled with hate.”His sharp break with the indoctrination of an intolerant form of Islam, which, he noted, caused him to “hate Jews and Israel” as a student of the Koran, moved him to analyze the two monotheistic religions – Judaism and Christianity.“I said I must understand the Israelites and the Jewish people if I want to continue with the study of the Bible,” he explained. “When I realized there was bias against Jews, I spoke out.”His high-energy pro-Israel advocacy work involved speaking to up to 5,000 Ugandans at a time in a football stadium and reaching thousands more during his day-to-day Internet activities.He established contact with Andrea Gottlieb, from Philadelphia, who serves as the executive director of JerusalemOnlineUniversity.com, a pedagogical online portal devoted to Israel and Jewish affairs.Gottlieb, who met Mulinde for the first time in person at the Post’s headquarters on Monday, said she had first communicated with the pastor online three years ago.After the attack, Gottlieb engineered Mulinde’s travel to Israel and helped enable his treatment process at Sheba Medical Center.Gottlieb described her efforts in December of last year to secure him treatment in Israel during a family holiday in Florida.“Our whole vacation was about the pastor,” she said, smiling, with tears in her eyes. She noted that her family had been very supportive of the need to fly Mulinde, who had initially flown to India, to Israel for the best treatment.As a pastor, Mulinde had organized group trips to Israel.“When you come to Israel, you realize the story is different,” he said.Mulinde noted that his work had helped debunk the myth that there no Israeli Arabs living in Israel.“When I first got here, I was surprised to see Arabs living together in peace with Jews,” he said.He has since lectured in South Africa on Israel’s vibrant democracy. Any comparisons between Israel and the former apartheid regime in South Africa, he said, are made by people “who do not know what they are talking about” and only serve to “abuse the African people.”Asked about why he had converted to Christianity, he said he had met a pastor “who was preaching a different message – a God of Peace, in contrast to the God of the Koran.”With the experience of Israel’s Operation Pillar of Defense behind them, Evelyn said that despite the rocket attacks from Gaza, “I feel safe in Israel. I feel loved.”The Ugandan authorities have failed to apprehend the perpetrator of the acid attack on Mulinde, who blamed a Muslim in charge of Uganda’s counterterrorism unit for not pursuing the “act of terrorism on me.”He said one person had been arrested but within two days, the suspect was released.Mulinde complained and the counterterrorism head was relieved of his duties. Yet the Ugandan security officials have still not made an arrest, he said.Prof. Zeev Rotstein, the CEO and director of Sheba Medical Center, said his hospital had welcomed Mulinde with open arms, and he was making good progress.“Our decision to treat the pastor was completely humanitarian. It was not done to receive publicity or thanks from anyone,” Rotstein told The Jerusalem Post. “Here was a man who had been hurt in a hostile attack because of his strong support for Israel. And we, in the best tradition of Israel, offered our help.”Rotstein and Mulinde were honored recently by the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem at the conclusion of their annual Feast of the Tabernacles. Both men were given a standing applause by the audience of over 5,000 Christians from some 90 nations at the Jerusalem International Convention Center.
“It really moved me,” Rotstein said. “It was a pleasant and unexpected surprise. I was dumbfounded by the outpouring of support for us, for Israel and for the Jewish people by the huge crowd.”Steve Linde contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Zoabi suspended from Knesset for one day</title>
<date>3/1/2012</date>
<content>
The Knesset Ethics Committee suspended MK Haneen Zoabi (Balad) from the plenum 
for one day on Tuesday, as punishment for pushing a Knesset usher.In 
July, during a speech by Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, Zoabi was asked to 
leave the plenum because she was interrupting, and shoved the usher that escorted her. RELATED:Haneen Zoabi suspended from Knesset over Gaza flotilla




Although the Knesset House Committee discussed the 
situation that week, and Zoabi apologized to the usher, MK Danny Danon (Likud) 
sent a complaint to the Ethics Committee.“I already expressed regret and 
clarified that I did not intend to hurt anyone,” Zoabi wrote in her response to 
the committee, adding that the issue is “behind us” and that Danon’s complaint 
shows “a need for political revenge.”The Ethics Committee decided to 
suspend Zoabi from the Knesset plenum for one day – this Wednesday – but will 
allow her to vote on bills.The committee also said any MKs asked to 
leave the plenum should do so on their own, in order to avoid a physical 
conflict with ushers.Following the decision, Zoabi pointed out that 
Danon complained to the Ethics Committee four months after the incident, shortly 
after her participation in the Russell Tribunal on Palestine in South Africa, 
which is meant to support Palestinians’ rights and investigate whether Israel is 
considered an apartheid state under international law.“This proves that 
[the complaint] is political revenge and part of the incessant attempts to 
undermine and disrupt my parliamentary activities,” she said.Zoabi added 
that right-wing MKs are “bullies” who are trying to silence and punish anyone 
who defies what they think is legitimate.
Later Tuesday, in a speech to 
the plenum, Danon said the punishment for “the hero of the [Gaza flotilla ship] 
Marmara, who was on the same ship as the terrorists,” was not harsh enough, and 
sends a message to MKs that violence against Knesset workers is not that bad.
</content>
</article>

