<article>
<title>A controversial cultural affair</title>
<date>29/5/2008</date>
<content>
Recently a group of Palestinian and European businessmen, volunteers and officials gathered at the comfortable premises of the Red Crescent in Ramallah to talk culture. Among those present were Basem al-Masri, an Egyptian-born British citizen; and Dr. Muhammad Shtayyeh, the head of PECDAR - Palestinian Economic Council for Development & Reconstruction. A heated discussion continued for well over an hour, as the participants had come together to plan the most important event of the cultural life in the eastern part of the city. Earlier this year, the council of Arab ministers of culture officially proclaimed that Jerusalem would become the Arab Cultural Capital of 2009, and the preparations are moving into high gear.

The Arab Capital of Culture is an initiative undertaken by UNESCO under the Cultural Capitals Program to promote and celebrate Arab culture and encourage cooperation in the Arab region, similar to the European and American Capitals of Culture programs. Arab cities were first included in the Cultural Capitals Program in 1998. Since then, such cities as Cairo, Khartoum, Riyadh and Algiers have been named Arab Capitals of Culture. The outgoing capital of Arab culture is Damascus. In 2009 Jerusalem, referred to as Al-Quds by the organizers, is to receive the honor.

According to UNESCO's Web site, the program's aims are "to provide the Arab countries with a framework within which to develop their cultural heritage, preserving the past but placing particular emphasis on the future, opening the Arab world to new influences and technologies while safeguarding the integrity of Arab heritage. It should especially promote contemporary literary, artistic, scientific and intellectual Arab culture."

A city that is crowned a Cultural Capital generally kick-starts its tourism industry, drawing hundreds of thousands of visitors. Will it be the same for Jerusalem, considering the harsh reality of the Arab-Israeli conflict, current security threats and the fact that east Jerusalem, although perceived by many Arabs as belonging to the Palestinians, is a part of Israel?

The organizers discuss their ambitious plans, which include booking such Arab superstars as Iraqi Kazem as-Saher and Lebanese legend Majida al-Roumi. However, they are not sure how they will overcome logistical issues such as issuing visas to nationals of countries regarded as hostile in Israel and overcoming their fear of being labeled "normalizers."

Committee head Basem al-Masri says that besides lavish concerts, he plans to arrange art and photography exhibitions, music and dance festivals, film screenings and community activities - but for now he is planning it all from Ramallah.

In March, Masri and other organizers were briefly detained by the police while having a meeting in the Hakawati Theater in east Jerusalem to choose the best logo for the venue. "The police never explained their actions, and even now I cannot understand what kind of a security threat we pose to the Israelis while practicing our culture. We are Arabs and we want to express our culture - or do we not have a right to do that, either?" Masri told In Jerusalem.

"Police arrived at the scene and showed them a warrant signed by Public Security Minister Avi Dichter banning the meeting," said police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld. The Jerusalem Municipality declined to comment.

Considering that the organizers cannot convene in Jerusalem and that the winner of the logo competition, West Bank resident Khaled Hourani cannot enter Jerusalem, what are the chances that they will be able to pull off any of the planned activities?

Masri, who until now has not been in contact with the Jerusalem Municipality - the body in charge of both parts of the city - says that if he is not allowed to conduct large-scale concerts and festivals in the city, he will settle for smaller, community-level events but won't give up.

"If we can't have festivals in Jerusalem or bring our performers from Ramallah, we'll do it in A-Ram, we'll dance in the streets - anything is possible!"

Abdallah Saafin, an Arab journalist from Ramallah, was a little more skeptical. "They are planning this event in Ramallah; they will end up having it in Ramallah as well."

Jerusalem was offered the Cultural Capital title after Baghdad declined the opportunity, as its authorities said the city would not be able to handle the responsibility under the current situation.

The Jerusalem-Arab Cultural Capital of 2009's Web site says, "The choice of Jerusalem provides an important incentive for initiating collective action to preserve and promote the Palestinian Arab character of Jerusalem....The struggle for Jerusalem is not just political but also cultural."

It's not unusual in the Middle East for every aspect of life to take on political overtones. Many Jewish residents wonder if the purpose of the UNESCO Capitals of Culture program was really to raise public awareness of "Israel's injustice and demolishing houses of Palestinians" as the Web site claims.

Elena Kotlyarski of Ramot says she welcomes the initiative and would like to take advantage of the opportunity to explore the Arab culture but believes that a cultural event should stay cultural, not political.

Avner Cohen of Neveh Ya'acov thinks that designating Jerusalem as an Arab Capital of Culture compromises the status of Israel's capital: "Our authorities make sure that Orient House and other Palestinian institutions don't operate in Jerusalem. Why allow this particular event, then? If they [Arabs] want to celebrate Arab culture, they can do it in Cairo, Ramallah, Gaza, etc., whereas we only have Jerusalem, our capital, the capital of a Jewish state."

Is it possible to separate the political context from any cultural event in the Middle East so long as the annual Israel Festival held in Jerusalem is labeled by the Arab press as "a Zionist event that legitimates occupation" and international book fairs are boycotted by Arab and Muslim publishers because of Israel's participation in them? Masri says that not all the planned events are of a political nature, but in his opinion it's natural to express one's political beliefs though cultural means: "Israel has to choose whether it is a democracy, as it claims, or a non-democracy, like apartheid South Africa. Where is the democracy? I'm working through cultural avenues. Help me take young people off the streets. Isn't it better that they're busy in a art workshops rather than turning to drugs or violence?"

Aisha Muhammad, a Bethlehem University student, hopes the events won't be canceled. She believes Jerusalem is the most natural choice for the title of Arab Capital of Culture, as it contains so many landmarks, historical buildings and religious icons that are very important to the Arabs and play an enormous role in the cultural life of every Arabic speaker. "Al-Quds was our first qibla (direction of prayer); the prophet Muhammad visited it; Al-Aksa [Mosque] is here .... Maybe the choice of Jerusalem will revive some cultural life in the eastern part of the city. We don't have any cinemas here, rarely any concerts or plays in Hakawati."

Muhammad Aisha believes the political context of the events has been overplayed in the media. "Of course, some resistance-related items will be on display, but we must not forget that the main issue is culture," she says.

Marina Hershorn, a journalist on the Russian-language Channel 9 News, says that not only does she not oppose Jerusalem's becoming the next Arab Capital of Culture, but she welcomes this decision. "I came to Israel from Russia, and I would love to learn more about Middle Eastern culture, traditional Arab musical instruments, dance, etc. It's also a chance for Jerusalem to be seen in a different light. In the news, it is always seen in some kind of political context, but here we have a wonderful opportunity to attract tourists and have some fun ourselves."

Hershorn's colleague Dimitri Dubov also supports a year-long celebration of Arab culture in east Jerusalem. "Let's face it, there is west Jerusalem and there is east Jerusalem. They are two different cities. Arabs live in the eastern part; why shouldn't they be allowed to celebrate their culture? And maybe, just maybe, by cultural means we will be able to understand each other more."

Masri says he welcomes every Israeli and Jew to future festivals and the exhibitions if "we're able to hold them at all."

For now, the organizers hope for the best but are prepared for the worst, not knowing whether they will be allowed to hold any of the functions in Jerusalem. Or would they compromise by celebrating Jerusalem in nearby Ramallah or Abu-Dis?
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>ACRI: Basic human rights violated in Israel</title>
<date>7/12/2008</date>
<content>
Basic human rights proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are being increasingly violated in Israel, The Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI) said in its annual report published on Sunday.

"The report points to extremely worrisome trends at the center of which are violations of the most elementary human rights - regarding health, a life of dignity, education, housing, equality, freedom from racism, freedom of expression, privacy and democracy," the authors wrote.

Furthermore, there was the impact of the ongoing occupation of the territories on Palestinian human rights and the threat it posed to Israeli democracy, they added.

The report coincides with the 60th anniversary of the Declaration's adoption by the UN General Assembly on December 10, 1948.

The report distinguished between the situation in Israel proper and in the West Bank, where the violation of fundamental human rights is regarded as far more severe. Regarding the right to equality, ACRI wrote, "The discrimination in services, budgets and access to natural resources between the two groups (Israelis and Palestinians) living in the territory constitutes a gross violation of the principle of equality which is reminiscent, in many and increasing ways, of the apartheid regime in South Africa."

The ACRI report contrasts the rights as formulated in the Declaration with what it describes as the worrisome trends towards their violation in Israel.

Articles 1, 2 and 7 of the declaration guarantee the right to equality.

According to the report, equality is not recognized in Israel as a supreme right because it is not expressly guaranteed by basic (constitutional) law.

Although in the past two decades many laws and amendments have been approved guaranteeing equality regarding specific matters, "the main obstacle to preventing discrimination in Israel stems from the lack of true internalization of the value of equality in Israeli society," according to the report.

The report pointed out that according to a survey conducted by the Israel Democracy Institute, only 56 percent of Israelis believe in equal rights for all citizens, and only 57% believe in equality between men and women.

The report says a lack of equality between Arabs and Jews in neighborhoods where 90,000 Arabs live in five mixed Arab-Jewish cities - Ramle, Lod, Acre, Haifa and Jaffa - is obvious at first sight.

"In the Arab neighborhoods the neglect of buildings and roads, the lack of public institutions and public parks, the poor educational system and lack of health and welfare services is commonplace," the authors wrote. The report also found serious examples of discrimination against the disabled, and immigrants from the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia.

Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights refer to the right to proper criminal and other legal procedures.

The report charged that the state increasingly resorted to presenting evidence to courts behind closed doors. The courts allegedly support this tactic.

It said that the government intended to pass a law aimed at asylum seekers, allowing the state to hold them in administrative detention for lengthy periods without judicial review.

Another law, currently provisional, allows the state to hold security suspects for 96 hours before bringing them before a judge, and to extend remands without the suspects being present in court.

Article 12 of the Declaration maintains the right to privacy.

According to the report, several new government-sponsored laws and proposed legislation encroach on this right, such as the Communications Data Law, popularly known as the Big Brother Law, which allows the police to easily obtain personal information about anyone in Israel from cellular telephone and Internet companies.

Article 14 of the Declaration guarantees the right to asylum from persecution. Since 1951, Israel has granted refugee status to only 171 people who fled their homeland, one of the lowest figures in the Western world. Its treatment of the 12,500 asylum-seekers currently living in Israel "wavers between ignoring the phenomenon and neglect, to specific humanitarian gestures or temporary group arrangements, to adopting harsh measures meant to deter more asylum seekers from coming," the report said.

Harsh measures include incarcerating them for long periods of time, refusing to grant entry to migrants from enemy countries, such as Sudan, or the policy of "hot" (immediate) return to Egypt.

Article 19 of the Declaration guarantees the right to freedom of expression. The report charged that the Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) intimidated Israeli Arab journalists and political activists for what they said, even though their statements were legal and legitimate.

There was a new trend on the part of those with means to sue critics for libel without justification in an attempt to deter criticism, ACRI said. There were also increasing threats to freedom of expression on the Internet, including the so-called "Talkback Law," which would make Internet operators responsible for what browsers write. Another bill calls for a government-guided centralized censorship of the Internet to block certain types of sites.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Analysis: Why Israel snubbed Carter</title>
<date>16/4/2008</date>
<content>
From the government's point of view, nothing good - and some bad - could come out of Jimmy Carter's unsolicited visit here.

As a result, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, along with opposition leader Binyamin Netanyahu, all gave the former US president the cold shoulder and refused requests for a meeting.

But Israel, being Israel, could not reach a consensus snub, even in the upper echelons. As a result, Carter, the midwife of the Camp David accords and author of Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid, got his high-profile meetings with some Israeli leaders, gaining an audience with President Shimon Peres on Sunday and scheduled to meet Industry, Trade and Labor Minister Eli Yishai on Wednesday.

These meetings, according to diplomatic officials, can now be used by Carter against pro-Israel activists in the US trying to marginalize him because of his comparisons between Israel and apartheid South Africa. The concern is that Carter will now accuse his Jewish critics in the US of "hysteria," pointing out that Israel's own president had no problem meeting him.

Officials in Peres's office, meanwhile, were quoted as saying that Peres took Carter to task on Sunday for his book. But at least one participant in the meeting could not recall the nature of that criticism. Peres, in short, didn't exactly rake Carter over the coals. Indeed, the comments from Peres's office about criticism of the former president was cause for some of Carter's handlers to complain - according to Israeli officials - that these statements didn't adequately reflect the spirit of the meeting.

Carter's visit was, from the get-go, identified in Israel as a lose-lose situation. Indeed, it was preceded by plans for a visit by a group called the "Elders" - Carter, former Irish president and UN high commissioner for human rights Mary Robinson, South African Bishop Desmond Tutu and former UN secretary-general Kofi Annan.

When the government began getting various requests for this group's visit, the response was - to put it mildly - unenthusiastic. Israel considers Carter, Robinson and Tutu as unfriendly, while it has a bit more positive view of Annan, at least as a result of his last two years in office. That trip was scuttled, however, in part because Israel would not cooperate in getting the "Elders" into Gaza.

When Carter decided, nevertheless, to come on his own, the response from Jerusalem remained lukewarm. The reaction turned downright cold, however, when it became clear that Carter - who officials here say is in the region fishing for headlines - planned to set up a meeting with Hamas head Khaled Mashaal in Damascus. That meeting is scheduled for Friday.

The Mashaal meeting, more than the book Carter wrote - which has become a weapon in the arsenal of those in the US trying to deligitimize Israel - or even more than antics like his wreath-laying at Yasser Arafat's grave on Tuesday, are what led Olmert, Barak and Livni to turn their backs on him.

The government is concerned that Carter, by meeting the Hamas leader in Damascus, will set a trend. Israel has been pleasantly surprised that the boycott of Hamas and its leaders by the US and the EU - especially the EU - has held. The worry is that after Carter meets Mashaal, others who would like to meet him will ask, "If Carter can, why can't we?"

In addition, a concern of appearances precluded an Olmert-Carter meting after Carter made clear he was determined to meet the Hamas head. Israel was worried that if Carter met Olmert and then met Mashaal, it would inevitably be reported that he had brought a message to the Hamas leader from the Israeli prime minister. Israeli denials would do little to dispel impressions that there were some indirect negotiations going on - an image that would perhaps serve Carter, but not necessarily Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Analyze This: Livni's choice</title>
<date>27/7/2008</date>
<content>
Dan Gillerman's tenure as ambassador to the United Nations did not get off to a particularly auspicious start.

His appointment six years ago was itself a source of controversy. Gillerman was initially the preference of then-foreign minister Shimon Peres for the also-vacant position of ambassador to the US, but ran into opposition from prime minister Ariel Sharon. After a tussle between the two, Danny Ayalon was given that posting, and Gillerman got the UN as a consolation prize.

He was a curious choice for the job. No career diplomat, academic or public servant, Gillerman was a successful businessman then serving as chairman of the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce. Although known as a good speaker with an excellent command of English, his lack of diplomatic experience made him an unlikely pick.

Indeed, shortly before leaving for New York City, he was criticized for undiplomatic remarks he made in which he commented that peace between Israel and the Palestinians required "leaders like [F.W.] de Klerk and [Nelson] Mandela," and that Sharon "may also be the next de Klerk."

The Jerusalem Post editorialized in response that "any comparison to apartheid South Africa, however implicit, is specious and damaging to the country's interests abroad," adding, "The most depressing aspect of this episode is Gillerman's apparent inability to anticipate the damage his remarks may cause, whatever his intention... Let's hope this ambassador learns from this mistake."

He sure did, since Gillerman steps down this week having won approval across the political spectrum for the work he's done at the UN. His achievement is even more notable having succeeded the lackluster former MK Yehuda Lancry, who failed to make much of an impression in the position.

During his tenure, Gillerman fulfilled both of the key requirements necessary for any degree of success in this difficult posting. First off, through effective "quiet diplomacy" behind the scenes, he was able to score small but significant achievements for Israel within the notoriously anti-Zionist UN bureaucracy.

More importantly, he ably used his position as a bully pulpit to defend this country and attack its enemies on a prominent public platform that, whatever its practical value, still receives extensive media coverage.

The best example of this was his impassioned defense of Israel, and withering put-downs of its harshest critics, during the Second Lebanon War. His performance during those months was worthy of his finest predecessors - Binyamin Netanyahu, Chaim Herzog and Abba Eban - and his shoes will not be easy to fill.

The choice of law professor Gabriela Shalev as his replacement bears some comparison with Gillerman's appointment. Like him, she comes to the job as a diplomatic rookie, and was not a consensus choice; Prime Minister Ehud Olmert reportedly preferred to see former consul-general Alon Pinkas return to New York in this role, but Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni very much wanted to see a woman get the job and pushed for Shalev's appointment.

Shalev is a respected academic who has served in a number of prominent public positions, and may turn out to be as pleasant a surprise as Gillerman. What's more, Livni was justified in wanting a woman for the post for reasons beyond gender advancement: Polls show that given Israel's militaristic image abroad, women make the best general impression as our advocates in the international media.

Still, it's a little worrisome that the foreign minister didn't choose one of the several potential candidates already known as capable spokespeople in the English language - such as former Prime Minister's Office spokeswoman Miri Eisen, or Livni's Kadima colleague, MK and ex-IDF spokeswoman Amira Dotan.

Perhaps another reason for concern in this area is that Livni has generally preferred to be the kind of foreign minister who focuses more on quiet diplomacy, than the public advocacy aspect also required of her position. To be fair, this may be largely a pragmatic choice given a set of communication skills not quite up to the level of an Eban, Netanyahu or Peres, especially when it comes to speaking in English (to be polite about it).

Still, at times when it was truly imperative for Livni to speak out on the international stage - such as during the Second Lebanon War - she unquestionably erred on the side of caution.

As a candidate to replace Olmert as Kadima's flag-bearer and probable successor in the Prime Minister's Office, Livni is now having to develop greater political communication skills than previously demonstrated. But whatever her own limitations, there would be no excuse for sending an ambassador to the UN who didn't possess a proven ability in public diplomacy of the highest order.

The choice of Dan Gillerman by Peres was indicative of the latter's ability to creatively think out of the box, a pick that paid off big time. One can only hope that as Tzipi Livni sets out to prove she deserves a crack at Israel's highest leadership position, we will soon to be able to say the same of Gabriela Shalev as our ambassador - rather than ending up seeing in her a reflection of one her sponsor's shortcomings.

Calev@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'And you took me in'</title>
<date>9/12/2008</date>
<content>
At the October inaugural meeting of the Council of South Sudanese Refugees in Israel, organizer Charmaine Hedding sticks out. Tall and platinum blonde, she sits surrounded by seven Sudanese men who also tend to be tall but whose skin is the color of mahogany. The meeting takes place at the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem, where Hedding is in charge of special projects and helps organize the annual Feast of Tabernacles. Her father, Rev. Malcolm Hedding, heads the embassy [which is co-publisher of The Jerusalem Post Christian Edition].

In the past 18 months, Charmaine, 35, has put the well-funded, well-connected embassy, a pioneer among Christian Zionist organizations, at the service of the thousands of African refugees who've crossed the Egyptian border into Israel. Hedding spends most of her time working with left-leaning Israeli human rights organizations. This makes her stick out among Christian Zionists almost as starkly as she does at a table with seven black men.

The council, elected by the (mainly Christian) South Sudanese refugees around the country, is meant to be a voice for the community. The main thing the community wants, say the men, is education for their children. In Eilat, where the refugees work at hotels, a lot of Sudanese teenagers roam around and get into trouble. The children spent so many years in camps and on the run that they are behind in their education, and their parents want them to have a future - back in Southern Sudan.

Charmaine speaks to them in her soft South African accent while the men speak a jumble of English and Sudanese dialects, which they translate for her. Toward the end of the meeting, one says: "You know, Charmaine, we are Africans, we come from different communities, there are a lot of disagreements, a lot of confusion, and you don't have to help us. You're doing it because you want to, which we really thank you for. But it's going to be a long time, a lot of work, until we can go back home. Are you really going to be with us until then?"

Hedding has a very quiet, gentle manner, but her composure gives her an authoritative presence. Folding her hands and leaning slightly forward, she tells the inquirer: "One of the first words I learned when I came to this country was savlanut [patience]." The refugees laugh and nod in recognition.

A SMARTLY DRESSED, widely grinning woman comes into the room. "Charmaine? Hi! Carrie Burns from Champaign, Illinois." Hedding was a guest on Burns' Christian radio show some months ago, and Burns is here studying Hebrew and training at Yad Vashem to teach the Holocaust in US churches. Hedding gives her a hug.

Later, I ask Burns what Hedding told her audience. "She talked about the refugees who came from Sudan through Egypt, and how the embassy is helping the government of Israel care for them."

In truth, the only government bodies that have taken a positive attitude toward the refugees are the Tel Aviv and Beersheba municipalities; otherwise, it is Israeli civil rights organizations, synagogues, churches, charities, a few medical institutions and random volunteers who keep the refugees afloat.

I ask Hedding whether this is a sticky dilemma for her - whether her Christian Zionism, the embassy's role as an advocate for Israel, and the demands of the evangelical community compel her to sugar-coat the government's failings.

She maintains there's no dilemma. "I do criticize the government, and pretty candidly," Hedding says. "When Israel was starting the policy of 'hot return' [forcing apprehended refugees right back across the border], I did a news conference with [activist] Eitan Schwartz and spoke about the dangers. When people come to your country to ask for asylum and you deny them entry without knowing whether they're at risk, you're placing lives in danger."

However, Hedding empathizes with the government, and gives it more credit for effort than most of her allies in the human rights NGOs do. "I know for a fact that Israel is training people to interview the refugees when they first arrive, to see if they have a legitimate claim to asylum. It isn't easy. Israel used to get, what, 50 refugees a year coming over the border, and now suddenly there are 12,000."

Recently she went to Southern Sudan and Kenya to see the problem at its source, and she plans another trip this month. Beyond the issue of how to help the few thousand Southern Sudanese in Israel, she is preoccupied with the fate of the nation as a whole, which lost two million in its struggle for independence, and which remains under threat from the genocidal government in Khartoum.

"Are we going to let genocide happen again?" she wonders. For Hedding, there is a moral link between Southern Sudan and Israel. There is also a link between those two causes and the one that shaped her childhood - the fight against apartheid.

Her father was part of it. As the anti-apartheid movement's confrontation with the South African government escalated in the 1980s, Malcolm Hedding was an Assemblies of God minister preaching to a large congregation in Durban. "I told them the Bible upholds the dignity of all people, and that as white people in South Africa they have to realize that the system of apartheid is bankrupt," he says.

A government plant who felt guilt under Rev. Hedding's preaching told him he was about to be arrested. "He told me to get out of South Africa as soon as possible," says the minister.

For over a decade, Rev. Hedding had been involved in Christian Action for Israel, so he was able to arrange a job at the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem, and he, his wife and three children boarded the first plane available.

The Christian Embassy tends toward the Right when it comes to the Israeli-Arab conflict, so the Heddings obviously don't agree with the idea that Israel is an apartheid state.

"You can't equate this situation [in the West Bank] with what happened in South Africa," he says. "That was a political issue. The big mistake here is that everyone tries to hide the fact that behind the Palestinian fight is a strong Islamic theological idea - that this entire land is part of Dar al-Islam [the realm of Islam]."

While stressing that the Embassy will support any decision taken by an Israeli government regarding borders, Hedding says that privately, he opposed the Oslo accord and the disengagement from Gaza, and opposes any concessions in the West Bank now - but not on territorial grounds so much as for reasons of security.

He does not whitewash the instances of abuse by Israeli soldiers and settlers against innocent Palestinians, but says this is the "micro" story of the conflict - the more important "macro" story is the terrorist jihad against Israel. Only if the Palestinians were to come to terms with Israel's existence as a Jewish state and offer genuine peace - something he doesn't see on the horizon - might Hedding consider the merits of rolling back Israeli control over the West Bank.

When I asked his daughter Charmaine if she saw no similarities with South Africa whatsoever, Charmaine paused, then said that many Israelis, like most white South Africans during the time of apartheid, are liable to become "desensitized" to the abuses of innocent Palestinians.

LAST YEARshe helped organize a conference in the Knesset for Christian and Jewish women about issues that religious communities ordinarily do not discuss - domestic violence, incest, human trafficking. Some 700 women came from all over the world, and what Hedding remembers most vividly are the tales of violence and victimization told by two Southern Sudanese women. "They were crying, but they went on anyway."

By then, the flow of African refugees across the Egyptian border had stepped up dramatically. In the government's absence, Hedding knew where she and the Christian Embassy were needed.

Her new mission began two years ago, when 11 families apprehended at the border were bussed to Beersheba and let off on the street. Sigal Rozen, head of the Hotline for Migrant Workers, the lead civil rights NGO aiding the refugees, recalls Hedding's response. "Without thinking about where the money was coming from, she put them on buses to Jerusalem and rented them hotel rooms in the Old City. For the next month, she made all the arrangements - getting them food and clothing, health care, registering them with the UN, finding them work. When I see those families today, they still talk about her."D
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bishara: Establishment of Israel 'armed robbery'</title>
<date>18/2/2008</date>
<content>
Former Balad party chairman Azmi Bishara launched a scathing attack on Israel on Sunday night, saying it was the only apartheid regime left in the world.

"There is one other place in the world where apartheid is still [alive], which is in Palestine," Bishara said in a video address to the "Israeli Apartheid Week" conference in Toronto. "It is actually the biggest armed robbery in the history of the 20th century."

Bishara fled Israel in June 2007 after being grilled twice by investigators, and later resigned his Knesset seat. Police said he would be arrested if he returned to Israel on charges of espionage for Hizbullah.

The former MK allegedly gave the Hizbullah predictions, assessments and recommendations about Israel's political echelon, army and public opinion during the Second Lebanon War. In addition to supplying information to a Hizbullah intelligence agent, Bishara allegedly held contacts with intelligence officials from other countries.

Bishara, the Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) said, also received detailed missions from Hizbullah, which he carried out. He is suspected of assisting the enemy in a time of war; maintaining contact with a foreign agent; passing information to an enemy; money laundering and terrorist financing.

The first of those charges, assisting the enemy in a time of war, is one of the rare offenses punishable by death in Israel.

During a tour of southern Lebanon in August, Bishara praised Hizbullah for its performance against the IDF during the war.

"Everybody envies the Lebanese for their resistance [Hizbullah] and its leadership, but I envy the resistance for its people," Bishara said.

Bishara maintains that he is a victim of political persecution.

Yaakov Katz, Rebecca Anna Stoil, Sheera Claire Frenkel and AP contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter: Rocket attacks 'despicable'</title>
<date>14/4/2008</date>
<content>
Former US president Jimmy Carter called on Monday for Hamas and Syria to be brought into the peace process and for the America to open a dialogue with Iran.

"I think it is absolutely crucial that in a final dreamed-about and prayed-for peace agreement for this region, Hamas be involved and Syria be involved," said Carter as he addressed a technology conference hosted by The Marker at Airport City outside of Tel Aviv.

When asked about the Iranian threat, Carter added that his government must "talk directly to Iran." In spite of his Nobel Prize for Peace and his role during his presidency in brokering the 1979 peace deal between Israel and Egypt, Carter said that his work in the Middle East remained undone.

"One of the un-met needs of my life for the last 30 years has been to help bring permanent peace and security to this country, and also peace and justice to the surrounding communities," said Carter.

He spent Monday explaining that he was simply here on a fact-finding mission for his center.

But throughout the day he spoke of the role he could play in working toward a cease-fire, in the release of Cpl. Gilad Schalit from his Hamas kidnappers and as a intermediary between Israel, Hamas and Syria.

He told MK Yossi Beilin (Meretz) during a meeting Monday morning that he thought the release of Schalit was a realistic possibility.

Since his arrival in Israel Sunday on a nine-day visit to the region, Carter has been harshly criticized for his plans to meet later this week with exiled Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal in Syria.

He also intends to talk with Syrian President Bashar Assad.

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and Defense Minister Ehud Barak all declined not to meet with Carter during his visit, citing scheduling conflicts.

On Monday afternoon, Carter defended his planned Mashaal meeting, which is contrary to both Israeli and US policy.

"The policy does not apply to me. I only represent the Carter Center and my own family. I am not on this trip in a negotiating or mediating role. The purpose is to ascertain the facts of how peace and justice can come to people who are deprived of it," said Carter.

"I will be meeting with all the factions of the Palestinians, which is also controversial, I know, but I believe that in my experience... that those [required] to be involved in a peace agreement need to be involved in the discussions leading up to the agreement," said Carter.

He said that government representatives could not meet with them, but he could act as a "communicator" between them, the United States and Israel.

By the time he returns briefly to Israel at the start of next week, Carter said, he hoped that Israeli leaders would "deign to meet with [him]" so he could convey whatever proposals or ideas that might come from [Hamas].

It is a step, Carter said, that he wished someone had taken when his administration refused to meet with former PLO leader Yasser Arafat until Arafat recognized Israel and renounced violence against it.

"That policy was imposed on me by a public commitment that Henry Kissinger made to Israel and to the world," Carter said.

He said it has been his experience in other global conflicts, such as that in Nepal, that a terrorist organization could change into a more moderate group that participated in the democratic process.

Carter also defended his record in support of Jewish causes. He said he had persuaded the former Soviet Union, which at the time prohibited Jewish emigration, to allow some 25,000 Jews to leave the country. He also formed a commission to build the US Holocaust Museum.

Carter also spoke of his 2006 book, Palestine: Peace, Not Apartheid, which has been harshly criticized for comparing Israel's treatment of the Palestinians to racial oppression in South Africa.

Carter said he knew the title Palestine: Peace, Not Apartheid had upset people. But the emphasis should have been on the word "not," he said. The book did not refer to what took place in Israel, but rather to the situation
in [the Palestinian territories]. "That has been a controversial thing, and I realize that," said Carter.

One must understand, he added, the book was written when the peace process was stalled. He had hoped, Carter said, to refocus interest on the issues.

In speaking of his own history in the peace process, Carter made a back-handed criticism of US President George W. Bush, when he said that when he was president, he hadn't waited until his last year in office, but embarked on the peace process during his first days.

He credited his success in that peace treaty with the "courage and sacrifice" of the "heroic" leaders former Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and former Egyptian President Anwar Sadat.
"They not only had the confidence and trust of their people, but they were also willing to take a chance and to make bold decisions" that were
unpopular even among their supporters, he said.

In pursuit of peace today, Carter said, he wanted the leaders on both sides to display that same "determination and willingness to take a chance." He added the US government needed to play a stronger role.

But during his visit to Sderot, which has been under rocket attacks from Gaza Palestinians for the last seven years, a number of residents were not happy about Carter's role in the region these days.

Stepping out from behind the ice cream freezer in his small store, one Sderot resident yelled at Carter, "Mr. President, we are not apartheid here!"

But Carter had no problem speaking harshly against the rocket attacks earlier in Sderot, when he was shown the stockpile of hundreds of rocket bits that have been collected and stored in the back of the city's police station.

"I think it's a despicable crime for any deliberate effort to be made to kill innocent civilians, and my hope is there will be a cease-fire soon," Carter said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Diskin: Far-right may target politicians</title>
<date>2/11/2008</date>
<content>
Two days before the 13th anniversary of Yitzhak Rabin's assassination, the cabinet devoted its meeting Sunday to extreme right-wing violence, with Vice Premier Haim Ramon characterizing the different way Jewish and Arab law breakers were treated in the territories as "apartheid."

"We are talking about a few hundred people who have essentially declared a revolt against the legitimate government of the State of Israel and are refusing to accept the decision of the government and the Knesset," Ramon said.

"Because not one settlement outpost has been taken down since [the Amona outpost in February 2006], they see that as the government's weakness," Ramon said. "How would the government relate to Arabs in this case?"

According to Ramon, some 700 Palestinians are in administrative detention for "lesser" crimes.

"Why not do this against the settlers?" he asked. "The message is that we don't want to deal with it. There is discrimination, apartheid, in dealing with Palestinians and Jews involved in disturbances in Judea and Samaria."

Both Social Affairs Minister Isaac Herzog and Shas Minister-without-Portfolio Yitzhak Cohen called Ramon to order for using the word "apartheid."

Ramon's comments came following a briefing to the cabinet on the recent wave of violence, verbal assault and illegal protests by some extreme right-wing activists and settlers both in the West Bank and in what Defense Minister Ehud Barak termed "little Israel."

Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) head Yuval Diskin said that the situation is such today that if the government gave an order to evacuate settlement outposts, there would be much stronger resistance than in the past.

Diskin said the Shin Bet was aware of a "very high willingness among this public for violence, not throwing rocks, but the use of weapons to prevent or stop one diplomatic plan or the other."

Diskin said that hundreds had been involved in the recent spate of incidents, and that there were "dozens of inciters," but no organized leadership.

Barak said that in the last few months there has been an increase in the number of disturbances in the West Bank, attacks on Palestinians, including property damage and attacks on soldiers and police. In addition, he said, there has been an increase in right-wing protests outside the homes of IDF and police officers inside the Green Line.

Barak said this phenomenon went beyond a few individual law breakers, and now appeared to be something "organized by groups that do not feel obligated to abide by the laws of the country."

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that "these people are working so that the government cannot evacuate the territories. That is the goal, to prevent a decision that the government thinks is necessary for Israel."

Olmert stressed that he was talking about a small minority, not the majority of "law-abiding" Jewish residents of the West Bank.

Following the lengthy discussion, the cabinet issued a statement made by Olmert - a statement that has the weight of a cabinet resolution - concluding that the "recent disturbances constitute a threat to the rule of law in the entire State of Israel."

According to the statement, law enforcement measures would be intensified, including increasing the number of soldiers and policemen; documenting disturbances; arresting those who break the law and bringing them to trial quickly; and more liberal use of administrative detention and restraining orders.

The statement said Barak would report back to the cabinet within two weeks on measures that have been taken.

Justice Minister Daniel Friedmann, during his briefing, said that the government was "speaking with two voices" on the matter of the illegal outposts.

He said that it was necessary to find out and stop those who were funding the outposts and rebuilding them after they were destroyed, and that the situation whereby the government was paving roads to the outposts and providing them with electricity, water and sewage had to be stopped.

Friedmann also said that some government employees, including those who work for the religious councils, have been involved in incitement. Olmert's statement said that the involvement of public employees in incitement would be examined, and "appropriate measures will be taken against them," and "all direct or indirect financial support of illegal outposts, and their infrastructures, will be halted."

National Infrastructures Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, who warned of political violence a month before Rabin was killed in 1995, said he feared the same thing could happen today.

"They don't think like us," he said. "They are mystical, messianic, violent and irrational. We are messed up. We are afraid, and they interpret that as weakness. What we need here is a blitz, to arrest a thousand and put them in jail in order to stop it."

In response to the unprecedented attacks in the cabinet, Dani Dayan, who heads the Council of Jewish Communities of Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Strip, slammed the government's decision to cut services and funds to the settlement outposts, where more than 7,000 people live.

"It is scandalous," he said. "They are ignoring the most basic rights of these inhabitants. It is one of the most outrageous decisions any Israeli government has ever taken," he said.

While he was not sure exactly what the impact of the decision would be, he said he was worried that it could involve something as basic as busing for school or garbage collection.

The only difference between most of these outposts and settlements is that the outposts are small communities in which the statutory process has not been completed, he said. But these outposts were started by the government, built by it, and marketed by it, he said.

Dayan said it was wrong for the cabinet to link its discussion about violence among the extreme right with the outposts.

"There is no connection whatsoever between the issue that the government discussed today and the outposts," he said.

The council head said the comments made in Sunday's cabinet meeting were part of a deliberate effort to "demonize" the settlers under the misguided idea held by centrist and left-wing politicians that this would help them in the upcoming elections.

"It is the only explanation I can find," he said, adding that he feared these statements could embolden Palestinian terrorists to attack settlers under the mistaken belief that their blood was somehow worth less to the Israeli public.

Far-right wing activist Baruch Marzel responded to the debate by saying that the recent clashes between the security forces and settlers were in direct response to last week's early morning raid by the IDF on the Federman Farm outpost on the edge of Kiryat Arba.

Marzel said that during the raid, the IDF evacuated two sleeping families there and destroyed their possessions.

The government did not do this to the families of the Palestinian terrorists who killed civilians in Jerusalem this year, including the one who killed eight students at the Mercaz Harav yeshiva, he said.

"If you light a match, do not be surprised if there is a fire. They lit this fire," he said. "What did they expect, that we would turn the other cheek? If the government continues to act in this fashion, it will spark a civil war."

Marzel said it was hypocritical for Olmert, who has been charged with corruption, and Ramon, who is a convicted sexual offender, to speak of upholding the law. He also said that it was predictable that this would come up just before the anniversary marking Rabin's assassination, which he referred to as the "Rabin festival."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Gandhi's grandson blasts Israel, Jews</title>
<date>10/1/2008</date>
<content>
A grandson of the late Indian leader Mohandas Gandhi has penned some thoughts on Jewish identity that were published this week on the Washington Post's Web site.

"Jewish identity in the past has been locked into the Holocaust experience," wrote Arun Gandhi, who heads the M.K. Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence at the University of Rochester in New York. "It is a very good example of [how] a community can overplay a historic experience to the point that it begins to repulse friends."

According to Gandhi, "The world did feel sorry for the episode [the Holocaust,] but when an individual or a nation refuses to forgive and move on, the regret turns into anger."

Gandhi is pessimistic about the future of Jewish identity, which "appears bleak" because "any nation that remains anchored to the past is unable to move ahead, and especially a nation that believes its survival can only be ensured by weapons and bombs."

In the blog entry, posted to the Washington Post's On Faith blog on Monday and titled "Jewish Identity Can't Depend on Violence," Gandhi wonders whether Israelis would not be better served "to befriend those who hate you" rather than turning Israel into "a snake pit" through "your attitude toward your neighbors."

"Apparently, in the modern world, so determined to live by the bomb, this is an alien concept," he wrote, concluding: "You don't befriend anyone, you dominate them. We have created a culture of violence (Israel and the Jews are the biggest players) and that culture of violence is eventually going to destroy humanity."

The blog posting is followed by an apology posted on Thursday.

"I am writing to correct some regrettable misimpressions I have given in my comments on my blog this week. While I stand behind my criticisms of the use of violence by recent Israeli governments - and I have criticized the governments of the US, India and China in much the same way - I want to correct statements that I made with insufficient care, and that have inflicted unnecessary hurt and caused anger," he wrote.

Gandhi insists he does "not believe and should not have implied that the policies of the Israeli government are reflective of the views of all Jewish people," but affirms that "when a people hold on to historic grievances too firmly it can lead to bitterness and the loss of support from those who would be friends."

Nonetheless, he concludes, "The suffering of the Jewish people, particularly in the Holocaust, was historic in its proportions."

For Dr. Efraim Zuroff, the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Israel director, Arun Gandhi's thoughts on "Jewish identity" are "exceptionally strange, especially in light of the fact that there's never been any history of anti-Semitism in India and among Hindus."

According to Zuroff, the notion that Jewish identity is "locked into" the Holocaust and causes resentment, coupled with the statement that "Israel and the Jews are the biggest players" in a "culture of violence [that] is eventually going to destroy humanity," clearly amount to anti-Semitism.

Furthermore, Gandhi's words reflect his grandfather's misunderstanding of the Jewish situation, Zuroff said.

"Sometimes people become obsessed with their own agenda to the extent that they think it's the solution to every problem," he said. "Even the great Mohandas Gandhi did not have a monopoly on wisdom, and the best proof of that was his suggestion that Jews engage in passive resistance against the Nazis. It's an absurd response in the face of absolute totalitarianism and a movement like Nazism. It's like saying the Indian army should disband and let the Taliban and al-Qaida and the Pakistanis overrun the country."

Arun Gandhi's comments "obviously show his distinct lack of ability to analyze history. With all due respect to his lineage and the wonderful idea he represents, this is an outrageous statement that does no credit to him, his family or his institution," Zuroff said.

The original blog post garnered more than 500 responses, many expressing support for what they understood as Gandhi's anti-Zionist statements.

Gandhi is not new to controversy regarding Israel. During a visit to Israel in 2004 he called on tens of thousands of Palestinians in Jordan to march across the Jordan River and enter Israel in a nonviolent protest.

He also reportedly said at the time that the Palestinians' situation was "10 times worse" than that of blacks under South Africa's apartheid regime.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Gordimer to 'Post': Israel must talk to its enemies</title>
<date>13/5/2008</date>
<content>
As bitter, disheartening and entangled the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is, Nadine Gordimer's message is emphatic: Don't give up. It can be solved, but only by realizing one thing: Talking to your worst enemies is the only way out.

"You're never going to solve the problems here while the enemies do not talk to one another," the South African novelist, visiting Israel for the International Writers Festival, told The Jerusalem Post in an exclusive interview on Monday. "The 'other side' is always the enemy, and you have to, I'm afraid, swallow that and talk. You cannot exclude Hamas, or Islamic Jihad, you have to all talk together."

Gordimer, 83, is no stranger to intractable conflicts. In her novels, for which she won the Nobel literature prize in 1991, she dealt with the painful realities of South Africa. She was an outspoken anti-apartheid activist, and is to this day a member of the African National Congress. She has also been an outspoken critic of Israel's treatment of the Palestinians, but after some hesitation rejected calls from Palestinians and their supporters to boycott the Jerusalem festival.

Wearing a plain, bold red shirt, she might be a fairly petite figure but is towering in her intense presence and scathing sentences. Although talking in a soft, kind manner, her words were spoken with thought-out seriousness, often halting at tricky points and retracting to start over again.

Above all, it seemed important for her in the interview at her Mishkenot Sha'ananim guestroom, to get across a message she sees paramount, crucial for the viable survival of Israelis and Palestinians - however controversial, even angering, it might be to some.

To make her case for talking with the enemy, Gordimer draws on her country's own bleak history.

"We never would have got away with a new South Africa if the people who were so bitterly opposed had not sat down together," she told the Post.

She recognized that Palestinian attacks "have killed Israelis, children and adults," but also points out that the people of the West Bank and Gaza "have been reduced to a wretched state."

Despite all this animosity and hardship, however, Gordimer asserted that we "mustn't give up," and that the rift can and must be bridged.

"Indeed, I come from a country where by enemies talking together, and listening, we managed to avoid what would have been a terrible civil war."

She insisted that all Palestinian factions, groups that Israel views as terrorist organizations, must be part of any peace process, saying that a recent proposal mediated by Egypt for a six-month truce in Gaza is "a beginning."

"You cannot have talks without Hamas and Islamic Jihad, everyone has to be included if you're going to get anywhere."

Gordimer pointed to the fact that like the fight between Israelis and Palestinians, "for many reasons apartheid also seemed impossible to solve."

Yet she acknowledged that this conflict has complications South Africa did not experience, and that the common comparison between apartheid and the Israeli occupation is in certain respects not valid.

"I am white, like other South Africans of the white minority. We had no claim whatsoever on any inch of the whole African continent, never mind South Africa. Here you have two rights, two people who are right in terms of ancestral claims, and that's what complicates the situation tremendously.

"The Palestinians say they have the absolute right, the Israelis say this is the ancestral, biblically designated home. Everybody opposes the other side with their form of 'right.'"

As for her own view, Gordimer said: "I support the idea that a Jewish state should exist and I'm against the announcements by Hamas and other organizations" that say Israel has no right to exist.

Gordimer said her own Jewishness doesn't mean much to her. "I'm an atheist, I didn't have Jewish upbringing. Being a Jew is like being black, it's simply what you are born."

Perhaps her atheism makes Gordimer all the more disturbed by another deep complexity in this region, one that did not exist in South Africa: a religious clash.

"Religious faiths play a great part in the conflict. Each side says 'God is on our side,'" she said.

"You've got fundamentalist Israelis, and super-fundamentalist Palestinians, and these people complicate moves toward peace."

At a public conversation with novelist Amos Oz on Monday evening, sitting in a marquee against the backdrop of Jerusalem's Old City walls, she sarcastically quipped that "I have often thought that I wish that someone during the different conflicts had dropped a bomb on all your holy sites."

Though immediately saying she was sorry if she had offended anyone, her irritation was clear.

"You are living now, whether you are Jews and whether you are Muslims, you are not living thousands of years ago. You have to deal with reality now," she told the audience.

But all the differences aside, it appears that the strongest similarity Gordimer sees between apartheid and the struggle between Israelis and Palestinians is what she calls "Israel's brutal methods in the occupied territories."

"There is a similarity, alas, in the way Palestinians are being treated in the occupied territories, the brutal methods."

"The humiliation of people, moving people out of their homes, keeping them on one side of the wall while their sustenance, their crops and grain, are on the other. It is indeed comparable to what happened in South Africa."

Gordimer said she was "shocked and saddened by the behavior of Israel in the occupied territories," asserting that Israel is "much stronger" than the Palestinians, and should therefore "restrain itself."

Though Israelis might feel their country is fighting for a just cause, Gordimer says they should feel something quite different.

"I think Israelis should feel very troubled, and indeed some Israelis feel troubled, with the brutality and lack of common humanity shown to people in the occupied territories."

With all her controversial suggestions and scathing criticism, Gordimer was surprised to hear that there is a street named after her in Rishon Lezion.

"After all this," she said, smiling mischievously, "they'll probably tear it down now."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Always: Didn't they used to hang traitors?</title>
<date>1/5/2008</date>
<content>
Former US President Jimmy Carter has done it again. He has flaunted his credentials as a traitor - to his own country, to Israel, as well as to Christians. He has shown himself to be a modern-day Benedict Arnold. What he has done is also clearly against the law.

Didn't they used to hang traitors?

Carter has brazenly violated American law and foreign policy by meeting unauthorized with a prominent American enemy, Khaled Mashaal, the leader of the Hamas terrorist group, at his headquarters in Damascus, Syria. The former president fancies himself as a great international peace maker, but his action only serves to strengthen the will of the terrorists to fight harder and longer.

It only encourages them to continue their cowardly killing and maiming of innocent Israeli civilians, including young children.

I have contacted the US State Department, and I have urged Christians and Jews across America to join me, to demand that the Bush Administration revoke the passport of former president Carter, in order to prevent further traitorous actions. Carter's personal diplomacy is embarassing, inexcusable, and illegal. Former American leaders no longer in office are not authorized to deal with enemy terrorists, but that is exactly what Carter has done. The State Department tried to stop him, but he deliberately defied their instruction.

Actually, Jimmy Carter has put himself on international display as a rebellious traitor in more ways than one. He has demonstrated himself as a traitor not only against his own government and country, but also as a traitor against Israel, as a traitor against Christians, and even as a traitor against his own self-image as a "human rights" champion.

A traitor to America? Secretary of State Rice publicly slammed Carter for his plans to meet with Hamas leader Mashaal. She said that she strongly urged him to abandon the idea. "It is hard to understand what is going to be gained by having discussions with Hamas about peace, when Hamas is, in fact, the impediment to peace," Rice told reporters.

She also confirmed that his unauthorized meeting with Hamas officials in Syria is "a direct violation of American foreign policy." Carter's laying a wreath at the grave of former Palestinian terrorist leader Yasser Arafat was also a slap in the face of President Bush. Carter's actions are nothing other than traitorous defiance.

A traitor to Israel? Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, and Likud Party leader Benjamin Netanyahu have all turned down requests from Carter for meetings during his visit to Israel on the way to Damascus. All three said that their schedules will not allow for such a meeting, but an Olmert official commented, "You can draw your own conclusions." The official criticized Carter's visit with

Israel's prime enemy as ignoring Israeli and American designations of Hamas as a militant terrorist enemy. He also drew attention to Carter's recent book, in which he claimed that Israel's policies for the Palestinian Arabs were like the "apartheid" policies of South Africa.

A traitor to Christians?  Many Christians believe that Carter won the US presidency in 1976 largely because he identified himself as a conservative Christian. But conservative Christians are wondering what Bible Carter has switched to, in order for him to turn so strongly against Israel and to so openly support Israel's Arab enemies, including the Hamas terrorists.

A recent national poll revealed that 89 percent of America's evangelical Christians strongly support Israel and believe that the Jews have a Divine mandate for their reborn Jewish state. An overwhelming 80 percent of the Christians polled said that Israel should not divide Jerusalem as part of a peace deal with the Palestinians.  A 76 percent majority warned that a sovereign Palestinian state would probably become a terror supporting entity. Obviously, Carter's actions do not coincide with these Christian views.

A traitor to his own much-heralded "human rights" convictions?  An American political analyst recalled recently on TV that Carter played a key role in removing the former Shah of Iran from office, even though he had been a friend of the US, claiming deficiencies in human rights under his rule. So the Ayatollah, militant Moslems, and Moslem law took over in Iran. The analyst said that Carter can be credited with sparking the revival of militant Islam, which has now become the number one plague upon the civilized world.

How blind can Carter be to not see the blatant corruption and human rights failures of the Palestinian leaders, who have made sure that very little of the millions they have received in financial aid has trickled down to help the common people? How naive can he be to believe that the Israelis with their smooth functioning government and thriving economy are the culprits violating human rights? Hasn't he noticed that Israel has one million Arab citizens, who are provided with all the social and legal rights that Jewish citizens enjoy?

Hasn't Carter noticed that thousands of Arabs freely come and go in Jewish territory, but conversely, the Arabs have killed several Jewish people just for setting foot in their territory? The Arabs demanded and received a Jew-free Gaza territory, and what have they done with it?

Instead of working hard to make it a pleasant place for its Arab residents to live, they have devoted their energies to firing explosive rockets into Israeli border towns and farms with intent to kill innocent Jewish people. How can Jimmy Carter be so blind to such "human rights" realities? How can he see the Israelis as all bad and  the violent Arabs as good?

How could anyone be so great a traitor to his own country and government, to our best friend in all the world, and to his own supposed ideals? Benedict Arnold met his fate. Maybe an appropriate fate for Jimmy Carter would be to force him to move permanently to Gaza or Damascus and to surrender his US citizenship.

Earl Cox, International Christian Broadcaster, known as 'the voice of Israel to the world.' He is also the founder of Israel Always

Previous entries:
Who would be the best US President for Israel?
How will God handle the present-day Persian Haman?
Faith or Consequences
Is oil more important than Israel?
Fighting Fair - What the Media Doesn't Tell You
Israel rejects US report on Iran
Has God abandoned Israel?
Did someone say 'peace'?
No Palestinian State
Alternate reality
Relations between Israel's Jews and Christians improving
Do the Palestinians deserve their own state
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Always: Did someone say 'peace'?</title>
<date>16/1/2008</date>
<content>
The much anticipated state visit to Israel by US President George Bush has now come and gone with no startling developments and only a few small surprises. All the positives and negatives of the visit turned out very much as expected.

First, it was a great positive for Bush, the US President, to be making his very first visit to Israel since he took office in 2001. The United States, of course, is Israel's Number 1 ally and virtually its only nation friend in the entire world. And Israel has probably risen to the level of the Number 1 ally and friend of the United States, also, with all of her technological and aeronautical cooperation.

It was another great positive for the US President to take time to see some of the Biblical "holy sites" in Israel. He visited Bethlehem, where Yeshua-Jesus was born; the Sea of Galilee, where Jesus stilled a storm and walked on the water; Capernaum, where Jesus preached the Sermon on the Mount; and of course, the Old City of Jerusalem, where so much of recorded Biblical history took place.

However, there was virtually no progress or change in the matters that were Bush's prime reasons for the state visit - the issues concerning the establishment of a Palestinian State on Israel's land.

Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas demonstrated again to the world that he is no "peace partner" by acknowledging that he will never recognize Israel as an independent Jewish state. And Palestinian militants maintained their barrage of explosive rockets from Gaza into Israel each day during the state visit.

But all that and more did not sway Bush from declaring at the conference's conclusion that he still wanted and expected to see the establishment of a democratic Palestinian state existing peacefully alongside Israel before the end of this year, or before the conclusion of his current term in office.

Bush is said to have been "waving the flag for democracy." But has he so quickly forgotten the fiasco of 2006, when Hamas was elected to take over the Palestinian government? And has he forgotten what has taken place in Gaza since the "democratically elected" Hamas seized Islamic-type authoritarian control?

Bush also seemed to ignore the many large billboard messages that Israeli citizens had put up, with the support of numerous rabbis. The emphatic message was: "Bush - Read your Bible! God gave this land to the Jews!"

Some surprises did pop up from the three-way conferences between Bush, Olmert and Abbas. The Israeli Prime Minister, of course, joins Bush in the quest for a Palestinian state. But Olmert stunned his fellow citizens and the world by using the Arab terminology to describe the West Bank. He actually used the words, "occupied territory" and "apartheid" in a way that accused his fellow Jews of such great sins.

Bush refused to confer with Knesset opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu. But Netanyahu did get the message out that "Jerusalem would remain a united Jewish city forever." He indicated that he was sorry to see Bush joining with the majority of nations in the world who were against the Jewish people's maintaining control of their God-given land.

In a meeting with the entire Knesset following the talks with Olmert and Abbas, Bush stressed again his desire to see the creation of the
Palestinian State before the end of this year. Then he also told the MKs to keep Olmert in office and in power, so he could accomplish this goal. And he also told the members of the Shas Party not to try to block this development by opposing it and pulling out of Olmert's coalition.

One Israeli official brought up the legitimate question: Does Bush think he is also president of Israel? He questioned why Bush thinks he has
the right to tell the Israeli government leaders
what to do.

I had to agree with an Israeli man who was randomly confronted by a TV interviewer on Ben Yehuda Street and was asked what he thought about the Bush visit and its prospects for peace with the Palestinians. "Did you say peace?" he asked. And then he broke into a long and almost hysterical laugh.

I believe that President Bush and Prime Minister Olmert need our heartfelt prayers for Godly wisdom these days for the difficult decisions and choices that are their responsibilities to make.

Earl Cox, International Christian Broadcaster, known as 'the voice of Israel to the world.' He is also the founder of Israel Always

Previous entries:
No Palestinian State
Alternate reality
Relations between Israel's Jews and Christians improving
Do the Palestinians deserve their own state
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel likely to skip UN racism conference</title>
<date>6/8/2008</date>
<content>
Israel will almost surely boycott the next UN racism conference in Geneva, its ambassador said Wednesday, warning that the meeting is likely to sink into the same anti-Semitism that prompted the US and Israel to walk out of the last one seven years ago.

Itzhak Levanon, Israel's departing UN envoy in Geneva, said the April 20-25 event would need to be completely reworked for Israel to participate.

But with Libya chairing preparations and Iran and Cuba also involved, Levanon said the Geneva follow-up to the contentious 2001 conference in the South African city of Durban had the making of another international "bashing of Israel."

"We want them to discuss human rights, and not only focus on Israel and turning this into an anti-Semitic event," he said in an interview with The Associated Press. "We will attend the meeting only if there is a radical, substantive change."

The World Conference Against Racism ended three days before the September 11 attacks, with a declaration and program of action that divided countries even as they agreed to it.

Dominated by clashes over the Middle East and the legacy of slavery, the US and Israel walked out midway through the eight-day meeting over a draft resolution that singled out Israel for criticism and likened Zionism to racism.

Those references were removed from the final declaration, though it did cite "the plight of the Palestinians" as an issue without singling out Israel.

A parallel forum of non-governmental organizations, however, branded "Israel as a racist apartheid state" and called for an end to the "ongoing, Israeli systematic perpetration of racist crimes, including war crimes, acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing."

Levanon said the anti-Israel speeches at Durban were a "shame" and that Israel would not have any part in a repetition. But he said the nations that led the attacks on Israel have offered no encouraging signs that the next meeting will be different.

"Yes, the Europeans say it should not be anti-Semitic and the Israelis are demanding a focus on human rights around the world," he said. "But what about those that did the bashing? They've said nothing."

Canada is the only country that has explicitly said it will not take part in "Durban II," arguing the meeting will promote racism and not combat it. In ads that appeared in April in newspapers such as the New York Sun and The Washington Times, 25 people including Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel, law professor Alan Dershowitz and former CIA Director James Woolsey urged the US to also skip the event, labeling it anti-Semitic.

"From what I've seen in the preparations, I'm afraid we're going to face the same scenario," Levanon said. "Canada won't take part. Israel most probably won't either. The United States and most of the Europeans will boycott 'Durban II' if this is going to be the case."

US President George W. Bush's administration already has taken a symbolic position opposing the conference. In December, Washington cast the only "no" vote when the General Assembly passed a two-year UN budget because of objections to funding for the conference, which it considers anti-Israel. The US State Department has said, however, that a decision whether to attend or boycott will be made closer to the time of the conference.

The Bush administration and the US Senate have also taken a strong line against the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council, which like the "Durban II" preparations has been dominated by the same coalition of Muslim and African diplomats.

They have led the council to single out Israel for alleged abuses nearly a dozen times in its two-year existence. The body, meanwhile, has failed to criticize the Sudanese government over its conduct in Darfur and let Myanmar off lightly for its brutal crackdown last year on protesters.

The US and Israel were among the four countries that rejected the 47-nation council's creation, and have both declined to run for seats. Last year, the US Senate blocked the roughly US$3 million Washington pays to finance it in protest.

Levanon, who has represented Israel at the council, said the body was a "nice dream" when it was designed to replace the Human Rights Commission, which was created after World War II under the leadership of former US first lady Eleanor Roosevelt but later became bogged down in deep political fighting.

"The dream was to replace the commission with something more efficient, noble, objective and to protect human rights," said Levanon, who will return to Israel when his mandate ends later this month. "But if you see the results, it's not objective. It singles out only one country, Israel, and does nothing in Darfur or Myanmar."

"Things are happening there. People are killed," he added. "Where is the protection for human rights?"
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman: Tibi's place is in Ramallah</title>
<date>15/4/2008</date>
<content>
Following MK Ahmed Tibi's remarks in Qatar Monday, which labeled Israel an apartheid state, Israel Beiteinu chairman, MK Avigdor Lieberman called for Tibi, who serves as the Knesset's deputy speaker, to be expelled from the body.

"It is time to enact legislation that would automatically cancel the membership of Knesset members who travel without authorization to enemy countries," Lieberman stated, saying that "there are limits to chutzpah." MK Tibi had traveled to the Qatari Forum for Democracy as a member of the Palestinian delegation and listing himself on the participants' registry under the category of 'Palestine' instead of Israeli Knesset member.

"Tibi exploits his role as a Knesset member in order to harm and destroy the State of Israel and, therefore, his place is in the parliament in Ramallah and not in Israel," Lieberman asserted.

In response to Lieberman's accusations, Tibi responded by calling the Israel Beiteinu chairman a "facist immigrant" who seeks to "get rid of him every time [Lieberman] doesn't agree" with Tibi's calls for "democracy."

Also Tuesday, Tibi's spokeswoman clarified that the MK was invited to the conference in Qatar as the Arab representative of the Knesset, not as a representative of the Palestinian state. She explained that there was a mistake on the conference internet site.

On Monday night, a debate was arranged in Doha, Qatar between Tibi and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni. Following the debate, Livni said at the gathering that Israel is a democracy that related to all of its citizens in an equal manner. Tibi said in his speech that Israeli Arabs are discriminated against in the State of Israel and that he is "investing efforts in order to be equal and stand up against the policies of the [Israeli] government."

In his remarks, Tibi also explained that in Israel there are three different modes of government - democratic for Jews, discriminatory for Arabs and apartheid for Palestinians. Tibi also criticized  the speakers for not mentioning "occupation", which he claimed is the cause of instability in the region. The Arab MK asked rhetorically: "How is it possible to define Israel as moderate and democratic while it presides over a regime of occupation?"

In response, Livni said the very fact that Tibi serves in the Knesset shows that Israel is a democracy that respect minorities.  The foreign minister further stated that Israel has policies of affirmative action and "if there is an open position for an ambassador and there is an Arab candidate and a Jewish one, I would choose the Arab one, though it's clear that I would not choose Ahmed Tibi for explaining Israel's positions abroad." The foreign minister also added, "We conduct negotiations with Ahmed Qurei in order to end the conflict and bring about the establishment of a Palestinian state."

Livni's office clarified that the State of Israel has a law of affirmative action and, therefore, the foreign minister is obligated to act in accordance with it. The office said that it expects the deputy Knesset speaker to exhibit a greater level of seriousness and also noted that the debate between Tibi and Livni in Doha on Monday night only confirms the democratic foundations of Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman: Tibi's place is in Ramallah</title>
<date>15/4/2008</date>
<content>
The Knesset will convene for a special session after Pessah to consider Israel Beiteinu chairman Avigdor Lieberman's proposal to sanction MK Ahmed Tibi (United Arab List-Ta'al) for reportedly representing the Palestinians at an event in Qatar and for comparing Israeli policies to apartheid.

Lieberman will ask the Knesset House Committee and the plenum to vote on removing Tibi from his post as deputy Knesset speaker, a proposal that requires a special majority. Lieberman will also try to advance legislation that would automatically cancel the membership of Knesset members who travel to enemy countries without authorization.

The Knesset Ethics Committee will also meet soon to consider scolding Tibi, at the request of Israel Beiteinu and Kadima MKs.

Tibi defended himself by saying that the organizers of the conference had made a mistake by listing him as a Palestinian representative on their Web site. He said he had come to the event as a representative of his Ta'al Party in Israel.

That explanation was not good enough for Lieberman, whose associates said, "Sure it was a mistake, just like it was a mistake for him to go to Lebanon and to Syria and for him to serve as an adviser to  Yasser Arafat."

Lieberman said Tibi had traveled to the Qatari Forum for Democracy as a member of the Palestinian delegation and listed himself on the participants' registry under the category of "Palestine" instead of Israeli Knesset member.

"Even Hitler and Arafat were elected democratically," Lieberman said. "Tibi exploits his role as a Knesset member in order to harm and destroy the State of Israel, and therefore, his place is in the parliament in Ramallah and not in Israel."

Tibi responded by calling Lieberman a "fascist immigrant" who seeks to "get rid of me every time he doesn't agree with my calls for democracy."

On Monday night, a debate was arranged in Doha, Qatar between Tibi and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni. Following the debate, Livni said at the gathering that Israel was a democracy that related to all of its citizens in an equal manner. However, Tibi said in his speech that Israeli Arabs were discriminated against in Israel and that he was "investing efforts in order to be equal and stand up against the policies of the [Israeli] government."

Tibi said there were three different modes of government in Israel - democratic for Jews, discriminatory for Arabs and apartheid for Palestinians. Tibi also criticized the speakers for not mentioning "occupation," which he claimed was the cause of instability in the region.

"How is it possible to define Israel as moderate and democratic while it presides over a regime of occupation?" the Israeli Arab MK asked.

In response, Livni said the very fact that Tibi served in the Knesset showed that Israel was a democracy that respected minorities. The foreign minister further stated that Israel had policies of affirmative action and "if there is an open position for an ambassador, and there is an Arab candidate and a Jewish one, I would choose the Arab one, though it's clear that I would not choose Ahmed Tibi for explaining Israel's positions abroad."

The foreign minister added that "we conduct negotiations with Ahmed Qurei in order to end the conflict and bring about the establishment of a Palestinian state."

Livni's office clarified that Israel has a law of affirmative action and, therefore, the foreign minister is obligated to act in accordance with it. The office said it expected the deputy Knesset speaker to exhibit a greater level of seriousness and also said the debate between Tibi and Livni in Doha  only confirmed the democratic foundations of Israel.

Deputy Foreign Minister Majallie Whbee told Israel Radio that Tibi was trying to mislead people.

"He has to decide," Whbee said. "He can't be an MK for one country and then represent another abroad."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Livni: Israel won't attend Durban II</title>
<date>19/11/2008</date>
<content>
Israel began an active campaign on Wednesday against the anti-Israel hatred and incitement it says is already evident in the preparatory texts for the so-called Durban II United Nations conference that opens in Geneva on April 20.

"We call upon the international community not to participate in the conference, which seeks to legitimize hatred and racism," Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni told the thousands of North American leaders in Jerusalem for the General Assembly of the United Jewish Communities.

In February, Livni said Israel did not plan to attend the Geneva follow-up conference to the 2001 UN World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance that met in Durban, South Africa.

Israel and the US walked out of that conference to protest its disintegration into an anti-Semitic and anti-Israel hate-fest. Among others things, conference participants labeled Zionism as racism and denied the special nature of the Holocaust.

Throughout 2008, Israel has warned that the follow-up conference, which has been nicknamed "Durban II," would see a repeat of that same virulence. But it left open the possibility that it might reconsider its decision.

On Wednesday, Livni closed the door on that possibility. Evidence indicated that it would once more be used as a platform to delegitimize Israel, she said.

"I decided that Israel will not participate and will not legitimize the Durban II conference," she said.

With her words, Israel became the second country to firmly announce its intention to boycott Durban II, after Canada did so in January.

"Israel is fully aware of the importance of the international fight against racism, xenophobia and related intolerance, and, therefore, looked forward to the success of the review conference," according to the Foreign Ministry, but it saw that this was not possible, after seeing a paper submitted to the conference's preparatory committee that "contained the same level of hate which undermined the first Durban Conference."

That paper has now been posted on a UN Web site. It calls to "bring foreign occupation, together with all its racial practices, to an end" in Jerusalem.

In addition, the paper said that a "foreign occupation founded on settlements" constitutes "a new kind of apartheid, a crime against humanity, a form of genocide and a serious threat to international peace and security."

Eitan Levon, the Foreign Ministry's Durban II coordinator, told The Jerusalem Post that portions of the paper were taken from a document prepared in Teheran for the Durban conference in 2001.

In the coming months, Israel would make its position clear to the world by engaging in a public relations campaign, Levon said. It would ask Jewish groups around the world to help with this effort.

Israel wanted to make sure that people understand that the Geneva conference, much like the Durban one, had been hijacked in a manner that detracted from the original intent to focus on racism.

It was ironic, Levon added, that the Geneva conference opens on Holocaust Remembrance Day.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians to McCartney: Stay home</title>
<date>1/9/2008</date>
<content>
Not everyone is ready to let it be over Paul McCartney's upcoming show in Tel Aviv.

The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) has called on the former Beatle to cancel the show, saying that "Palestinian dispossession and Israeli apartheid are no cause for celebration."

In a press release, the PACBI added that "since the creation of this state 60 years ago, [Israel] dispossessed and uprooted hundreds of thousands of Palestinians from their homes and lands, condemning them to a life of exile and destitution."

"Performing in Israel at this time is morally equivalent to performing in South Africa at the height of the apartheid era... We strongly urge you to uphold the values of freedom, equality and just peace for all by joining this growing boycott against Israeli apartheid. Nothing less would do justice to the legendary legacy of the Beatles."

Another Palestinian lobby group - the Palestine Solidarity Campaign - has formulated a letter which it asks supporters to send to McCartney's management, asking him to reconsider performing in Tel Aviv.

"As I'm sure you are aware, the State of Israel continues to breach international and human rights law by its illegal occupation of the West Bank and Gaza and treatment of the Palestinian people. As well as the constant attacks by the Israeli army and armed settlers, Palestinian land is systematically stolen, houses demolished and crops destroyed," said the letter. "Your music has always been associated with hopeful and free aspirations; this reputation will undoubtedly be tarnished should this concert go ahead."

In a response to the two boycott attempts, the UK branch of Israel advocacy organization StandWithUs sent a letter to McCartney and his manager Stuart Bell, saying that the "blatant lies in the PACBI press release are simply beyond belief."

According to StandWithUs representative Joy Wolfe, "The more they call for boycotts, the more people want to come out to prove how fruitless they are and to demonstrate that it is by contact and dialogue, and indeed by staging concerts such as yours, that things may hopefully improve. At least when you appear in Tel Aviv you can expect to have a mixed audience of Jews, Muslims and Christians, something that would be impossible in any Arab country."

Regardless of the calls for McCartney to stay home, ticket sales for the show passed the 25,000 mark at the beginning of the week, according to the producers of the concert. And later this week, the first members of McCartney's technical staff will arrive in Israel to begin preparations for the show's infrastructure.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>RAM FM financial straits stop the music</title>
<date>11/8/2008</date>
<content>
RAM FM, the independent English-speaking radio station broadcast from Ramallah, has gone off the air due to a lack of advertising revenue, officials said Sunday.

The station, which was financed by South African Jewish entrepreneur Isaac "Issy" Kirsch, was inaugurated in February 2007 in an effort to promote Israeli-Palestinian dialogue.

The station stopped broadcasting on Thursday, station manager Maysoun Odeh-Gangat said.

"Although we are aware that RAM FM established a platform for dialogue and understanding, the decision was taken by the Board of Directors following its inability to generate sufficient advertising revenues to sustain its ongoing operations," according to a statement read on the air.

Modeled after a Johannesburg radio station that provided a venue for reconciliation during apartheid, the music station (the name is short for both "Ramallah" and the Hebrew word for "high," as in volume) was picked up in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv as well as throughout the West Bank, and had a diverse audience of listeners ranging from IDF soldiers to Palestinian university students, as well as English-speaking immigrants, migrant workers and foreign diplomats.

The station operated under a Palestinian license and had its Jerusalem studio and transmitter shut down by Israeli police in April for broadcasting in the city without a permit, at the behest of the Communications Ministry to stop interference with other broadcasts and signals at Ben-Gurion Airport.

Pirate radio stations, including haredi stations, have been repeatedly blamed for dangerous disruptions in air traffic communications.

The last song broadcast on the station on Thursday was John Lennon's 1969 classic "Give Peace a Chance."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>S. African activists: Jewish settlers yelled at them in Hebron</title>
<date>9/7/2008</date>
<content>
A delegation of South African human rights activists say settlers verbally abused them while the visited the West Bank city of Hebron.

The group is on a mission to Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Former anti-apartheid activists Zackie Achmat and Edwin Cameron are participating in the tour.

"Settlers yelled and cursed at the group," said Avner Inbar, an Israeli accompanying the activists.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the activists entered a restricted zone, and three Israelis were arrested for disturbing the peace.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Settlers: Ministers inciting against us</title>
<date>3/11/2008</date>
<content>
The Citizens Committee for Samaria is set to file a complaint against Vice Premier Haim Ramon and National Infrastructures Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, claiming that remarks they made during Sunday's cabinet meeting constituted libel and incitement against the settler community.

Ben-Eliezer and Ramon had railed against the settlers during the meeting, which was devoted to the issue of extreme right-wing violence.

While Ramon had expressed displeasure over "discrimination and apartheid in dealing with Palestinians and Jews involved in disturbances in Judea and Samaria," Ben-Eliezer warned of political violence and said of the settlers: "They don't think like us," he said. "They are mystical, messianic, violent, satanic and irrational."

The comments came after a briefing to the cabinet on the recent wave of clashes between the police and army and some right-wing activists and settlers following the demolition of the Federman Farm near Hebron last week.

Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) head Yuval Diskin said that the situation was such today that if the government gave an order to evacuate settlement outposts, there would be much stronger resistance than in the past, including "the use of weapons to prevent or stop one diplomatic plan or the other."

The decision to request that Attorney-General Menahem Mazuz prosecute Ramon and Ben-Eliezer for incitement and libel was made after deliberations late Sunday that included leaders of the settler community, as well as public figures and lawyers.

The settler leaders also said that they would consider filing complaints against additional figures, including Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.

"Leading the libelers and defamers is convicted criminal Haim Ramon," the complaint read. "He initiated the meeting and called for the arrest of hundreds of civilians on the basis of 'intelligence.' Following in Ramon's wake was Minister Fuad [Binyamin] Ben-Eliezer, who called the excellent settler community people with 'satanic thoughts,' no less, and went so far as to recommend that a 'blitz' be opened against them."

In his letter to Mazuz, settler representative attorney Doron Ben-Zvi went on to assert that "failure to initiate an investigation of the ministers would constitute clear favoritism.

"Regrettably, you not only participated in the cabinet meeting but stood aloof while several of the senior ministers (as well as the prime minister himself) made horrible inciting remarks against a community that is almost exclusively gentle, innocent and law-abiding."

Herb Keinon and Tovah Lazaroff contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sheetrit: Revoke former MK Bishara's citizenship</title>
<date>21/11/2008</date>
<content>
Interior Minister Meir Sheetrit has petitioned Attorney-General Menahem Mazuz and Shin Bet (Israel Security Service) head Yuval Diskin  requesting that they look into the possibility of revoking former Balad chairman Azmi Bishara's Israeli citizenship, Army Radio reported Friday.

According to a document obtained by the radio station, Sheetrit asked Mazuz and Diskin to turn their attention to the subject as soon as possible after the Supreme Court ruled that responsibly for the issue lay with the interior minister.

Bishara is suspected of treason and espionage for allegedly aiding Hizbullah during the Second Lebanon War. He is also accused of money laundering.

After fleeing the country in 2007, the former Balad chairman now resides in Jordan and uses his Israeli passport for his travels, even though he has described Israel as an "apartheid state."

Current Balad chairman, Jamal Zahalka, expressed his anger at Sheetrit's proposal.

"Whatever the final decision is, we strongly oppose revoking citizenship from anyone in the country," he said. "Why aren't they also seeking to revoke Yigal Amir's citizenship?"

If Bishara's citizenship is revoked, he would lose the financial benefits he receives as a former MK.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African activists return home hopeful about Israeli-Palestinian cooperation</title>
<date>14/7/2008</date>
<content>
Members of the South African Human Rights Delegation that toured Israel and the Palestinian territories last week say although they were disturbed by similarities with apartheid, they saw hopeful signs of cooperation between Israelis and Palestinians.

The group, including some high-profile members such as member of parliament and Communist Party member Nozizwe Madlala-Routledge, spent much more time during their weeklong visit with Palestinians and Israeli left-wing activists than in mainstream Israeli society.

"We saw a fledgling group of Israelis and Palestinians working together," delegation co-organizer Nathan Geffen said. "I know these activists do not represent most Israelis, but I would like to see them become the mainstream."

"Israel's finest youth" can be found among left-wing groups such as Breaking the Silence, said Doron Isaacs, former general secretary of Habonim, and the trip's other organizer.

"There are similarities [to apartheid], but we need both sides to break through and communicate with each other," said Pregs Govender, a women's activist.

Jody Kollapen of the South African Human Rights Commission, a former anti-apartheid activist, said that Israelis and Palestinians must realize their destinies are intertwined, as are those of whites and blacks in South Africa.

He also said, however, that the Palestinians he spoke to were not hopeful about the future of the conflict.

"[Israelis and Palestinians] are living among each other but totally separate, and it is not sustainable," Kollapen said.

Before they left South Africa, Israel's ambassador to Pretoria, Ilan Baruch, asked to speak to members of the delegation about the possible lack of objectivity in what would be presented to them.

"[I told them] to be careful of being taken on a ride by people who do not necessarily want peace," Baruch said. "I warned them it is a delicate time to be a burden on Israel because Israel is in the midst of peace negotiations with the Palestinians."

Michael Bagraim, national president of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, told The Jerusalem Post by phone from South Africa that the comparison between apartheid and Zionism was mostly made by South African media and that the delegation, now back home, had presented a much more positive message to him.

"Once we deal with the misconceptions surrounding the trip we can take the positives of their visit and bridge the gaps between Muslims and Jews in South Africa," Bagraim said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African team to probe 'IDF abuses'</title>
<date>6/7/2008</date>
<content>
A 25-member delegation from South Africa arrived in Israel on Sunday with the self-proclaimed goal of examining Israeli human rights violations against the Palestinians.

The delegation is comprised of top judges and politicians, including Edwin Cameron, a justice of the supreme court of appeal of South Africa, and Nozizwe Madlala-Routledge, a member of parliament, and activists from the country's Jewish community.

Doron Isaacs, previously the national chairman of Habonim (a Jewish youth group) in South Africa and now unaffiliated with the group, helped organize the trip.

Avner Inbar, an Israeli human-rights activist who is hosting the South Africans, said the delegation would not agree to have any interviews with foreign media published until Friday.

"We want to support those Palestinians and Israelis working... to bring an end to the post-1967 Israeli occupation, to end all human rights abuses and breaches of international law, and to move toward peaceful relations and a just settlement," stated the delegation's mission statement.

"The delegation's visit has two purposes; they can teach us about political activism abroad, and we can show them our situation here," said Inbar.

An official in an Israeli NGO with strong ties to South Africa, who asked not to be identified, slammed the delegation's agenda, saying it was clearly anti-Israel.

"This visit is a sham," he said. "They haven't come to learn anything new, but to reinforce their anti-Israel agenda."

As part of their tour, they will meet with Palestinian and Israeli left-wing activists, but also with Supreme Court President Dorit Beinisch. They are also scheduled to go on a guided tour of Yad Vashem.

Among the delegation's destinations are Nablus, Hebron and east Jerusalem, places which Inbar said are examples of Israel's human rights violations.

The Foreign Ministry was aware of the delegation's trip but is not involved in its activities, said Yossi Levi, a ministry spokesman. Levi added that the delegation had met with Ilan Baruch, the Israeli ambassador to South Africa, in Pretoria prior to the trip.

Inbar also said members of the delegation have experience in the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and that they can contribute to what he considers a similar struggle in the Palestinian territories.

"I do not agree with using apartheid rhetoric because it is inflammatory, but I think the comparison is legitimate," he said. "One purpose of the visit is to see if indeed the comparison is legitimate in their eyes."

"We are trying to show them facts on the ground, like the wall, road blocks and the lack of ability to move freely," he said.

While Inbar said the trip is meant for the mutual exchange of information among members of the delegation and activists, he would also like to see the trip influence the South African government's position on Israel, even if it means the possibility of sanctions.

"After 41 years of occupation, it is appropriate for the international community to influence Israel to change its policies," he said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South African tour of Hebron curtailed by police</title>
<date>9/7/2008</date>
<content>
Three left-wing activists who led a South African human rights delegation including two judges and a member of parliament on a tour of Hebron, were detained for several hours by police Wednesday.

Danny Poleg, a police spokesperson, said the tour was cut short because the group had entered a closed military zone without prior coordination with security forces.

The group also failed to display a police-issued permit, which according to an agreement between police and the attorney general is a necessary stipulation for touring the area. Yehuda Shaul, one of the detainees, said he had obtained a permit for the tour which was revoked by police two days before it was scheduled to take place. Poleg would not confirm that a permit had been issued.

Shaul added that "when we obtained permits for Hebron tours in the past, police still prevented us from touring because of threats posed by settlers."

But Poleg said that besides for two occasions when there were security threats, the activists' tours were permitted, albeit for shorter amounts of time than originally intended.

Adar Grayusky, another activist accompanying the delegation, said their lack of permit enabled the group to pass part of the tour without confrontation from settlers who usually accost her groups on their arrival in Hebron. "As we didn't have a permit, they [the settlers] didn't know we were coming," she said.

Settlers did eventually catch up with them, however, and angry scenes ensued.

"They were shouting at us through megaphones and expressing a lot of hatred toward Yehuda [Shaul]," said Doron Isaacs, one of the organizers of the trip. "I felt fear for him, it was all quite brutal."

Interaction between tourists and settlers was calmer at the Me'arat Hamachpela tomb, the group's last stop.

"We did not like that this [confrontation] is what [the delegation] saw here; we try to welcome everyone who comes even if we do not agree with them," said Hebron resident Noam Arnon.

"I explained to them that they were used... that the activists were provoking the uncomfortable situation intentionally."

Isaacs said, "We were not convinced by what they said but we let them tell us [what their point of view is],"

The delegation, which consisted of activists and members of the South African Jewish community, is spending the week touring Israel and the territories and speaking with Israelis and Palestinians.

Isaacs said the group's campaign was based on the premise that violence has not been and will not be effective for the Palestinians just as it was not effective in the struggle against apartheid.

"Palestinians must understand the fears of Israeli and the fears of Jews and fight against problems in society rather than against people themselves," he said.

He added that although he is not seeking to create "moral or analytical equivalency," what the delegation had witnessed of Hebron reminded them of apartheid.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>South Africa pulls 'Durban II' bid</title>
<date>1/5/2008</date>
<content>
As the United Nations prepared Friday to choose a venue for next year's controversial "Durban II" anti-racism conference, Ambassador to the UN in Geneva Yitzhak Levanon told The Jerusalem Post he was relieved that South Africa had withdrawn its offer to host the event.

"I am happy with this [turn of events]," Levanon said by telephone from Geneva on Thursday. "We were working very hard behind the scenes on this."

Israel, he said, had been concerned when South African President Thabo Mbeki told his parliament in February that his country wanted to host the follow-up to the 2001 conference, which took place in Durban and was dominated by denunciations of Israel and Jews.

Israel has already announced its plans to boycott the 2009 conference out of concern it would similarly disintegrate into an anti-Israel hate-fest, and the US and Canada were also planning to stay away.

But Israel has closely followed the work of the planning committee that has held meetings in Geneva for the past few weeks.

A Foreign Ministry source told the Post on Thursday night that what was important was not the location of the conference, but rather its content.

"If it takes place somewhere other than South Africa and is still an anti-Israel meeting, what difference does it make to us where it takes place?"

Still, Levanon felt the venue was very important.

If it had been set for South Africa, "there would be an automatic linkage with [the first conference in] Durban," Levanon said.

He was hopeful it would now be placed in Geneva or New York, where the UN has its headquarters.

Leone de Picciotto, the Geneva representative for the International Council of Jewish Women, said, "It must be on UN premises, so everyone would be able to express themselves within the rules of conduct, with the security services here, and not degenerate into the stink Durban was."

Despite the venue change, concern remains high, as the preparatory committee is chaired by Libya and includes Iran and Cuba.

Iran created the biggest stir this week by blocking the Canadian Council for Israel and Jewish Advocacy from from attending the 2009 conference.

The Canadian nongovernmental organization needed certification because it did not exist when the Durban I conference was held in 2001. NGOs that attended the first conference are grandfathered to attend the 2009 one.

The UN preparatory committee did certify the Community Security Trust, a Jewish British group; the Foundation Against Racism and Anti-Semitism, a Swiss NGO; and the "Grassroots Palestinian Anti-Apartheid Wall Campaign."

On Monday, the day Palestinians claimed that an IDF tank shell killed four children and their mother in Beit Hanun, in the northern Gaza Strip - a claim rejected by Israel, but usually the kind of incident that unleashes a torrent of anti-Israel condemnation at the United Nations - Arab and Muslim diplomats in Geneva chose to focus on keeping the 2009 conference on track.

The Palestinian delegate, speaking on behalf of Arab member-states during a two-week "preparation conference," opted not to spotlight specific Palestinian concerns, instead urging the anti-racism forum to rid humanity of "this scourge in many parts of the world."

"Certainly we are addressing all the issues of racism happening around the world," a Middle Eastern diplomat said in the hallway. Singling one out  "depends on the seriousness and magnitude of the violations."

Diplomats and observers say there's a reason for this relatively tame approach during the preparatory meetings.

With Canada, the United States and Israel boycotting the event, they say, the Arab and Muslim world runs the risk of driving out more Western nations if they exploit the forum to gang up on Israel.

Any collapse would mark another humiliation for what some consider the world's foremost anti-racism gathering and further entrench the notion of UN impotence when confronted with issues of the day.

"There have been quite loud signals from some European capitals that they would reconsider staying engaged in this process," one Western diplomat said, adding that the 57-member Organization for Islamic Conference "needs us for credibility, or else it'd be just a bunch of guys from the developing world talking about something."

That does not mean there have not been plenty of coded references to Israel throughout these sessions, including "colonialism" and "occupation." Also, the Syrian ambassador referred to those with a "cultural superiority complex" who deny the "right of millions to self-determination."

But the collegial setting at the meetings in picturesque Geneva has not dissolved into the wild scene that was Durban, when several thousand nongovernmental activists at the parallel NGO Forum pushed through one of the harshest UN documents ever produced.

That document accused the Jewish state of genocide, apartheid and ethnic cleansing, among other war crimes, and called for boycotts, sanctions and embargoes.

The atmosphere was so toxic in 2001, punctuated by openly anti-Semitic instances, that then-UN high commissioner for human rights Mary Robinson of Ireland declined to recommend the document to the government representatives, whose own document is often overlooked for being much milder.

This helps explain why Slovenia, speaking in Geneva last week for the European Union, noted the "unacceptable anti-Semitism" at Durban, and prodded delegates to avoid "excessive polarization" and "singling out [a] specific geographic situation."

In looking toward the upcoming conference, half a dozen Jewish monitors and watchdogs who attended the planning meeting said renewed efforts by the Organization for Islamic Conference to redefine anti-Semitism to include "Islamophobia" of fellow Semite Arabs were a slap at Jews and did not bode well for next year.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Thousands of Arabs mark Land Day</title>
<date>30/3/2008</date>
<content>
Thousands of Israeli Arabs waved Palestinian flags and chanted slogans in praise of "martyrs" during a march in Sakhnin to commemorate Land Day on Sunday.

A picturesque Galilee backdrop of green hills was punctured by megaphone shouts in Arabic of "Do not worry, mother of martyr, your son did not die in vain," "We are with the youths who throw rocks," and "We do not fear Israel, the terrorist state."

Police kept a low profile, monitoring the event from a helicopter high above and manning a checkpoint at the entrance to Sakhnin.

In Hebrew, marchers chanted slogans against Defense Minister Ehud Barak, shouting, "Barak, how many children did you murder today?"

The demonstrators marched from Sakhnin to the neighboring village of Arrabe, where they gathered in empty market stalls to mark 32 years since a demonstration in the area against government use of local lands degenerated into a bloody confrontation with security forces, resulting in the deaths of six people.

"Thousands are here to express their view in a civilized manner," MK Ibrahim Sarsour (United Arab List-Ta'al) said. "We are not calling for independence or autonomy. Our slogan is that Israel needs to include the Arab minority in its national planning. We, the Arab minority, are out of the government's plans."

As Sarsour spoke, hundreds of participants shouted, "Palestine is Arab and the Golan is Syrian!"

Asked to respond to the chants around him, Sarsour said, "These calls are understandable," but added that "they have no place here."

A short distance away, a struggle ensued for control of the microphone, as bearded youths took control and began shouting "Palestine!" Other youths covered their faces with keffiyehs and cheered. The show was short-lived, however, as other rally participants showed disapproval and regained control of the microphone after a brief scuffle.

"This is the central Land Day event in the country," MK Muhammad Barakei (Hadash) said, as he walked at the front of the march with a number of village notables. "This symbolizes the fight of Arabs for existence in Israel. We're fighting waves of racism and fascism, with Knesset members like [NU/NRP's Effi] Eitam and [Israel Beiteinu chairman Avigdor] Lieberman competing over who can be the most racist."

"We're not temporary visitors here, and we've seen harder days after 1948," he said, adding that there was no need to apologize over calls in favor of "martyrs."

"Our language is not the language of the establishment," Barakei said. "A martyr is someone who sacrificed himself for his homeland, such as those who fell in 1976. This is our language, and it's the tongue we speak in. We don't speak in the language of racists."

Other marchers, like Basher and Sahab, two young men from neighboring Nazareth, said they considered "suicide bombers from Gaza to be martyrs, too."

"This is a holy day for us, a day of struggle," Basher said. "Every Israeli government has taken land in the Galilee and the Negev, and we're fighting against that. We want to remind the world that we're under occupation."

Said Hasnen, an editor at the weekly Israeli-Arab newspaper Kul al-Arab, held a lively discussion with a friend while marching to Arrabe. Speaking to The Jerusalem Post, Hasnen called into question the historical attachment of Jews to Israel, saying, "The Torah mentions Palestine. We are the permanent ones here, Israel is the visitor."

His friend, Hussein Kalaila, added, "Why should we be Israelis? I have a Palestinian identity. We are Palestinian Arabs in every way. This land is called Palestine."

A statement released this week in honor of Land Day by the NGO Adalah - The Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel, said: "This colonial regime has now been in existence for over 60 years, on the basis of a Zionist ideology to control the 'Land of Israel'... The apartheid regime was overthrown in South Africa... such regimes have no place in this century."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN expert asks UNHRC to widen his mandate</title>
<date>16/6/2008</date>
<content>
A UN expert charged with investigating Israeli rights abuses against Palestinians says his role is biased and should be widened to include violations carried out by Palestinians as well.

Richard Falk, a professor emeritus at Princeton University, asked the UN Human Rights Council on Monday to address persistent criticism of his post by changing the job description.

"I think the idea of investigating violations of international humanitarian law only make sense if all the relevant parties are included," Falk told The Associated Press after the meeting.

Attention has been diverted from Israel's human rights abuses in the Palestinian territories by those who argue his role is one-sided and biased, he said.

"One exposes the real character of the occupation much more effectively if one responds to that criticism, which I think is in any event a fair criticism," Falk said.

Widening the mandate given to him by the 47-nation Human Rights Council would make his job both more effective and fairer, he said.

Falk, like his predecessor John Dugard, has faced scrutiny for his comments about Israel's presence in the Palestinian territories.

Dugard, a South African law professor, compared Israeli treatment of Palestinians to apartheid, the discriminatory policy of the former white regime in South Africa toward blacks.

And Israel reacted angrily earlier this year to comments by Falk that appeared to equate Israel's treatment of Palestinians with Nazi atrocities against Jews during the Holocaust.

Falk said he would be disappointed if the Geneva-based council does not expand his job when it reviews the role for the first time in September.

He said, however, he would not want to investigate abuses by Palestinians against their own people.

"I think the [UN's] special attention to the occupation has to include resistance to the occupation," he said. "That is why I favor expanding the mandate, but not expanding it to include what Palestinians do to each other."

Reports compiled by the unpaid UN experts are presented to the council for debate, occasionally resulting in critical resolutions.

During its two-year lifetime the council has condemned Israel some 20 times - more than any other country - for its actions in the Palestinian territories and in Lebanon.

The council's resolutions are symbolic and carry no legal weight.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN expert: Palestinian terror 'inevitable consequence' of occupation</title>
<date>26/2/2008</date>
<content>
A report commissioned by the United Nations suggests that Palestinian terrorism is the "inevitable consequence" of Israeli occupation and laws that resemble South African apartheid - a claim Israel rejected Tuesday as enflaming hatred between Jews and Palestinians.

The report by John Dugard, independent investigator on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for the UN Human Rights Council, will be presented next month, but it has been posted on the body's Web site.

In it, Dugard, a South African lawyer who campaigned against apartheid in the 1980s, says "common sense ... dictates that a distinction must be drawn between acts of mindless terror, such as acts committed by al-Qaida, and acts committed in the course of a war of national liberation against colonialism, apartheid or military occupation."

Israel's UN ambassador in Geneva slammed Dugard's analysis. "The common link between al-Qaida and the Palestinian terrorists is that both intentionally target civilians with the mere purpose to kill," Itzhak Levanon said. "The fact that Professor Dugard is ignoring this essential fact, demonstrates his inability to use objectivity in his assessment.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UNHRC slams Israel for 'crimes against humanity'</title>
<date>9/12/2008</date>
<content>
The UN Human Rights Council's special rapporteur on the situation of Palestinian human rights in the West Bank and Gaza has accused Israel of committing a crime against humanity with its policies in the Gaza Strip.

In a statement issued Tuesday, the rapporteur, Richard Falk, said, "Preventive action must be taken immediately to offset the persisting and wide-ranging violations of the fundamental human right to life, and in view of the emerging situation that is producing a humanitarian catastrophe that is unfolding day by day."

Israel closed its border crossings with the Gaza Strip on November 4 after clashes erupted with Palestinian terror groups, shattering the tense calm that had been in effect for several months. Since then, it has allowed only a small amount of fuel, food and medicines to enter the Gaza Strip. Gaza also receives supplies from Egypt via the tunnels linking it to the Sinai Peninsula.

"Israel still maintains its Gaza siege in its full fury, allowing only barely enough food and fuel to enter to stave off mass famine and disease," Falk wrote. "Such a policy of collective punishment initiated by Israel to punish Gazans for political developments within the Gaza Strip constitutes a continuing flagrant and massive violation of international humanitarian law."

Falk pointed out that Israel had been criticized for its Gaza policies by senior UN officials, including the UN secretary-general, the president of the UN General Assembly and the UN high commissioner for human rights.

"Such a flurry of denunciations by normally cautious UN officials has not occurred on a global level since the heyday of South African apartheid," said Falk.

In response to these charges, Anne Bayefsky, a human rights scholar and senior fellow with the Hudson Institute, told The Jerusalem Post that "Falk has been on what can only be described as the lunatic fringe of the international human rights community for a long time, and this statement of his simply confirms the worst fears that his appointment by the Human Rights Council evoked.

"His wild accusations comparing Israeli behavior to apartheid, going out of his way to use words like 'mass famine and disease' and 'humanitarian catastrophes,' coupled with his usual excuses for terrorism against Israelis, demonstrate that this is a man who literally has no understanding whatsoever of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He brings to the table a bias which is continually demonstrated, an inability and unwillingness to report the facts without referencing his - what can only be described as anti-Jewish comments. It is an outrage that the UN appointed him and that he has now been given a global platform to spread his version of hate," Bayefsky continued.

"Richard Falk, in short, is dedicating himself as a UN 'expert' to the destruction of the Jewish state, despite all his pretenses to the contrary. I say that because he knows full well that there's a context to his remarks. When he uses the word 'apartheid,' he means that Israel ought to be subject to the same kind of sanctions, boycott and isolation that were applied to apartheid South Africa. Falk places himself firmly in the camp [of those] whose real objection to Israel is its refusal to roll over and play dead in the face of terrorism," she said.

Earlier, Bayefsky spoke at a conference at Bar-Ilan University marking 60 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Genocide Convention. Bayefsky said that since its establishment more than two years ago, the UN Human Rights Council had held 12 regular sessions dealing with human rights issues all over the world. Each session dealt with fewer than a dozen topics, but Israel was always one of them. Furthermore, the council has held four special sessions dealing only with alleged Israeli human rights violations.

More than 50 percent of all human rights condemnations issued by the council have been against Israel. Sudan comes in second, having received about 20% of the condemnations. Only five other countries have been condemned by the council.

Earlier this week, the UN Human Rights Council called on Israel to end its blockade of Gaza and release Palestinian prisoners.

The two recommendations were part of a list of 99 adopted at the end of a two-day review of the Jewish State's record, Reuters reported.

In response to the recommendations, Israel's UN ambassador in Geneva, Aharon Leshno Ya'ar, said Israel "remains committed to reinforcing areas in which we are succeeding and bettering those areas that need improvement."

JTA contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN: Israel violated Geneva Conventions</title>
<date>25/10/2008</date>
<content>
The UN's special rapporteur on human rights in the territories has accused Israel of failing to halt settlement expansion in keeping with the Annapolis protocols and of violating the Geneva Conventions in Gaza.

Richard Falk, an American Jewish law professor who has been an outspoken critic of Israel's treatment of Palestinians, recommended Thursday that the UN resume economic assistance to Gaza irrespective of whether Hamas satisfies political conditions set by Israel.

He also suggested that the General Assembly ask the International Court of Justice to conduct an assessment of Israeli actions in Gaza and said the UN should ask Switzerland to convene a review of Israel's compliance with the Geneva Conventions.

He added that the world body should "explore its own responsibility with respect to the well-being of the Palestinians living under the unlawful conditions of occupation."

Falk, who described Israel's approach to Gaza as a "siege," pointed to the difficulty of obtaining exit visas from Gaza for medical care as evidence of Israel's "collective punishment" of Gazans.

He cited increased checkpoint security in the West Bank as evidence that the Israeli government was reneging on promises made at Annapolis, which were "specifically understood to commit Israel both to ease restrictions on movement of Palestinians subject to occupation and to freeze settlement activity."

The presentation to the General Assembly's social and humanitarian committee, chaired by the Dutch, was Falk's first since taking over as rapporteur in May from John Dugard, a South African expert on apartheid.

It accompanied Falk's report, submitted to the committee by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon in September, in which he insisted that Gaza remains under occupation despite the 2005 disengagement, and therefore is subject to protection under international law.

Israeli envoy Ady Schonmann, a human rights expert in the Foreign Ministry, appeared before the committee to criticize the report, saying that it reflected the "partisan political position which has taken root at the Human Rights Council."

The council, the successor body to the UN Human Rights Commission, has included reviews of alleged human rights abuses by Israel as a regular agenda item sponsored by Islamic countries.

Schonmann protested the "unbalanced nature" of Falk's report, which did not take into account terrorist acts perpetrated by the Palestinians and legitimized Hamas while ignoring "the fact that Hamas's own leaders continue to call for the total destruction of the State of Israel, to reject a two-state solution, to reject the Annapolis process and to declare their active support for terrorism."

Schonmann also criticized Falk for relying on anonymous sources and cherry-picking academics to support his claims.

Falk, for his part, returned the jab by criticizing Israel for refusing to grant him a visa.

Falk's appointment by the UN's Human Rights Council was roundly rejected by Israel, which cited Falk's comparison in 2007 of Israeli treatment of Palestinians to Nazi treatment of Jews in Germany.

Falk told the BBC in an April interview that he made the comparison to shock Americans, adding that he felt the Gaza situation was akin to the crisis in Darfur or the repression of Tibet.
</content>
</article>
