<article>
<title>Abbas: No temporary borders for state</title>
<date>25/4/2010</date>
<content>
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas on Saturday said he strongly opposes the idea of a Palestinian state with temporary borders or a “one-state solution,” saying the Palestinians remained committed to the two-state solution.Abbas’s remarks came a day after he met in his Ramallah office with US special envoy George Mitchell, who briefed him on his talks with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem earlier in the day.




Mitchell arrived in Israel on Thursday amid high hopes of a breakthrough that would launch proximity talks between Israel and the PA.Outside of meetings on Friday with Netanyahu and Abbas, Mitchell spoke with Defense Minister Ehud Barak and President Shimon Peres. He is scheduled to hold a second meeting with Netanyahu on Sunday before he flies back to Washington.But already on Friday night, US State Department spokesman Philip Crowley said, “Are we expecting a breakthrough through this visit? Probably not.”Chief PA Negotiator Saeb Erekat said after the Abbas-Mitchell meeting that it was premature to talk about the resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks in the coming days. He said that Mitchell would pursue his efforts to reach an agreement that would allow the two sides to return to the negotiating table.A PA official in Ramallah said that Mitchell did not bring anything new.“We keep hearing the same things again and again,” the official said. “Our position is clear. There will be no resumption of the talks until the settlement construction stops, not only in the West Bank but also in east Jerusalem.”The prime minister has adamantly refused to stop construction in Jewish neighborhoods of east Jerusalem.In an interview with ABC early in the week, he said that such a notion was a “non-starter.” On Thursday night, hours after Mitchell arrived in Israel, Netanyahu told Channel 2 this was a “red line” he did not intend to cross.Still, Barak, who himself heads to Washington on Sunday for a weeklong visit to the US, told Channel 1 on Friday evening that he hoped proximity talks could be launched within two weeks.Direct talks with the Palestinians were broken off at the end of 2008, during Operation Cast Lead, and were not resumed when Netanyahu took office in March 2009, despite his repeated calls for the Palestinians to return to the negotiating table.In early March, Mitchell had secured a Palestinian agreement to start proximity talks. But the Palestinians changed their minds after an Interior Ministry committee advanced a plan to build 1,600 Jewish homes in northeast Jerusalem’s Ramat Shlomo neighborhood.It is expected that before he would agree to hold proximity talks, Abbas would seek the approval of the Arab League, which is set to meet on May 1. He is not expected to press for such approval until Israel cedes to his demand to halt construction.According to media reports, Netanyahu has offered the Palestinians other incentives to agree to proximity talks, such as releasing Palestinian security prisoners and removing IDF road blocks in the West Bank.The Jerusalem Post had also reported that Israel had a plan to withdraw to where the IDF was deployed in the West Bank before the outbreak of the second intifada in late 2000. In addition, it was reported that Netanyahu offered Abbas a state with temporary borders on anywhere from 50 to 80 percent of the West Bank.A diplomatic source, however, denied that Israel had made such a proposal.The source added that the idea of a “temporary state” was included in the road map and in addition had been part of diplomatic discourse for a decade.Addressing the Fatah Revolutionary Council in Ramallah, Abbas said of the idea of a state with temporary borders, “Please forget about it.” He said that his idea was first mentioned in the road map, but only as an option. He claimed that while the Palestinians have abided by all terms of the road map, “Israel has not fulfilled any of its commitments.”The Fatah Revolutionary Council began a series of meetings aimed at supporting Palestinian “popular resistance” and voicing solidarity with “martyrs and prisoners” in Israeli prisons.Abbas called on Israel to halt all settlement construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem so as to pave the way for the launching of “real negotiations” over final-status issues under US, Arab and international auspices. He expressed his belief that an agreement could then be achieved within two years.Abbas likened Israel’s “occupation” to the “apartheid regime” in South Africa and said there was a need for a “brave” Israeli leadership to change the situation.The PA president also denied that the Palestinians had set conditions for resuming peace talks with Israel. He said that previous agreements between the two sides prohibited unilateral actions that could prejudice the outcome of the final-status negotiations. Abbas also renewed his call for reconciliation between his Fatah faction and Hamas. He urged the Islamist movement to accept the latest Egyptian proposal for ending the Fatah-Hamas dispute.Addressing Hamas, he declared: “Let’s arrive at the moment of truth. Let’s reach understandings, because if the difference is over one point here and one point there, then you are not serious.” Abbas called on US President Barack Obama to impose a Middle East peace deal. In an unusually blunt appeal, Abbas said that if Obama believes Palestinian statehood is a vital US interest, then the American leader must take forceful steps to bring it about.“Since you, Mr. President, and you, the members of the American administration, believe in this, it is your duty to call for the steps in order to reach the solution and impose the solution – impose it,” Abbas said in a speech to leaders of his Fatah movement.“But don’t tell me it’s a vital national strategic American interest... and then not do anything,” he said.Barak told Channel 1 on Friday that Israel should come up with its own peace plan.Before his meeting with Mitchell, Netanyahu said that he looked forward to working with Obama and Mitchell to advance peace.Relations between the US and Israel have been strained since the Ramat
Shlomo announcement in the midst of a visit by Vice President Joe Biden.On Friday, Netanyahu and Mitchell were careful to shake hands warmly in front of the cameras.Mitchell quoted from Obama’s statement to Israel on Independence Day,
in which he said, “We continue to share a strong unbreakable bond of
friendship between our two nations. Anchored by the United States’
enduring commitment to Israel’s security, Israel remains our important
partner and key strategic ally in the Middle East.
AP contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Activists call for 'end to apartheid' outside of TA center</title>
<date>15/11/2010</date>
<content>
Left-wing activists gathered outside the Center for Performing Arts in Tel Aviv Monday evening calling for a boycott on Israel while a group of right-wing activists waved flags across from them.Shortly before the premier of the opera "Porgy and Bess," at the Center for the Performing Arts in Tel Aviv, which was set to be performed by actors from the Capetown Opera House in South Africa, left-wing activists waved signs and shouted: "Palestine, life there is not easy," and "Fascism is at the door."




RELATED:South African opera rejects call to cancel Israel tourBoycotting the boycottThe activists, creating their own version of a song featured in opera, chanted: "Today you came to hear a story from long ago, a quite painful story, that touches the heart, oh, that reminds me of here. Stop the apartheid, enough, it's time." Across from the left-wing activists, a right-wing group waved Israeli 
flags and held signs reading "We are all Israel, we are all Ariel" in 
reference to recent calls by Israeli artists to boycott a new cultural 
center in the West Bank settlement of Ariel. The right-wing activists 
also chanted: "Ariel residents serve in the Army and protect you so that
 you could go see plays, shame on you."Performances in Israel by singers from the Cape Town Opera House drew harsh condemnation in South Africa itself. Cape Town's opera troupe rejected previous calls from retired Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu to cancel performances in Israel.
Tutu,
 who earned a Nobel Prize for his peaceful opposition to apartheid, 
urged the opera troupe not to tour Israel until what he called, 
"discrimination," ends there.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ambassadors show credentials amidst diplomatic embarassment</title>
<date>28/5/2010</date>
<content>
All the usual trappings were there – a military honor guard, a military brass band, the unfurling of flags and the playing of national anthems – as four new ambassadors presented their credentials to President Shimon Peres at Beit Hanassi on Thursday at half-hour intervals.The ambassadors were Tomas Pojar of the Czech Republic, Andrea Faulkner of Australia, Christina Lambert of Zambia, and Jaffalie Mussa of Malawi.




Notwithstanding the pleasantries, a cloud of diplomatic embarrassments hung heavy in the air.First there was the long period that had elapsed since Pojar arrived in Israel on February 1. More than three months is a long time for someone already in the country to carry the title “ambassador designate.”Then there was the humiliation that Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kohout suffered at the hands of immigration police at Ben-Gurion Airport, when he and his entourage were delayed for more than half an hour as they were leaving the country because someone had neglected to stamp his passport when he arrived earlier this month. During the visit, people accompanying him were repeatedly questioned about the stamps of Arab countries on their passports.As for Australia, there was the expulsion of the Mossad representative in Canberra over the belief that he was responsible for forging Australian passports. To cap it all, there was the Guardian report on Sunday alleging that Peres offered to sell nuclear weapons to South Africa’s apartheid government in 1975 – a claim that Peres has vigorously denied.The combined diplomatic gaffes reduced the cheer of what would usually have been a festive morning, even though everyone concerned made an effort to conduct business as usual.Pojar is a second-generation Czech ambassador to Israel; his father was the first Czech ambassador, when relations that had been severed in 1967 were renewed 20 years ago. Although the Czech Republic, which has been supportive of Israel in the European Union, is prepared to do anything possible to help in the Middle East peace process, this would not be his focal point, said Pojar. “I leave that to you to solve,” he told Peres, explaining that he would concentrate more on research and development and on student exchanges at university level. He will also recruit businesspeople of Czech background, such as brothers Dan and Gad Propper of Osem, to form an Israel-Czech Chamber of Commerce.Prior to his current appointment, Pojar worked closely with Czech President Vaclav Klaus, who he said was looking forward to a second state visit to Israel. He added that Prime Minister Jan Fischer, who has been a keen supporter of Israel and who will be out of office after this weekend’s parliamentary elections, was eager to come to Israel on a private visit.Pojar’s guess was that the Social Democrats would probably win the election, but like Israel, would not be able to form a government without coalition partners. He was hopeful that once the new government was in place that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu would pay an official visit to the Czech Republic, which, he said, had not yet been visited by any prime minister of Israel.After accepting Faulkner’s credentials and sitting down to chat with her, Peres was careful not to mention the word “Mossad.” Faulkner was equally guarded, though both made vague and even not-so-vague references to the hiccup in bilateral relations.For Faulkner, this is a second of tour of duty. She was here previously as a junior diplomat, and commented on the enormous economic development since she left in 1994.She knows the country well, but since her arrival in early March, she said, she has not seen nearly enough of the changes that have taken place.Peres complimented Australia on the way it had handled the economic crisis and said that Israel and Australia, which both have good universities and excellent scientists, could work together in areas of science and technology.Peres and Faulkner also related to the long friendship between the two countries, which the latter said was represented in the depth of political and economic ties and Australia’s dynamic Jewish community.In the two-and-a-half months since her arrival, Faulkner has engaged with Australian businesspeople representing high-level technology companies, who are excited about working with Israeli counterparts. Next month, she will be hosting an Australian university delegation that is coming to explore the potential for technological and scientific cooperation with Israel.“Notwithstanding some of the things expressed in recent days,” she said, “we look forward to continuing and enhancing our relationship in every way, including very important regional and strategic issues.”In this context she made special mention of Iran.Later at the King David hotel, where the ambassadors had gathered for the traditional vin d’honneur,  Faulkner still had no comment on the Mossad affair, noting that everything related to the incident had already been said. Nonetheless, she said Peres had a standing invitation to visit Australia, and that Australia would be delighted to welcome him at some time within the next 12 months.At his meetings with Lambert and Mussa, Peres took great pains to tell them about the world’s moral obligations to Africa, telling Lambert “humanity did not behave as it should have to Africa as a continent or to the countries of Africa.”At another point in the conversation, he said: “We pray for the complete recovery of Zambia, which was exploited for such a long time. It’s not just a matter of politics, but of moral responsibility.”
He also noted that Malawi was one of the few African countries that had
maintained constant, unbroken relations with Israel, even in difficult
times.Peres assured both Lambert and Mussa, who are nonresident ambassadors,
that Israel was happy to share its technological knowledge to help
boost their agricultural outputs and aid their economies.Lambert and Mussa were both interested in receiving such assistance and
were also keen to have Israel’s help in expanding the infrastructure of
their respective healthcare systems.Lambert also wanted to see more Israeli tourists in Zambia, and noted
that Zambia’s Victoria Falls was among the wonders of the world.
Mussa noted that Malawi was endowed with plenty of natural resources,
but “now we want technology” to help intensify agricultural activities
“so that we can be the bread basket of the region.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Amid controversy, Ariel theater opens with sold-out show</title>
<date>8/11/2010</date>
<content>
The 530-seat Ariel Cultural Center opened on Monday evening, amid a firestorm of controversy surrounding a boycott campaign by artists and academics who have vowed not to support the new facility.The theater opened with a sold-out performance of Piaf by the Beersheba Theater. On Friday, actors from the Beersheba troupe received a letter signed by artists and academics imploring them to join the boycott.




RELATED:Rattling the Cage: A little culture, 
comradesEditorial: Boycotts and legitimacyCulture Minister Livnat slams artists for Ariel 
boycottAt the opening ceremony, which Culture and Sport Minister Limor Livnat attended, Ariel Mayor Ran Nachman told the crowd “the cultural center was built by the State of Israel.We traveled a long path to get to this day. There were those who said that this stage is the subject of a controversy. This stage is a stage of unity.”The ceremony also drew members of the press from dozens of outlets, to cover the cultural center that has been at the center of a national debate for months. In August, three dozen theater actors and workers penned a letter pledging not to perform at the center because it is located over the Green Line.Days later, 150 professors and authors joined the campaign, vowing not to work at the facility, either.The boycott has been met by both support and criticism from a wide range of politicians and citizens.On Sunday, Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said he would do his part to end funding for artists and academics who pledged to boycott the center. He also accused the boycotters of practicing double standards and defaming the people of Ariel.
“These are people who call Israel ‘an apartheid state,’ while at the same time they ask for state funding for their cultural events. Anyone who calls Israel an apartheid state cannot accept funding from the state. I am very against this double standard within the country,” Lieberman said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ayalon slams Goldstone over apartheid</title>
<date>6/5/2010</date>
<content>
Reports that international jurist Richard Goldstone sent 28 black South Africans to death during the apartheid regime prove he wasn’t impartial when compiling the UN report on Operation Cast Lead, Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said Thursday.Speaking to Israel Radio, Ayalon said that, “after [Goldstone’s] dubious background was revealed, there is no reason not to think” that the judge had ulterior motives in composing the UN report accusing the IDF of perpetrating war crimes in Gaza.




Goldstone presided in South Africa during the 1980s and 1990s, and reportedly wrote in one of his rulings that the gallows are the only deterrent for killers.“This so-called respected judge is using this [Gaza] report in order to atone for his sins and gain international legitimacy,” Ayalon opined, referring to rumors that had Goldstone sought work as a judge in the International Court of Justice in The Hague.The deputy foreign minister said that he did not accept Goldstone’s response to the [South Africa] report that he was a part of the system and had to respect the laws of the state, occasionally having to enforce laws he was opposed to.“I don’t want to exaggerate, but these are the same explanations we heard in Nazi Germany after World War II,” Ayalon said. “That is not an explanation that justifies his actions.”
Reacting to criticism that Israeli daily Yediot
Aharonot unearthed the information on Goldstone, and not the
Foreign Ministry, Ayalon blamed his predecessors, especially former
foreign minister Tzipi Livni.“Without instruction from the political level, sensitive operations are
not carried out on the administrative level,” Ayalon explained. “The
instruction had to come from the leadership of the Foreign Ministry at
that time.
“If we could have used this in ‘real time,’ it would have been more
effective,” the deputy foreign minister said. “Even if Israel has no
political gain,” from releasing the information now, “it’s important
for people to know, for it to be on record.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Benisch says Nobel laureate knew of deportation order</title>
<date>4/10/2010</date>
<content>
The Supreme Court on
 Monday made it clear that it did not believe Nobel Peace Prize winner 
Mairead Maguire's claim that she did not know about the deportation 
order issued against her earlier this year for 10 years when she arrived
 in Israel last week.Supreme Court President Dorit Benisch proposed that the state allow her to remain in the country until 
Wednesday when a series of meetings she was scheduled to attend was scheduled to end.
RELATED:Court to hear Nobel Prize winner’s deportation appealHuman Rights-Israel physicians share ‘Alternative 
Nobel'Opinion: Hijacking apartheid




Benisch
 along with Justice Asher Grunis indicated that for "overall" reasons, 
which they did not explain, the state are to consider that option. 
Nevertheless, Benisch added that she was certain Maguire knew about the 
deportation order, and did not come to Israel in good faith or with 
"friendly intentions."The hearing recessed while the state 
representative, Attorney Hani Ofek, consulted with her superiors about 
the courts proposal. Before leaving she said she doubted the state would
 agree because of the issue of Israel's sovereignty and its right to 
prevent those who it does not want to enter the country.Benisch replied that the court was in no way "challenging Israel's sovereignty.""Do you thihnk that we would cast doubt on Israel's sovereignty because of this woman, (a reference to Maguire)" Benisch continued.On
 Sunday the state said that the 1976 Nobel Peace Prize winner “took the 
law into her own hands” when she flew to Israel last week, after 
having been told she would not be allowed into the country.The 
assertion came in the state’s response to an appeal by Maguire to the Supreme 
Court against a lower court decision handed down on Friday, rejecting her first 
appeal against the deportation orders.The first deportation order against 
Maguire was issued on September 30, 2009, after she participated in the voyage 
of the Arion, a vessel operated by “Free Gaza” that was trying to break the 
Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. The order was to be in force for 10 
years.In June 2010, a few days after the incident in which Israeli 
commandos stopped the Mavi Marmara on its way to Gaza, Maguire participated in 
the voyage of the MV Rachel Corrie, which also tried to break the blockade. She 
was brought to Israel and issued another deportation order, this one in effect 
until 2020.
Despite these orders, Maguire intended to co-lead a 
delegation organized by the Nobel Women’s Initiative to Israel and the West Bank 
from September 28 to October 6. In February, the organizer of the delegation, 
Liz Bernstein, informed the government of the planned trip and expressed concern 
that Maguire would not be allowed to enter the country.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Court to hear Nobel Prize winner’s deportation appeal</title>
<date>4/10/2010</date>
<content>
The state said on Sunday that 1976 Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead Maguire 
“took the law into her own hands” when she flew to Israel last week, after 
having been told she would not be allowed into the country because of 
deportation orders against her that are in effect until 2020.The 
assertion came in the state’s response to an appeal by Maguire to the Supreme 
Court against a lower court decision handed down on Friday, rejecting her first 
appeal against the deportation orders.
RELATED:Human Rights-Israel physicians share ‘Alternative 
Nobel'Opinion: Hijacking apartheid




The court will convene on Monday 
to hear the case and is expected to reach a verdict soon afterward.“The 
appellant chose to ignore the prohibition imposed on her from entering Israel in 
accordance with the deportation orders issued against her, and also chose to 
ignore two letters sent to the organizer of the delegation [of which Maguire was 
a member] by Foreign Ministry officials making it clear beyond a doubt that her 
entry to Israel would be refused,” wrote the state’s representative, attorney 
Hani Ofek.“Instead, the appellant decided to take the law into her own 
hands and establish facts on the ground by showing up at Ben-Gurion 
International Airport, apparently thinking that such an act would give her an 
advantage and lead to her being allowed to enter Israel, contrary to the law and 
the deportation orders against her.”The first deportation order against 
Maguire was issued on September 30, 2009, after she participated in the voyage 
of the Arion, a vessel operated by “Free Gaza” that was trying to break the 
Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. The order was to be in force for 10 
years.In June 2010, a few days after the incident in which Israeli 
commandos stopped the Mavi Marmara on its way to Gaza, Maguire participated in 
the voyage of the MV Rachel Corrie, which also tried to break the blockade. She 
was brought to Israel and issued another deportation order, this one in effect 
until 2020.Despite these orders, Maguire intended to co-lead a 
delegation organized by the Nobel Women’s Initiative to Israel and the West Bank 
from September 28 to October 6. In February, the organizer of the delegation, 
Liz Bernstein, informed the government of the planned trip and expressed concern 
that Maguire would not be allowed to enter the country.A Foreign 
Ministry official made it clear that Bernstein was right.“Ms. Maguire 
had deliberately chosen to take part in an illegal clash with Israeli 
authorities when she decided to embark on the so-called ‘Free Gaza’ boat,” the 
Foreign Ministry wrote. “The expedition had nothing to do with human rights or 
humanitarian assistance. Rather, it reinforced the iron grip on Gaza by 
Hamas...“By disregarding international agreements between Israel and the 
Palestinian Authority, which confer on Israel the responsibility to secure Gaza 
waters, and by attempting to ram their way through to terrorist-occupied Gaza... 
The boat’s crew have infringed on Israeli and international law. This 
unfortunate, self-imposed situation now makes it impossible for us to intervene 
in favor of changing Ms. Maguire’s legal position in the eyes of Israeli 
law.”In July, after the second incident involving the Rachel Corrie, 
Bernstein again asked the Foreign Ministry to help obtain an entry visa for 
Maguire. Once again, the ministry refused.Maguire arrived at Ben-Gurion 
on September 28 and was immediately barred from entering the country. However, 
she refused to leave on the next flight and sat down in front of the gangway to 
the plane.The case came before the Supreme Court, which ordered the 
Central District Court to hear her appeal against the deportation. On Thursday, 
the court rejected her appeal.However, before Maguire could be deported, 
she appealed to the Supreme Court against the lower court ruling. In the 
meantime, she has been held in a special lockup for people who have entered the 
country illegally and are due to be expelled.
Maguire is represented in 
her fight to overturn the deportation orders by the Haifa-based Adalah – The 
Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Debate mulls int'l law and terror</title>
<date>24/5/2010</date>
<content>
Three distinguished law professors clashed on Sunday over what Israel’s attitude toward international law should be.And while the three men, Profs. Alan Dershowitz, Aharon Barak and Amnon Rubinstein, discussed the controversial issue at the Interdisciplinary Center, Herzliya, the ghost of a fourth, Richard Goldstone, hovered above them.




The question put to the speakers was whether it was possible for Israel and other democracies to wage war against terrorists within the constraints of current international law.Dershowitz of Harvard said it was possible but that Israel should not have to do so.Interdisciplinary Center dean Rubinstein said Israel must fight terrorism while heeding international law, but that international law should be interpreted fairly and reasonably to take into account contemporary realities, and that is not happening.Former Supreme Court president Barak said the question was not realistic. Israel had no alternative but to fight terrorism within the constraints of current international law, he said.Dershowitz charged that Israel was singled out for discrimination by those who interpret international law, whether they are international tribunals like the International Court of Justice, human rights organizations or left-wing academics, including Israeli and Jewish ones.“The judges in the international tribunes are corrupt,” Dershowitz said. “They are appointed by political leaders to do their state’s bidding. You can’t have one law for Britain, one for America and another one for Israel. You can’t have different laws for thee and me. We see human rights turning into human wrongs or human lefts.“My job today is to delegitimize international law, to attack it to the core. There must be one standard for all. Until that day happens, I will be its sworn enemy. I prefer no international law to unfair international law.”Dershowitz had a proposal for how to change international law to adapt it to current realities. The law that emerged out of the experiences of the two world wars was based on a clear distinction between combatants and civilians, he said.Today, in terrorist warfare, that distinction has been blurred. Terrorists do not necessarily carry weapons at all times or wear uniforms. Dershowitz suggested the concept of a “continuum of civiliantity.”At one extreme would be pure civilians and at the other pure terrorists. In the middle there would be varying degrees of support for terrorism, from very minor to very severe.In determining the legality of military action against terrorism, the place of victims on the continuum would be a crucial factor.Barak argued that Israel must abide by all the rules of international law as they are commonly accepted.“We aren’t a superpower that can ignore the whole world,” he said. “We must conduct our external conflicts according to the law. Israel and the Israeli courts can’t change international law, although they can help develop it as we tried to do in our ruling on the security barrier.”Barak said he knew there was discrimination against Israel by international bodies but, he refused to put the emphasis on that fact, though he said it was good that people like Dershowitz were fighting against the bias.Barak added that the United States conducted its current wars with the real-time involvement of lawyers, who often told the troops when they could open fire and when not. The US knew that international law had become a serious matter.As for Israel, he continued, “you don’t need a lawyer for every soldier. You need common sense. It all depends on the situation. If the question is, ‘Can you conduct a war in this way?’ the answer is, you must conduct a war in this way. We have no choice. This is the way a state must behave. It isn’t the Wild West. Otherwise, Israel will be cast out from among the nations.”Like Barak, Rubinstein maintained that Israel must abide by international law. “It’s true,” he said. “The Geneva conventions that followed World War II
 are not applicable today, but the provisions remained the same. The 
problem is that no one interprets them according to new circumstances. “I recently read a ruling from the Iowa Supreme Court that approved 
homosexual marriages. Did they think during the time of the American 
Constitution [when it was drafted] that they would have to deal with 
such a matter? We are used to our Supreme Court taking old laws and 
accommodating to them to new situations. The question is who will 
interpret international law.”
Throughout the comments by Dershowitz and Rubinstein, Goldstone was 
never far from their thoughts. Dershowitz blasted the South African 
judge for serving on the court during the apartheid era and sentencing 
four blacks to a flogging. Rubinstein said that Goldstone’s report was a
 propaganda sheet and not a legal document.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Debunk of comparison between Israel, apartheid South Africa</title>
<date>19/7/2010</date>
<content>
Over 200 concerned Israelis, many of them of South African origin, attended a panel on “Combating Israel’s Delegitimization: Debunking the Apartheid Myth,” held Sunday evening at the Menachem Begin Heritage Center in Jerusalem.The event was organized by two South African olim, Ari Rudolph and Diane Morrison, as part of their year-long project for the Legacy Heritage Fellowship.




The speakers were Prof.Gideon Shimoni, author of Community and Conscience: The Jews in 
Apartheid South Africa; Dore Gold, former Israeli ambassador to the 
United Nations, and D.J.Schneeweiss, coordinator of anti-boycott strategy at the Foreign 
Ministry. All utterly rejected what they agreed were intensifying 
efforts by Israel’s detractors to brand Israel as an apartheid state.“As an ex-South African, it is easy for me to explain the difference,” 
said co-organizer Morrison. But for others, from different backgrounds, 
“it is more difficult,” she said, explaining the imperative behind the 
event.The event began with a short video clip of former MK Azmi Bishara, who 
has since fled the country to escape spying allegations, addressing an 
Israel Apartheid Week event in Johannesburg in 2008. He charged in the 
excerpt that Israel was an example of colonial apartheid in its very 
existence, and then asserted apartheid parallels in Israel’s treatment 
of the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, and inside Israel itself.Shimoni, the evening’s first speaker, noted that Bishara’s own status as
 a member of Knesset, from whose podium he was able to denounce the very
 country in which he had been democratically elected, contradicted many 
of Bishara’s own assertions.Shimoni went on to note that in South Africa, the conflicting forces 
were “seeking marriage,” whereas in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 
they were “seeking divorce.”He cited the concept of “racial superiority” that stood at the heart of 
the apartheid framework, and derided the “fallacious” attempts to make 
comparisons in the Israeli context.He criticized a minority of Israelis on the far-Left for making false 
apartheid comparisons, but also criticized a “Kahanist” minority of 
Israelis on the extreme Right whose thinking was similar to what he 
described as that which prevailed in the latter stages of apartheid – a 
kind of apartheid lite.Gold stressed the need for Israel to highlight its internationally 
recognized historical claims in Palestine in order to combat 
misrepresentations of Israel as an illegitimate colonialist entity, and 
to reiterate that Israel does not seek to rule the Palestinians, but 
rather is prepared for territorial compromise with them, “within 
defensible borders.”Said Gold: “Anyone who knows the history of the Jewish people knows that
 the history of Israel is a national movement and not a colonialist 
movement,” adding that the nascent Israeli air force had ultimately 
engaged in combat with the Royal Air Force in the final period of 
British rule.While other nations in the region were the product of colonialist 
imposition, Israel could be seen as an “anti-colonialist” nation, he 
said.“The analogy of apartheid is completely baseless. Attaching Israel to an
 apartheid comparison is simply part of the effort to delegitimize 
Israel, aiming to erase Jewish history from Israel,” Gold said.To combat the “poison” of the apartheid comparison, said Gold, “We must 
begin to get to the heart of the issue by asserting the truth quickly, 
by mentioning the rights of minorities in Israel, by pointing out that 
Israel wants a territorial compromise with the Palestinians.“But most importantly, we must stress before the international community
 our historical rights to the land, clarifying to the world that we are 
the people who have the original connection to this land.”Schneeweiss detailed the Foreign Ministry’s strategy in confronting the 
demonization campaign, and noted that he would soon be traveling to 
South Africa implement it.Co-Organizer Ari Rudolph said he hoped the event would empower the 
participants.“We wanted to provide the audience with the tools to tackle this false 
analogy,” he said.
The event, moderated by Jerusalem Post
 Editor-in-Chief David Horovitz, was sponsored by the Begin Center, 
Telfed and the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Do not send these children away, Foxman pleads</title>
<date>20/10/2010</date>
<content>
Abe Foxman, the director of the US-based Anti-Defamation League, took a rare and tough stand against the government on Tuesday by vowing to fight its decision to deport some 400 children of foreign workers.Foxman spoke during a visit to the Bialik Rogozin School in Tel Aviv to meet with children of foreign workers who attend the school, and hear their concerns over Israel’s looming deportation of their families and friends.




RELATED:Yishai: 'I wouldn't leave one illegal family in Israel''Interior Ministry unprepared for child deportations'In an exclusive interview with The Jerusalem Post, Foxman said he was struck by the irony of the situation, whereby the Jewish people, as embodied by the State of Israel, were about to expel children from the country, after centuries of Jews being similarly mistreated.“Everything about the values of Israel and the Jewish people screams to us: Do not send these children away! The biblical injunction to treat the stranger in your midst as you treat your own rings loud and clear,” said Foxman.He left the school pledging to present the children’s plight to Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, Justice Minister Yaakov Neeman and Interior Minister Eli Yishai when he meets them this week.“Our goal is to fight in order to protect minorities against discrimination and educate people about tolerance and respect. I am here to make sure that the world knows about you and the dangers you are facing,” Foxman told a room of high school students, all children of foreign workers, some of whom are threatened with deportation.“I also want to tell you that you are not alone, that people care about 
you and want to act on your behalf,” he said. “We care about you, and in
 the spirit of Jewish values, we will do all we can to ensure that you 
remain in Israel.“On an issue like this, where the well-being of 400 children is at 
stake, it is important for American Jews and American Jewish leaders to 
weigh in. And so I am here with you today in solidarity, not against the
 government of Israel but in standing up for what is best in the Jewish 
people, what is best in Jewish values, what is best in the Jewish and 
democratic State of Israel.”Foxman urged the children to tell him about themselves and share both 
their hopes and fears of the future. After a short silence, one of the 
girls introduced herself as Ramet whose parents are from Turkey and who 
has been living in Israel for two years.Ramet told Foxman about her desire to graduate from high school and 
serve in the IDF. She told him that her favorite subject in school was 
biology and she wants to study it in university, too.“My mother works here as a cleaner and we were told that there is a very
 small chance that we will be allowed to stay here. It took us a month 
to get all our documents in order and present them to the Ministry of 
Interior, but our lawyer said that they would not be likely to let us 
stay here,” said Ramet.“It hurt when he said that, because I really want to stay. It will be 
terrible if I have to go to Turkey. I don’t know the language and 
because we come from Israel, people there will hate us,” she said.Foxman told her that he’d try to make sure that she and her mother have a chance to stay.Kindness, a 16-year-old girl whose family is from Nigeria, asked Foxman 
to tell Yishai in their meeting that he should treat others like he 
would like to be treated himself. Foxman assured her that he would quote
 her directly to the minister.The school’s principal, Karen Tal, told Foxman that the most important 
thing he could relay to Yishai was an invitation to come and visit the 
school.“If he would come here in person, he would see that we don’t only talk 
about acceptance and tolerance, but that we live by it,” she said. “If 
he had the courage to come and meet the children, just him, without the 
cameras and the advisers, he would see that these children are just like
 everybody else, and there is no way he would go ahead with the cruel 
decision to expel them.”Foxman made clear that he respected Israel’s sovereign right to 
determine its immigration policies, but also said that on matters such 
as these, where the well-being of children is at stake, it is important 
for American Jews and American Jewish leaders to weigh in.Foxman said that in his meetings with Netanyahu and Yishai he would try to convey the importance of showing compassion.“The world will be quick to misunderstand this issue. Israelis may see 
it as a matter of enforcing government policies, but people out there 
who choose to see Israel as an apartheid state will see the act of 
deportation as evidence of discrimination.“Israel’s incredible record of absorbing new immigrants and tolerating differences will be overshadowed by this one act.The law is important, but justice and mercy must also be considerations,” said Foxman.When asked what he could tell Yishai about the children’s plight that he
 hadn’t heard before, Foxman shrugged and said that he would talk to him
 in his own way.“I will tell him that I lead an organization that loves and supports 
Israel, but that I think that he is mistaken. That’s what I told 
Netanyahu about the loyalty oath, and he reversed his decision.I will also pass on to Yishai the invitation issued by the principal.Like her, I’m convinced that after a visit of an hour or two, he himself will do anything to let them stay.”Foxman said that the issue of the foreign workers proved that Israel was not immune to societal problems.“Just because we suffered from bigotry and racism, doesn’t mean we are 
vaccinated from them, but I do hope it means that we can overcome them,”
 he said.
In August, the ADL issued a statement calling on the government to 
“gather in” the 400 children of foreign workers who failed to meet its 
criteria for permanent residence and allow them to stay, together with 
their families.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>FM: Peace talks should cover future of Israeli Arabs</title>
<date>20/9/2010</date>
<content>
With Israeli and Palestinian teams meeting in Washington this week to organize 
the next meeting between Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and Palestinian 
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said the 
issue of Israeli Arabs should be placed very high up on the agenda of the 
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.Lieberman, speaking before Sunday’s 
cabinet meeting, said that the expressed adamant refusal of the Arab league and 
the PA to recognize Israel as the nationstate of the Jewish people because of 
the concern that this would harm the status of Israeli Arabs, their demand for a 
right for Palestinian refugees and their descendents to move to Israel, coupled 
with the behavior of Haneen Zoabi (Balad) and other Arab MKs who he said were 
fighting Zionism, made it incumbent to place the issue of Israeli Arabs in the 
center of the negotiations with the Palestinians.




RELATED:Lieberman:
 Coalition won't extend building freeze Lieberman: We 
won’t have peace for generations It is impossible to run 
away from this issue, he said. “This is like someone who sells his apartment but 
insists that his mother-in-law will continue to live in it.It is 
impossible,” the foreign minister said.Lieberman, repeating a mantra he 
has been saying for months, said the guiding principle of the negotiations 
should not be land for peace, but the exchange of territories and 
populations.Lieberman, who said once a deal with the Palestinians is 
reached the Israeli Arabs will demand their own form of autonomy, has argued for 
a re-drawing of the borders, so that the vast majority of Israeli-Arab cities 
and towns will be drawn into a Palestinian state, and the bulk of the 
settlements will be drawn into Israel. His plan calls not for the physical 
transfer of people, but for a drastic readjustment of the 
borders.Lieberman said that while he believes a loyal citizen of Israel 
– Muslim, Christian or Jew – should be able to hold any position, including in 
the air force or the Mossad, MKs like Zoabi should “become citizens of a 
Palestinian state and get elected to the parliament in Gaza, with Hamas, or in 
Ramallah.Zoabi retorted by saying that Israeli Arabs are not here “by 
virtue of Lieberman.”“Our rights in our homeland are not dependent on 
Lieberman’s beliefs and not on the definitions of the State of Israel, but are 
drawn from the fact that we live in our homeland,” she said.“Lieberman’s 
plan is to weaken the Palestinians who remained in their homeland; he believes 
in apartheid and ethnic cleansing, beliefs of racists. In contrast, the 
principle guiding me and my party is that of full equality, which is impossible 
unless the state does not discriminate between citizens, something that 
contradicts the definition of the state as Jewish and democratic. It is good 
that Lieberman never misses an opportunity to prove this 
contradiction," Zoabi said.“I do, however, agree with Lieberman 
that the topic of the Palestinians in Israel and the topic of defining Israel as 
a Jewish state are subjects that should be placed on the agenda of any 
negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis,” she continued. “The 
Palestinian question is the question that began with the establishment of the 
State of Israel and not with the conquest of 1967.”MK Ahmed Tibi (United 
Arab List) also blasted the foreign minister, saying that “it is very serious 
when a deputy prime minister, a settler, deals constantly with plans to expel 
citizens. We were here before the fascist immigrant Lieberman, and we will 
remain here afterwards.”Minorities Affairs Minister Avishay Braverman 
(Labor) also slammed Lieberman, saying the foreign minister, like 
Netanyahu, 
knew there would never be a population exchange. Nevertheless, he said, 
“the 
damage he is causing Israel in the world, and [to] the delicate fabric 
between 
Jews and Arabs, is unbearable.”Lieberman, who left last night for a 
one-day visit to Prague, will be Israel’s keynote speaker at the UN 
General 
Assembly later this month.
Rebecca Anna Stoil contributed to this
 report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Gov't to close down illegal girls’ school in Emmanuel</title>
<date>16/3/2010</date>
<content>
The Ministry of Education has issued an order to shut down an illegal school for hassidic children in the haredi town of Emmanuel, three months after it was established to circumvent a High Court ruling, the state informed the court on Tuesday.The order is due to go into effect in 30 days, the state’s representative, attorney Shosh Shmueli, informed the High Court. 




“When it does, and if there is a need for it, the Ministry of Education will ask the police to enforce the order,” Shmueli said. The case involves the Beit Ya’acov Girls’ School in Emmanuel, which was originally established to provide an education for Ashkenazi and Sephardi haredi girls and is administered by the Independent Education Center, operated by Agudat Yisrael.The school belongs to the recognized but unofficial stream and is entitled to 100 percent state funding.In 2007, Ashkenazi parents belonging to hassidic sects decided to open a separate school within the building for girls who were prepared to obey rigorous religious strictures and, among other things, speak Hebrew only with an Ashkenazi accent.The Independent Education Center built plaster walls to separate the so-called hassidic track from the regular track, established separate entrances and separate teachers’ rooms, and divided the school courtyard in two with a burlap curtain.In 2008, Sephardi parents petitioned the High Court of Justice to abolish the hassidic school.In a unanimous decision handed down August, the High Court wrote that “the Beit Ya’acov school and the Independent Education Center have violated the right of the Sephardi students to equality… I shall therefore propose… that we order the Independent Education Center to remove any indication, both formal and substantive, of the phenomenon of discrimination that exists in the school.”Despite the ruling, when school opened the following month, the two tracks remained separate. The girls entered the school by different entrances and studied in separate classes.Soon afterward, however, having been called to order by the Ministry of Education, the parents of the hassidic track moved their girls out of the school and into a building owned by the Emmanuel local council.Because the local council was one of the respondents in the petition, it could not allow them to remain there. In December, the students moved out of the building and into two privately owned apartments.The pirate school, which is operating without a license, has 74 girls – about half of all the girls who originally studied in the Beit Ya’acov school.The petitioners, represented by attorneys Aviad Hacohen and Yeshayahu Avraham, asked the High Court to find the Ministry of Education, the Emmanuel local council, the Independent Education Center and the parents who took their daughters out of the official school, in contempt of court.“The court’s ruling has been publicly disgraced,” they wrote. “No one can doubt this. The classes were not integrated, and the ethnic separation effectively creates a kind of apartheid in Emmanuel, as if there is a state within a state in which the fundamental principles, Jewish and democratic, and the decisions of the court, do not apply.” During the hearing in court, Hacohen added, “I believe that after more than six months, it is only proper that we get the wheels rolling on the existing sanctions of prison and fines. The parents are sent letters telling them their children do not show up for class, and they demonstratively refuse to take them. There are sanctions that can be taken, and the time has come to finally take them. Otherwise, we won’t get anywhere.” The court ordered the respondents to present a list of all the girls in
the illegal school, including their names, the names of their parents,
their addresses and telephone numbers. The justices also asked for a
list of the teaching and administrative staff of the school, including
their names, specific jobs, addresses and the number of hours they were
supposed to be in school.
They ordered the information to be
presented to them by March 23, after which “we will make the necessary
decisions in consideration of the material before us and the arguments
we heard today.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Grapevine: Spring cleaning</title>
<date>25/3/2010</date>
<content>
IT’S AMAZING how many dignitaries and celebrities, let alone people who generally regard themselves as law abiding, think they can get away with illegally employing foreign workers. Among those caught in the act were former Finance Minister Avraham Hirschson, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and cosmetics queen and former MK Pnina Rosenblum. Now, another household name has been added to the list – that of fashion model and actress Miri Bohadana, who is usually featured in the gossip columns with regard to her ongoing affair with international businessman Bebo Kuba, with whom she shares a luxury villa in Rishpon and with whom she has a child and is expecting another. The reason that they spark so much interest among gossip columnists is that Kuba is still married to his wife, and seems in no hurry to divorce her. Apparently the couple illegally employed a Chinese housemaid with whom Bohadana had a very warm relationship. The housemaid, who is to be deported, came to Israel from Egypt and has been working for Bohadana and Kuba for two years. When immigration police knocked on the door in Rishpon, Bohadana asked them to wait for a moment, then opened the door and invited them to search wherever they wanted saying that she had nothing to conceal. After searching inside the house they went down into the pool area where they found the housemaid hiding in the bushes. Bohadana's initial reaction was “How am I going to get this house clean for Pessah?” After that she embraced the maid, whom the immigration police took away. Bohadana will have a lot to answer for in the weeks ahead.REPOSITIONING ISRAEL was the title of a conference held last week at the Rishon Lezion College of Management Academic Studies (COMAS). No, it did not suggest that Israel find another place on the map for itself. As is so often the case, it was an image issue. Ido Aharoni, Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Commissioner, reinforced the need for Israel to shake off the mantle of “the new apartheid state” and redefine itself to the international community.




Conference speakers examined the impact of recent events on the perception of Israel, and how they overshadow the country’s achievements. Among the speakers were Professor Michael Perry of the COMAS Department of Behavioral Sciences, Ronen Plot, Director General of the Diaspora Ministry, Joanna Landau, founder and CEO of Kinetis, Professor Carlo Strenger from the Department of Psychology at Tel Aviv University, Benny Bronsky from the Institute of Creative Thinking and Don Herman, author of The Making or Faking of Emotionally Significant Brands. There was consensus on the need to move the emphasis away from the Palestinian conflict and on to Israel’s achievements in many other areas.Aharoni, who is responsible for the Foreign Ministry’s branding of Israel, spearheaded the launch of the much-debated “Masbirim” website. “Crisis management is the only context in which the world is capable of seeing Israel,” he said. “This is all very well but certainly not enough. Israel’s positioning has to be a holistic process, not focused on a single narrow aspect. It should address a range of life areas such as tourism, increasing exports and foreign investments, providing exposure to Israeli culture and more.“What are our rivals doing? Years ago, the ‘apartheid’ category became vacant, so Israel was declared ‘the new apartheid state,’ from the Security Fence to comparing Marwan Barguti to Nelson Mandela. We, however, play into their hands by insisting on keeping talking about the conflict instead of about our assets as a state.”Perry, who initiated the conference, said: “The worst mistake about the
branding of Israel is thinking that people are rational and that it is
enough to present factual and effective arguments to correct the image
issue. It is important that we wake up and realize that emotions and
psychology are far more important than rationale in branding processes.
The emotions determine the relationship between human beings. This is
exactly the reason that Prof. Daniel Kahneman won the Nobel Prize.”
DESPITE
COMPLAINTS about Israel’s education system, the number of educational
facilities is growing. Industrialist Stef Wertheimer, who has done a
lot to encourage industrial initiatives, last week inaugurated the Tsur
ORT School for Industrial Excellence in Arad and announced that he will
give a special prize to the most outstanding student in the current
academic year.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>High Court starts to grapple with Seam Zone regime</title>
<date>7/5/2010</date>
<content>
Last week, the High Court of Justice heard seven petitions protesting the refusal of the civil administration to grant permits to Palestinian farmers who wish to cultivate their land on the “Israeli side” of the West Bank security barrier.It marked the first time since part of the barrier were built and the army declared that all the Palestinian land on the Israeli side of the barrier was a closed military zone that individual Palestinians have challenged decisions made by the civil administration.




However, it is not the first time that the permit system introduced by Israel has been challenged in the High Court.In 2003 and 2004, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel and Hamoked – Defense of the Individual filed petitions charging that the restrictions placed by Israel on Palestinian land were illegal and constituted apartheid since they created two kinds of individuals with unequal rights.According to Hamoked, “The permit regime is a defilement of the law because it effectively creates two types of people in these areas. There are Israelis and tourists to whom the army declaration [regarding the closed military zone] does not apply and they are free to move about, and there are others (that is, Palestinians) to whom the declaration does apply and they must obtain permits to enter the area, to work in it, to sleep in it and to leave it.”The state strongly rejected these allegations. The permit regime “has absolutely nothing to do with discrimination,” it wrote in one of its briefs to the court. “The regime constitutes a classic case of permissible distinction, based on security grounds, and has already been recognized as such by this court.”According to the most recent data presented by the state, roughly 80,000 dunams (8,000 hectares) of Palestinian land is enclosed by the security barrier. Of these, about 50,000 dunams is privately owned Palestinian land. The rest were declared state land by Israel.According to the army regulation, only three types of Palestinians are entitled to enter the area, which has been dubbed the “seam zone.”Those whose homes are located within the area receive documents attesting to the fact that they live there. Those who live in the West Bank but own farms in the seam zone, or, as the military lingo goes, have a “linkage to the land” and those who have businesses in the area are eligible for permits. No other Palestinian may enter the seam zone.In 2008, 41,283 Palestinians submitted requests for residential documents or permits to enter the seam zone. Of these, 29,048 (about 70 percent) were accepted while 10,786 (26%) were rejected and 2,576 were canceled. These proportions seem to be roughly the same for 2007 and the first half of 2009.The actual percentage of accepted requests to enter the seam zone is probably lower. According to another figure presented by the state for 2008, 28,654 Palestinians were in possession of residential documents or permits for the seam zone. Of these, 5,496 had residential documents. Thus the number of Palestinians with permits was only 23,158. Assuming that most or all of the Palestinians who live in the seam zone received residential documents, the number of Palestinians who received permits would have constituted only 64% of all those who asked for them.It has been seven years since the first of the two petitions challenging the legality of the permit regime was filed. Since then, the court has only held two hearings. In 2009, the petitioners and the state submitted their final updates. Now, it is up to the court to decide.In the meantime, as the permit rejection figures imply, thousands of Palestinians who were dependent on the regime run into problems on a daily basis. Attorney Yadin Elam represents the first seven who decided to petition the High Court.Elam told The Jerusalem Post that while he believed the permit regime should be eliminated altogether, the immediate problems of the Palestinians must be addressed in the meantime.“The civil administration has created a bureaucratic monster, even for those Palestinians who clearly have the right to enter the seam zone,” he said. “The clerks demand one form after another and give applicants the runaround. It is no wonder that many Palestinians give up and stop cultivating their land.”Elam also alleged that the civil administration refused too many applicants on security grounds. He said the state had originally told the court that only a small number of Palestinians were rejected for this reason, but in response to a request for more precise figures from the court, it turned out that thousands were rejected on these grounds. Furthermore, the state never explains the nature of the security risk.Another problem is that the civil administration demands that
applicants prove their “linkage to the land,” even though it does not
contest the fact that the land is Palestinian-owned. Since most of the
land is not registered, many farmers have a hard time proving they own
it.In many cases, the civil administration allows Palestinians to enter
the seam zone for a limited period, depending on the crops they grow.
For example, an olive grower will be allowed in only for the harvest
season. “And what if he just wants to drink a cup of coffee under his
own trees?” asked Elam.
According to Elam, underlying the entire seam zone question is the fact
that the land belongs to the Palestinians, not to Israel. “The state
often seems to forget this fact,” he said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Int'l participants mark 93 years since Battle of Beersheba</title>
<date>1/11/2010</date>
<content>
Diplomats, civilian delegations and representatives of militaries from around the world gathered in Beersheba on Sunday to commemorate the 93rd anniversary of the World War I battle that took place in that city. Defense attachés from Australia, New Zealand, Turkey, Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Russia, South Africa, Austria, and Israel, together with highranking envoys from the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization and the Multinational Force and Observers (the international peacekeeping force based in Sinai), joined the southern city’s municipality for the day’s events.The Battle of Beersheba is famous for the charge of the 4th Brigade of the Australian Mounted Division – known as the Light Horse Brigade – which played a pivotal role in enabling British forces to conquer the Ottomans, paving the way for General Edmund Allenby to take control of Jerusalem on December 11, 1917.




RELATED:‘The Australian Light Horsemen helped create Israel’Between morality and strategyThe Australian victory, coupled with tributes to the memories of soldiers on both sides, was commemorated in three separate ceremonies. The first, co-hosted by the Australian Embassy, the Beersheba Municipality and the Pratt Foundation, was held in the Park of the Australian Soldier, a gift of the Foundation to the city. The second was held in the nearby Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery, and the third adjacent to the Turkish Memorial in the Mustafa Kemal Ataturk Plaza. The monument to the Turkish soldiers was built on the initiative of former Beersheba mayor Ya’acov Terner, who believed that valor on all sides deserved to be honored and recorded.Australian Ambassador Andrea Faulkner said that her country has a special bond with the Israeli city, not just because of the battle, but also because of their similar climates and scarcity of water.The Park of the Australian Soldier, she said, was testimony of the contribution made by the late Richard Pratt to cementing the relationship between Australia and Israel while simultaneously commemorating history. It was hard to imagine the enormity of the challenges faced by the members of the Light Horse Brigade, she said.Referring to both world wars, Faulkner noted that many Australians had fought and died in what is now Israel. Of the 774 fallen Australian troops buried in Israel, 175 are buried in Beersheba, she said. The bravery of the brigade is recorded as one of the finest moments in Australian military history, she stated, adding that Australia is to this day inspired by the courage of its members.Faulkner emphasized Australia’s commitment to peace in the region, which is seen in the integration of Australian contingents in multinational peacekeeping forces.Alluding to the presence of German diplomats and defense attachés, Faulkner said “We celebrate that past enemies can become true friends.”Non-resident New Zealand Ambassador Andrea Smith who is also ambassador to Turkey, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, came from Ankara for the occasion, and spoke of the relatively large number of New Zealanders who participated in the fight.While there was pride in their courage and heroism, she said, there was also pain at the loss of so many young lives.Rabbi Raymond Apple, former senior rabbi at Sydney’s Great Synagogue and senior rabbi to the Australian Defense Force, said that the Park of the Australian Soldier is one of countless parks in Israel “where human beings of all kinds meet and mingle.” He suggested that such information be relayed to “Irish Nobel Prize winners who think there is apartheid here.The way to really deserve a Nobel Prize is to stand up and speak for the truth, to do something constructive and to make peace a reality,” he said. “For my part, Israel as a whole deserves a Nobel Prize for unstinting dedication to humanity in the face of insults and untruths.”Apple was referring to Mairead Maguire, recently expelled from Israel for returning to the country despite a court order banning her after she participated in a flotilla attempting to break the naval blockade of the Gaza Strip.Brendon Alter, speaking on behalf of Israel by Choice, an organization 
that sends Australian Jewish students to spend their gap year in Israel,
 said that this generation must learn a lesson from the heroic charge of
 its fellow Australians “and stand up for our beliefs and Israel’s right
 to exist.” He said that it was “unfortunate that we’re still fighting a
 losing war against anti-Semitism.”Turkish Charge d’Affaire Tolgo Uncu declared that Ataturk’s motto, 
“peace at home, peace in the world” is the guiding principle of Turkish 
foreign policy. Uncu, who laid wreaths at the Australian memorials with 
Turkish Armed Forces Attaché Col.Mehmet Cengiz Dogan, as did Faulkner and Smith at the Turkish Memorial, 
said that “Turkish and ANZAC [Australia New Zealand Army Corps] soldiers
 who fought and fell remind us of the unpleasantness of conflict. We can
 prosper only when there is peace.”Beersheba Mayor Ruvik Danilovich said that the Light Horse Soldier 
monument in the park symbolizes faith, commitment and the ongoing 
struggle for freedom and independence.
It combines the heritage of the past, the lessons to be learned from the present and the hope for the future, he said
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Irish Nobel winner Maguire boards flight out of Israel</title>
<date>5/10/2010</date>
<content>
Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead Maguire was deported from Israel on Tuesday, the Interior Ministry confirmed, after boarding a flight to the UK earlier in the morning.On Monday evening, the Supreme Court ruled that Maguire must leave Israel, in accordance with a deportation order barring her from entering the country for the next 10 years.




RELATED:Editorial: The disingenuous Nobel 
laureateBenisch says Nobel laureate knew of deportation 
orderEarlier in the day, the state rejected a proposal by the court to allow Maguire, from Ireland, to remain in Israel until Wednesday.She arrived at Ben-Gurion Airport on September 28 as part of a delegation organized by the Nobel Women’s Initiative, which was scheduled to hold meetings in Israel and the West Bank until October 6. The organizer of the trip, Liz Bernstein, was told explicitly before the trip that Maguire would not be allowed into the country.Nevertheless, Maguire claimed she did not know about the deportation order until she arrived here.The government issued two orders prohibiting Maguire from entering Israel because she participated in two voyages organized by the “Free Gaza” group, aboard the MV Arion in 2009 and the MV Rachel Corrie in 2010, aimed at breaking the blockade on the Gaza Strip.After being told at the airport she would not be let into the country, Maguire appealed against the deportation order to the Central District Court.When the appeal was rejected, she appealed the lower court decision to the Supreme Court.The state’s representative, attorney Hani Ofek, said Maguire should not have been allowed access to the courts in the first place, because she did not first go through the proper administrative channels to have the deportation order canceled, specifically the Ministry of Interior, which issued the deportation orders. It was only because she had arrived in Israel as a fait accompli that she was able to obtain a court hearing, said Ofek.At the end of the hearing, the court allowed Maguire to speak. She said she had come to Israel at peace with her conscience.She had not known there was a deportation order against her for 10 years and was shocked when told so by the immigration department.Maguire said she loved the Israeli people and the Palestinians and was 
saddened by the violence and conflict here. She said she had Israeli and
 Palestinian friends and that she had come as a member of a group that 
believed in peace and a possible solution.She called on Israel to stop its “apartheid policy and the siege on Gaza.”
At that point, Grunis interrupted her speech and told her “this is no place for propaganda."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Always: Hamas Embraces Obama for 2008</title>
<date>10/2/2010</date>
<content>
It was hardly a surprise when Ahmed Yousef, a chief leader of the Palestinian terrorist organization Hamas, recently expressed his great
delight at the idea that Barack Obama might become the next president of the United States. "Actually, we love Obama," he gushed. "We hope he will win the election." Sensing some possible disaster in this, the Obama camp scurried
to his defense. Anyone who would mention the fact that one of the world's worst terrorist groups had endorsed Obama is "hitting below the belt," one
Obama aide stated. "Nobody should point this out," he complained.

However, fellow presidential candidate John McCain had the audacity to point it out. Obama responded that McCain bringing it up was "unseemly and
inappropriate." He shook his head in disapproval, "more in sorrow than in anger," he intoned. "I thought Senator McCain had promised to run a positive campaign," he whined. Thinking it through, there are probably only two possible reasons why Obama has earned the terrorists' hearty endorsement. It is either because the Hamas believe he is sympathetic to them, or they think he is so naive that they can get away with doing whatever they want.

It is well known that Obama and his wife often socialized with their Arab-American friend, Rashid Khalidi, who is a former professor at the University of Chicago. Khalidi has called Israel "a racist state," and charged that Israel runs "an apartheid system." He also has had strong ties with the Palestinians. And Obama has been close by Khalidi's side when he has uttered his outrageous anti-Israeli comments never uttering a peep of opposition. Neither did Obama back away from the rebellious action of former President Jimmy Carter when Carter recently blundered into talks with Hamas leaders against the will and instructions of President Bush and Secretary of State Rice. Later, however, it seemed that Obama suddenly realized he might need a lot of Jewish votes to get elected so he belatedly tried to distance himself from Carter's dance with Hamas.

Don't forget. Obama comes from Muslim parentage on his father's side and he bears a distinctly Arab-Muslim name. Is there any reason for anyone to wonder why the Arab-Muslim Hamas gang would prefer Barack Hussein Obama to John Sidney McCain?

Meanwhile, not wanting to let Hamas garner all the media attention, Cuba's authoritarian dictator Fidel Castro also gave Obama a big political hug. He stated that Obama was "the most progressive candidate for the U.S. presidency." Being interpreted, "progressive" probably means "communist" or "sympathetic to the Muslim agenda."

It's a sure bet that Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who so openly expresses his deep desire to "wipe Israel off the map," is probably anxious to jump on the Obama adoration train.  Obama has expressed his desire to sit down with this rogue Iranian dictator. And as skillful a speaker as Obama is supposed to be, he cannot seem to find the words to condemn the Iranian tyrant for his anti-Israel declarations.

All these anti-Israel and anti-American world leaders might be smarter to keep quiet saying nothing about their fond preference for Obama. Maybe then the American people just might overlook the fact that these terrorists and dictators love Obama and cast their vote for him. They just might go ahead and elect this neophyte who probably can't wait to fraternize with these foes. Israelis say, when your enemies tell you who they are, believe them. When they tell you what they intend to do, believe them. And when they tell you whom they want to be the next American president, believe them and know that they have their devious reasons.

Earl Cox, International Christian Broadcaster, known as 'the voice of Israel to the world.' He is also the founder of Israel Always
Previous entries:
The land is shared in death. Why not in life as well?
Some Christians Still Hate Israel
Palestinians. The Next Generation
Who Founded Israel the U.N. or God?
Didn't they used to hang traitors?
Who would be the best US President for Israel?
How will God handle the present-day Persian Haman?
Faith or Consequences
Is oil more important than Israel?
Fighting Fair - What the Media Doesn't Tell You
Israel rejects US report on Iran
Has God abandoned Israel?
Did someone say 'peace'?
No Palestinian State
Alternate reality
Relations between Israel's Jews and Christians improving
Do the Palestinians deserve their own state
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israeli-Palestinian conflict rages on Wikipedia</title>
<date>16/5/2010</date>
<content>
The international campaign to erode Israel’s legitimacy is slowly expanding its reach into the online encyclopedia Wikipedia, according to Israeli sources familiar with the Web site’s operations.The collaborative reader-edited encyclopedia is the Internet’s sixth-most popular Web site, making it a central clearinghouse for knowledge and opinion worldwide. Since it is written by the public, it tends to deal in greater detail with issues in the media spotlight.




No wonder, then, that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is covered from countless angles across a spectrum of articles.Yet, according to Israeli editors of the encyclopedia who asked to remain anonymous so as not to damage their editing rights on the Web site, these articles are slowly being taken over by pro-Palestinian campaigners in an effort to tilt the encyclopedia’s narrative of the conflict and its history to reflect their position.The essence of the encyclopedia is the theory that constant correction by an unlimited “cloud” of knowledgeable individuals will result in greater accuracy and objectivity than is seen in encyclopedia entries produced by experts.But the theory breaks down precisely when it is needed most, say the Israeli editors.In those sections of the encyclopedia that garner the most controversy, Wikipedia employs a system of controls and limitations meant to prevent an “edit war,” when mobs of like-minded people repeatedly edit their views into the articles.These controls include limiting the editing rights of the general public, blocking users who repeatedly edit their opinions into the articles, and submitting major disagreements to behind-the-scenes debates and to the encyclopedia’s ArbCom, or Arbitration Committee, its highest level of dispute resolution.However, in recent months, Israeli editors have sensed a growing presence of pro-Palestinian activists who have begun to develop ways to sidestep these controls. The result has been the introduction of narratives that question Israel’s legitimacy and advocate international legal and political action against the Jewish state.Any claims made in Wikipedia articles are supposed to meet three criteria: they must be verifiable, cannot include original research, and all narratives must be presented from a neutral point of view.Based on these rules, the encyclopedia allows editors to describe ideological positions, but not to advocate for them. Yet, say critics, that distinction creates a lot of room for advancing agendas.For example, an article titled “Israel and the apartheid analogy,” weighing in at well over 10,000 words, purports merely to explain the analogy, not to support it. Yet while a long litany of arguments for “Israeli apartheid” are offered in detail, including quotes from well-known figures and even Israeli sources, only a handful see Israeli or pro-Israel responses.“The article itself is legitimate. The problem is that when you read it, it’s clear that it is actually arguing that position,” a veteran Wikipedia editor from the center of the country said.The pro-Palestinian activists also employ a tactic known as “POV [point-of-view] forking,” or starting a second article on a nearly identical subject to present the original subject through a new narrative.Thus, since editing the article “Palestinian territories” is now too difficult, a new article exists for disseminating similar information without the oversight employed in the original. Its title, “Occupied Palestinian territory,” means it will come up in similar searches alongside the original.These activists also use teams of like-minded editors working together to sustain debates about new edits ad infinitum, thus improving the chances that their changes will be accepted and preventing the removal of any claims they have added.One of the most important recent debates that showcased this ability concerned the technical definition of Mandatory Palestine as a state. Pro-Palestinian advocates have brought pro-Palestinian Western academics, along with selected quotations from British, Ottoman and UN sources, to argue that Palestine has always had the legal status of statehood, whether under Ottoman, British or Israeli occupation.The purpose of the campaign is simple. If Palestine has always been a state, it has the legal right to turn to international tribunals to sue Israel for war crimes, a move that is difficult for non-state actors under the rules governing the International Criminal Court and other bodies.This argument is a central plank in the pro-Palestinian campaign that seeks to find new ways to attack Israel’s legitimacy in the international arena. It is put forth in the article “State of Palestine,” which exists independently of the geography-focused “Palestine,” or other related articles such as “The Palestinian territories” and “Proposals for a Palestinian state.”According to an editor, “We face what can only be described as an organized campaign that brings to bear a huge number of sources, even if most of them are problematic and polemical, and is willing and able to debate without end and not to allow changes to articles until the debate is concluded.”This fierce battle has not gone unnoticed within the Wikipedia hierarchy. The Web site Arbitration Committee has held consultations on the issue for months. In its “proposed decision,” it recommended a series of sanctions to be employed by anyone caught manipulating articles toward one side or another.It reminds editors engaged with the issue that “when editing in subject areas of bitter and long-standing real-world conflict, it is all the more important to comply with Wikipedia policies such as assuming good faith of all editors, including those on the other side of the real-world dispute, writing with a neutral point of view, remaining civil and avoiding personal attacks, utilizing reliable sources for contentious or disputed assertions, and resorting to dispute resolution where necessary.”It has also come up in the Hebrew-language Wikipedia, where editors were
 summoned to “stand guard on those issues where Israel comes up,” in the
 words of an Israeli editor.But policing the Wikipedia space 
might be nearly impossible in the face of sufficiently organized and 
determined efforts to change its narrative. Though Wikipedia’s edits are
 public – and available for all time in an article’s backpages – the 
editors and debaters remain anonymous. Thus, it is a system that rewards
 those willing to debate without end, while near-universal anonymity 
makes it nearly impossible to trace an orchestrated campaign.
“This

 is a difficult arena to operate in,” admits an editor, “but the stakes 
are higher than at any newspaper.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'Lack of borders within Israel is our greatest threat'</title>
<date>27/1/2010</date>
<content>
A day after the German press revealed that Iran would be capable of manufacturing a nuclear bomb within the coming year, Defense Minister Ehud Barak said on Tuesday that the continued stalemate in the peace process with the Palestinians poses a greater threat to Israel than a nuclear bomb in the hands of the Islamic Republic."The lack of defined boundaries within Israel, and not an Iranian bomb, is the greatest threat to our future," Barak said during a conference in Tel Aviv.




On Wednesday, Barak will head to Sharm e-Sheikh for talks with President Hosni Mubarak that will focus on Gilad Schalit, renewing peace talks with the Palestinians and curbing Hamas efforts to smuggle weaponry into the Gaza Strip under the Philadelphi Corridor. Barak's visit comes on the heels of talks Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu held with the Egyptian leader last month in Cairo.At the conference, Barak called on Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to return to the negotiating table. "I am proud to be a member of a government that has taken upon itself the responsibility of addressing issues pertaining to the Road Map," he said.
While Israel is the strongest country in the region, Barak said that
time "is not on our side. We need to stand with our eyes open and
stable feet... to look for a crack or a window to make peace," he said.
"We have a paramount interest in establishing defined borders between
ourselves and the Palestinians, that will set the stage for two states
for two peoples."In addressing the ramifications of a continued stalemate in
negotiations, Barak said: "It must be understood that if between the
Jordan [River] and the [Mediterranean Sea] there is only one political
entity called 'Israel,' it will by necessity either be not Jewish or
not democratic, and we will turn into an apartheid state." Barak said
that Iran was using western gestures to stall for time as it continues
to develop nuclear weapons."Iran is only engaging in dialogue in order to buy itself some time,"
Barak said. "The setting of a brief and clear timetable for imposing of
sanctions on Iran is vital, and uranium enrichment on Iranian soil
cannot be legitimized, since this will lead to an Iranian military
nuclear capability."
Jerusalem Post Staff contributed to the report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Leftist manifesto removed from bookstore following complaint</title>
<date>12/4/2010</date>
<content>
Succumbing to pressure from customers, Tzomet Sfarim, the nation’s largest bookstore chain, removed from its shelves on Sunday 10,000 copies of The National Left, a 100-page political manifesto written by Shmuel Hasfari and Eldad Yaniv.The book, an outspoken critique of Israel’s political system and the demise of the Israeli Left, was sold in the chain’s stores for a single shekel and packaged with an Israeli flag ahead of Independence day.




“Since we received many complaints that the book hurts the feelings of part of our clientele, we decided not to continue its sale,” said a spokesman for the chain. “Tzomet Sfarim is a chain for the whole nation of Israel, without political orientation, and now as ever chooses not to be involved in the content of the books sold in its stores.” In the book, the authors offer biting criticism of the settler movement, in some places referring to them as “messianic madmen” and their children as “hypnotized zombies.” The authors claim that the settlers have forgotten what it means to be Zionists. “The settlement industry is an industry that produces nothing but apartheid and destroys the Israel that we knew and loved,” reads the book. “It is time we found out that our money, that of Israeli citizens, flowed to the settlers. We all paid taxes equally, only the settlers received much more than we did.”The book also accuses the settlers of being the “lords of the land,” stating, “Israeli law doesn’t apply to them, and if it does, who enforces it?... For years the settlers have been causing us to build the Palestinian state – at our own expense. Bypass roads, power, water and sewage systems and what not. And in the end the Palestinians will get it all for free.”In other sections, the book cries out against different sectors and groups, including capitalists, draft-dodgers, leftists who hold dual citizenship, and politicians of all strokes. But the harshest critique is reserved for those the authors call pseudo-leftists, who they say condescend to the Palestinians “like defense lawyers hovering over rapists.” Yesha Council head Dani Dayan told reporters he was pleased that the chain had decided to remove the books from its shelves. “Distribution of the book together with a flag as an Independence Day kit for a shekel was paramount to the chain’s taking a political stance and expressing values in common with the contents of this inciteful [material],” he said. “I am glad that common sense prevailed and that the free distribution of the inciteful pamphlet was stopped.”Yaniv, a former adviser to Defense Minister Ehud Barak, said that the chain’s decision to discontinue sales of the book was proof of the unfettered influence that the settlers had on the country. “I think that today they proved that what the book says about them is justified. For many years they have held Israeli society and the state hostage, and it’s time to put them in their place and say that we are Zionist and Israeli and want to stop the occupation,” he said.Yaniv said he and Hasfari planned to pick up the thousands of remaining copies of the book from the chain’s store and hand them out for free on university campuses. He also said they would print additional copies and hand them out to whoever wanted them. Yaniv did not attack the chain, saying it was acting out of its commercial interests.In the meantime, a digital version of the book has turned up on the
Internet and, due to the press the story has received, is being
downloaded by hundreds of viewers.
In response to the incident, National Union chairman Ya’acov Katz
declared that “the radical and ephemeral Left is trying at all costs,
but unsuccessfully, to find a way into the nation’s heart. A book that
is sold for a shekel is a book that has no market. The public is not
interested in shallow and self-hating material such as this.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Letter calls on Israeli artists not to perform in Ariel</title>
<date>6/11/2010</date>
<content>
Three days before the Ariel Cultural Center is set to open in the northern West 
Bank settlement, artists and academics published an open letter on Friday 
calling on performers to boycott the theater.The letter asks the 
performers to consider that Ariel “is an illegal settlement which violates 
international law and the Geneva Conditions, which the State of Israel has 
signed.”




RELATED:Bulldozers begin construction in Ariel as freeze endsErekat: PA plans turn to UN to stop settlement expansionThe settlement “was founded for only one purpose: to prevent 
Palestinians from being able to build an independent state, and by extension, 
preventing us, citizens of Israel, from having the chance to live in peace in 
this region,” the letter continues.Author David Grossman, playwright 
Yeshoshua Sobol and filmmaker Eytan Fox are among the artists who signed the 
letter, which has also gained the support of academics such as Prof. Gad Kiner, 
theater arts department head at Tel Aviv University.The letter was also 
signed by actors, make-up artists and lighting engineers.In late August, 
following reports that several major theater houses are scheduled to perform at 
the Ariel Cultural Center when it opens this Monday, 36 professional theater 
actors and workers issued a letter vowing theywould not perform at the center because it is in the West Bank. A few days 
later, 150 professors and authors joined the boycott and published a letter 
online in which they refused to perform in theaters or cultural facilities 
beyond the Green Line.In addition to professors such as Hebrew 
University’s Ze’ev Sternhell and Ben-Gurion University’s Neve Gordon, a 
supporter of anti-Israel divestment, the boycott letter was signed by prominent 
Israeli authors David Grossman, A.B. Yehoshua and Amos Oz.During the 
weekly cabinet meeting following the publications of the letters, Prime Minister 
Binyamin Netanyahu said that “the State of Israel is under an attack of 
delegitimization by elements in the international community. This attack 
includes attempts to enact economic, academic and cultural boycotts. The last 
thing we need at this time is to be under such an attack – I mean this attempt 
at a boycott – from within.”Friday’s letter was also met with criticism 
from a number of politicians, including MK Otniel Schneller (Kadima), who called 
on the government to “expand the artists’ awareness and inform them that Ariel 
is an inseparable part of Israel.”Schneller, who lives at the Ma’aleh 
Michmash settlement, which like Ariel is in Samaria, said the artists’ 
“apartheid letter – which boycotts Israeli citizens” only harms the cause of 
peace.“Ariel will be part of Israel in any agreement, and it is up to 
the heads of the large parties in the Knesset to clarify to Israel prize 
laureate authors where the peaceful borders of Israel will be,” he 
said.Knesset House Committee Chairman MK Yariv Levin (Likud) said on 
Saturday that he would call for an urgent hearing of the Education and Culture 
Committee to debate freezing funding for the artists who signed the 
letter.“We must permanently end the funding for cultural institutions 
and devise new criterion for funding, which will focus on encouraging works that 
reflect the glorious heritage of our culture,” Levin said.
MK Michael 
Ben-Ari (National Union) referred to the boycotting artists as “parasites who 
milk the public coffers” and suggested that if they seek to make a living in 
performance arts, they should “ask for money from [Palestinian Authority Prime 
Minister] Salaam Fayyad and not the Knesset.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman vows to stop funding for Ariel boycott artists</title>
<date>7/11/2010</date>
<content>
Israel Beiteinu on Sunday announced its decision to act in order to stop government funding for artists who signed the letter published on Friday calling on performers to boycott a new theater in Ariel, which was scheduled to open on Monday.The letter asks performers to consider that Ariel “is an illegal 
settlement which violates international law and the Geneva Convention, 
which the State of Israel has signed.”




RELATED:Crowd protests artists’ Ariel boycott of cultural centerOpinion: Ariel and usRattling the Cage: A little culture, comradesUS Jewish artists back Israeli counterparts' Ariel protest"These artists can practice freedom of speech but not on taxpayer's money," said Israel Beiteinu party leader and Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman. "Those who refer to Israel as an apartheid state can not enjoy its fruits. The show must go on, but the incitement against the country must stop," he added.Culture
 and Sport Minister Limor Livnat also announced Sunday that her ministry will
 introduce an legal amendment that will force theater companies to 
provide services regardless of geographic location.Livnat told 
Israel Radio that artists who call on others not to perform at the 
cultural center in Ariel are effectively giving the Palestinians 
ammunition. She said the handful of artists who are boycotting 
the Ariel cultural center are boycotting Israeli citizens who 
pay taxes just like all other citizens.The culture minister 
added that the artists' statement that they are boycotting Ariel and not
 the people of Ariel is "pathetic" and said all theater company managers
 announced that actors will continue to perform wherever there are 
Israeli citizens.Earlier on Sunday, Army Radio reported that playwright Shmuel Hasfari threatened to sue the Cameri theater company if a play that he wrote is performed at the Ariel Cultural Center. Asfari is among the artists and academics who signed the Ariel boycott letter.Hasfari's play, Havdala, was still scheduled to be performed in the theater's opening week despite the playwright's objections.Hasfari said that he will take legal action to prevent the play being performed in Ariel based on the fact that "there is a clause in my contract that every showing of the play outside of Israel's borders requires a new, separate contract."
Cameri Director-General Noam Semel claimed that the clause in the 
contract which Hasfari is relying upon for his proposed legal action 
relates to the showing of his play in Austria and Germany and that the 
issue will be resolved in court.


The letter calling for artists to boycott the new theater said of Ariel 
that the settlement “was founded for only one purpose: to prevent 
Palestinians from being able to build an independent state, and by 
extension, preventing us, citizens of Israel, from having the chance to 
live in peace in this region.” 


Author David Grossman, playwright Yeshoshua Sobol and filmmaker Eytan 
Fox are among the artists who signed the letter, which has also gained 
the support of academics such as Prof. Gad Kiner, theater arts 
department head at Tel Aviv University.


The letter was also signed by actors, make-up artists and lighting engineers.


In late August, following reports that several major theater houses are 
scheduled to perform at the Ariel Cultural Center when it opens this 
Monday, 36 professional theater actors and workers issued a letter 
vowing theywould not perform at the center because it is in the West 
Bank. A few days later, 150 professors and authors joined the boycott 
and published a letter online in which they refused to perform in 
theaters or cultural facilities beyond the Green Line.


In addition to professors such as Hebrew University’s Ze’ev Sternhell 
and Ben-Gurion University’s Neve Gordon, a supporter of anti-Israel 
divestment, the boycott letter was signed by prominent Israeli authors 
David Grossman, A.B. Yehoshua and Amos Oz.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lieberman vows to stop funding for Ariel boycott artists</title>
<date>7/11/2010</date>
<content>
Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman (Israel Beiteinu) on Sunday vowed to work to cut funding for artists and academics who pledged to boycott the cultural center set to open in Ariel on Sunday, and accused the boycotters of practicing double standards and defaming the West Bank city’s people.“These are people who call Israel ‘an apartheid state,’ while at the same time they ask for state funding for their cultural events. Anyone who calls Israel an apartheid state cannot accept funding from the state. I am very against this double standard within the country,” Lieberman said.




RELATED:Crowd protests artists’ Ariel boycott of cultural centerOpinion: Ariel and usRattling the Cage: A little culture, comradesUS Jewish artists back Israeli counterparts' Ariel protestThe foreign minister added, “the residents of Ariel serve in the army, do reserve service, pay taxes,” and that he would not accept “a political boycott against the citizens of the State of Israel.”Lieberman referred to the boycotters as a fringe group in Israeli society.A spokesman for the Ariel Cultural Center told The Jerusalem Post on Sunday that they would wait to issue a statement on the artists’ letter until after the grand opening of the theater on Monday evening.The spokesman did say that they have received “absolutely no cancellations” as a result of the boycott letters and that the tickets for the theater’s first performance have sold out.In late August, 36 professional theater actors and workers issued a letter in which they vowed not to perform at the center because it is located in the West Bank. Days later, 150 professors and authors joined the boycott with an online letter.The cultural center will open Monday night at a ceremony to be attended by Culture and Sport Minister Limor Livnat (Likud) and Ariel Mayor Ran Nahman. The inaugural performance at the center won’t be until the end of the month though, when singer Eyal Golan will give a concert.The inaugural season of the theater includes productions by the Beersheba Theater, Tel Aviv’s Cameri Theater and Habima National Theater, and Jerusalem’s Khan Theater.The building took over 20 years to finish due to recurrent problems with funding. When the doors open on Monday, the cultural center will include a main theater with an upper mezzanine and seating for 530 people, in addition to a smaller auditorium with seating for 100.Gila Almagor, considered by many the “first lady” of Israel’s stage and screen, was asked by reporters Sunday about her views on the boycott.Almagor, who identifies with the Left, has nonetheless distanced herself from the letter writers, though she hastened to underscore that the boycott is not against the people of Ariel but against Israel’s “occupation.”Nonetheless, she said, as an actress under contract to Habima, she would perform wherever she was sent – including Ariel.Almagor expressed the hope that the boycott “will not reach ridiculous extremes.”Acknowledging that nearly everyone has a political perspective of some 
kind, Almagor said that in cases like this, politics should not intrude.“We are, after all, talking about culture,” she said.
Greer Fay Cashman contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Livnat slams MK Ben-Ari’s Cameri protest</title>
<date>8/9/2010</date>
<content>
Culture and Sport Minister Limor Livnat distanced herself Tuesday from MK Michael Ben- Ari’s (National Union) provocative protest in the midst of a play at the Cameri Theater Monday night.Livnat said that she did not approve of the protest, launched by Ben-Ari and a handful of right-wing activists, but also said that the protest and the artists’ boycott of Ariel were emblematic of the same unacceptable political activism.




RELATED:Rattling the Cage: A little culture, comradesUS Jewish artists back Israeli counterparts' Ariel protestMy Word: Culture ClashBen-Ari, together with his parliamentary aide Itamar Ben- Gvir and a number of activists, took center stage Monday evening at the Cameri’s production of Oy God, where they protested against a number of artists’ refusal to appear in troupe productions scheduled for the yet-to-be inaugurated Ariel Cultural Center.Oy God was written by Anat Gov, one of the most vocal signers of the artists’ letter, first issued late last month.The activists yelled out, “Leftwingers – racists – make apartheid 
against Jews. You wouldn’t dare to boycott Arabs! Shame!,” as they 
stormed the stage.Security guards were summoned, and after they removed the activists, the
 play continued. As Ben-Ari and his comrades were led out, the audience 
applauded the actors and booed the activists.The actors in the production did not ignore the disturbance.Rather, the actor Oded Teomi, who opposed the boycott of Ariel, yelled 
at the activists for interrupting the performance, especially in light 
of the fact that he had supported holding performances in Ariel.Cameri manager Noam Semel later said that he was aware that the 
right-wing activists were in the audience, and that he had alerted 
actors to the fact that they might try to create a scene.“They bought tickets at NIS 70 each, and got publicity worth NIS 700,000,” complained Semel in an interview on Army Radio.“This was political bullying that is unacceptable and is reminiscent of 
dark periods of human history,” continued Semel, who had previously 
reassured Ariel residents that his company would not boycott their 
theater. “Oded Teomi is a 70-year-old whose father was murdered by 
Palestinians.
He is the salt of the land.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Obama: No crisis in Israel-US ties</title>
<date>18/3/2010</date>
<content>
While Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu convened his six senior ministers to discuss the tension with Washington, US President Barack Obama on Wednesday night said the US-Israeli relationship was not in crisis over the approval of an east Jerusalem building plan during US Vice President Joe Biden's visit last week.“Israel’s one of our closes allies,” he told Fox News. “The Israeli people have a special bond and it’s not going to go away.”




However, Obama criticized Interior Minister Eli Yishai over the announcement of the plan to build 1,600 housing units in east Jerusalem's Ramat Shlomo.The US president said that he had sent Biden to the region in order to accelerate the peace process, and that "the actions that were taken by the interior minister in Israel weren’t helpful.""Binyamin Netanyahu acknowledged that and apologized," he stressed.Obama said that although the expansion of Ramat Shlomo was a poor choice for Israel, "friends are going to disagree sometimes.""What we've said is we need both sides to take steps to make sure that we can rebuild trust," he said. "What we need right now is both sides to recognize that it is in their interests to move this peace process forward."Related:Clinton to attend Mideast session amid crisisIn Jerusalem, Netanyahu convened the inner cabinet night to discuss the situation, amid reports the Obama administration was conditioning any high-level meetings with Netanyahu in Washington next week on receiving a response to its new demands.The US, during Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s conversation with Netanyahu on Friday, reportedly demanded that Israel stop the Ramat Shlomo projects in northern Jerusalem, make confidence-building gestures to the Palestinians, and agree that the proximity talks with the Palestinian Authority will deal with core issues of borders, refugees and Jerusalem, and not just technical issues.Channel 2 reported on Wednesday night that the administration told Netanyahu that until a response to these requests had been received, he would not be able to meet any high level US officials on his upcoming trip to Washington to address the American Israel Public Affairs Committee policy conference. Prior to the explosion of the Ramat Shlomo issue last week, Netanyahu was expected to meet with both Clinton and Biden during his visit. Now neither meeting is confirmed.Defense Minister Ehud Barak spoke Wednesday night with US Middle East envoy George Mitchell, and – according to a statement issued by Barak – discussed possible solutions to the crisis and ways to restart negotiations with the Palestinians. The two also discussed the possibility of Mitchell coming to the region on Sunday.The prime minister is expected to leave on Sunday evening, but his schedule – with the exception of a Monday evening speech to AIPAC and a Tuesday meeting with Jewish congressional members – has not been finalized. He is set to stop in Brussels on his way back for meetings with key European leaders.Obama is scheduled to be in Indonesia when Netanyahu arrives, though the two were – prior to the recent events – expected to meet a few weeks later at Obama’s nuclear security conference, which is to be attended by some 40 world leaders, including Netanyahu.Netanyahu spoke by phone with Biden on Tuesday evening, but no details of that conversation were provided either by Israel or the US.One of the members of Netanyahu’s inner cabinet, Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, made it clear on Wednesday that he felt demands on Israel to stop building in east Jerusalem were “unreasonable.”Lieberman said the international community sees this as an opportunity to “pile on” Israel, pressure Israel and “make unreasonable demands.”“The demand to forbid Jews to buy or build in east Jerusalem is simply unreasonable,” he said, adding that a similar Israeli policy to forbid Arabs from buying or building in west Jerusalem would be characterized as apartheid.Lieberman’s comments came after a meeting with the EU’s visiting foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton. Ashton, who sharply criticized an Interior Ministry committee’s approval last week of plans to build 1,600 housing units in the Ramat Shlomo neighborhood, did not add to her comments on Wednesday, saying the EU’s position on the matter was known.But President Shimon Peres alluded to a possible middle ground between Israel’s position on Jerusalem and the growing demands, now backed by Washington, to stop all Jewish building in the city over the Green Line. Speaking to a group of high school students in Holon, Peres said that previous governments built in new Jewish neighborhoods beyond the Green Line, but avoided construction in Arab neighborhoods, hinting that this might be a formula that the US would accept.Peres said that Israel and the Palestinians agreed on this formula in the past. He also said that he is speaking with both Netanyahu and American officials about the issue. “Everyone is interested in reaching an understanding,” he said.Before meeting with Lieberman, Ashton – who arrived on Wednesday for a one-day visit that will also take her to Gaza on Thursday morning – went to Ramallah for talks with PA President Mahmoud Abbas. There, PA chief negotiator Saeb Erekat told AFP, Abbas gave her a letter demanding that the EU intervene to pressure Israel to stop all settlement activity anywhere, including in east Jerusalem. According to Erekat, the letter included maps and other documents about settlement construction carried out since September 2009.The government does not consider any part of Jerusalem a “settlement.”Lieberman, during his press conference with Ashton, said the two of them also discussed Iran, an issue that has been largely pushed off the agenda over the past week because of the Ramat Shlomo flap.“Regarding the Iranian issue, it is a crucial time,” Lieberman said, adding that the Iranian policy of playing for time should not be accepted.“It is time for tough decisions in the Security Council and in Europe,”
he said. “It is time for a new Churchill policy, not a Chamberlain
policy – and that is our expectation.”Ashton said that while the EU preferred dialogue with Iran as the “best
way to solve the problem,” if that proved fruitless then she advocated
going forward in the UN Security Council. 
She said that she has been in contact with both the permanent and
temporary members of the 15-member council, and is currently waiting
for a date when that body will take up the issue.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'PA borders are our greatest threat'</title>
<date>26/1/2010</date>
<content>
Defense Minister Ehud Barak said Tuesday that a continued stalemate in the peace process with the Palestinians poses a greater threat to Israel than an Iranian nuclear bomb.Speaking at a conference in Tel Aviv, the defense minister said, "The lack of defined boundaries within Israel, and not an Iranian bomb, is the greatest threat to our future."




Barak also called on Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to return to the negotiating table."I am proud to be a member of a government that has taken upon itself the responsibility of addressing issues pertaining to the Road Map." said the defense minister.Barak continued to say, "We regard the settlement blocs in Judea and Samaria as part of Israel in relation to any final status agreement.""We have a paramount interest in establishing defined borders between ourselves and the Palestinians, that will set the stage for two states for two peoples," he added.In addressing the ramifications of a continued stalemate in negotiations, Barak said, "It must be understood that if between the Jordan [River] and the [Mediterranean Sea] there is only one political entity called 'Israel', it will by necessity either be not Jewish or not democratic, and we will turn into an apartheid state."The defense minister also responded to recent reports of escalation in the North, warning the Lebanese government, "We are not looking for a deterioration of the situation in Lebanon, but if there is such an unraveling, our target will not be some Hizbullah terrorist somewhere in southern Lebanon. Our target will be the Lebanese government and its infrastructure, whatever that may include."Barak went on to say that the UN resolution ending the Second Lebanon
War has not put a stop to Hizbullah's weapons smuggling activities.On the Iran front, the defense minister called on the international community to support sanctions on Teheran."Iran
is only engaging in dialogue in order to buy itself some time," Barak
said. "The setting of a brief and clear timetable for imposing of
sanctions on Iran is vital, and uranium enrichment on Iranian soil
cannot be legitimized, since this will lead to an Iranian military
nuclear capability."
"A nuclear Iran will lead to an
unrestrained arms race and every Third World dictator will know that
his country can go nuclear if it tries," said the defense minister.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians irate over new Jerusalem light rail</title>
<date>3/2/2010</date>
<content>
Jerusalem’s light rail starts test runs this spring, with its sleek silver cars gliding across the city and promising to relieve the perpetual congestion. But Palestinians see no reason to celebrate.They hope to derail the $1 billion tram because they fear it will further entrench Israeli control over east Jerusalem. They’ve asked a French court to force two French multinationals, Veolia and Alstom, out of the project and are urging Arab countries to cancel contracts with the two companies.




The 14-km. first line (Line 1, the “Red Line”) runs from Mount Herzl in west Jerusalem to Pisgat Ze’ev, the largest of several Jewish neighborhoods Israel built in the eastern sector after capturing it in 1967.Palestinians say Israel is creating more facts on the ground with the tram, just as it has with its ever-expanding Jewish enclaves in east Jerusalem that are now home to 180,000 Israelis.“The purpose of this project is to make a bridge between the settlements... and west Jerusalem and they use our land, Palestinian land,” said Ahmed Rweidi, an adviser to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. “The train is illegal and the settlements are illegal.”Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he’s not willing to give up any part of Jerusalem, and insists Israel has the right to build anywhere in the city.Government spokesman Mark Regev said “the light rail will serve all of Jerusalem’s residents and beyond, Arab and Jew alike.”The campaign against the train seems to be part of a wider attempt by Palestinian activists and politicians to use new ways to challenge Israeli rule over the lands they want for a state. Frustrated by the failure of nearly two decades of peace talks, they are increasingly trying to hit Israel where it hurts – the pocket book.PA security forces have been confiscating goods made in Jewish settlements from West Bank shops. Dozens of Palestinian grassroots groups have been orchestrating a “boycott Israel” campaign since 2005.Inspired by the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa, they say they’ve gained momentum, particularly after the international outcry over Israel’s war against Gaza’s Hamas rulers last winter.Israeli officials say the campaign has failed to dent Israel’s economy and bristle at comparisons to apartheid-era South Africa. Jewish activists have been pushing back, calling the attempted boycott anti-Semitic.But stopping the trains will be an uphill battle.Tracks have already been laid on most of the route, which will have 23 stations. Forty-four cars are parked at a depot in east Jerusalem, ready for a test phase that is to begin around March and last several months.The PLO has asked a French court to order Veolia and Alstom to drop out of the project, on grounds that it violates the Geneva Convention’s prohibition of an occupier changing the nature of occupied lands.The two firms are members, along with Israeli companies, of the City Pass consortium that is building the rail line and is to operate it until 2036.The court ruled in December that it has jurisdiction, but has not set a date for the next hearing.The Abbas government is also urging Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries to cut business ties with the French firms. Among other projects in the region, Alstom is involved in building a rail line between the holy cities of Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia.Palestinian officials say they will raise the issue at a March summit of the Arab League.“This is the least Arabs can do to support our rights in Jerusalem,” said Rweidi, the Abbas adviser.PLO officials said they were unaware of any actions taken by Arab governments. Saudi Arabia has kept silent about the pressure.Veolia officials in Israel said the company is in the process of transferring its 5 percent share in the Jerusalem rail project to Israel’s Dan bus cooperative. But they insist it’s strictly a business decision. The proposed sale would have to be approved by the consortium, but that may take several years.Alstom, which is providing the rail cars, defended the project.Spokesman Philippe Kasse rejected claims that the tram creates a new reality on the ground, noting that buses now service the future train route.“We are told (by critics) that this tramway is a weapon designed to make irreversible the annexation of east Jerusalem and the colonization policy led by Israel,” he wrote in an e-mailed response. “Replacing an existing bus line by a tramway is neither using warfare nor establishing a political fait accompli.”Jerusalem Municipality spokesman Stephan Miller defended the rail project as beneficial to both Arabs and Jews. The train will make three stops in the Arab neighborhood of Shuafat. Some residents there expressed hope it will ease chronic congestion, while others complained that the tracks use up two lanes of their four-lane main road.Hind Khoury, the delegate-general of the PLO in France and involved in the legal battle against the tram, said the campaign is a measure of Palestinian frustration.“In the last few years, we were still hoping that the peace process would be credible enough to come to a conclusion,” she said. “Now we are taking the legal route.”The Red Line will run from Pisgat Ze’ev in the northeast, south along Road 1 to Jaffa Road. From there, it is to run along Jaffa Road westward to the Jerusalem central bus station, and continue to the southwest, crossing the Chords Bridge along Herzl Boulevard to the Beit Hakerem neighborhood, and finishing just beyond Mount Herzl next to the Bayit Vagan neighborhood.The line will operate Sunday to Friday, from 5:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.,
but not during Shabbat. It is expected to carry up to 23,000 passengers
an hour during peak morning rush hours.
While tracks were being built in Shuafat, the remains of a Roman-Jewish
settlement were discovered. It was described as a “sophisticated
community impeccably planned by the Roman authorities, with orderly
rows of houses and two fine public bathhouses to the north,” according
to The New York Times.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Report: Israel offered nukes to SA</title>
<date>24/5/2010</date>
<content>
President Shimon Peres' office 
denied allegations on Monday made by British newspaper the Guardian, in 
which it accuses Israel of offering to sell nuclear weapons to South 
Africa's apartheid regime."We regret that the newspaper did not 
find it right to ask for an official response and examine the facts with
 official Israeli sources," the president's office explained.




Additional
 sources added that "there is no doubt these papers that allegedly 
document a nuclear missiles sales deal are completely fabricated."RELATED:Vanunu: I'm 
not an animalThe story alleges that 
in 1975, South African Defense Minister PW Botha met secretly with 
Shimon Peres, Israel's defense minister at the time, in which Botha 
requested the weapons and Peres offered three warhead versions for sale.
 In the same 
meeting the two also signed a secret cooperation 
agreement between the military forces of the two countries.The Guardian report claims that it 
contains “The first documentary evidence” of 
Israel’s possession of nuclear weapons. The 
revelations are supported by South African documents uncovered by 
American Academic Sasha Polakow-Suransky for his book The Unspoken Alliance: Israel's secret 
alliance with apartheid South Africa. The Guardian 
published a photo showing the signatures of Peres and Botha on the 1975 
military agreement between the countries.The Guardian 
alleges that the 
documents confirm accounts by Dieter Gerhardt, a South African naval 
commander jailed in 1984 for spying for the Soviets. After his release 
and the end of the Apartheid regime, he said that Israel offered eight 
Jericho ballistic missiles armed with “special warheads” to South 
Africa. The Guardian reports that cost 
considerations prevented Botha from concluding the deal, which also 
would have to be approved by Israel's Prime Minister, an approval which 
"it is uncertain [whether] it would have been forthcoming."
South Africa went on to develop its own nuclear weapons, which were 
deactivated after the collapse of the Apartheid Regime in 1994.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Route 443 opens to Palestinians</title>
<date>28/5/2010</date>
<content>
A crow could fly to 
Ramallah, but for Palestinians, the black and white sign to the city, 
which hangs off a metal pole on Route 443 by Camp Ofer, leads nowhere.The

 much-anticipated opening of Route 443 to vehicles with Palestinian 
license plates on Friday at 8 a.m. – something that had not happened since 2002 –
 did nothing to change that. As a result, very few Palestinians chose to drive on it that day.




RELATED:Knesset: Delay route 443 openingThe four attacks that changed 443 The road more traveled?The Association for Civil Rights
 in Israel might have won a two-year court battle to place the 
Palestinians on the highway that cuts through 17 kilometers of the West 
Bank and links Jerusalem with the Tel Aviv road, but December’s judicial
 victory against what Palestinians have termed “the apartheid road” did 
not give them the one thing they most wanted: quick access to Ramallah, 
where they receive essential services.Now that the deadline is 
up – the court gave the IDF five months to prepare the road – 
Palestinians worry that the security checks and circuitous traffic 
patterns from the creation of two entry points and four exit ones will 
render the road useless to them.Israeli motorists, 
parliamentarians and regional leaders are also unhappy. They fear an 
increase in traffic jams and accidents, as well as a spike in incidents 
of Palestinians throwing stones and Molotov cocktails at passing cars.Worse,

 they are afraid of fatal terror attacks, such as those that killed six 
Israeli motorists on the West Bank stretch of 443 during the first two 
years of the intifada – acts that caused the IDF to ban Palestinians 
from the road in the first place.Military sources told The Jerusalem Post the IDF still 
believed it would be safer to keep Palestinians off the road, but that 
the court had ruled against it.As a result, after spending more 
than NIS 30 million, military sources said, the road will be opened in 
accordance with the dictates of the court ruling. They were fairly blunt
 about the fact that their mandate was merely to allow local Palestinian
 traffic on Route 443, not to turn it into a thoroughfare to Ramallah.Military

 sources said the IDF had spent NIS 160m. on alternative roads for 
Palestinian motorists only, on which there were no security checks or 
soldiers, to ensure that they could travel between the area villages and
 Ramallah.Before 2002, travel time from area Palestinian 
villages to Ramallah was roughly 20 to 30 minutes.Palestinians 
say that without the 443, it takes an hour to arrive at the large West 
Bank city, even though a paved road off of Route 443 by the Camp Ofer 
junction could get them there within 10 minutes.Under the new 
traffic plan, however, the IDF will stop Palestinian cars at a new 
three-lane checkpoint set up on Route 443 just 1 km. away from the 
Ramallah exit.Even if Palestinians could turn left at the exit, 
their way would be barred within minutes by the Beitunya checkpoint, 
which is open only to Israeli commercial trucks that deliver goods to 
Ramallah. Israeli motorists are stopped there are well, because from 
that point on, the road is under the Palestinian Authority’s control.Palestinians

 can’t go there because the IDF believes it is a security risk to allow 
them passage through Beitunya. The High Court of Justice, in its 
December ruling, upheld the IDF’s decision.It’s a stance that 
ACRI has bitterly attacked.“Without the opening of the Beitunya 
crossing, Route 443 effectively cannot be used by the very population 
for which it was built,” said ACRI spokeswoman Melanie Takefman.She

 added that the IDF had rendered the court’s ruling “almost meaningless”
 and negated its central principle that Palestinians had the right to 
use a road that was built on land Israel had expropriated from them.For
 Palestinians who want to travel on it anyway, there are four options. 
Each one involves entering Route 443 from the Palestinian village of 
Beit Sira at the Maccabim checkpoint, just as cars en route from Tel 
Aviv to Jerusalem cross into the West Bank.After spending time 
waiting at the newly installed two-lane checkpoint, Palestinians can 
drive 4 km. down 443 and then exit onto back roads that go under the 
highway and link on the other side with an alternative route to Ramallah
 for Palestinians only, known as the Fabric of Life road.Another
 option is for Palestinians to continue down the 443 another 6 km., 10 
km. from their Beit Sira entry point, and exit at At Tira.Here 
they have two options. They can head to Ramallah through back roads that
 take them under 443 and then link them with the Fabric road; or, in a 
drive that takes nine minutes without traffic, they can cross over 443 
by way of a small bridge that has a single lane on either side.In

 the latter case, they would continue back the way they had just come, 
on a small road that would take them by the Beit Horon settlement and 
back out onto the 443 by way of the small road that settlers use to 
enter and exit their homes. Palestinians would then drive another 2 km. 
on Route 443, exit at Beit Ur al-Fauqa and connect with the Fabric road.The

 last option is for the Palestinian motorist to drive the full 13-km. 
stretch of 443 that is open to them, from Beit Sira until the new Camp 
Ofer checkpoint. Here, after spending time going through the checkpoint,
 they can make a U-turn and drive back along Route 443, 7 km. in the 
opposite direction, and exit at Beit Ur. Driving in an S-pattern, they 
would then link up with the Fabric road, which would take them those 7 
km. back in the direction of Ramallah.On the return trip, 
Palestinians would enter 443 by Beit Ur, travel 6 km. down the road and 
exit to Beit Sira right before the Maccabim checkpoint. They can also 
make a U-turn at this point and drive back down 443, to the Kharbata or 
At Tira exit.A few problems with the new traffic planTo the casual motorist, there are two points in the
 plan that appear problematic for traffic safety.The first is at
 the new Camp Ofer checkpoint on the side of the road close to the Givat
 Ze’ev settlement, where Palestinian motorists would be pushing out into
 high-speed traffic after making their U-turn.The second problem
 spot is by the Maccabim checkpoint, where Palestinians enter the lineup
 of cars continuing to Tel Aviv. But just before they hit the actual 
checkpoint, they have to either turn left, jutting across the incoming 
traffic to get to the Beit Sira exit, or make a U-turn into that 
traffic.There is no traffic light at this point. The white arrow
 pointing left, which is painted onto the pavement, is faded.Military

 sources said they had plans to ensure vehicle safety at these points, 
but none of them were apparent Thursday, just one day before the 
opening.The sources did note that an issue that still needed 
work was the road from the back end of Givat Ze’ev, where a new haredi 
neighborhood is being built. To prepare for Palestinian traffic on 443, 
the IDF has blocked off that road until it can work out a plan to allow 
the residents to exit, and at the same time bar Palestinians from 
entering.The Knesset Economic 
Affairs Committee on Monday said it felt the plans
for Palestinian traffic were incomplete. It urged Prime Minister
Binyamin Netanyahu to delay the opening.


“The IDF should be honest about the fact that it is not ready to open
the road on Friday,” said MK Yariv Levin (Likud), who lives in the city
of Modi’in. Modi’in is located off the 443, within the pre-1967 border.But ready or not, Palestinians plan to drive on the road Friday morning.
 Beit Sira Council member Faruk Ankawi told the Post, “I will be the first in line.” The delay to Ramallah has made it hard for people to get to the
hospital in emergencies, hold down jobs or study in the city. Ankawi
clocks an hour from his house to Ramallah, and he does not believe
entry to 443 will ease his travel time.“But you have to go onto the road to make a statement that this is our 
road,” said Ankawi.
AP contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Serry: Time running out for negotiations</title>
<date>28/4/2010</date>
<content>
With developments on the ground filling the void left by stalled peace negotiations, neither Israelis or Palestinians have the “luxury of time” if they want to realize the two-state solution, said UN special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, Robert Serry, while speaking at the Hebrew University on Tuesday afternoon.“The consequences of not having a two-state solution is no solution – it’s a one-state solution,” Serry said.




According to Serry, 70 percent of Israelis and 55% of Palestinians support the two-state solution, “but the figure on the Palestinian side is actually declining.”“Yet despite this mood of increasing pessimism,” he continued, “I haven’t given up hope.”Serry explained that such hope was rooted in his belief that “the two-state solution is befitting [both parties’] best interests.”“Let me begin with Israel,” Serry said. “If Israel’s strategic interest in the region is to stop extremist Islam and work with moderate Arab states, [those moderate Arab states] feel undermined by Israel’s actions in Palestinian neighborhoods in east Jerusalem.“They see the land for a Palestinian state being eaten away by facts on the ground,” he continued. “And Israel would be well advised to understand the consequences of the two-state solution fading. [Israel will] either lose demographically or become an apartheid state,” he said.The Palestinians, Serry explained, had to “address the issue of refugees” – namely the right of return – “because the very essence of two states means two homelands for two peoples,” he said.But most important, said the UN special coordinator, was getting both sides back to the negotiating table.“I’m afraid the two-state solution is fading if the parties still think
they have the luxury of time,” he said. “As the Quartet underlined in
Moscow [in March], a negotiated settlement [based on the two-state
solution] could be reached within 24 months.”Serry added that the UN was “fully supportive of US efforts to resume
negotiations – in fact, I believe the international community has never
been so united on the issue of a two-state solution,” he said.
“I sincerely hope,” he continued, “that the birthright of a Palestinian
state will be agreed upon within the next 24 months. Otherwise it may
be too late.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Standing up, and out, for Israel</title>
<date>26/7/2010</date>
<content>
When Ishmael Khalidi was a child he would walk several miles to school every day 
in the blazing sun or in the bitter cold. Since then he has traveled far, his 
journey taking him from a Galilee village that he describes as a “backwater with 
no electricity or running water” to become Israel’s first – and so far only – 
Beduin diplomat.Khalidi, formerly Israel’s deputy consul general in San 
Francisco, and now Arab affairs adviser to Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, 
has a soft voice but a steely character. His chiseled features seem almost 
carved out of the rocky landscape of his youth, his penetrating gaze a mark of 
his indomitable will.




From a young age Khalidi stood out, and before long 
his parents realized that his future would lie outside of the village, outside 
of the confines of Beduin custom and tradition.The third of 11 brothers 
and sisters, he attended the prestigious Arab Orthodox College in Haifa where 
for the first time he was confronted with the issue of identity. As the only 
Beduin student he found himself asking, “Am I Arab, Israeli, Muslim or Beduin?” 
He relates how while as a Beduin he felt pride in the State of Israel, his 
classmates, whom he labels “brutal creatures who either ignored me or called me 
names” affiliated themselves with the various Palestinian national movements, 
and how on Remembrance Day when he stood for a minute’s silence they called him 
a traitor.But to typecast Khalidi as an outcast looking for a sense of 
belonging, as someone seeking to throw in his lot with the majority, would be to 
draw the wrong conclusion.“I belong nowhere,” he says. “My roots are no 
roots and my real people are my tribe.”When I ask Khalidi why, as a 
Beduin, as a Muslim, he decided to represent the State of Israel, he replies, 
half in jest, “perhaps from a personal point of view, as a Beduin, traveling is 
in my blood.”The he adds: “Especially at this time, when Israel is under 
attack, when there are attempts to deny its legitimacy, it is my duty, my role, 
as a member of a minority, to stand up and speak.”Khalidi, 39, and 
unusually for a Beduin still a bachelor, describes the path that took him from 
Khawalid near Kiryat Ata to the Foreign Ministry in a recently selfpublished 
book A Shepherd’s Journey. He says he wrote the book “because people don’t 
understand the country from the inside,” and that he tried to present things 
through his personal story rather than try to tackle the wider philosophical 
problems of identity and minorities in Israel, issues he says he does plan to 
take on in a later updated version that he is working on currently.AFTER 
HIGH school, in the summer of 1990, he took a gap year and after working on a 
kibbutz to save money he traveled to America, hardly knowing a word of 
English.When he arrived his only contact, from a kibbutz near his 
village, could not be reached. Lost and on the verge of tears, he approached a 
hassid who sent him to Brooklyn, where he ended up staying with a Chabad 
family.“I stayed with them for five days until they realized I was a 
Beduin, Muslim and not Jewish,” he recalls. “I grew up believing that Israel was 
an inseparable part of Jewish identity and I expected that in Brooklyn people 
would know that almost 21 percent of the population of Israel are not Jewish. I 
expected them to know that I am part of that minority, but that I am an Israeli 
and my connection to Israel as a Jewish state began not in 1948 but before that 
when the first pioneers came.”“That moment,” says Khalidi “was when the 
connection started. That was when my realization of my belonging to the state 
and my ability to represent the state began to develop.”On his return 
from his year in the US he enrolled at the University of Haifa, where he studied 
political science.There he made his first foray into diplomacy, hosting 
overseas students in his village and giving them a taste of Beduin hospitality. 
After completing his studies, Khalidi volunteered for military service with the 
Border Police, and after that he enrolled for a master’s in international 
relations at Tel Aviv University.In 2002, at the height of the second 
intifada, he decided to return to the US as a citizen diplomat, and spoke on 
several college campuses. There he experienced anti-Israel activism and found 
himself in the “eye of the storm,” standing up for Israel.“I had put my 
life on the line for my country and now I wanted to serve it in a political way 
as a diplomat,” he says. “I spoke simply of one man’s story within Israeli 
culture, society and politics. My goal was to advocate for Israel and dispel the 
myriad of erroneous facts that are unfortunately accepted as 
truth.”After two years of citizen diplomacy he decided it was time for 
the real thing. It took him until the third attempt to pass the Foreign 
Ministry’s cadet entrance examination. “I did the six-month course and then I was 
thrown in at the deep end when I was sent to work as a spokesman for the [Gaza] 
disengagement in July 2005 in the Arab media department,” Khalidi recalls. “It 
was the first time that a non- Jewish person was appointed to speak in front of 
the Arab media as Israel’s representative.”
His stint with the Arab media 
department was followed by a year-long spell with the ministry’s North 
America 
department and then the historic appointment as Israel’s first Beduin 
diplomat, 
to the position of deputy consul general in San Francisco Khalidi 
describes the 
appointment as a “hardship post” because of the vocal anti-Israel 
contingent in 
the Bay Area. One of the experiences that he remembers most clearly is a
 
dialogue with the organizers of Israel Apartheid Week on UC Berkeley. 
“If Israel 
were an apartheid state, I would not have been appointed here, nor would
 I have 
chosen to take upon myself this duty,” he told his interlocutors.Shortly 
after returning from the Bay, Khalidi was offered the post as adviser to
 
Lieberman, a position he had no problem accepting.“I have no problems 
working with Lieberman,” he says of his often controversial boss. 
“Everyone has 
their own political opinions, I represent the foreign minister without 
any 
connection to politics.”Khalidi concedes though that “there are people 
who know how to say things more subtly.” He adds, though, that Lieberman
 is 
surprisingly well respected in the Arab sector. “He says what he has to 
say in a 
very direct fashion. He puts his position on the table. I travel a lot 
in the 
Arab sector and people respect him more than any other politician, and 
the 
reason is that he is honest and direct.”
What he does have a problem 
with, however, is the perception that his appointment came as a cover 
for the 
foreign minister’s extreme positions. “The first reaction I received 
after 
returning from San Francisco was from a very senior media personality 
who is now 
a member of Knesset. He said to me, ‘I know you; you’re Lieberman’s fig 
leaf.’ 
That was very offensive and insulting to me and for me it points to how 
‘dirty’ 
Israeli politics are. People are willing to do anything to smear.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>State orders Maguire to leave immediately, denies appeal</title>
<date>4/10/2010</date>
<content>
Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead Maguire must leave the country, in accordance with a deportation order barring her from entering the country for the next 10 years, the Supreme Court ruled on Monday evening.Earlier in the day, the state rejected a proposal by the court to allow Maguire, from Ireland, to remain in Israel until Wednesday.




RELATED:Editorial: The disingenuous Nobel 
laureateBenisch says Nobel laureate knew of deportation 
orderShe arrived at Ben-Gurion Airport on September 28 as part of a delegation organized by the Nobel Women’s Initiative, which was scheduled to hold meetings in Israel and the West Bank until October 6. The organizer of the trip, Liz Bernstein, was told explicitly before the trip that Maguire would not be allowed into the country.Nevertheless, Maguire claimed she did not know about the deportation order until she arrived here.The government issued two orders prohibiting Maguire from entering Israel because she participated in two voyages organized by the “Free Gaza” group, aboard the MV Arion in 2009 and the MV Rachel Corrie in 2010, aimed at breaking the blockade on the Gaza Strip.After being told at the airport she would not be let into the country, Maguire appealed against the deportation order to the Central District Court.When the appeal was rejected, she appealed the lower court decision to the Supreme Court.Supreme Court President Dorit Beinisch and Justice Asher Grunis made it clear that they did not believe Maguire’s claim that she did not know she was barred from the country. Despite that, they suggested allowing her to remain in Israel until Wednesday, without rescinding the deportation order.Grunis said at one point, “She knew [she was prohibited from entering Israel] and came here deliberately, as a provocation. Her arguments are baseless. Nevertheless, we should take broader considerations into account that are beyond the level of the state prosecution.”Beinisch said the same. “I am prepared to assume that she did not come here in good faith and with friendly aims.”She, too, suggested that Maguire be allowed to stay but that “the deportation order should not be canceled. If she wants to challenge it, let her do so from abroad.”The state’s representative, attorney Hani Ofek, said Maguire should not have been allowed access to the courts in the first place, because she did not first go through the proper administrative channels to have the deportation order canceled, specifically the Ministry of Interior, which issued the deportation orders. It was only because she had arrived in Israel as a fait accompli that she was able to obtain a court hearing, said Ofek.“We cannot allow her to obtain an advantage just because she took the law into her own hands,” she continued, which would be a violation of Israeli sovereignty.Ofek agreed to Beinisch’s request to consult with her superiors regarding the court’s proposal, but said she doubted that they would agree because of the sovereignty issue.“Israel’s sovereignty remains intact,” replied Beinisch.“What, will we question it because of this woman?” said Beinisch, referring to Maguire.As Ofek had predicted, the government rejected the court’s proposal. “[Maguire] tried to enter the country by violating the principles of the administrative process,” Ofek told the court. “She must first apply to the minister of interior [to repeal the deportation order], as is customary.”At the end of the hearing, the court allowed Maguire to speak.She said she had come to Israel at peace with her conscience.She had not known there was a deportation order against her for 10 years and was shocked when told so by the immigration department.Maguire said she loved the Israeli people and the Palestinians and was 
saddened by the violence and conflict here. She said she had Israeli and
 Palestinian friends and that she had come as a member of a group that 
believed in peace and a possible solution.She called on Israel to stop its “apartheid policy and the siege on Gaza.”
At that point, Grunis interrupted her speech and told her “this is no place for propaganda
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Swedish pension giant divests from Elbit</title>
<date>31/3/2010</date>
<content>
Sweden's largest pension funds have elected to remove Israeli defense electronics company Elbit Systems from its investment portfolios over its involvement in the construction and operation of the Israeli separation barrier being built around the West Bank. Four of the five buffer funds in the Swedish pay-as-you-go pension system agreed to bar Elbit after the funds' Ethical Council found the Israeli company to be in violation of their ethical guidelines. 




"The Ethical Council recommended that Elbit Systems Ltd should be excluded from each portfolio because it deems that the company can be linked to violations of fundamental conventions and norms through its active development, delivery and maintenance of a custom-made monitoring system for certain parts of the separation barrier being built on the West Bank," the council said in a statement, citing a 2004 ruling against the separation barrier by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The Medial Line News Agency Elbit built and operates a sophisticated surveillance system along portions of the separation barrier, which is a network of fences, barbed wire, ditches and concrete walls over 20 feet tall. Israel claims that the barrier has proven critical in preventing Palestinian terror attacks on Israeli civilians, while Palestinians counter that the barrier is an Israeli attempt to unilaterally appropriate Palestinian land, severely restricting the lives of those who live nearby and their ability to access work in Israel. While the incidence of Palestinian suicide attacks has decreased since the separation barrier's erection, the international community has been highly critical of Israel's decision to build it. If completed, 85 percent of the barrier's path will fall within the West Bank. According to the UN, to date Israeli contractors have built 256 miles of the planned 435 mile barrier. The Swedish pension funds' move follows a decision last year by Norway's state pension fund to drop Elbit Systems from its investments on similar reasoning. "The work of the Ethical Council is based on a rigorous process where dialogues with companies are our main tool," said Annika Andersson, chair of the Ethical Council. "As a last resort, the Ethical Council may recommend each fund to exclude the company if the dialogue fails to produce the desired result. This is now the case with Elbit Systems Ltd." The Swedish buffer funds ensure the long-term stability of the country's pay-as-you-go pension system by attempting to even out temporary fluctuations during periods when pension contributions are not sufficient to cover pension disbursements.  The Swedish pension scheme also considered divesting from Yahoo, PetroChina, the Spanish Grupo Ferrovial and the French electronics firm Thales over various ethical concerns, but determined that the companies successfully addressed their ethical concerns. "The Council uses dialogue and cooperation as its main tools for influencing companies to act responsibly," the Ethical Council said in a statement. "The discussions have two aims: encouraging companies to address violations of international conventions and to implement proper systems to prevent future abuses... These discussions were ongoing for a couple of years and resulted in satisfactory improvements in each case." Omar Barghouti, a founding member of the Palestinian civil society campaign for Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions [BDS], lauded the significance of the decision. "This is the beginning of when the BDS movement begins to bite," he told The Media Line. "The BDS movement is turning Israel into the world's pariah state, as South Africa was during apartheid." "These are very responsible governments, and when they take a decision people everywhere will listen," Barghouti said. "So it's not a small issue for us that Western governments take such a decision against Israel's occupation and colonial settlement." "There are hundreds of Israeli companies that are complicit in the occupation and construction of colonial settlements," he continued. "This is the third major divestment from Elbit: First was the Norwegian state pension fund - the third largest sovereign pension fund in the world - then Danske Bank, the largest Danish bank, and now this. So this is the beginning of a serious trend of divestment from Israel's occupation and apartheid." "For now this has a psychological more than an economic effect, but as we know, psychology has an incredible impact on the economy," Barghouti added. "If a company is tainted by violations of human rights, stockholders will start selling their stocks and soon enough the company will be downgraded. Elbit is Israel's largest military contractor, so this would have incredible repercussions for Israel's economy." Elbit refused to speak about the Ethical Council's decision. "Elbit will not be commenting on this matter," Dalia Rosen, Vice President of Elbit Systems Ltd told The Media Line Dr Ephraim Inbar, Director of the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies, said the BDS campaign poses a serious threat to the Jewish state. This is definitely part of a partially successful Palestinian campaign to delegitimize Israel and Israel should take it seriously," he told The Media Line. "For major European pension funds to equate Israel with South Africa and to think Israel is not worthy of their investment shows that Palestinain propaganda and efforts to single out Israel for human rights have been successful." "The Jewish people have been isolated many times," Dr Inbar said. "We've seen Nazism, we've seen very dark periods in European history. Eventually I hope the world will see the truth: a very strange alliance of Islamists and the radical left are behind these divestment campaigns, and the evident truth is that the Palestinians are rejectionists of peace and increasingly supportive of Hamas, an Islamic radical group. I hope that the Europeans will have enough sense to not support this kind of organization." Rob Harrison, Editor of Ethical Consumer magazine, said Scandinavian pension funds have taken the lead in responsible investing. "Each year the northern European pension funds get better at managing ethical issues, particularly in Scandinavia where they have a reputation for this kind of approach," he told The Media Line. "It's only a matter of time until this spreads from Scandinavia to the rest of Europe and the States." "It’s a question of maintaining one's viability and political
sensibility at the same time," Harrison said. "So ethics analysts have
put together a list of 20 or so countries or regimes that are
particularly beyond the pale based on benchmark standards. In fairness,
many of these sophisticated pension funds that are well resourced say
'we need to take a responsible stance on this but we can't divest from
everything otherwise we're not going to make a good return.' They've
become quite clever at doing that, at trying to make sense of these
quite complex issues." 

"Over the last few years, Israel hasn't seemed like it’s looking for a
negotiated solution," he added. "There has to be a way to persuade
Israel that it's in their interest to start talking again. Certainly
amongst campaigners, there is a lot of discussion about how to learn
from the language and approach of the anti-Apartheid campaign, and
trying to use universal moral norms to paint Israel in a particular
way."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'TAU restricts freedom of speech'</title>
<date>12/5/2010</date>
<content>
A Tel Aviv University board member is set to resign Wednesday following university President Joseph Klaffter’s refusal to bring a proposal he drafted to a vote.Mark Tanenbaum had proposed a resolution to the board of governors, requesting that the university senate investigate the political activity of professors who use the school’s name.




Tanenbaum’s proposal comes as a response to outspoken TAU professors advocating an academic boycott of Israel and the university.The proposal cites faculty bylaws “Breach of Discipline” restriction on faculty listing their affiliation with TAU on any document or statement of a political nature when participating in any domestic or international forums of political nature.Tanenbaum described Klaffter yelling into the microphone that he would not tolerate any infringement on academic freedom within the university immediately after the proposal was read.Klaffter’s decision not to bring the proposal to a vote came at the end of a heated debate between the board members concerned about the university restricting freedom of speech.  “While he was blathering on about the right to free speech, he ironically denied me, a member of the board of governors, a former student, whose late father was one of the founding members of Canadian Friends of Tel Aviv University the right to free speech, and that is absolutely unacceptable,” Tanenbaum told The Jerusalem Post. Tanenbaum on Wednesday will announce his resignation from all of his posts at TAU and his decision to join Bar-Ilan University .Until Tuesday, Tanenbaum had been a member of the TAU Board of Governors, the board of directors for the American Friends of Tel Aviv University, and the board of international Overseers of the Moshe Dayan Center at Tel Aviv University.He is involved in a number of other philanthropic Israel-oriented organizations, both in Israel and in Miami. He describes himself as an “ardent Zionist who’s not embarrassed to use the word Zionist.” Other long-time members of the board of governors told Tanenbaum that they planed to follow his lead and resign from the board as well.Earlier Tuesday, TAU academics’ condemnation of Israel abroad was at the forefront of the John Gandel Symposium on the Middle East.Harvard University Prof. Alan Dershowitz, former president of TAU Itamar Rabinovich and Principle Deputy Legal Adviser of the Foreign Ministry Daniel Taub addressed the board of governors during their annual meeting.The symposium, “The Deligitimization of Israel as a Strategic Threat,” focused on issues representing Israel abroad.Dershowitz accused Israeli professors campaigning for an academic boycott of Israel of being “hypocritical Stalinists.” He pointed particularly at two TAU professors, Anat Matar and Rachel Giora, who are known for their endorsement of campaigns to academically boycott Israel.This week, Matar and Giora signed a letter boycotting an exhibit on Israeli medical achievements at the Boston Museum of Science.  “The people who call for a boycott are a bunch of cowards. They should start by boycotting Tel Aviv University themselves and resign.  That’s the courageous thing to do,” Dershowitz told the board of governors.Dershowitz noted that he offered his own resignation from Harvard when the administration almost used discriminatory hiring policies against a Jewish nominee.The law professor assured that restricting political activity in the name of TAU was a legitimate action for the university to take. Harvard University has a policy forbidding faculty from speaking outside of their specialty in the name of the university, Dershowitz said.While Dershowitz contended that restricting political speech was not a violation of academic freedom, TAU Prof. Hannah Wirth-Nesher did not see the same distinction.“When I immigrated to Israel I came to work at Tel Aviv University, not Teheran University,” said Wirth-Nesher, equating such a restriction of speech with one of a tyrannical regime.The proposal requests that the TAU Senate investigate letters, petitions and articles that promote an international academic boycott of TAU and other Israeli universities that are written and signed by TAU academics who state their university affiliation.“My contention is that there is a huge difference between academic freedom, which we all cherish, and what’s purely outside political activity,” Tanenbaum told The Jerusalem Post . “If they were to say these things [among] their peers, I have no issue with it. My issue is when they leave the university and fly to Europe, fly to Canada, fly to the US and attend political forums and try to get the world to boycott Tel Aviv University, from where they receive their paycheck. That’s political activity and it’s not academic discourse.Recently TAU linguistics professor Giora and philosophy professor Matar endorsed a number of organizations boycotting Israeli academic institutions, including their own. One of the organizations, BOYCOTT!, supports the Palestinian boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign about Israel. On March 30, the organization praised a British academic in an open letter for her “important decision to boycott state-run and apartheid-complicit Tel Aviv University.”Giora and Matar also signed the US Campaign for the Academic & Cultural Boycott of Israel, which advocates “a comprehensive boycott of Israeli institutions at the national and international level.”“I support every form of open criticism against the current policies of the Israeli government, in the occupied territories, whether it is an economic boycott or other forms of resistance,” Giora told Ynet in 2006, adding that an academic boycott showed Israelis that the world was “rightly” against them.Tanenbaum pointed to Giora’s and Matar’s employee status as one of the most disturbing parts of their claims.“If you have a business and your employee starts writing letters and signing petitions to boycott your business, you are able to fire that employee with just cause in the US,” explained Tanenbaum.Although he has not looked at the professors’ contracts at TAU, he assumes there is some implicit or explicit understanding that they will not attempt to harm the university.Tanenbaum initially appealed to the university administration to take action against these professors. However, despite the administration’s shared frustration, it expressed doubt about restricting their freedom of speech.Tanenbaum then decided to research the faculty bylaws and discovered several rules that could advance his case. The Breaches of Discipline section (Article 3) prohibits academic staff
from listing their affiliation with TAU on any document or statement of
a political nature and when participating in any domestic or
international forums of political nature.“If they were to say Israel is an apartheid state guilty of war crimes
within their classroom, I have no issue with it, and neither do the
faculty bylaws,” said Tanenbaum.However, he claims that Giora and Matar deliberately use their TAU affiliation in political activity abroad.In addition, Article 3.6 in the “Regulations for Academic Staff”
describes “inappropriate behavior on the part of a member of the
academic staff in his relationship with the university’s institutions”
as a breach of discipline.“I would definitely consider trying to boycott your own university,
which pays your salary, inappropriate behavior,” explained Tanenbaum.
Having enlisted Israeli legal experts to ensure that his contentions
were reasonable, Tanenbaum said he had received unanimous assurance
that they were solidly founded.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'Without state, PA is irrelevant'</title>
<date>26/6/2010</date>
<content>
Palestinian Chief Negotiator Saeb Erekat warned on Friday that the Palestinian Authority was founded to establish the institutions for a Palestinian state, "not to keep Israel as a source of authority forever." If Israel insists on maintaining control, he said, the Palestinian Authority "cannot stand — it's irrelevant," and he indicated it might be dissolved.




Erekat was speaking during a debate with Deputy Prime Minister Dan Meridor in New York.Meridor said Israel wants to return to direct negotiations with the Palestinians and indicated that indirect talks brokered by US special envoy George Mitchell were making progress."I do hope in the coming weeks negotiations will skip over this strange proximity talks into real talks," he said. "We need to talk to each other and make the tough decisions needed, and if this is done we'll see progress this coming year."Meridor said, however, that if there is no full agreement on the outstanding issues of Jerusalem, refugees, final borders and security "we will not let the negotiation collapse.""It should not be all or nothing. We all wish for all, but if we can't get it, we should be very cautious not to risk everything on that," he said.Erekat responded, saying the Palestinians never objected to negotiations but are insisting on a stop to settlement construction, which he stressed was not a condition but a key requirement in the 2003 roadmap leading to the establishment of a Palestinian state that was presented by the US, UN, European Union and Russia."This government of Israel has a choice, settlements or peace," he said. "They can't have both."Erekat accused Meridor and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s government of refusing to answer key questions: Will Israel begin negotiations where they left off in December 2008, and will it accept east Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine and the 1967 border as a baseline for a two-state solution?"Israel has three options," Erekat said, a two-state solution, a single state including Jews and Palestinians, or what he called a continuation of Israel's "racism" and "apartheid system" in the West Bank where Arabs and Christians can't use roads reserved only for Israelis.Erekat warned the Israelis that "if by the end of this year we do not 
have a two-state solution, you will sweat, you will sweat."Meridor said the future of Palestinian refugees is the most crucial 
issue for Israel."It's more important than even the exact delineation of the border, 
which is a problem but we can agree on this: It's more important even 
than the security arrangements that are very important," he said.Meridor said Erekat's statement that the Palestinian Authority has no 
right to negotiate the right of return of the refugees — that the 
refugees themselves will have to make the choice and they have the right
 both to return and to compensation — raised major problems.
Any peace agreement that did not settle the refugee issue would mean 
"there is no end to the conflict."
</content>
</article>
