<article>
<title>2 Jewish filmmakers boycott J'lem festival to protest Israeli policies</title>
<date>7/7/2009</date>
<content>
Two Jewish activists have withdrawn their documentary from the Jerusalem Film Festival in hopes of making the Israeli public think critically about state policies toward the Palestinians.

Jacques Servin and Igor Vamos pulled their film in compliance with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanction campaign, aimed at pressing Israel to recognize the Palestinians' right to self-determination and end alleged violations of international law through international pressure and economic sanctions.

"It's embarrassing as Jews to hear constantly what's going on [in Israel] and to hear the policies of the state described as fascist," Servin told The Jerusalem Post.

"This is one way to communicate that there is something really wrong going on."

Servin and Vamos are the founders of the organization "The Yes Men," which produces documentaries and presentations that spoof large corporations to expose their unjust practices.

Their newly-released documentary, The Yes Men Fix the World, which draws attention to corporations' role in climate change, was scheduled to appear at the film festival until last week, when Servin and Vamos announced the withdrawal in a letter to the organizers.

The organizers did not respond to their letter, nor could they be reached for comment. However, a curator with the festival told Servin privately that the decision to withdraw was the right decision.

Servin, known by the stage name Andy Bichlbaum, and Vamos, known as Mike Bonanno, mulled over joining the boycott campaign for about two months before making the final decision to withdraw.

"It didn't even occur to us at first," Vamos said. "At first, we just thought 'business as usual,' but it really shouldn't be, and we should be thinking twice [about showing support for Israel's actions]."

They will instead distribute the documentary in Israel through activist organizations, Servin said.

In their letter to the festival organizers, Servin and Vamos cited the impact that a boycott campaign had on ending apartheid in South Africa, but Vamos stressed that they were not drawing parallels between South African and Israeli policies and that they weren't showing support for terrorist actions against Israel.

"A lot of people would hear us make these comparisons and think we're saying the situations are the same, which they are not. It's a situation where the attention of the world focused on something and economic sanctions made a difference," Vamos said.

"What we're supporting is the nonviolent groups who are calling for a boycott of all activity that could be seen as supporting state policies."

Servin and Vamos stressed that they still felt a deep connection to the Jewish people and to Israel. The decision was not meant to be a "slap in the face" to either the film festival or Israel, Servin said.

Instead, it's a push that he hoped would make Israelis register the change in public opinion toward their country and respond accordingly.

"We just care a lot. We think things have to change," he said. "I don't want Israel to be an embarrassment."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Abbas aide: Building freeze before talks</title>
<date>10/2/2009</date>
<content>
The next Israeli government will have to commit to a settlement freeze before peace talks can resume, Palestinian officials said Tuesday, after TV exit polls that predicted that Kadima chairwoman Tzipi Livni edged out Likud head Binyamin Netanyahu in Tuesday's election.

Netanyahu has said he would expand West Bank settlements. Livni, who heads the centrist Kadima Party, was Israel's chief negotiator in a year of inconclusive peace talks with the Palestinians. However, settlement construction continued and even accelerated under the outgoing Kadima-led government.

Exit polls released by three TV stations indicated that Kadima narrowly emerged as the largest party. However, with at most 30 seats in the 120-member parliament, Kadima would have to govern in a coalition and might not find enough willing partners.

Likud was trailing Kadima only by two seats, according to the exit polls, and Netanyahu could still be given the job of forming the coalition, if enough legislators support him.

"Kadima winning doesn't mean it will be able to form a government," said Rafiq Husseini, a senior aide to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.

In any case, Abbas would only resume peace talks with Israel if the next government commits to a settlement freeze, Husseini said.

"We now have clear conditions for whoever heads the Israeli government," he said. "The conditions begin with the halt of settlement activities immediately ... for negotiations to start again."

The Palestinians claim all of the West Bank as part of a future state and say the settlements, home to some 280,000 Jews, will make it impossible to establish an independent homeland.

In Gaza, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said the election results don't make a difference in the lives of Palestinians. "Anyone who thinks that new faces might bring change is mistaken," he said, even before the exit polls were released.

"In the past 60 years, the Zionist entity witnessed many changes ... of leaders, all of them worked and are still working to eliminate the Palestinian existence, to build a Jewish state and to isolate Palestinians in an apartheid canton, like what we have here in Gaza."

Earlier in the day, senior Hamas member Osama Hamdan told AFP that the group was awaiting the outcome of the election to know whether a long-term truce deal in Gaza can be reached.

"We're following the Israeli election. The election taking place today will determine what will happen," he said. "If [Likud leader Binyamin] Netanyahu wins, I don't think that the current government will conclude an agreement. If the current government wins, they could reach an agreement."

Another Hamas leader, Ismail Radwan told the Ma'an news agency that there have been positive developments in talks with Israel and that the deal brokered by Egypt would include the opening of the Rafah Crossing.

The news agency also reported that Egypt had invited representatives of Palestinian factions to Cairo for to unity talks later this month. Walid Al-Awad, of the Palestinian People‚s Party, said in a statement that the invitation was sent to the general secretaries of all Palestinian factions so give them time to prepare for the talks that will be held on February 22.

Israeli officials said that talks between Egypt and Hamas also continued with regard to abducted soldier Gilad Schalit and that there was a chance that a deal would be reached by the establishment of a new government in Jerusalem. Both Netanyahu and Kadima leader Tzipi Livni are said to prefer that a deal be reached before one of them establishes a new government and takes up the premiership.

However, defense officials said that the outcome of Tuesday's elections would not likely influence the cease-fire negotiations between Israel and Hamas in Egypt.

According to the officials, Hamas was interested in securing a cease-fire by the end of the week and Egyptian mediation will continue even as the party chosen by President Shimon Peres works to form a new coalition. The officials said that Egypt was currently waiting for a Hamas delegation to return from Syria with its response to the cease-fire proposal.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A 'homecoming' for foreign envoys</title>
<date>23/3/2009</date>
<content>
For two of five new ambassadors who presented their credentials to President Shimon Peres on Monday, their current postings are in the nature of a homecoming.

Alexander de la Rosa, Ambassador of the Dominican Republic, is a graduate of Mashav, the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs Center for International Cooperation, in addition to which he served from 1999-2003 as First Secretary and Consul in his country's embassy in Israel, and from 2003-2005 as Minister Counselor and Charge D'Affaires.

He was so excited to be back in Israel that he didn't remember whether he should first present his letter of credence to the president or shake his hand. He quickly overcame the glitch and, speaking to the president in Hebrew said: "For me it's wonderful to come home to Israel. I just love this country."

Alluding to the fact that the Dominican Republic provided a haven for Jews fleeing the Holocaust when hardly any other country would take them in, de la Rosa said that his country would always be happy to provide a safe place for Jews. "You have a second home in the Dominican Republic," he told Peres.

His country and Israel have more than an historical relationship he said. "We are happy about what Israel does for all of Latin America."

The economy of the Dominican Republic has fared better than the economies of countries in the world at large. De la Rosa attributed this to a strong agricultural base, a huge influx of tourism and a thriving communications industry. De la Rosa was optimistic that his country's economy would receive a major boost from gas and oil  explorations. There are already indications of both, with very promising off-shore potential for oil.

"Be careful," warned the environment conscious Peres. "Oil pollutes, and you've got a beautiful country.  Don't spoil it." As de la Rosa took his leave of the president the Police Band played the Israel national anthem for which the ambassador demonstrated more fervor than any of the Israelis present. They merely stood to attention. He sang all the words.

Also thrilled to be back in Israel was Georgian Ambassador Vahtang Jaoshvili, who first came to Israel in 1999, initially as third secretary after which he was promoted to second secretary, then first secretary and eventually to chief of consular services.

When Peres asked whether he speaks Hebrew, Jaoshivili's response was "I've forgotten." But he didn't say it in English. He said it in Hebrew.

Peres and Jaoshivili discussed what remains of the Russian presence in Georgia coupled with Georgia's concerns about the military bases that Russia intends to build. Like de la Rosa, Jaoshvili proclaimed his delight at being back in Israel. "I'm happy and proud to be in Israel," he said. "I really love this country. Relations between our two countries have always been good, but I'm going to make them even better."

When Peres referred to the number of artists and physicians of Georgian background in Israel, he made particular mention of celebrated film maker Dover Kosashvili and the production that he's currently working on.

Jaoshvili enlightened the president, telling him that in a few months time there's going to be a whole bunch of Georgian film makers in Israel. They will be brought here as part of a massive cultural project being undertaken by the embassy.

In raising his glass to toast Georgia, Peres said to the ambassador and his wife: "We know you will find many friends."

"We already have many friends. We feel at home. Lehaim," was the response.

Joashvili disappointed photographers who expected him to emulate his predecessor Lasha Zhvania, who arrived in Georgian national dress replete with silver dagger, when he presented his credentials. Joashvili chose a business suit.

South African Ambassador Ismail Coovadia, was accompanied by six members of his staff in addition to his wife, who between them represented a demographic mosaic of South African reconciliation with complexions ranging from white to olive, to brown to black, but with their owners radiating a sense of camaraderie and teamwork.

Although several years have passed since apartheid rule, Peres who in his time knew a different South Africa, still marveled at how the country had
overcome apartheid and how it had managed to instill and exude such a tremendous sense of  orgiveness. "Mandela is a hero to all of us," he said in reference to former President Nelson Mandela whose leadership had enabled such radical change.

While those involved in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict have said many times that it is completely different to the conflict overcome by South Africa, Coovadia nonetheless offered any help that South Africa can give towards resolving the crisis as quickly as possible.

Offering one piece of advice from the South African experience, he told Peres: "You have to find a common cause." He suggested that searching might provide commonalities between the Israeli-Palestinian experience and the South African experience which might serve the interests of peace in the Middle East.

"We don't want to occupy Gaza," Peres assured him. "All we want is to stop Hamas shooting rockets at us." Peres said it was unfortunate that so much of
the anti-Israel public opinion was based on what was shown on television with regard to Gaza, but that television viewers did not see the suffering
of Israelis who for years had been subjected to constant rocket attacks.

"Our aim is peace, not occupation; and equality not discrimination," said Peres. "If Gaza is occupied, it is by Hamas, not by us." Coovadia invited Peres to visit South Africa in 2010 when for the first time ever it will host the FIFA World Cup championship, which has never been played before on any part of the African continent.

Non-resident Ambassador Moussa B. Nebie of Burkina Faso also extended an invitation on behalf of his President Blaise Compaore who was in Israel last year as Peres's guest, and is currently acting as a mediator in the Ivory Coast peace talks. Nebie, who is stationed in Cairo, was in Israel for the
first time, "but not for the last" he said, noting the geographic proximity of his two postings.

Fiji's Ambassador, Pio Bosco Tikoisuva, who was also in Israel for the first time, is stationed in London. He and his wife both came in their country's national costume, and as is customary in Fiji when in the presence of a chief, kneeled in front of Peres and clapped their hands three times.

Tikoisuva, an international rugby player before he became a diplomat, was noted for eye-catching form that inspired sports writers around the world to
produce some of their most poetic prose. He told Peres that every child in Fiji is familiar with Israel, learning about it from a Christian Biblical perspective. Speaking on his own and his wife's behalf, Tikoisuva said: "It's been a tremendous experience for us to visit the Holy Land. It's adream come true."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Arab MKs vocal in support of Durban II</title>
<date>20/4/2009</date>
<content>
Although the government is boycotting the UN Durban Review Conference (Durban II) that opens Monday in Geneva, members of Israel's Arab opposition parties voiced their support for the conference.

Balad chairman MK Jamal Zahalka, who will attend Durban II, addressed the crowd at the NGO Civil Society Forum March in Geneva on Sunday, presenting himself as a Palestinian victim of "Israeli racist apartheid" and concluding his speech by proclaiming: "No peace without justice."

Zahalka said he planned to raise the issue of the "official racism" with which, he argued, Israel discriminated against Palestinian residents, citing Israel Beiteinu's election victory as evidence of the racism in Israeli society.

"Any conference against racism is welcome, especially when it is held under the auspices of the UN," said Zahalka's fellow Balad MK Said Nafa. "All countries in the word should be concerned by racism, and everybody is participating other than those who have something to fear."

"There are dangerous signs of racism in Israel, including a party that is super racist," Nafa added, referring to Israel Beiteinu. "Such a party is dangerous first and foremost to the Jews. In the past, racist movements first brought tragedy to their own nations and only later to others."

Nafa said that he was satisfied that both his party's chairman and its secretary-general were participating in the conference, but said he was disappointed that the government had decided to boycott the conference, and that no members of the coalition were present in Geneva.

"Since the last elections, there has been an increase in racism, which has become mainstream in Israeli society," said United Arab List-Ta'al MK Ahmed Tibi. "I can understand the shame of Israel - which is why they fled and aren't participating. It wouldn't be pleasant for Israel to be present there."

Tibi added that those who seek to boycott the conference on the basis of anti-Semitism were simply looking for a convenient excuse. "Israel's lack of participation is a form of running away. Israel is being accused there, and Israel solves the problem by claiming anti-Semitism. But not everything that is critical of Israel is anti-Semitism," he added.

It appeared that the Arab MKs' trips were paid for by their parties.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Barak to Rabin camp: We're carrying on in his tradition</title>
<date>5/2/2009</date>
<content>
Dozens of activists who worked in former prime minister Yitzhak Rabin's elections campaign in the early 1990s met on Wednesday evening in Tel Aviv to pay tribute to him and to show Defense Minister and Labor Party Chairman Ehud Barak their support.

The Rabin camp, comprised of former ministers and MKs, activists who worked on his election campaign, and their children attended the event, which has been held before every general election since Rabin was murdered in 1995.

"We don't know if it's over in the South or not, but for eight years Kassam rockets were fired on the Gaza-belt communities and three governments hadn't dealt with the situation until we came and brought the six-month long cease-fire," Barak said.

"I don't regret the quiet we brought and the international legitimacy we had gained for the day we needed to act. We hit Hamas badly and it is busy picking up the pieces," he said.

"We saw Iran launching a satellite into space - a small one, but a country that is capable of launching a satellite must have advanced rockets that can reach Europe," he continued.

"We have the Syrians who are a challenge, but also an opportunity, Hizbullah that has gotten stronger even if it lost its appetite to launch another offensive, Mughniyeh, the smuggling of weapons into the Gaza Strip. In short, it's never boring in the Middle East and this is why we need a brave leadership that knows when to act and when to stop," he added.

Barak admitted that the Labor Party wasn't perfect.

"We make mistakes but we always try hard to do the right thing. We carry on Rabin's tradition, we are proud of it and want to continue doing what is right for Israel," Barak said.

Barak asked for the support and the assistance of the members of the Rabin camp in convincing the undecided voters.

"The greater mass of undecided voters belong to our camp and they are deliberating [either] between us and Hatnua Hahadasha-Meretz, or between us and Kadima on the other hand," he said.

"Voting for Meretz interferes with our ambitions to get bigger and more effective, and voting for Kadima is voting for a party without an identity; many of its members who might defect back to the Likud a day after the elections. We know that they are capable of defecting from their party because they have already done it in the past," he added.

Barak said that in a country like Israel, inexperience is a privilege one cannot afford.

"Here, every incident on the border turns into a national problem within 10 minutes, a regional problem within a couple of hours and sometimes into a global problem. It is not an easy task to lead our country and it is too important for us to make mistakes," he said.

National Infrastructures Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, who spoke before Barak, expressed his deepening concern that the next Israeli leaders would be a group of extreme right-wing politicians.

"Each one of us needs to look at his children, his house, his country and to understand what we are putting at risk," Ben-Eliezer said.

"The Labor Party has great people, experienced in all fields, and today it is almost to be or not to be. We better wake up and understand that this country is en route to an internal intifada and that we need to regain our sanity," he said.

Erez Orion, an attorney who worked on Labor's election campaign in 1992, brought his two daughters, Arielle (17) and Ophir (15), whom he described as "second generation in Rabin's tradition."

Though he was still committed to Rabin's legacy, despite the criticism he had of the Labor Party, "something is missing," Orion said.

"I think we have lost the compassion we had and we could see it in Operation Cast Lead. If we continue like this, three more military operations like this one and the world would consider us an apartheid country," he said.

Earlier on Wednesday, Esther Bitan, a veteran Labor supporter, announced her decision to leave the party and support Kadima and its chairwoman, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni.

"I have reached the conclusion that the Labor Party does not encourage women and I don't believe in its present path today," Bitan said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BGU lecturer slammed for boycott call</title>
<date>23/8/2009</date>
<content>
A Ben-Gurion University lecturer who wrote an opinion piece in the Los Angeles Times last week calling on the international community to boycott Israel, has sparked outrage among the institution's administration, while renewing the age-old debate over academic freedom of expression.

Dr. Neve Gordon, a political science lecturer at BGU, penned last Thursday's op-ed entitled "Boycott Israel," in which he labels Israel an "apartheid state" and calls on the international community to begin implementing steps towards a boycott, with the hopes of averting the creation of an "apartheid regime" here.

"The most accurate way to describe Israel today is as an apartheid state," Gordon's article reads. "It is therefore clear to me that the only way to counter the apartheid trend in Israel is through massive international pressure. The words and condemnations from the Obama administration and the European Union have yielded no results, not even a settlement freeze, let alone a decision to withdraw from the occupied territories.

"I consequently have decided to support the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement that was launched by Palestinian activists in July 2005 and has since garnered widespread support around the globe," the article continues. "The objective is to ensure that Israel respects its obligations under international law and that Palestinians are granted the right to self-determination."

Reactions to the piece, both from LA Times readers and BGU staff, have been swift, with BGU President Prof. Rivka Carmi calling Gordon's views "destructive" and an "abuse [of] the freedom of speech prevailing in Israel and at BGU.

"We are shocked and outraged by [Gordon's] remarks, which are both irresponsible and morally reprehensible," Carmi wrote, in a statement sent to reporters over the weekend.

"This kind of Israel-bashing detracts from the wonderful work that is being done at BGU and at all Israeli universities," Carmi added.  "Academics who entertain such resentment toward their country are welcome to consider another professional and personal home."

BGU spokeswoman Faye Bittker echoed Carmi's statements in a conversation with The Jerusalem Post on Sunday, in which she said it was unlikely that Gordon's article would spur on the kind of boycott he was aiming for but would instead damage BGU specifically, including the wide array of projects aimed at coexistence that the university supports.

"We have so many programs here that deal with helping the Beduin of the Negev - there was just an article that came out about the hundreds of Beduin women who study here and have received degrees from BGU," Bittker said.

"We're constantly working with Palestinian and Jordanian researchers on cooperative research projects in the region, particularly in health sciences, water, solar energy and sustainability studies. We're actually at the forefront of issues that promote regional coexistence."

But given the backlash to Gordon's article, which Bittker said had already turned into a campaign for donors to pull funding from the university, and was "snowballing," her fear was that the coexistence initiatives she had listed would now be endangered.

"It's collective punishment," she said. "We're proud to have a full range of political views at the university, and I want to live in a country that protects freedom of speech, but Gordon's remarks are beyond the pale.

"It's ridiculous to call Israel an apartheid state, and Gordon's calls for a boycott will only serve to end the kind of people-to-people connections that in my opinion, offer any real chance for peace."

Bittker noted that despite BGU's rejection of Gordon's remarks, his job was protected by the Israeli legal system - which, as Bittker described, "gives him complete and total protection."

Nonetheless, she said the university was now "between a rock and a hard place" concerning the op-ed.

"On one hand his remarks in no way speak for BGU and we're being blamed for them, but on the other hand we've been slammed for being 'against' freedom of speech," she said.

Indeed, in addition to the flurry of angry emails concerning Gordon's op-ed, objections over the university's response to the professor's remarks began arriving at BGU on Sunday.

The Association for Civil Rights in Israel issued a statement condemning BGU, accusing the university of "choking" differing opinions, and stifling freedom of speech.

"To our sorrow, this is not the first time Ben-Gurion University has misappropriated its duty to stimulate social and political involvement among university staff, and is instead choking differing opinions within an argument between the Israeli public," a statement from ACRI read.

Multiple attempts were made to reach Gordon on Sunday, but calls by the Post were not answered and messages were not returned.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BGU students prepare peers to make case for Israel overseas</title>
<date>23/8/2009</date>
<content>
Doron Dvir took a class last semester with Prof. Neve Gordon, the head of Ben-Gurion University's department of politics and government, who last week called Israel an "apartheid state" in the Los Angeles Times and expressed support for an anti-Israel boycott.

But politics major Dvir and other BGU students have been working on the FYI Israel project, to prepare fellow students to make the case for Israel when they travel abroad.

"[Gordon] is the antithesis of our project," he told The Jerusalem Post on Sunday. "We are trying to show Israel as something that [doesn't only connect with] apartheid, terror and war."

"I think that Gordon is an extremist," Dvir said.

However, he said Gordon was fairly representative of the department of politics and government.

"I know that most of my professors have very harsh, left-wing opinions... [Many professors] talk about apartheid, [or] say that the IDF is immoral," he said.

But the lecturers' opinions do not appear to have affected the students who worked on the project, many of whom major in politics.

"All of us [who worked on the project] finished the army and then traveled the world... [and] noticed that there are tourists from all over the Western world who don't really have any idea about Israel. They only got their information from media, which to us is biased - it doesn't show the true story," Dvir said.

The students wanted to produce a tool to give travelers the knowledge and skills to represent Israel abroad. They created a Web site (www.fyiisrael.co.il) that provides answers to frequently asked questions, travel tips and small notebooks with facts, questions and answers, and stories.

The BGU students also offer lectures to Israelis before they leave on their trips. The talks, called "Explaining on the Road," are held throughout the country.

"People say it's an amazing idea," said Dvir. "Even while on vacation or traveling, Israelis always remember they are from Israel. They feel they are a part of something, and want to promote Israel but don't have the tools.

"At the end of the lectures, people [come up to us and] say that this is the first time they are going outside of Israel, that they didn't know it was going to be like this, [and that they think it is] good to know what it is going to be like so they can know what to say, know what to do," he said.

"[We are showing that] Israel is not what Neve Gordon is trying to say," said Dvir. "We are getting points toward our point of view."

The project reminds travelers to talk about aspects of Israel beyond the conflict.

"[We tell them to] talk about beaches in Tel Aviv, hi-tech, bars and clubs and nightlife," he said.

Dvir knows from personal experience that Israeli travelers are often called upon to defend or explain their country. After completing his army service, he traveled through North, Central and South America, as well as Europe and the Far East.

"When I travel, I say I am from Israel," he said. "I ask others how they think of Israel... [They say they think of] fire, houses burning, people dying... People, when they think of Israel... think of war.

"[When I was traveling I would simply say,] "I love my country and it's important for the Jews to have a country of their own... but I didn't have the tools [to explain more], didn't have the answers. I gave people an understanding of Israel as a Jewish country, but our book helps give people give really good answers to questions that usually come up."

Dvir said he "absolutely" would have wanted a tool like the one he and his fellow students have created while he was overseas.

He also believes that this project shows that Gordon is not representative of Ben-Gurion University's students.

"Our project, which has a lot of politics majors, shows democracy and pluralism in Israel and at BGU... It shows that we do not agree with what Neve Gordon says, that Israel is not an apartheid state."

The project is a part of the StandWithUs Fellowship, an initiative of StandWithUs International. The fellowship trains 150 Israeli students per year, chosen from a pool of 1,500 applicants, to be globally-minded, articulate advocates for Israel.

Fellows are students at all six of the country's universities, as well as the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter endorses Gush Etzion settlements</title>
<date>14/6/2009</date>
<content>
In a surprising move for a man famous for talking about "apartheid" in connection with the West Bank, former US president Jimmy Carter gave his endorsement Sunday to settlements in Gush Etzion, located just south of Jerusalem.

"This particular settlement area is not one I ever envision being abandoned or changed over into Palestinian territory," Carter said at the end of his afternoon visit to Neveh Daniel, in Gush Etzion.

After more than 30 years of working toward ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it was his first visit to a settlement.

Although he did not signify whether he meant his comment to include all 14 Gush Etzion settlements, he said that they were among the settlements over the 1967 Green Line "that I think will be here forever."

Carter said this to the press as he stood with Shaul Goldstein, who heads the Gush Etzion Regional Council.

As part of his trip to the region, Carter spent close to two hours in Goldstein's living room with a small group of Gush Etzion residents, including Rabbi Aharon Lichtenstein, the co-head of the Har Etzion Yeshiva; Sherri Mandell, whose son Koby, 13, was killed by Palestinians near their Tekoa home in 2001; and Ruth Gillis, whose husband, Shmuel, was killed in that same year by a Palestinian sniper as he drove home.

As Carter stood on Goldstein's front lawn, he said the members of that group had spoken "quite eloquently about their suffering, the loss of their son and their husband and their father."

"I recognize that their suffering is taking place in an area where strife and misunderstanding and animosity exists. I have been fortunate this afternoon in learning the perspective that I did not have," he said.

Carter continued: "I explained to those listening of my long-time commitment to Israel. The most important element in my life in the last 30 years is to bring peace" and security to Israel as well as to its neighbors.

Goldstein, who stood by Carter's side and smiled, said he believed that the meeting had made an impact on the veteran diplomat.

An assistant to the former president said, however, that while to the best of his knowledge Carter had never made such a strong statement in support of a settlement, retention of some of the settlements in Gush Etzion was in line with his thinking.

Hrair Baliam, who was traveling with Carter, told The Jerusalem Post that Carter was a long time supporter of the Geneva Initiative, which called for territorial swaps, and specifically spoke of trading land within the Green Land for part of Gush Etzion.

The former president, he said, had written about this in both of his books. "Obviously, all of this would have to be negotiated between the Palestinians and Israelis," Baliam said.

He clarified that when Carter had in the past spoken of apartheid, he has meant that if a Palestinian state was not created, then a situation could occur in the territories that was akin to the apartheid in South Africa.

Gillis told the Post after the meeting that she had hoped to impress upon the former president the strong connection that Jews had for the area. She told him that her husband's family had come to Israel from England, after finding anti-Semitic graffiti on the wall next to their synagogue.

"So they understood that the Jewish people had only one place in the world," said Gillis, who has remarried but still lives in Carmei Zur.

"I told him about my late husband, who was murdered on his way home eight-and-a-half years ago, after he treated his last patient" - who was Palestinian - she said.

Gillis added that Shmuel, a physician at Hadassah-University Medical Center in Jerusalem's Ein Kerem, had treated many Palestinian patients over the years.

"He treated them as human beings, but he was killed because he was a Jew," she said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter: No Palestine, catastrophe for Israel</title>
<date>27/1/2009</date>
<content>
Israel will face a "catastrophe" unless it revives the Mideast peace process and allows the establishment of an independent Palestinian state, former US president Jimmy Carter said Monday.

Carter pointed out in an interview with The Associated Press that Arabs would outnumber Jews in the Holy Land in the foreseeable future.

"If we look toward a one-state solution, which seems to be the trend - I hope not inexorable - it would be a catastrophe for Israel, because there would be only three options in that case," Carter said.

Those would be to expel large numbers of Palestinians, deprive the Palestinians of equal voting rights, or to give them equal voting rights and therefore the majority, he said. "And you would no longer have a Jewish state," Carter predicted.

"The basic decisions would be made by the Palestinians, who would almost very likely vote in a bloc, whereas you would have some sharp divisions among the Israelis, because the Israelis always have different points of view," he said.

On the other hand, the other two options would amount to "ethnic cleansing" in the first case, or "apartheid" in the second.

Carter's wording was not new. His 2006 book, "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid," provoked a hail of criticism, particularly from Jewish-Americans who felt it unfairly compared Israeli treatment of Arabs in the West Bank and Gaza to the legalized racial oppression that once existed in South Africa.

Carter spoke to The Associated Press as his new book, "We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land," was released.

Carter still believes a two-state solution is the best option, with Israel's right to exist in peace being recognized by all its Arab neighbors, and Israel withdrawing from most of the land it captured in the 1967 Six Day War to create an independent Palestine.

This is "almost completely compatible" with UN resolutions, US official policy, and an Arab peace proposal that called for a land-for-peace swap, Carter said.

A complete return to the 1967 borders would be impossible, he said, but Israel should swap some land with the Palestinians, either east of the Gaza Strip or in a corridor between the Gaza and the West Bank.

This corridor "would still be controlled by Israel, but it would give a passageway for Palestinians to go back and forth between the two parts of their county," from Gaza to the West Bank, he said.

Carter said that "nobody that I know of" in the Middle East currently has the stature and courage to take a risk for peace.

"It may be that one of the Israeli candidates will emerge with that stature, but that depends on when and if they are elected, if they will take a bold stand for peace, as (Israeli Prime Minister Menachem) Begin and (Egyptian President Anwar) Sadat.

Although over 300 rockets and mortar shells were fired at southern Israeli civilian areas during the six-month cease-fire Carter helped arrange between Hamas and Israel, the former US president stressed the truce significantly reduced attacks after it took effect on June 19.

But he said Israel "did not keep their part of the bargain" because it only allowed a fraction of the shipments of food, medicine and other supplies that it had promised would be able to enter Gaza under the deal.

Carter confirmed that he and his Carter Center aide, American University Prof. Robert Pastor, met with the exiled leader of Hamas, Khaled Mashaal, on Dec. 14 in the Syrian capital Damascus.

Hamas proposed an indefinite extension of the six-month cease-fire with Israel in exchange for the free flow of supplies into Gaza, Carter said.
That information was relayed to Israel by Carter's associates, he said, but Israel refused to allow more than 100 truckloads of supplies into Gaza daily - 1/15th of the daily needs - torpedoing the proposal.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>College denies divesting over IDF ties</title>
<date>12/2/2009</date>
<content>
A pro-Palestinian student group at Hampshire College in western Massachusetts irked the college administration by disseminating a message on-line Thursday congratulating the school for becoming the first US college to divest from companies benefitting the "Israeli occupation of Palestine."

Matan Cohen, a member of the college's Students for Justice in Palestine organization and the former co-founder of the far-Left Israeli group Anarchists Against the Wall, insisted the divestment from a State Street corporation fund, which holds stock in the six companies in question, marked a dramatic first step toward an "international movement" of divestment from Israel.

An SJP statement insisted the group had "pressured Hampshire College's Board of Trustees to divest from six specific companies due to human rights concerns in occupied Palestine. Over 800 students, professors and alumni have signed SJP's 'institutional statement' calling for the divestment."

The statement had spread widely across pro-Palestinian blogs within hours of its publication on Thursday.

Such a move by the small Massachusetts college would have dramatic symbolic power, as Hampshire was the first US college to divest from the apartheid regime of South Africa in the late 1970s.

But the college's director of communications, Elaine Thomas, insisted the message spread on-line was incorrect.

In a "statement of clarification" sent by Thomas to The Jerusalem Post on Thursday evening, the college's president, chairman of the board of trustees, and dean of faculty insisted the decision to divest from State Street had been made because the fund had been found by an outside consultant to hold stocks in "well over 100 companies engaged in business practices that violate the college's policy on socially responsible investments. These violations include: unfair labor practices, environmental abuse, military weapons manufacturing, and unsafe workplace settings."

The statement acknowledged that the Board of Trustees' initial review of the college's State Street holdings had been based on a complaint by Students for Justice in Palestine about six companies doing business in Israel.

But the college's top leadership insisted the "decision expressly did not pertain to a political movement or single out businesses active in a specific region or country. No other report or interpretation of the actions of February 7, 2009 by the Hampshire College board of trustees is accurate."

The six companies that earned the SJP's disapproval were Caterpillar, United Technologies, General Electric, ITT Corporation, Motorola and Terex. They sell products in Israel used both by the military and by civil and commercial sectors of society.

Asked if the SJP would encourage the college to divest from companies providing similar "dual-use" products in Gaza that assist Hamas's fighting efforts, Cohen replied, "the bottom line is that we as an institution have money invested in the Israeli occupation. We do not have money in Hamas. So it's a non-issue."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Comment: Political, legal assault against Israel is just beginning</title>
<date>5/7/2009</date>
<content>
Almost six months after the combat ended in Gaza, the political and legal assault against Israel is just beginning.

Last week, three superpowers - the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Human Rights Watch (HRW), and Amnesty International - published reports condemning Israel for "war crimes" and for the suffering of Gaza's population. In parallel, Richard Goldstone's UN inquiry was in Gaza taking testimony from anti-Israel NGOs (non-governmental organizations) and from Palestinian "victims."

The outcome is clear, and there is no reason to expect it to change if Israel decided to cooperate with an inherently biased process.

This onslaught highlights the difficulties that Israel faces in responding to efforts to criminalize legitimate defense in asymmetric warfare. In contrast, the answers provided by government officials are generally vague and defensive. The IDF, the Foreign and Defense ministries and the Prime Minister's Office still have not developed a coherent strategy or allocated the resources necessary to defeat this attack.

Examination of these NGO publications highlights the façade of research without any substance. While frequently invoking the language of human rights and international law, reports by Amnesty and HRW demonstrate the absence of research expertise in this area.

These international NGOs were founded in the 1970s to campaign for the release of political prisoners, and have gone far beyond their mandates and capabilities, particularly when dealing with Israel. Instead, they cut and paste civilian casualty claims from biased sources such as the Palestinian Center for Human Rights (PCHR.)

The three reports published and publicized last week, like dozens that have come before, combine pseudo-legal rhetoric, technical allegations regarding Israel's defense against terror attacks, automatic sympathy for Palestinian victims, and condemnation of Israel. The images and the titles reflect these biases - Amnesty's is headlined: "Operation Cast Lead: 22 Days of Death and Destruction."

Researchers led by Donatella Rovera claim they could not find evidence of the use of human shields by Hamas. In fact, the entire population of Gaza was one massive human shield, with weapons stored and fired from schools, mosques, hospitals and similar civilian structures (in one infamous case, during a live video broadcast widely viewed on Youtube.)

Similarly, the 10-page ICRC publication ("Gaza: 1.5 Million People Trapped in Despair") consists largely of pictures of Palestinians and none of Israelis in Sderot - the rights of Israelis are irrelevant, as they are in the case of the UN and the Goldstone commission.

Gilad Schalit has also been erased (Amnesty buried him in a footnote referring to Israeli policy.) The kidnapped Israeli soldier is also the missing man what has been referred to as Goldstone's "kangaroo court." Such sins of omission belie the moral claims that are the foundation of international law.

In addition to the moral facade, HRW's report ("Precisely Wrong") uses hi-tech language to attack the IDF's use of advanced drones. Here, the "war crimes" charges are based on six carefully chosen cases. The "evidence" comes from Palestinian claims of having heard and seen the arrival of these tiny and soundless weapons - a superhuman feat.

HRW's "military analyst" Marc Garlasco added dubious assumptions regarding the "impact mark of the missile and the fragmentation pattern" consistent with Spike missiles. Although a few reporters were professional enough to investigate the details, check with independent experts, and expose the dubious claims, most reports copied Garlasco's mix of fact and fiction without question. (They also omit mention of HRW fund-raising in Saudi Arabia that cites their anti-Israel campaigns.)

These events, as well as the ongoing Goldstone inquiry, are part of the broader strategy of demonization adopted at the NGO Forum at the 2001 UN Durban Conference. The goal is to brand and isolate Israel as the new "apartheid" state.

This strategy was applied in 2002 in the "Jenin massacre" myth, in 2006 in the wake of the Lebanon War, in the attempt to portray the "apartheid wall" as a violation of international law, and now in Gaza. In addition, numerous "lawfare" cases are being launched against Israelis by the same NGOs, and although one case in Spain was dismissed, hundreds of others will follow.

In each wave, the UN's Human Rights Council, in which Iran and Libya play a central role, established biased "inquiries" providing NGOs with additional platforms.

In Goldstone's inquiry, a statement submitted by seven Israeli groups (ACRI, Gisha, PCATI, HaMoked, Yesh Din, Adalah, and PHR-I) funded by European governments and the New Israel Fund, also invoked rhetoric like "collective punishment used against the civilian population," and "a disproportionate military assault."

In contrast, Israeli leaders have belittled the exploitation of human rights and international law in this way. Few resources have been devoted to finding an effective response. But as in other forms of warfare, a counter-strategy will only succeed if it cuts off the resources and inflicts a cost on the perpetrators.

The writer is chairman of the Political Science Department at Bar-Ilan University and executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Foreign Ministry: Durban II boycott improved outcome</title>
<date>5/5/2009</date>
<content>
The Foreign Ministry on Monday said the boycott by Israel and eight other nations improved the outcome of last month's UN anti-racism conference that was held in Geneva.

"Israel's consistent and principled position that it would not participate in the Durban Review Conference, together with the withdrawal of many other democratic countries, contributed to the improvements that were made in the Concluding Statement," the ministry said in a statement.

"In the preparatory documents for the Durban Review Conference, systematic attacks were made against Israel, libeling it with absurd charges of racism, apartheid, and genocide. No other country was singled out. This gross injustice was due to the preparatory committee's politicization and hijacking by the worst human rights offenders in the world," such as Iran, Syria and Libya, the ministry said.

It added that the State of Israel regrets that a conference designed to address prejudice was exploited "to focus instead on a specific conflict that is exclusively political in nature."

It was disappointed, the ministry said, that the Durban Review Conference affirmed in its outcome document the conclusions of the first Durban conference in 2001, which singled out Israel and placed its conflict with the Palestinian within the context of a document about racism.

Still, the Foreign Ministry said, it was satisfied "that accusations and incitement directed against it in the original drafts were omitted from the Concluding Statement."

The Foreign Ministry said "it became clear" in the aftermath of both conferences, "that many of the issues that came to dominate the debate had essentially nothing to do with a bona fide discussion on racism."

In the future, it believed the UN would downscale any further review conferences and keep "inflammatory discourse" away from the genuine work on fighting racism.

"While the DRC was a failure, Israel is hopeful that, by exposing its strident flaws, a drastic improvement of the Durban process will take place," the ministry said.

But in her concluding statement at the conference, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navanethem Pillay, said there were a number of positive things for Israel in the outcome documents from both conferences, including the obligation to remember the Holocaust, a denouncement of anti-Semitism and the recognition that all states must be secure.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hamas: 'Anyone who thinks that new faces might bring change is mistaken'</title>
<date>11/2/2009</date>
<content>
The results of Tuesday's Knesset election will not affect conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said late Tuesday night.

"Anyone who thinks that new faces might bring change is mistaken," he said, even before the exit polls were released.

"In the past 60 years, the Zionist entity witnessed many changes ... of leaders, all of them worked and are still working to eliminate the Palestinian existence, to build a Jewish state and to isolate Palestinians in an apartheid canton, like what we have here in Gaza," he added.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>'International force if truce bid fails'</title>
<date>15/1/2009</date>
<content>
The Palestinian Authority's representative to the UN said on Thursday during an emergency session of the General Assembly he intends to ask the Security Council to authorize an international military force to impose a cease-fire if Israel and Hamas cannot strike a deal to halt the fighting.

Riyad Mansour accused Israel of war crimes and warned that the war in Gaza could destabilize the entire region and thwart efforts to reach a comprehensive two-state peace settlement if it did not end soon.

"The current situation is untenable and cannot be allowed to continue," Mansour told the meeting.

Mansour said it was incumbent on the UN to "lead us back from the precipice and to the shores of peace" - a reference to a speech made last fall by President Shimon Peres at the UN in which he said he could "see the shore of peace closer than ever before."

It was the latest push by the beleaguered Fatah government to gain traction in the diplomatic efforts, which have centered on Egypt's initiative to broker a truce between the two parties.

Israel failed on Thursday to prevent the emergency session of the General Assembly, convened to debate the war in the Strip and to call for both an immediate cease-fire and an end to the blockade on goods into the Palestinian territory.

The plenary session, called by Malaysia, Syria and Venezuela under the formal umbrella of a 12-year-old debate over the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, came as UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon was in Jerusalem urging adherence to a week-old Security Council cease-fire resolution.

Israeli diplomats objected to the meeting in New York, arguing that it violated the rule that emergency sessions only be called when the Security Council fails to take action on an issue.

General Assembly President Miguel d'Escoto argued said he was convinced it was time for the UN's governing body to wade into the diplomatic frenzy.

"This body cannot afford to fiddle while Gaza burns," he said, adding that he did not want the session to become a "talkfest" but rather to set in motion a renewed call for "an immediate and unconditional cease-fire and unimpeded humanitarian access."

He blamed Israel, and specifically Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, for using diplomacy to run out the clock for its military action.

"She was engaging in diplomatic activities not to reach a quick end to the killing but on the contrary to alleviate pressure to achieve a cease-fire," said d'Escoto. He said he wanted to stand with Israelis who protested against the war. "We must increase, not alleviate, pressure to reach a cease-fire," he said.

D'Escoto, who in November compared Israel to apartheid South Africa, drew a rebuke from the Israeli mission last month for apparently trying to block Ambassador Gabriela Shalev from addressing a General Assembly meeting. He responded on Thursday by calling that accusation "an absolute and total lie" and accusing Israel of trying to silence the General Assembly by objecting to the meeting.

Israel declined to appeal for a full assembly vote on whether the meeting could proceed.

Speaking in the afternoon session, Shalev slammed the General Assembly for failing to condemn Hamas rocket attacks on Israel.

"Where is this assembly's strong condemnation of the incidents of Katyusha rockets fired from Lebanon on a nursing home in Nahariya and in Kiryat Shmona in the north of Israel in the last week?" she asked. "Where is the condemnation of Syria, which continues to host terrorist headquarters in Damascus, and to facilitate the flow of weapons and missiles across its border to Hizbullah?"

Thursday's meeting followed a heated Security Council session on Wednesday, initially scheduled to address the question of how civilians are treated in conflict zones like the Congo and Afghanistan.

The Libyan envoy demand's that Gaza officially be added to the list under discussion failed, but several speakers used the platform to roundly condemn Israel's bombing of UN facilities in Gaza and the impact of the war on the civilian population.

Shalev countered by asking for sympathy for the Israeli civilians put at risk by Hamas attacks on the Negev.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Is Avigdor Lieberman a racist? No, but...</title>
<date>12/2/2009</date>
<content>
He wants to redraw Israel's boundaries to maintain a Jewish majority, and his election campaign centered around the creation of a loyalty oath for the country's citizens. And now that Avigdor Lieberman's Israel Beiteinu party has been confirmed as the third-largest party in the government - not to mention the likely linchpin of any sustainable coalition - debate is deepening: Is Lieberman is a racist?

"Is he a racist? No, I don't think so," said Efraim Zuroff, famed Nazi hunter and head of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Jerusalem. "But he's certainly a bit of a demagogue. He's offering 'solutions' to problems that are on a lot of people's minds, and he's playing on the fears of Israel's citizens. It's a mixture of politics, ethnic strife - not racism - and how he can increase the number of MKs in the Knesset.

"But you can't compare what he's doing to, say, Western Europe, where the minorities in many of those countries aren't trying to overthrow the very state in which they live," Zuroff continued. "I suspect that at least some Israeli Arabs, and surely many of their cousins in neighboring countries, do want to see Israel eliminated. So what he's doing is, he's putting Israeli Arabs on the spot and saying, do you want to be loyal to the state and receive its benefits? And if not, he's saying that they will lose their citizenship. He's playing on the reality that is the Middle East. That's not the classic definition of racism, but it is demagoguery."

Taking that sentiment further, Dr. Alex Yakobson, a lecturer in history at the Hebrew University, said that Lieberman's proposed policies were offensive, not racist, although the atmosphere of Lieberman's campaign may have brought the racist beliefs of others to the surface.

"Lieberman's loyalty law, for example, does not distinguish between races; in fact, it calls for people of every race and creed to be loyal to the state," Yakobson said. "Now, I don't agree with it, but that's not racism. It's offensive, but I haven't heard anything outwardly discriminatory about Lieberman's positions.

"I would say however, that there was an air of racism surrounding Lieberman's campaign," Yakobson continued. "Before the elections, they held mock elections in many schools across the country, and there were reports of high school students voting for Lieberman and yelling out, 'Death to the Arabs.' If I were him, I would have made it clear that I was opposed to such things, but he didn't. So I think that atmosphere led to a lot of doubt as to what his policies really are. But in the formal sense, no, he is not a racist."

Others, however, said that Lieberman's attempts to pry loyalty from citizens who don't necessarily identify themselves as Zionists is in fact discriminatory, and because those citizens are resoundingly Arab, it makes the policy racist.

"He wants us to say that we're Zionists? We never will be," said Sheikh Abdullah Nameer Darwish, the founder of the Islamic Movement in Israel, who has identified himself in the past as a "law-abiding citizen of the State of Israel."

"We'll never say that we're Zionists, the same way Avigdor Lieberman would never say that he's an Arab," Darwish continued. "It's not realistic, and trying to force that on the Arab population is racist, because they are the ones who would have a conflict with doing so."

Darwish also compared Lieberman's rhetoric to anti-Semites in Europe.

"If someone in a European country said in the parliament, or even in the street, the kind of things that Lieberman is saying, but instead said them about the Jews, they would immediately be branded an anti-Semite," he said. "In my opinion, you cannot say that Lieberman isn't anti-Arab, and that in itself is racist. But you can ask him yourself, he's not embarrassed to say it."

Kadima MK Shlomo Molla, a longtime activist in the country's Ethiopian community, expressed a similar outlook, saying that Lieberman's ideology could easily bleed over and be directed against Ethiopians.

"I don't know [Lieberman] on a personal level," Molla said. "But his campaign was certainly racist. The whole idea of citizenship for loyalty is very problematic. I mean, how do you decide what loyalty is? What do you base it on? I don't love what the Arab parties are saying per say, but I do love democracy, and part of democracy is allowing freedom of expression for minorities. Lieberman wants the opposite."

Furthermore, Molla continued, "Israel Beiteinu has no Ethiopian candidate on their Knesset list, not even far down the list. They didn't try to get the Ethiopian vote, yet they say that they're a party for immigrants. Ethiopians aren't immigrants? There are 130,000 of them. I think that says something, too, and the same ideology that Lieberman is advocating today could be used against the Ethiopian community tomorrow."

Yet Benjamin Pogrund, a long-time South African journalist and the first to objectively confront the policies of apartheid there, said that Lieberman's political stances were a unique strand of politics, and that racism was too simple a word to describe them.

"I grew up in a society where racism applied only to skin color," said Pogrund, who founded and currently heads the Yakar Center for Social Concern in Jerusalem. "But I think the definition has changed. Certainly here, the definition does not refer to color, because there are Sephardic Jews who are darker than Arabs, so the context isn't there. I think now, it's about an attitude towards a certain group, and because of that, Israeli-Arabs and the Left are calling Lieberman a racist. Well, he's clearly offensive to Israeli-Arabs, but you need to be careful when you use the word racist."

Pogrund pointed out that "Lieberman's loyalty oath would apply to haredi Jews as well. So that already makes it more complex. But overall, I think you can say that his policies are aimed at a particular group, and that's offensive. He's an offensive politician, as [Israeli-Arabs] have a certain history of being discriminated against. They're in this in-between situation, and I personally believe that they need to be embraced and given every possibility to be included. Lieberman's idea is to reject them, because he believes that they are some kind of a fifth column. Is that racism? I don't know, but it's certainly stirring up trouble, and I'm afraid that it will cause us all a great deal of damage."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel blasts German award for 'Israel hater'</title>
<date>25/7/2009</date>
<content>
BERLIN - Germany's decision to issue its highest honor to Israeli attorney Felicia Langer, a fierce critic of the Jewish state, has prompted the government in Jerusalem to rebuke the Federal Republic's president, Horst Köhler, in uncharacteristically strong language.

Langer has "over the years consistently supported the forces that promote violence, death and extremism," Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor told The Jerusalem Post on Thursday. "Anyone who wishes to award her a prize must bear in mind the consequences of legitimizing such positions of intolerance and bad faith."

Langer has called Israel the "apartheid of the present."

Steffen Schulze, a spokesman for Horst Köhler, declined to comment on Israel's criticism of the German government. He told the Post the award process was confidential and that he would not discuss a "third person."

When asked if he was referring to Langer, he responded, "No comment."

Köhler awarded Langer the Federal Cross of Merit, first class last Thursday, and a state ceremony involved accolades for Langer from dignitaries and politicians such as Baden-Württemberg State Undersecretary Hubert Wicker.

Langer has praised speeches from Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and terms the Central Council of Jews in Germany as a "branch of the Israeli Embassy."

The German media are saturated with the unfolding controversy surrounding Langer and her supporters within the government.

Israeli governments rarely criticize Germany, but there are concerns in Jerusalem that the Federal Republic's praise of Langer casts doubts on Israel's legitimacy.

The last public row between Israel and Germany revolved around the German-Iranian trade relationship. Aaron Abramovich, then-director-general of the Foreign Ministry, blasted Germany's economic support for the Iranian regime last summer as manifested by the decision to allow German companies to supply three facilities to liquefy natural gas.

The president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Charlotte Knobloch, on Wednesday termed Langer a "friend of Ahmadinejad" and a "supporter of Stalin." She wrote in an e-mail obtained by the Post that the "decision [to honor Langer] was not properly researched." Knobloch is herself a recipient of the award.

An angry secretary-general of the Central Council, Stephan J. Kramer, on Thursday blasted Tübingen Mayor Boris Palmer for his unwavering support for Langer.

Reached on his mobile phone in Ben-Gurion Airport, before his return to Berlin, Kramer told the Post that Palmer "should be ashamed of himself" for supporting the Iranian regime and the Federal Cross of Merit for Langer.

"There is a distinction between legitimate criticism of Israel and delegitimizing the State of Israel," said Kramer, adding that Langer's statements were "anti-Semitic and anti-Zionist" because she sought to strip Israel of its legitimacy as the homeland for Jews.

Palmer told the Post on Wednesday he had not discussed the Iranian threat to Israel with the Central Council. He denied a previous Central Council assertion that he had "played down the Iranian threat" in a conversation with the council. He added that there were "different estimates" about whether the Iranian regime was threatening Israel's existence.

"The issue is that Ms. Langer is committed to implementation of international law. The important thing is that criticism of specific Israeli policies cannot always be equated with anti-Semitism... Ms. Langer is certainly a harsh critic," Palmer wrote in an e-mail to the Post.

Dr. Johannes Gerster, the head of the German-Israeli Friendship Society, issued a statement on Thursday demanding that the German government "correct the failure" and revoke Langer's Federal Cross of Merit.

"I cannot see what Ms. Langer has done for the state, society or international reconciliation. Yesterday I returned from an eight-day Mideast trip that included numerous contacts with top Israeli and Palestinian politicians. I am not surprised that Israelis are surprised that Germany is honoring Ms. Langer. But even Fatah people interested in a settlement with Israel were strangely affected by Langer's award," Gerster wrote.

Meanwhile, Arno Hamburger, the head of the Jewish community in Nuremberg since 1972 and a recipient of the Federal Cross, told the Post he planned to return his award in protest. "Langer defames Israel in the same way that the Nazi newspaper Der Stürmer wrote about Jews" during the Hitler period," the 86-year-old said.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Labor ministers lodge appeal on 'Nakba' bill</title>
<date>24/5/2009</date>
<content>
Labor ministers Isaac Herzog, Shalom Shimhon and Avishai Braverman submitted on Monday an appeal to the proposed 'Nakba bill' advanced by Israel Beiteinu, which would make it illegal to mark Israel's Independence Day as a day of mourning - a common practice among Palestinians and some Israeli Arabs.

"A proposal of this kind harms freedom of speech and freedom to demonstrate - basic rights in a democratic country. This bill will increase the isolation and alienation felt by the Israeli Arab community and will strengthen radical elements within it," the appeal read.

MK Yuli Tamir (Labor) told Army Radio on Monday that "the string of proposals brought forth by Israel Beiteinu is intended to cause unrest within the Israeli-Arab community and will lead Israel into a confrontation that will see waves of hate and violence that Israel Beiteinu thrives on. Labor's presence in this coalition with Israel Beiteinu lends legitimization and support to the racist proceedings that hurt the ability of Israeli society to move forward."

Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon rebutted claims Monday afternoon that this bill would strengthen the extremists. "The radicalization of Israeli Arabs did not start with this law," he told Israel Radio, "It started long before that."

According to Ayalon, "There are people who act against the state, people who call for the extermination of the state. This is already happening. Any other country in the world would not stand by while its celebrations of independence are turned into a memorial service."

An Arab MK on Sunday compared Israel to Nazi Germany following a decision by the Ministerial Committee on Legislation to approve the bill.

The proposed bill "is no less severe than the laws enacted by the Third Reich," MK Afo Agbaria (Hadash) said.

"The State of Israel has declared jihad on the Arab population. Israel is gradually becoming an apartheid state. I won't be surprised if in the future the Netanyahu-Lieberman government imposes additional restrictions on Arab citizens, including forbidding the use of the Arabic language."

The bill, sponsored by Israel Beiteinu MK Alex Miller, prohibits holding events or activities that aim to mark the day of Israel's independence as a time of mourning or sorrow. Those who violate the law could get up to three years in prison.

The proposed legislation must pass three Knesset readings before it would become law, and it is likely to face heavy opposition, including from some coalition members.

Palestinians refer to the events of 1948 - when hundreds of thousands fled or were driven from their homes - as the nakba, which in Arabic means catastrophe. The nakba commemorations are usually held on the civil date of the founding of the State of Israel - May 14 - while Independence Day celebrations are held on the Hebrew anniversary.

Balad Chairman MK Jamal Zahalka called the proposed legislation a "crazy bill by a crazy government. If anyone was still in doubt, the government has successfully passed the insanity test."

Zahalka insisted that Israeli Arabs will "find a way to mark nakba day, whether the crazies of the Lieberman-Netanyahu government like it or not. They drove away our people and destroyed 500 villages and now they want to deny us even our cry of pain. This is record-breaking Israeli hutzpa."

The Association for Civil Rights in Israel also blasted the bill, arguing that "commemorating the nakba does not threaten Israel's security, and it is a legitimate basic right for every person, group or people to express their pain at a tragedy.

"This is not just a question of rights for the Arab minority, but it is a crossing of all boundaries on a sure path of cruel suppression of freedom of expression for us all," the organization continued, in a statement released Sunday evening.

Elie Leshem and Rebecca Anna Stoil contributed to this report
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Murakami heads to Israel to accept prize</title>
<date>13/2/2009</date>
<content>
Unless he gets cold feet and runs away at the last moment after a call to boycott Israel, Japan's top writer and marathon lover Haruki Murakami was scheduled to fly in late Thursday to accept the prestigious Jerusalem Prize next week.

"Yes, he's coming," a spokeswoman for the 24th Jerusalem International Book Fair told The Jerusalem Post on Thursday. "He's due in overnight, and he will receive the prize on Sunday."

President Shimon Peres and Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat are to present him with the Jerusalem Prize for the Freedom of the Individual in Society at the opening of the five-day festival at the International Convention Center.

In an open letter last week to Murakami, titled "Don't legitimize apartheid," the Palestine Forum Japan urged the writer to cancel his plans to accept the prize in Jerusalem.

"We ask you to seriously reconsider the social and political significance of a world-famous author such as yourself participating in the book fair, which is fully supported by the Foreign Ministry of Israel and the City of Jerusalem," the letter states. "We would humbly ask you to consider the effects your receipt of the 'Jerusalem Prize' would have, what sort of message the world would receive in this Middle East situation, what kind of propaganda value it could have to Israel and the possibility of aggravating the critical situation Palestinians are facing."

There was no response from Murakami's office to the boycott call.

Murakami, who turned 60 on January 12, is the author of 20 books translated into 40 languages, including Hear the Wind Sing, Norwegian Wood, A Wild Sheep Chase, All God's Children Can Dance and Kafka on the Shore.

The English publication of his latest novel, After Dark, was released in 2007, and chosen by The New York Times as "Notable Book of the Year."

Besides writing, Murakami has made a name for himself as a keen marathon runner, which he addresses in his 2008 book, What I Talk About When I Talk About Running.

Five of his novels have appeared on the best-seller list in Israel. He is described on the book fair's Web site as "one of the more widely-read" foreign writers here.

This is the first time the Jerusalem Prize has been awarded to a writer in a non-European language, and the prize committee said the decision to honor Murakami was "made out of profound esteem for his artistic achievements and love of people."

"Murakami is the best-known and most beloved Japanese author in the West," it said. "His work interweaves Japanese culture with contemporary Western culture in a unique fashion."

"While Murakami's work is easy to read, it is not easy to comprehend. His clear, minimalist writing makes him vastly accessible, but the reader is struck with the complexity of his literary world upon reading it," it added.

Previous recipients of the Jerusalem Prize at the book fair, which started in 1963, include Susan Sontag, Simone de Beauvoir, Milan Kundera, Graham Greene, J.M. Coetzee, V.S. Naipaul, Bertrand Russell, Octavio Paz and Arthur Miller.

Organizers noted that five recipients went on to win the Nobel Prize for Literature.

The festival is expected to draw over 1,200 publishers from more that 40 countries displaying some 100,000 books in different languages, organizers said. Entrance to the public is free.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>NGOs: Try S. African IDF troops for war crimes</title>
<date>6/8/2009</date>
<content>
Two South African organizations have called for 70 South Africans to be prosecuted for involvement in war crimes allegedly committed by the IDF during Operation Cast Lead in Gaza in December and January.

The Palestinian Solidarity Alliance and the Media Review Network are also urging the immediate arrest of IDF Lt.-Col. David Benjamin, who is in South Africa attending the Limmud-SA educational conference this week.

The two NGOs are listed as complainants in an affidavit, called the Gaza Docket, which was handed last week to the South African National Prosecuting Authority and the Directorate of Priority Crimes Investigation.

It is supported by approximately 3,500 pages of evidence, including some submitted by Human Rights Watch on the "brutal military onslaught on Gaza by the Israeli Defense Force."

Some 70 South Africans are listed in the affidavit for prosecution as they had served in the Israeli army. Their names are withheld due to the fact that they are suspects. It is unclear if these people served in the IDF during Cast Lead and whether they retain their South African citizenship.

South African law forbids its citizens from serving in a foreign military; however there is some leeway for those who hold dual citizenship. According to a source in the South African Ministry of Defense, thousands of South Africans legally serve in armies all over the world as dual citizens.

Ronnie Kasrils, a Jewish politician known for his criticism of Israel, is leading the campaign to get the South African government and the National Prosecuting Authority to institute such prosecutions in South Africa.

"Evidence collected from eyewitnesses and those injured as well as United Nations and other investigative reports... provide compelling proof that suggests Israelis have committed war crimes and crimes against humanity," the former intelligence minister said at a media briefing hosted by the Media Review Network on Wednesday. It was South Africa's duty and responsibility to act against the "apartheid state of Israel," Kasrils said.

Kasrils also outlined the urgency for the arrest of Benjamin, a reservist in the IDF Military Advocate General Corps. Benjamin has advised senior army commanders on operational law issues and served as chief legal adviser for the Gaza Strip until the 2005 disengagement.

Kasrils said that in advising and approving the Israeli methods of warfare, Benjamin "associates himself with the planning and commission of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed during Operation Cast Lead."

The Gaza Docket covers three areas: the alleged commission of war crimes, the crime of apartheid and the investigation of foreign and local individuals who participated in these alleged crimes during Operation Cast Lead. Both non-profit organizations sought legal advice from international jurists Professors John Dugard and Max du Plessis before lodging the affidavit.

The South African Embassy in Israel had no comment on the issue, and its representative was unaware of the any affidavit lodged against Israeli soldiers.

The South African Jewish Board of Deputies and the South African Zionist Federation slammed the Gaza Docket, saying the efforts of Kasrils, the Palestinian Solidarity Alliance and the Media Review Network "amounts to little more than a clumsy attempt at manipulating the judiciary for partisan political purposes."

"Politically motivated attempts to undermine judicial independence as well as freedom of expression in South Africa should be universally condemned, as should any moves to import a foreign conflict to its South African streets," the Jewish groups said.

Zev Krengel, of the Board of Deputies, said, "We believe it is a witch-hunt for South African Jews. In Iraq there are more than 4,000 South Africans fighting alongside US and British forces and there's never been a call for any of them to be prosecuted."

The Gaza Docket is being "pushed by the usual suspects. I'll be very surprised if the affidavit will be approved - an outrageous call on an already overwhelmed criminal justice system," Krengel said.

If "they arrest him [Benjamin], we'll go to jail with him."

The IDF Spokesman's Office was not available for comment at the time of writing.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Peace without dialogue? Impossible</title>
<date>8/11/2009</date>
<content>
There aren't too many English-language journalists who have covered Arab Jerusalem as I have for In Jerusalem in recent years - reporting on everything from a home in Anata built and demolished four times and now facing a fifth demolition order, to the first shopping mall along east Jerusalem's main drag Salah a-Din Street, which received a building permit after 42 years of bureaucracy; from the al-Mamal Foundation for Contemporary Art inside the New Gate, to a conference on Palestinian refugees at al-Quds University in Abu Dis. These are all stories I have reported in an objective manner.

Thus it was that last weekend I duly RSVP'd to a guests-only invitation to the Al-Quds Underground, touted as an unconventional festival with more than 150 small shows in private spaces in the Old City. Performances included music, storytelling, dancing, short acts and food. Locations were living rooms, a library, courtyards, gardens and more unique places. My expectation of a celebration of Jerusalem's diversity was dashed, however, when I arrived late Saturday afternoon at the Damascus Gate meeting point. Politely asked in English by Jamal Goseh, the director of the a-Nuzha Hakawati Theater near the American Colony Hotel, "Where do you live?" I responded in Arabic that I live in Jerusalem. From my accent and appearance, he discerned that I am an Israeli.

Al-Quds Underground's artistic director Merlijn Twaalfhoven of Amsterdam then told me, along with some Israeli peace activists who had arrived, that we were not welcome. My reply that I had been invited was to no avail, nor was my guarded threat to pen an expose of their racism.

And so here it is.

For the sake of fairness, I met Twaalfhoven the next day to allow him an opportunity to explain… or dig himself a deeper hole. (Goseh declined my request for an interview.) "We want to bring art to the world," he began. "I sometimes break through the boundaries between art and life. That is the core of my work."

A visionary creator of art happenings such as a dance performance at the Jalazoun refugee camp near Ramallah and the Long Distance Call concert on the rooftops of the Turkish half of the divided Cypriot city of Nicosia, Twaalfhoven said he had vaguely heard that the Arab League had chosen Jerusalem as Al-Quds 2009 Capital of Arab Culture and that the Israeli government had banned the festival as a political event forbidden under the Oslo Accords. "I don't know the details. I thought it was a good idea to bring people together."

Twaalfhoven then added, "The local people told me months ago that Israelis cannot go. Our team [of 12 Dutch activists and eight artists] had to promise that we would not allow peaceful Israelis to come."

Apologetic over what had happened, he then spilled the beans. The €50,000 project was funded by the European Union through the Dutch charity Cordaid and the Alexandria-based Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialogue between Cultures. To have said no to racism would have meant to scuttle the budget.

Al-Quds Underground's no-Israelis rule is part of a larger policy set by the Palestinian Boycott Divestment and Sanctions National Committee. This BDS movement, founded in 2005, can take credit for the cancellation of Leonard Cohen's September concert at the Ramallah Cultural Palace.

Similarly in 2007, BDS activists succeeded in getting Canadian rock 'n' roll star Bryan Adams to pull the plug on back-to-back concerts in Jericho and Tel Aviv. Organized by the New York-based One Million Voices, the concerts were intended to promote a two-state solution to resolve the festering Palestinian-Israeli conflict.

BDS activists in Europe and elsewhere aim to isolate and discomfit Israel just as South Africa's apartheid regime was targeted in the 1980s. This rejection of normalization of relations is a historic and strategic mistake based on the false analogy between apartheid and Zionism.

Never mind the snub I received Saturday. On a broader level, the BDS movement is missing the point that peace is best promoted at a grassroots level, person to person, Jew to Arab, and Arab to Jew.

Those who think Israel can be pressured into coexistence are mistaken. Two states for two peoples will be embraced when enough people demand it. BDS fosters the illusion that Palestinians can achieve their goal of statehood without ever accepting Israel and Israelis.

Boycott, divest and sanction? I respond, Embrace, invest and encourage. Peace starts among people. Anyone unprepared for honest dialogue with the other is suffering from acute xenophobia. As Black Panther activist Eldridge Cleaver once remarked, "You're either part of the solution or you're part of the problem."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Translating words into action</title>
<date>9/7/2009</date>
<content>
One of Jerusalem's landmark institutions, the Jerusalem International YMCA, struck a first recently when it appointed a Muslim to stand at the head of the organization founded to put Christian principles into practice. Forsan Hussein is the first Muslim ever to be appointed head of a YMCA.

Hussein is a graduate of Brandeis and Johns Hopkins universities and Harvard Business School. He has worked as an investment consultant; a spokesperson and advisor for the Abraham Fund Initiative; established an international nonprofit organization to advance Middle East peace from the bottom up; founded a summer camp in Canada for Jewish and Palestinian children; created more than 20 Palestinian-Israeli dialogue groups; and addressed Bill Clinton's staff on the Arab-Israeli conflict.

He is the first non-Christian to hold the position of CEO and is looking to reestablish the Y as "the region's most dynamic intercultural, interfaith community center."

"I am proud of my background," he says, but he doesn't think it had any bearing on his selection for the job. "The search committee was looking for a CEO, a person who could manage the place and lead it," says Hussein.

"It may sound strange [to have a Muslim director] because it is the YMCA [Young Men's Christian Organization]. The YMCA has been, is and will be a Christian institution, [but] the fact that I am Muslim [and was appointed CEO] is telling about the organization," he says.

"What brought me here is a great mission and a fantastic institution," he told In Jerusalem. "This is a huge opportunity for me on a professional level," says Hussein two weeks into the job.

Hussein is also glad to have the opportunity to "promote such a great vision and mission and be in a place that is so historic in a city that is so divided. This is one of the only places that stands for what we all think Jerusalem should be."

Simon Benninga, chair of the YMCA, says that from the moment Hussein's name came up, the search committee was in "almost complete agreement" that he was the right man for the job.

"Religion came up in a very minor way, but it wasn't a big issue," says Benninga. "There were one or two board members [who raised objections], but overwhelmingly board members thought the position should be awarded to Hussein."

Benninga says Hussein is "one of the most amazing people it's been my pleasure to meet in the past year. He is extraordinarily energetic, well spoken, focused on getting our programs running better and making sure the YMCA does what we want it to do - serve the Jerusalem community."

Mike Bussey, a former CEO who returned to Jerusalem to help with the search, agrees. "The board of directors was unanimous in feeling that Hussein was uniquely qualified. There were differences of opinion, but the board itself is diverse." (Both the staff and board of the YMCA are divided almost equally among Jews, Christians and Muslims.)

"There were certainly discussions about the implications of having a Muslim leading the Y," he says. "It is unusual for a Christian institution to have a Muslim director, but people on the board said that Christian heritage, and the fact that the Y is a Christian institution, doesn't change."

Hussein believes that religion and the Y are intrinsically linked. He says that "Unlike many Israeli institutions, religion is a big part of what we do here... but we're not only our faiths."

Bussey agrees. "Faith is important to all of us. [We try to] encourage people to connect to their faiths in an effective way. This is not an environment that attempts to change faith."

He notes that religion is even incorporated in the building, and not just Christianity. Inscribed on the outside of the building are lines from the Bible, the Torah and the Koran. Hussein describes it as a "sermon in stone."

Bussey explains that the mission of the YMCA defines itself in the environment within which it works and connects to specific opportunities and issues wherever it operates. "In Jerusalem, there is a high calling for tolerance and mutual respect," he says. "Coexistence is a big attraction of the Y."

The Jerusalem YMCA was established in 1878 and has occupied its premises on King David Street since 1933. Throughout the time in Jerusalem, the YMCA has borne witness to and been a part of the history and life of the city.

Says Bussey, "The Y has been here for so long that it has operated under Turkish, British and Israeli governments. It is flexible, but the vision doesn't change."

Asked to define that vision, Hussein quoted a line cited by Edmund Lord Allenby at the dedication of the Y building in 1933: "Here is a place whose atmosphere is peace, where political and religious jealousies can be forgotten and international unity be fostered and developed."

Bussey believes that the location of the YMCA, across from the King David Hotel, is also significant in showing how that vision is carried out - and how the YMCA succeeds in doing what so many others have tried to do and failed.

He says that from their vantage point, they see leaders arriving from all over the world, "trying to figure it [peaceful coexistence] out, while across the street [at the YMCA] there is a community of Jews, Christians and Muslims living it every day."

The YMCA was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize in 1993. That year Nelson Mandela and Frederik Willem de Klerk won for their work in ending apartheid, but the next year Yasser Arafat, Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres were awarded the prize. "They are people who said a lot," notes Bussey, while through its actions "the YMCA speaks for itself."

Hussein says the YMCA does most of its work through its programs, pointing out the Peace Pre-school as a shining example. The pre-school consists of 114 children aged two to four who come from many different backgrounds - "Arabs, Israeli Arabs, Jews, Muslims, Christians, Palestinians; 30 children from the international community," he says.

When asked in which language these children communicate, Hussein answered, "the language of humanity. They look each other in the eye and speak. In this way, a child from China can understand a child speaking Arabic. This is the example we are trying to set."

The pre-school has been in existence since the 1980s, and Bussey says that many adults who were students there send their children to the school.

"One of the nice things about this community is that people connect at different times in different ways. Tens of thousands of people have healthy relationships with people of other faiths," says Bussey.

In addition to the pre-school, the YMCA runs a summer Peace Camp and a two-year leadership and dialogue program for Israeli and Palestinian youth. Hussein describes these as "programs aimed toward understanding the other person's narrative" and says participants keep in touch after the programs are over.

Overall, Hussein says that the YMCA "tries to provide meaningful and affordable programs for the community with a holistic approach to building the individual." He wants to work toward building community in Jerusalem and providing people in the region with what they need. "Through the services we provide, we hope to promote peaceful coexistence and tolerance," he says.

"Serving the community is our mission. This is not just a huge operation but a great mission. I am lucky to be here," he says.

Hussein wants the YMCA to be "a home for everyone who calls Jerusalem home." He says that the place speaks for itself and helps us to get a sense of what the region can really be.

"We are meant to live together because that is the only choice," he says. "The YMCA is an example of what we want for the world. This is God's work, and we are doing it."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN report a 21st century blood libel, scholar says in Geneva</title>
<date>30/9/2009</date>
<content>
South African jurist Richard Goldstone exploited his Judaism to endanger the State of Israel, the Hudson Institute's Anne Bayefsky charged on Tuesday, slamming the chief author of the controversial UN report on the IDF incursion into Gaza in January.

"Richard, how does it feel to have used your Jewishness to jeopardize the safety and security of the people of Israel and to find yourself in the company of human rights abusers everywhere?" Bayefsky asked.

She was one of the few pro-Israel speakers to address the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, which spent the entire day debating the report commissioned by the council, a draft copy of which was released two weeks ago.

Bayefsky compared the Goldstone Report to the Protocols of the Elders of Zion.

"The Goldstone mission will go down in history as the 21st century's equivalent," said Bayefsky, a senior fellow of the Hudson Institute in New York and an outspoken critic of the UN's stance on Israel.

"At its core, the Goldstone Report repeats the ancient blood libel against the Jewish people - the allegation of bloodthirsty Jews intent on butchering the innocent," she said.

With this report, the UN has rendered the right of the Jewish people to self-defense a "crime against humanity," she continued.

A few speakers later during the council meeting, Goldstone responded to Bayefsky by saying that the charges were all too familiar to him from his days as a critic of South Africa's apartheid regime.

"For most of my adult life, I was criticized by white South Africans for daring to speak out against the policy of the then-South African government. I was accused by a white person of being a traitor to the white minority in South Africa," he said.

Jews have a right to criticize Israel, Goldstone said.

"I would suggest that it should not be regarded as a matter of criticism that a member or members of the Jewish people should criticize the government of Israel or the IDF for what is seen to be violations of international law," he said, adding that he would have thought the history of the Jews as a persecuted people was "an absolutely compelling reason for all Jews to speak out against injustice and the violation of human rights."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Water Authority blasts Amnesty on report</title>
<date>27/10/2009</date>
<content>
The Water Authority slammed Amnesty International on Monday for failing to allow it to make any sort of presentation to Amnesty's researchers or react to the organization's findings on water allocation between Israel and the Palestinian Authority before the publication of its new critical report on Tuesday morning.

The authority also called into question some of the basic facts presented in the report.

The new document examines an ongoing issue - the divvying up of water resources between the PA and Israel. The three main natural water resources are Lake Kinneret, the mountain aquifer and the coastal aquifer. The mountain aquifer runs almost entirely under the West Bank, and Amnesty slammed Israel for taking 80 percent of the water from the aquifer.

Water resources are one of the final-status negotiation issues between Israel and the PA, and it is safe to assume that no lasting changes will be made outside the context of those talks. Nevertheless, Amnesty has called on Israel to divide up the shared water resources now and end discrimination against Palestinians in favor of settlers.

The report also cites a vast difference in daily water use for the two parties. Amnesty cites 400 liters per day for Israelis, and just 70 for Palestinians. That figure puts the Palestinians below the World Health Organization recommendation of 100 liters per day.

However, the Water Authority hotly disputed those figures. According to the authority, while Israelis use 408 liters per day of fresh water from natural sources, Palestinians use 287 liters per day. While acknowledging the difference between these two amounts, the authority stressed that it was nowhere near as drastic as Amnesty had portrayed it.

The Foreign Ministry also refuted the report on Tuesday, stating that according to the existing water agreement, the Palestinians are allocated 23.6 million cubic meters of water per year, but "in actual effect, they have access to twice as much water."

In its statement, the Foreign Ministry said that Israel has "extensively surpassed the obligatory quantity" of water supplied to the Palestinians, while the Palestinians have "significantly violated their commitments under the water agreement" by neglecting the construction of sewage treatment plants despite "foreign funding earmarked for this purpose," as well as drilling over 250 unauthorized wells.

Israeli offers to supply the Palestinians with desalinated water were rejected due to political concerns, said the statement, adding that "Israel has reduced significantly its use of fresh natural water since 1967, consistently closing the gap between Israeli and Palestinian consumption."

The Amnesty International report cites examples of Israeli actions from the last nine years, such as confiscating water carriers, destroying rain collection cisterns and shooting at water tanks on rooftops - generally from Palestinian eyewitness accounts. It also cites instances of IDF closures, also during that period, that forced water carriers far out of their way to reach their clients, raising the price of water.

The report also brings instances in which it claims the IDF was restricting access to water or restricting entry of water carriers in order to push Palestinians off the land. Amnesty quotes an IDF officer as saying the area was a "closed military zone," and therefore a water carrier was denied entry.

"Over more than 40 years of occupation, restrictions imposed by Israel on the Palestinians' access to water have prevented the development of water infrastructure and facilities in the OPT [occupied Palestinian territories], consequently denying hundreds of thousands of Palestinians the right to live a normal life, to have adequate food, housing or health, and to economic development," said Donatella Rovera, Amnesty International's researcher on Israel and the OPT.

However, according to the Water Authority, while Israeli access to water before 1967 came out to about 500 cubic meters per person per year, nowadays it is just 149 cu.m. per year, a drop of 70%. In contrast, from a pre-1967 86 cu.m. per person per year, Palestinian consumption has risen to 105 cu.m.

The Water Authority also stressed that it routinely provided the PA with more water per year than the amounts stipulated in the Oslo Accords. It also said Palestinians routinely dug illegal wells and refused to purify and reuse their sewage for agriculture. Instead, they dumped their sewage into the streams in the West Bank, causing massive pollution.

The report contrasts the Palestinian situation with that of the settlers, showing pictures of sprinklers watering fields in the middle of the day and a swimming pool in Ma'aleh Adumim - a thriving city and one of the settlements commonly expected to become part of Israel in an eventual agreement - juxtaposed with pictures of empty or polluted cisterns.

The final recommendations of the report call on Israel to stop violating the Palestinians' human rights.

"Amnesty International calls on the Israeli authorities to urgently address the desperate need for water security in the OPT, brought about by their violations of Palestinians' human rights," the report reads. "The Israeli authorities should immediately:

Lift the restrictions currently in place which deny Palestinians in the OPT access to sufficient water to meet personal and domestic needs as well as to enjoy their rights to water, food, health, work and an adequate standard of living.

Put an end to policies and practices which discriminate against Palestinians and confer privileges to Israeli settlers with respect to access to water in the OPT.

Revoke all outstanding orders for demolitions and prohibit further demolitions of water facilities in Area C of the West Bank.

Lift the blockade on Gaza and allow immediate entry to Gaza of spare parts and construction and other material and equipment needed for the repair, reconstruction and maintenance of the water and sanitation infrastructure in Gaza."

Amnesty also called on the Palestinian Water Authority to "take measures to maximize existing water resources, by prioritizing measures which reduce the unacceptably high water losses, and by establishing mechanisms to ensure that all the water delivered to consumers, whether through the PWA-controlled networks or via mobile water tankers, is safe and complies with WHO standards."

National Infrastructures Minister Uzi Landau (Israel Beiteinu) likened Amnesty's report to that of Justice Richard Goldstone's.

"Similar to Goldstone, we have again encountered a report whose recommendations were a foregone conclusion," he said ahead of the report's release.

He added that Israel more than merely upheld its agreements under the Oslo accord, and charged that the Palestinians wasted millions of cubic meters of water by refusing to purify their sewage water.
Meanwhile, NGO Monitor accused Amnesty on Monday of deliberately releasing the report to coincide with another organization's US speaking tour that linked Israeli water policy to apartheid-type practices.

"Amnesty's report provides legitimacy for a speaking tour beginning November 1 at universities in the US organized by the Palestinian Cultural Academic Boycott of Israel (PCABI) movement entitled 'Israel's Control of Water as a Tool of Apartheid and Means of Ethnic Cleansing.' The main speaker, Omar Barghouti, is a leader of the boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) campaign against Israel," a statement from the organization said.

In advance of Amnesty's report, NGO Monitor's president, Prof. Gerald Steinberg, said, "Amnesty's report manipulates the issue of water and ignores the complexities of history and law in order to again falsely portray Israel as a brutal regime. Rather than recognize that water supply is a complex regional issue, Amnesty focuses only on Palestinian shortages."

He added that "the report adopts a painfully simplistic narrative which places blame solely on Israel, to the extent that the Palestinian leadership is absolved of responsibility for the agreements signed under the Oslo framework."

However, Amnesty International flatly denied to The Jerusalem Post any connection to the lecture series.

"We are definitely not releasing the report to coincide with any other organization or activist's activities," Amnesty Israel spokeswoman Dana Zimmerman told the Post."We have not shared the report with anyone ahead of its release except for media outlets. The timing of the release was decided according to the publication schedule of the president of Amnesty International."

jpost.com staff contributed to this report.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Welcomed with rockets</title>
<date>15/1/2009</date>
<content>
New immigrant from South Africa Byron Gerber had not been in Israel a week and he was already running for cover. Currently residing on a kibbutz in the Negev, Gerber decided to visit Beersheba. Unlike the welcome he and some 70 other new olim had received at Ben-Gurion Airport, with representatives of the government, the Jewish Agency and Telfed (the South African Zionist Federation), this time he was welcomed by a Grad missile from Gaza.

Gerber was quite philosophical about the experience. "At least there was a siren and I had a minute's warning." In South Africa, he had not been so lucky.

In 2005, two armed robbers broke into his Johannesburg home and shot him in his arm, right lung, kidney and liver. He lay in intensive care for nearly four months. Later, in an unprecedented move attracting national media attention, Gerber instituted legal action against South Africa's minister of safety and security for "failing in terms of the Constitution to protect the life, limb and property" of its citizens.

Although the police took pictures of the crime scene, "it was my friends who eventually found the bullet that had passed through me and then - can you believe it - the police lost it," he recounted. Apparently, the inspector died during the investigation and Gerber's case, like so many others in South Africa, "got shelved." But he was not prepared to "just leave it" - hence his civil suit against the minister. "I'm a bull terrier. I know I'll have to fly back and forth to South Africa for court appearances, but I am fighting for justice not only for myself but for all the ordinary, law-abiding citizens in South Africa."

Gerber's justifiable focus on crime in his former country reflects the sentiments of many of the new immigrants from South Africa who spoke to Metro.

Andrew Brown arrived in Israel with his wife, Anne, and three young children on December 31. He felt awkward  speaking negatively about his former country. "It's a beautiful place, wonderful people. The place truly has soul. Also, it's an emerging market offering so much opportunity." But then, there is the "flip side."

Until some nine months ago, the word out was that emigrants were returning. No more! "People from all races, who are in a position to leave, are doing so, mainly to Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Overseas companies, especially in the mining sector, as well as hospitals, are head-hunting in South Africa, making offers that are hard to refuse."

Why are they leaving? "It's not safe anywhere, whether on foot, in your car or in your home. While the will of the political establishment is to fight crime, the infrastructure to do so is absent. A police force that is poorly paid has little motivation to meaningfully combat crime. The cases take so long to process through the courts and criminals who are arrested are usually free on the streets within weeks."

"The medical system, too, is unraveling," sighs Andrew.

The Browns first applied to move to Australia and received entry visas. "We thought long and hard and opted instead for Israel. Had we gone to Australia, our motivation would have been purely a push factor: to merely clear out of South Africa. Coming to Israel, it is very much a 'pull' factor, as well. We feel we have left home but also returned home. We're very happy with our decision."

What of arriving during a state of war and with such young kids? "We've been through much worse," says Andrew's wife, Anne. "In 2005 we were on an island in the Far East when the tsunami hit. It's a miracle that we are alive today. We are Jewish and want to bring up our children in Israel."

For Barry Varkel, "it has been a long walk from Plett to the Kotel." This new immigrant was expressing the geographic and cultural chasm between Plettenburg Bay - today South Africa's premier coastal resort, where the Varkels lived for the past 12 years - and the Western Wall, where the latest planeload of South Africans were welcomed at an emotional ceremony in early January.

Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat endeared himself to the new olim with a personal revelation. "Thirty-four years ago, a family from South Africa moved into our street in Jerusalem. Our families became very friendly and I became even friendlier. Today, their beautiful daughter is my wife."

Barkat acknowledged how difficult it was "to learn a new language, find a job and integrate into a new culture." He drew attention to the current war in Gaza: "You have come during a period of trouble, of crisis. But you can also see how Israelis behave during a crisis. We set aside any differences and become one family. We help each other." And this, he said, was what was "special about your community and your organization. Years from now, you will be welcoming and assisting future generations of South African olim."

This month, a group of 60 17-year-old South African high-schoolers visited Israel for two weeks on the Israel Encounter program. Metro joined the group on a tour of the Interdisciplinary Center, Herzliya's campus. Before a presentation by the international school's Vice President Jonathan Davis, a former emissary to South Africa, the students were asked to raise their hands if they intended to study at universities outside South Africa. A whopping 60 percent did (see sidebar). When asked how many would opt to study in Israel, an impressive number of hands shot into the air; only nine indicated Australia, the favorite destination for Jews emigrating from South Africa. This year there are over 50 students from South Africa taking bachelor degrees in business, government and diplomacy, psychology and communication at the IDC, Herzliya.

Lara Greenberg, who made aliya two months ago, is studying at IDC's School of Communication. In South Africa she was a journalist with the South African Jewish Report.

"The South African media is knee-jerk critical of Israel," she told Metro. "There is a mindset of Israel being an apartheid state that resonates with a people who suffered under it but do not know or understand the issues here. By and large we are not talking about an educated or sophisticated readership, and this is exploited by the media. The Zionist Federation and Board of Deputies' Media Committees try their best to counter the bias in the press and TV, but it's an uphill battle."

Greenberg is unfazed. Together with fellow South Africans on campus they have joined a bold initiative by the School of Communication that has set up a "cyber war room" - referred to as the "situation room" - to counter the overseas bias on the war in Gaza. "We have over 100 volunteers operating in different languages focusing on reportage in newspapers, TV networks and blog sites. So we have a German desk, as we do a Dutch, Russian, Spanish, French and English. The latter is divided into the UK, USA, Australasia and South Africa. So we at the South African desk scan South African newspapers, like The Star and the Mail & Guardian, then research the stories and respond. "We are working round the clock," Greenberg explained - which was quite apparent, seeing some of the bleary-eyed students intensely ensconced in front of their computers.

While the antipathy toward Israel in the South African government and the ruling ANC party might be worrying to the Jewish community, "I don't believe it's a factor influencing Jews to leave in the same way crime does," Greenberg said.

Nevertheless, the war in Gaza has heightened tensions in South Africa, particularly among the country's Muslim community. Recent reports out of South Africa are saying that local Muslim radio broadcasts have been airing "increasingly aggressive and inflammatory statements accusing local Jewry of complicity in the 'Zionist brutality,'" with some going so far as to justify the killing of Jews.

The broadcasts called for boycotts and picket protests outside supermarkets and shops stocking Israeli products. The Community Security Organization (CSO) has expressed grave concern at "the level of aggressive radio comments that were now being directed against Jews rather than Israel or Zionists" - a new phenomenon.

Another new immigrant studying at the IDC is Gaby Charnes. She feels that "the South African Jewish community is special. We got it right by creating the balance between religious and secular, a community that engages in social action as well as being Zionist. This is a community that cares and acts." But, she laments, "It's unraveling. The Zimbabwe situation, the ugly display of xenophobia, the prospects of poor political leadership in the future and most of all the crime, are and will drive people away. Most of my friends still in South Africa are planning on leaving after graduation, many of them thinking of Israel."

David Kramer and Dean Schneider are first-year students who have not made aliya. They may do so in the future. Both rattle off the number of times members of their respective families have been car-jacked.

"I think it would be irresponsible to raise a family today in South Africa. It's just not a safe environment," Schneider opined.

For Sheryl Ash of Johannesburg, the impetus to move to Israel came not from violence in South Africa, but a desire to join her deaf son, Simon, who made aliya early in 2008. As a youngster, her son had attended the Catholic St. Vincent School for the Deaf in Johannesburg. One day, he returned from school and said "I hate Jews." Simon's brother thought it was time he joined a Jewish youth movement. He attended a Betar summer camp and for the first time felt proud to be Jewish.

"Being deaf, I realized he must be struggling with the language," Ash told Metro, "so I thought I would make aliya and help teach Simon Hebrew."

Only it didn't quite work out that way. "Simon is teaching me Hebrew. I'm crying with happiness."

Meanwhile, the arrival on the group flight of Bernard and Pearl Lazarus partially offsets recent criticism that few of South Africa's Zionist leadership actually make aliya. Bernard, over the decades, has held many community leadership positions in Durban. "For me, Israel is home," he says. "I've been coming here for the past 50 years."

Bernard, too, predicts an increase in immigration from South Africa. "It's not that the country is getting worse; it's just not getting better. Crime and affirmative action are crippling the place."

And what of arriving during a war?

"Ma hadash? (What's new?) I was here during the 1956 war, the Six Day War, the Yom Kippur War, the first Intifada and the Second Lebanon War. It would be strange if I weren't here!"

The race for higher education

It should come as little surprise that South African youth are opting, in increasing numbers, to study abroad. With affirmative action fairly embedded in the labor market, a further factor of concern has been the perceived drop in educational standards that might prejudice graduates should they emigrate.

Veteran South African journalist Stephen Mulholland wrote an expose last year that South Africa's most prestigious university, the University of Cape Town (UCT), that "has produced no less than four Nobel Prize winners," had introduced a requirement that applicants were "now required to classify themselves racially and that those of color will have lower standards to meet than are demanded of white undergraduates." While acknowledging the danger "of perpetuating the use of race as a criterion for admission to higher education," the UCT's governors explained that it's a policy designed "to redress past discrimination."

Is it any wonder, Mulholland surmises, that so many of South Africa's youth today seek to study at universities abroad?
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yosef asks Carter to help free Schalit</title>
<date>25/8/2009</date>
<content>
Shas spiritual leader Rabbi Ovadia Yosef on Tuesday asked visiting former US president Jimmy Carter for help in arranging the release of abducted IDF soldier St.-Sgt. Gilad Schalit.

"You and other leaders need to make an effort at this stage and do everything to release Gilad Schalit," the rabbi told Carter at the meeting in the capital, which also included Interior Minister Eli Yishai (Shas), according to Ynet. "You can influence this."

Carter is on a three-day tour of Israel and the West Bank as part of a group of former statesmen and international dignitaries known as The Elders, started by Nelson Mandela in 2007 to assist in conflict resolution.

The delegation is being led by former Brazilian president Fernando Cardoso, and includes South African Anglican Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu, former Irish president Mary Robinson, former Norwegian prime minister Gro Brundtland and Indian human rights activist Ela Bhatt.

On his last visit to Israel in June, Carter received a letter from the Schalit family that he hoped to pass on to Hamas leaders to be given to Gilad Schalit.

A year ago, a letter from the kidnapped soldier was sent to his family via the offices of the Carter Center, the former president's human rights NGO, in Ramallah.

At a press conference earlier on Tuesday, Cardoso said The Elders were not planning on actively involving themselves in the Schalit matter.

"This is a negotiation basically between governments," he said. "Of course in our present capacity we are always hoping that a transaction will take place, but we are not coming here to interfere in the matter."

Cardoso also said now was a "delicate" and "hopeful" time, and that the group's goal was to hear from a wide range of people whose lives have been affected by the conflict.

"We are here to listen, to see, to understand, to be in solidarity with the suffering of people, and to motivate people by saying peace is possible," he said.

Cardoso said the delegates were independent voices who were not tied to the interests of any one country or government.

On Monday evening, Carter accepted a letter from MK Ahmed Tibi (United Arab List-Ta'al) for US President Barack Obama, again taking on the role of mail carrier in Middle East politics.

Tibi wrote to Obama about what he called the "strangulation policy" of the Israeli government against its Arab citizens and asked him to force Israel to apportion the money it receives from the US fairly among its population.

"I respect president Jimmy Carter very much. He is a courageous and sincere man, and if he believes in our case, then I think that we will have a good chance in our fight for dignity," Tibi told The Jerusalem Post.

Though Cardoso trumpeted the group's impartiality, a number of the delegates have expressed strong criticism of Israel in the past, and in turn have received lukewarm support in the Jewish community.

Recently, American Jews rallied against Obama's decision to award Robinson the Medal of Freedom, citing her role as then-UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in the 2001 Durban anti-racism conference, which was widely seen as dissolving into a forum for anti-Semitic rhetoric.

Tutu, who also received the Medal of Freedom, has compared Israel to apartheid South Africa. He said he hopes Israelis will take his concerns and criticism to heart.

"The Hebrew prophets used to criticize and condemn their own people, and some of them heard the message," Tutu told the Post.

Carter, whose 2006 book Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid was attacked for being one-sided against Israel, told the Post that he believes he has been critical of both sides in the conflict, citing his condemnation last year of Palestinian rockets fired at Israel from the Gaza Strip.

"I'm just looking for peace," he said.

He had words of faint praise for Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, who he said has "taken some steps forward" in stopping settlement construction and easing West Bank checkpoints to allow for economic development.

On Tuesday morning Carter, Tutu, and the rest of The Elders met with eight young adults who said the dignitaries seemed to embrace their call for the increased involvement of young Israelis and Palestinians in the peace process.

"Mary Robinson said to me that Nelson Mandela told them the first time that they met, 'Listen to the young people,' and she understands that this is really important," Tal Madar, director of the small Ihud Hahaklai (Agricultural Union) youth movement, told the Post after the meeting.

"I think they were really impressed by all the people in the room for their endless optimism and for the fact that they are doing daily work not for themselves but for society," she said.

Adam Werner, 27, who runs the Young Israeli Youth Forum for Cooperation, an NGO that works to involve young professionals in Israeli policy-making, said The Elders' visit was important but any long-term solution needs to come from the Israeli public.

"A lot of the resolutions and propositions that come out are from the international community, and I think that's something we need," Werner said.

"But ultimately it has to come from the grassroots and from Israel, with all its contradictions and difficulties, because otherwise it's just an artificial idea."

Both Madar and Raoof Korabe, an 18-year-old Israeli Arab who was also at the meeting, encouraged The Elders to spend more time during their trip talking with everyday people rather than with politicians and policy-makers.

The delegation is scheduled to meet President Shimon Peres on Wednesday morning before leaving Jerusalem for Ramallah, where they will meet Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salaam Fayad, talk with Palestinian youth and business leaders, and attend an iftar meal with prominent Palestinians to break the day's Ramadan fast.

The Elders are funded by a number of international businesspeople, including Virgin Group chairman Richard Branson, who originally proposed the idea for the group, and eBay founder Jeff Skroll, both of whom are accompanying the delegation here.
</content>
</article>

