<article>
<title>A code of conduct for the New Israel Fund</title>
<date>27/6/2010</date>
<content>
When the board of directors of the New Israel Fund meets on Sunday, its members will confront the most important decisions in the organization’s 30-year history. With a budget of more than $30 million, divided among more than 100 groups, the NIF is a major but unelected power in Israeli society and politics. And while two-thirds of this money goes to a wide range of significant social and educational causes, the rest goes to groups that lead anti-Israel delegitimization campaigns under the façade of “human rights.”In last year’s Goldstone Report indicting Israel on allegations of “war crimes,” Israelis recognized the nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) B’Tselem, Adalah and Breaking the Silence among the most cited references.




RELATED:Patriots in the best sense of the wordWhile claiming to promote human rights and social equality, these and other NIF grantees are also heavily involved in demonization.Using NIF funds, B’Tselem operates offices in Washington and London that lobby foreign governments to endorse Goldstone’s destructive recommendations.The Coalition of Women for Peace, which received $285,509 from NIF between 2006 and 2008, and a former NIF grantee – ICAHD – are leaders in the BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) campaign. BDS is a central part of the strategy adopted by NGOs at the 2001 Durban conference, which denies Jews the right of self-determination and defense against terror. European governments followed NIF’s lead and provide substantial funds, allowing both groups to expand their political warfare.SUCH NIF funding stands in sharp contrast to official claims of being a Zionist organization, supporting a “Jewish and democratic state” and telling donors it helps and “loves Israel.” When NGO Monitor documented the contradictions, and Im Tirtzu launched a more frontal and personal assault, NIF lashed out by slinging mud. Its leaders portrayed themselves as the only defenders of Israeli democracy, and labeled as “McCarthyites” those who held different views. This political warfare did not convince many Israelis, nor did it mollify Diaspora donors who realized that their money was being used for some very negative activities.To resolve this deep crisis of confidence, the NIF board members meeting on Sunday are going to have to change both their policy substance and style. A few references to tikkun olam and Jewish ethical principles can no longer be used to hide NIF’s funding for organizations that engage in hard-core demonization.In this context, NIF officials have an opportunity to lead the rest of “civil society” and human rights organizations by adopting and implementing clear ethical guidelines, which are greatly needed by these powerful social and political groups.On this basis, NGO Monitor has sent NIF board members a draft code of conduct, based on existing models, with the goal of converting the declaratory “red lines” into actual policy, and to address NIF’s incivility and anti-democratic intolerance.The proposed funding rules would end support for political advocacy groups involved in BDS, or accusations of “apartheid,” “ethnic cleansing,” “war crimes” or “crimes against humanity.”In addition, active involvement in “lawfare” (legal threats or actions against Israeli officials abroad) would be unacceptable, including support for biased UN processes such as the Goldstone Commission. No group denying Israel’s status as a Jewish and democratic state, or calling for a “one-state solution,” would continue to get money from NIF donors.To implement these rules and restore lost credibility, the NIF board of directors also needs to create an independent ombudsman’s office, staffed and operated without involvement of the paid NIF leadership.The ombudsman’s office would prepare biannual reports on advocacy activities of funded organizations, to determine compliance with the guidelines. The summary information and analysis should be made available to the board, sent to donors and made public.The ombudsman’s office should also serve as an independent investigative body for complaints resulting from intolerance and uncivil statements by NIF officials and employees. A Jewish organization that uses the language of tikkun olam should not be involved in Nixonian dirty tricks against critics, such as publicizing fake Twitter accounts putting out racist messages using NGO Monitor’s name, or trashing critics as “a mouthpiece for the extreme right” with “no regard for objectivity or transparency, and only disdain for democratic process and open debate.”And NIF’s New Generations and Development associate should not be posting obscene gestures on his blog (which have since been removed).Before preaching civility and democracy to Israelis, NIF needs to fix its own problems. The program for NIF’s June 28 symposium on democracy, headlined “The Battle for Israel’s Soul,” is a one-sided political rally that shuts out any criticism – the antithesis of democratic debate.In a recent article in Haaretz, NIF leaders Daniel Sokatch and Rachel Liel sought to defend themselves from criticism by writing that “now is not the time to scapegoat Israelis who are critical of Israel.”But NIF’s role goes far beyond legitimate criticism. The funding 
provided by NIF’s Jewish donors helps powerful NGOs lead the campaign to
 delegitimize Jewish national self-determination. And it is NIF that is 
doing much of the scapegoating.On Sunday, the NIF board has a chance to stop the decline by adopting a 
code of conduct and a transparent mechanism for implementing the red 
lines it claims to have. If the board members accept this challenge, 
they will help restore NIF credibility and its ability to contribute 
positively to Israel during this time of difficulty.
The writer heads NGO Monitor and is on
 the faculty of Bar-Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An ethnocracy or multiethnic democracy?</title>
<date>3/3/2010</date>
<content>
One of the newest code words for condemning Israel is describing the state as an “ethnocracy” or “ethnocratic settler state.” According to a widespread definition, an ethnocracy is “a form of government where representatives of a particular ethnic group hold a number of government posts disproportionately large to the percentage of the total... and use them to advance the position of their particular ethnic group(s) to the detriment of others.”Israel, according to those who accuse the state of fitting this description, joins apartheid South Africa, Uganda under Idi Amin, Sudan, Rwanda, Estonia, Latvia, Serbia and Malaysia. It also joins former “settler regimes” such as Canada, New Zealand, Australia and French Algeria. Unsurprisingly Israel is set alongside regimes that ceased to exist, apartheid South Africa being one example, but Australia during the period of the “white Australia policy” (when preferred immigrants were confined to Europeans) being another.




Those who speak of Israel as an ethnocracy therefore insinuate that the current manifestation of the Jewish state will soon be abolished or destroyed, like French Algeria, or repent for its racist sins like South Africa.THE NEW ethnocratic slander appears to have its origins, sadly, in grants given by the Israel Academy of Sciences. In 2002 Alexander (Sandy) Kedar of the University of Haifa received a grant from the Israeli Science Foundation which was founded by the Israel Academy of Sciences. His proposal was for research into “The Rise of a New Land Regime: Changes in Israeli Legal Geography 1992-2002” and he received the grant for four years with Prof. Oren Yiftachel of Ben-Gurion University. In the same year he received a grant from the French Embassy’s Center for Cultural Cooperation for research comparing Israel to the French regime in Algeria.In 2003 Kedar published some of his initial research, titled “On the legal geography of ethnocratic settler states: notes towards a research agenda,” in a journal called Current Legal Issues. Kedar focused his research initially on the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. He writes of the Jews forming an “ethno-class” stratification and the Arabs being an “indigenous” group akin to Native Americans.He perverts historical fact by claiming that Israel committed “Judaization” of the land whereby Jews came to control 93 percent of the land of Israel. This relies on the unreasonable claim that only 13.5% of the land of Israel was publicly owned in 1948; in fact the actual percentage was closer to 50%. Because Kedar sees the Jews and the state as one and the same, he falsely believes that all of the land of Israel in the hands of the state is open to all the Jews, while the Arabs supposedly only retain 7%, ignoring the fact that such public lands as national parks are open to all.Yiftachel has developed the theory of Israeli ethnocracy in his own setting. He published a book in 2006 entitled Ethnocracy: Land and Identity in Israel/Palestine. A mundane description of the book notes that “the notion of ethnocracy suggests a political regime that facilitates expansion and control by a dominant ethnicity in contested lands. It is neither democratic nor authoritarian, with rights and capabilities depending primarily on ethnic origin and geographic location.”In Middle East Report Yiftachel wrote that the development of Israel was based on “the ‘return’ of Jews to their ancestors’ mythical land” and notes that “I argue that the Israeli polity is governed not by a democratic regime, but rather by an ‘ethnocracy.’”The claim that Israel is an ethnocracy thus is part and parcel of the larger claim being bandied about that Israel is not a democratic state and that it is either supposedly sliding toward totalitarianism or has already reached that point.As part of this narrative, the Palestinians inevitably receive formerly “Jewish” qualities such as Yiftachel’s descriptions of them living in a form of “ghetto citizenship... Arab citizenship in Israel has been structurally constrained by the state’s ethnocratic regime and the associated hegemonic Judaization project.”THE ETHNOCRACY libel has also been employed by Tel Aviv University’s Shlomo Sand in his infamous book The Invention of the Jewish People in which he claims the notion of a modern Jewish people is a farce, that the exile was a myth and that most Jews have no connection to the historic Jews of Roman times or before. Oddly Sand claims that the UK is an example of a multiethnic state (ignoring years of struggle by the Irish, Scottish and Welsh to free themselves of British Anglican domination) and that Israel is an ethnocracy (even though he argues that the Jews in Israel are not a single nation but rather descendants of Khazars, Arabs and all manner of flotsam and jetsam groups).The vast majority of research into the notion of ethnocracy now views Israel as the key example of this label. Egypt, which allocates resources entirely to Muslims and ignores the Christian Copts, or the United Arab Emirates, whose population is a majority non-Arab foreign workers but whose government and citizenship is reserved only for Muslim Arabs, are never mentioned as examples.Israel, one of the most diverse states in the world, which does not ban
minarets or burkas as they attempt to do in Europe, is of course
described negatively as an “ethnocracy” and the UK, which has more
closed-circuit surveillance cameras per person than any country in the
world, is a model multiethnic democracy. Tragically it is primarily a
libel of Israel’s own making, developed by the state’s most dynamic
young Jewish scholars and funded by the Jewish state. And isn’t that, in itself, evidence to the contrary?
The writer is a PhD researcher at Hebrew University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An open letter to Tutu</title>
<date>3/11/2010</date>
<content>
Dear Archbishop Desmond Tutu, I write to you with a heavy heart.You are 
a revered leader in South Africa, but recently have added your iconic voice to 
the campaign for sanctions against Israel.




Archbishop, I believe you are 
making a terrible mistake. Without truth there can be no justice, and without 
justice there can be no peace. The Talmud says: “The world stands on three 
things: justice, truth and peace.” These three values are inseparable. 
Archbishop, I am convinced that the sanctions campaign against Israel is morally 
repugnant because it is based on horrific and grotesquely false accusations 
against the Jewish people.The truth, archbishop, is that Israel is 
simply not an apartheid state. In the State of Israel all citizens – Jew and 
Arab – are equal before the law. Israel has no Population Registration Act, no 
Group Areas Act, no Mixed Marriages and Immorality Act, no Separate 
Representation of Voters Act, no Separate Amenities Act, no pass laws or any of 
the myriad apartheid laws.Israel is a vibrant liberal democracy with a 
free press and independent judiciary, and accords full political, religious and 
other human rights to all its people, including its more than 1 million Arab 
citizens, many of whom hold positions of authority including that of cabinet 
minister, member of parliament and judge at every level, including that of the 
Supreme Court. All citizens vote on the same roll in regular, multiparty 
elections; there are Arab parties and Arab members of other parties in Israel’s 
parliament. Arabs and Jews share all public facilities, including hospitals and 
malls, buses, cinemas and parks. And, archbishop, that includes universities and 
opera houses.The other untruth is the accusation of illegal occupation 
of Arab land. Like the apartheid libel, this is outrageously false. There is no 
nation that has a longer, deeper or more profound connection to its country than 
the Jewish people have to the land of Israel and the city of 
Jerusalem.Archbishop, you and I as religious leaders always turn to the 
Bible as a source of truth. What does it mean that Israel is the “promised 
land”? It means, as we both know, that it was promised by God to the Jews – the 
descendants of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. This promise was first fulfilled by God 
more than 3,300 years ago, when Joshua led the Jewish people into the land of 
Israel. Since then there has been an unbroken Jewish presence in the land, 
albeit small during the Roman exile.All the books of the Old Testament – 
Joshua, Judges, Samuel, Kings, Isaiah, Jeremiah, etc. – describe the deep 
connection between the Jews and the land of Israel, including the West Bank, 
known in the Bible as Judea and Samaria – the area that contained the great 
cities of the two previous Jewish commonwealths, such as Jericho, Shiloh (where 
the Tabernacle stood for hundreds of years), Beit El (where Jacob had his vision 
of the ladder) and Hebron (where Abraham, Isaac and Jacob are buried with their 
wives Sarah, Rebecca and Leah).Three thousand years ago, there was no 
London or Paris, no Washington or Moscow, no Pretoria or Cape Town, but there 
was a Jerusalem, capital of a Jewish state.“If I forget thee O 
Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its cunning... if I fail to elevate 
Jerusalem above my foremost joy.” Those words from Psalms are recited by Jews at 
every wedding. At every funeral, the statement of comfort given to the mourners 
refers to Zion and Jerusalem. Jews pray for Jerusalem three times a day, and 
also after every meal.Archbishop, the Arab/Israeli conflict is not a 
struggle against apartheid or occupation. It is a century- long war against the 
very existence of Jews and a Jewish state in the Middle East. There have already 
been seven major Arab/Israeli wars since the birth of modern 
Israel.Today the front includes an alliance between Iran, Syria and 
Hizbullah, the latter now with 40,000 rockets aimed at Israeli cities. Iranian 
officers train Hizbullah forces, while Iran pursues nuclear weapons and openly 
declares its intention to wipe out Israel. Hamas, the terrorist Palestinian 
government in Gaza, sides with Iran and Hizbullah in rearming with the declared 
aim of destroying Israel.Since 1967, one aspect of this century- long 
conflict has been the demand for a Palestinian state. In spite of the deep 
historical and religious roots of Jews in all of Israel, generations of Jewish 
leaders have been prepared, for the sake of peace, to give up ancestral and 
covenantal land to establish a Palestinian state.SO WHY has there not 
been peace? The ANC taught us you can’t make peace on your own. No matter how 
deeply the ANC was committed to a peaceful resolution of the South African 
conflict, until the National Party was prepared to accept that black South 
Africans had a place in their own country, there could be no peace. And so too, 
until the Arab/Muslim world accepts that Jews have a right to a state of their 
own on their ancestral land, there will be no peace.In 1948, the Jews 
accepted the UN resolution establishing a Jewish state and a Palestinian state, 
but the Arab world rejected it and five Arab countries invaded Israel to destroy 
it.After that, the West Bank and Gaza were in Arab hands until 
1967.There was an opportunity then – every day for almost 20 years – to 
establish a Palestinian state. It never happened. And since then there have been 
numerous opportunities – each rejected by Arab leaders.Why? Because this 
war has been more about the destruction of the Jewish state than about the 
establishment of a Palestinian state. Even today, so-called moderate Palestinian 
leader Mahmoud Abbas denies Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state.In 
2000, the Palestinian leadership launched a massive wave of suicide bombers into 
Israel, leading to more than 1,300 civilian deaths and 10,000 injuries. 
Proportionately, such carnage in South Africa would mean more than 10,000 killed 
and over 80,000 injured! Israel erected a security fence with checkpoints to 
shield it from such attacks launched from the disputed 
territories.Archbishop, you compare these checkpoints to apartheid South 
Africa. But they are not about pass laws, which don’t exist in Israel. The 
checkpoints are on the border between sovereign Israeli territory and the 
disputed territories of the West Bank and Gaza in order to keep civilians from 
being murdered, and have been very successful in doing so. These checkpoints – 
like those found in all airports – are there to prevent suicide bombers from 
blowing up innocent people.Archbishop, do not bestow respectability on 
an immoral sanctions campaign that is an affront to truth and justice, which 
prevents peace and prolongs the terrible suffering of people on both sides of 
this painful conflict. Archbishop, let us pray for an end to all this agony, and 
for the fulfillment of the verse in Isaiah: “And the Lord God will wipe away the 
tears from all faces.”
The writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Another Tack: Clinton’s KuBa conceit</title>
<date>29/9/2010</date>
<content>
Rare is the American president with true strategic comprehension of the 
convoluted intricacies of the Mideast’s assorted disputes, especially the one 
arising from the implacable Arab refusal to accept a sovereign Jewish state in 
what they consider their lebensraum (one of Hitler’s favorite terms claiming 
entitlement to “living space” for his superior race).The wisdom or 
imbecility of any given US president is inevitably as good as that of the aides 
who whisper in his ear. But some have unquestionably displayed greater capacity 
for preposterousness than others. It may be a mere accident of history or the 
result of left-wing proclivities, but the greatest inanities have of late 
emanated from Democrats – the present White House resident and his two living 
Democratic predecessors, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton.




Barack Obama’s 
grasp of the Mideast is so skewed and so predisposed to support the Arab/Muslim 
narrative that he liberally subscribes to its copious falsehoods as part of his 
multicultural, moral-relativist, postmodern aggrandizement of the Third World. 
His fawning Cairo address in 2009 was just the preview of coming 
attractions.THE LESS said about Carter the better. Suffice it just to 
note that yesteryear’s selfprofessed honest broker, who had subsequently 
slandered Israel as an apartheid state, happens to be the closest ideologically 
to Obama and most like him in terms of abysmal failure as the leader of the free 
world.Then comes affable Clinton, who manages to endear himself to all 
and sundry as a more pragmatic product of the Democratic Party machine and even 
a good friend of Israel. For all we know he may have convinced himself that he’s 
indeed the Jewish state’s outstanding chum. His utter immodesty surely leaves 
little doubt in his mind that he knows better than us what’s best for us. But 
does arrogance endow him with exceptional insight? Hardly. His colossal 
pretentiousness is only matched by his cluelessness.Hence he maintains 
that the greatest obstacle to Mideast peace are Israel’s Russian immigrants. 
Arab potentates probably agree and would like to be rid of “Israel’s Russians” 
as much as of any trace of Jewish presence in this land. Yet their genocidal 
hate and terror-mongering aren’t named by Clinton as obstacles to 
peace.His problem is the makeup of Israel’s population. It’s who we are 
that gets his goat.According to Slick Willy’s astute analysis, Russian 
immigrants constitute “the hardest-core people against a division of the land. 
This presents a staggering problem. It’s a different Israel. Sixteen 
percent of Israelis speak Russian.”Clinton frets about who’ll confront 
the settlers as, heaven forfend, “an increasing number of the young people in 
the IDF are the children of Russians and settlers.”It’s not that the 
former American commander- in-chief is satisfied with other components of 
Israeli society either.“Moroccans,” for example, are too “rightof- 
center,” though they aren’t quite as disruptive an element as Russians. The 
Moroccans’ desire for “normal lives” (presumably as distinct from Russians) can 
turn them into “swing voters,” who might support the Israeli party of Clinton’s 
choice.Clinton’s unconcealed officious intrusion into a fellow 
democracy’s internal processes is of course nothing new. He was always 
unabashedly partial to Israel’s Labor Party – the only tolerable Israeli voice, 
to judge by Clinton’s non-too-objective past rhetoric and record. Ehud Barak was 
his outright darling and Clinton spared no effort to help him defeat Binyamin 
Netanyahu in 1999. Indeed Clinton did for Barak what few American presidents 
ever dared openly do even for their most promising foreign 
protégés.Clinton pulled out all stops in his baldfaced intervention in 
Israel’s domestic politics, boosting Barak in a fashion unseen since the CIA’s 
blatant interference in Italy’s post-World War II election. Brashly, 
Clinton didn’t even bother to cover up his tracks but dispatched his own spin 
doctors, private pollsters and campaign strategists to get Barak 
elected.After Barak’s 1999 win, Clinton could hardly contain his glee. 
On the eve of Barak’s first Washington visit as prime minister, the eager 
American host quipped that he’s “as excited as a kid awaiting a new toy.” It was 
pretty demeaning to look upon the leader of an allied independent state as a 
plaything, but Clinton greeted with pomp and circumstance a guest whose success 
constituted the American president’s own personal triumph. With incomparable 
hutzpa and outrageous meddling, Clinton made Barak’s battle his own.Now 
Clinton echoes assorted self-promoted experts (generally with an ax to grind) 
who rationalize that it’s not Labor’s policies which were its downfall, but the 
composition of the electorate. Clinton blames Israel’s objectionable voters for 
frustrating his wishes. It may be childish, churlish and petulant, but it’s 
essentially the familiar psychological phenomenon of transference.Had he 
not been raised high on the pedestal of statesmanship and omniscience, Clinton’s 
bizarre gibberish might all be chalked up to his personal 
hangups.However, as in Carter’s case, asinine humbug gains inordinate 
currency when spouted by exalted, supposedly supersavvy senior luminaries. It 
therefore sways more impressionable minds and is exploited to greater effect by 
unscrupulous propagandists than would otherwise be the case.THE DANGER 
is that Clinton’s careless prattle would delegitimize aliya just as much as 
Jewish settlement has already been delegitimized. Since the advent of Zionism, 
the Arab subtext had been that whatever betokens Jewish life and vitality in 
this land perforce undermines harmony and bliss. Bottom-line priority – weaken 
Jewish interests in the Jewish homeland.Clinton could, albeit 
unintentionally, reinforce that. Disapproving of Israel’s newcomers, he appears 
to furnish new impetus with a new twist to the old Arab agenda – the need to 
keep immigrants from altering Israel’s landscape.Clinton’s displeasure 
with the preferences of Israel’s electorate is reminiscent of Kurt “KuBa” 
Barthel, secretary-general of East Germany’s Writers Union and the DDR’s 
propaganda ace during 1953’s popular proletariat uprising. It was the first such 
mutiny inside any USSR satellite. What rankled most was that many of the 
protesters were communists and the very blue-collar laborers whom the party 
purported to represent.KuBa was especially cross with construction 
workers who marched down Berlin’s Stalinallee. “You should be ashamed of 
yourselves,” he chastised them. “You’ll have to behave very well in future 
before your shame is forgotten... The people,” he judged, “had forfeited the 
confidence of their government.”With paternalistic condescension he 
advised them to “go to sleep at 9 p.m. like good children. The Soviet army and 
comrades of the German People’s Police are standing on guard for you and for 
world peace.”Communist KuBa despaired of the 
proletarians. Democratic Clinton despairs of participants in Israel’s 
democracy.Bertolt Brecht’s reply to KuBa, in a short poem entitled 
“Solution,” could well apply also to Clinton’s father-knows-best airs: 
“...Wouldn’t it be simpler, In that case, for the government To dissolve the 
people And elect another?” Wouldn’t it be simpler for Clinton to dissolve the 
Israeli people and elect another population (more to his liking) in its stead? 

www.sarahhonig.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 26: Why the amazement?</title>
<date>25/8/2010</date>
<content>
Why the amazement? Sir, – Rejoicing in his successful surgery and amazed by the 
degree of cooperation between Arab and Jewish doctors (“A glimpse of hope for 
the Israeli- Palestinian conflict,” August 24), Aziz Abu Sarah amazes 
me.




As a journalist living in Jerusalem, was he not aware of all the Arab 
patients in our hospitals, students in our universities, professionals working 
with Jews in our courts, and even Arab judges? He is no doubt also aware of the 
emergency aid we send to countries in distress, including Islamic 
nations.Has this changed the attitude of hatred toward us by our 
neighbors, or their vicious and malicious indoctrination of their children 
against us? I see no “glimpse of hope” for peace there.In 1959, as a 
student at Edinburgh Dental Hospital, I was given the task of relieving an 
Egyptian doctor of severe pain by replacing all his faulty fillings. He 
complained to me of the pain he had suffered in having his teeth cleaned and 
asked if the student who treated him was Jewish. He explained that before he 
left Egypt, he had been warned not to fall into the hands of a Jew in any field, 
for the Jew would take out his hatred for Arabs on him. When I told him the 
student was not Jewish, but that I was, he literally would not believe 
me.Fifty years have passed, and the hatred and distrust persists. I wish 
Abu Sarah luck in trying to change the attitude of his fellow Arabs toward 
us.EDWIN HOFFENBERG Haifa Sir, – Aziz Abu Sarah’s essay was troubling. 
He writes about the mixing of Arab and Jewish patients and doctors as if it had 
been a great surprise. He would have us believe that he had made some new 
discovery, or that both sides had suddenly come to their senses in this one 
small exception to otherwise insurmountable societal divisions.But this 
is old news. Jews and Arabs interacting freely when being treated (or when 
shopping, using public transportation or studying at universities) is 
commonplace – as well it should be.There is much more to be done to make 
Israeli society truly equal – especially in the areas of housing, public 
services, primary education and national service. Still, only those who 
subscribe to the inaccurate characterization of Israel as an “apartheid” country 
would see anything new in this piece.EFRAIM A. COHEN Zichron Ya’akov Beware of Blair Sir, – As head of the Quartet, who will be present behind the 
scenes during direct Israeli- Palestinian negotiations, Tony Blair cannot be 
considered a neutral interlocutor. Nor can his statement at the 
Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, that “those in the world who want to 
delegitimize Israel are also delegitimizing those around the world who share 
Israel’s values and admire its free spirit,” be considered that of a true friend 
(“Blair: Delegitimization of Israel is affront to all humanity,” August 
25).He never made similar remarks when he was UK prime minister and had 
far more influence with international leaders.Tony Blair Associates 
works in an advisory capacity to the Kuwaiti government, to Mubadala, an Abu 
Dhabi sovereign fund, and to the South Korean oil multinational UI Energy 
Corporation.Working for these organizations means such interests rule 
out his neutrality, despite his attempt to bend over backward to show us his 
friendship. (He does the same for the PA!) Blair should not be allowed to 
determine our future. The British public is now only too aware of the spin he 
used, to their detriment, when he was prime minister.It is time our 
politicians wake up to this fact before it is too late! DR. COLIN L. LECI
Jerusalem Catch 23 Sir, – Holon’s chief rabbi stated that “people... who hold 
senior positions in the authorities...must be ignored and treated as 
air” (“Holon chief rabbi: Judges, senior officials can’t join minyan,” August 
25).Since the chief rabbi is a senior employee of the secular 
authorities, anyone who unwaveringly adheres to his rulings is obliged to ignore 
them.YONATAN SILVER Jerusalem Seniors still thereSir, – In response to 
Ellie Morris’s letter regarding Jewish Venice (“New ghetto tenant,” August 25), 
I need to point out that the old age home is actually still there, on the second 
floor of the Giardino del Ghetto hotel (the rooms of the hotel are on the upper 
floors).The Jewish community of Venice sees it as its obligation to take 
care of these seniors (all of them women now). I had the pleasure of meeting 
their caregivers and seeing them on their daily outings into the ghetto 
courtyard.By the way, the hotel is a wonderful place to stay, with 
excellent kosher food.DEBRA NUSSBAUM STEPEN Jerusalem Glick disregards 
facts Sir, – Caroline Glick’s column “Israel fights the demagogues,” Our world, 
August 24) is a sickening, demagogic example of disregard for the 
facts.She fantasizes a “domination” by the Left that does not exist. It 
is simply not true that “after a generation of meekly accepting the Left’s 
domination of the public discourse – in the media, in academia, in the legal 
system and in popular culture – the public has finally had enough.”It is 
simply not true to say “For the first time in a generation, the Left is on the 
defensive. Rather than dominating the air waves with its allegations of Israeli 
and Zionist racism and criminality, it is forced to defend its right to block 
out all dissenting voices from the national debate.”I am proud of the 
Left’s uphill fight against injustice in Israel, and it is deplorable that 
Caroline Glick shoots the messenger because she does not want the message to be 
heard.RUTH RIGBI Jerusalem Sir, I usually read Caroline Glick’s columns. 
Sometimes I agree, sometimes I disagree.On August 24 she wrote “Led by 
Gordon, six of the 11 signed a letter supporting soldiers who refuse to serve in 
the IDF.” This is very misleading, as she left out “in the 
territories.”This omission raises serious concerns as to her credibility 
and makes one wonder what other “facts” she has twisted to support her 
agenda.I. ZUNDER Ramat Hasharon It looks it Sir, – Regarding “Police 
recommend indicting Olmert in Holyland scandal” (August 24), it is now clear 
that it was bribery and corruption that conceived one of Israel’s ugliest 
building complexes.MICHAEL MOHNBLATT Tel Mond Rabbi and Rickie Sir, – 
Singers and scholarship don’t usually go together.Example: Rickie Lee 
Jones speaking of “rabbi Jesus” in your August 24 issue (“Rip-offs, royalties 
& rabbi Jesus”).Though the Book of Matthew uses the term “rabbi” 
several times, it was not yet in general use at the time, and the likelihood is 
that it was interpolated by a later editor.Even if there were people 
addressed as “rabbi,” it was probably no more than a polite greeting, like 
“sir.”RABBI RAYMOND APPLE Jerusalem Haven for tautology? Sir, – I know 
that in this country “American English” is used, but there are still rules that 
prevail.In your analysis piece “Would an IDF withdrawal from the West 
Bank mean a safe haven for extremists?” (August 24), “safe haven” is tautology. 
A haven is always safe. Other examples of tautology are “future prospects,” 
“past history” and “live survivors.”The latest edition of the Oxford 
English Dictionary has many new words, some of which are horrible modern 
variations, but correct grammar should always be used.
SALLY SHAW Kfar 
Saba
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Away with campus timidity</title>
<date>10/2/2010</date>
<content>
In the Name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful… The members of the Muslim Student Union at the University of California, Irvine, condemn and strongly oppose the presence of Michael Oren on our campus… Oren personally participated in the Israeli Defense Force in wars that took place in Lebanon and Palestine…Oren and his partners should only be granted a speakers platform in the International Criminal Court... In the name of demonizing the Jewish state, intimidating its supporters and making it ever more difficult to present Israel’s case, Muslim campaigners and their allies at the UC-Irvine campus on Monday repeatedly disrupted a talk by Israel’s Ambassador to the United States Michael Oren. Eleven of the louts were detained, issued summonses and released. 




In trying to silence Oren, they made a mockery of the university’s commitment to freedom of speech and treated its dedication to respectful dialogue with downright disdain. Yes, they probably discomfited our ambassador, but they shamed UC-Irvine and its alumni.Watch the video:UNFORTUNATELY, what happened on Monday in southern California mirrors the experience of Israeli spokespeople on the European continent, in Britain and increasingly on liberal American campuses. Former prime minister Ehud Olmert’s address last October at the University of Chicago was disrupted by Muslim student organizations and their fellow-travelers. Ron Prosor, Israel’s ambassador to the Court of St James’s, described efforts in British universities to delegitimize and demonize the Jewish state as a “daily obsession.”Next month, Israel’s enemies on campus will hold a series of vitriolic, well-orchestrated events aimed at delegitimizing this country and hammering home the poisonous idea that the Jewish people has no right to self-determination or a national homeland. In the words of Jerusalem Post columnist Gil Troy, they will be continuing the campaign to “make Israel toxic.”Related: At Oxford, student shouts ‘Kill the Jews’ at AyalonA colossal untruth promoted by the anti-Zionist camp – that Israel is “an apartheid state” – is starting to be believed by the gullible or intellectually dishonest. The old Arab boycott of Israel has been reinvigorated by calls for “divestment.” Troy is right to argue that friends of Israel can hardly expect to sway those who have “swallowed the apartheid libel and drunk the anti-Israel Kool-Aid.”The Zionist goal, he argues, should be bolstering “wavering Jewish students and the vast uninformed and uninterested middle.”WE SUSPECT Jewish college students are doing a bit too much “wavering.” It is true that Jerusalem speaks with many voices – but it has done so since the 1970s. Spurious efforts to “redefine” what “being pro-Israel means” are also not new.Moreover, campuses have never been bastions of pro-Israelism. Not in the 1960s, when America’s black power movement became enamored with the Arab cause; not in the 1970s, when Jimmy Carter struggled in vain to conceal his contempt for Menachem Begin, and when Time magazine demonized our premier as a modern-day Fagin.It was no picnic being on campus in the 1980s, when an NBC anchor stood on a Beirut rooftop, with smoke billowing in the background from burning PLO targets, and declared, “…Nothing like it has ever happened in this part of the world. I kept thinking... of the bombing of Madrid during the Spanish Civil War…We are now dealing with an imperial Israel.”Nor did pro-Israel activism come easy in the early 1990s, when a “pitiless” Yitzhak Rabin expelled 415 Islamic fanatics to southern Lebanon; international pressure eventually forced him to rescind the move, setting the stage for the flowering of Hamas.In the 21st century a difficult campus situation got even worse, partly due to an influx of Muslim students and the affinity of the anti-globalization movement for the Palestinian cause.NONE OF this absolves the current cadre of Jewish student activists
from stepping up to the plate. The Twitter generation even has the
advantage of circumventing the silencing of Israel by utilizing new
media. 
Never has it been more important to cast timidity
aside. To reassert that no one has a stronger claim to this land than
the Jewish people; to denounce the notion that Israel’s “original sin”
was being re-born after 2000
years; and to explain that the “occupation” and settlements are
fundamentally red-herring issues that would fade away, were the
Palestinians to negotiate in earnest for a two-state solution.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Battling the boycotts</title>
<date>12/6/2010</date>
<content>
The casual observer cannot avoid the impression that Israel has become the world’s whipping boy. Not a day goes by without more news about economic/academic/artistic/athletic boycotts, diverse “divestment” schemes, investment pullbacks, event cancellations, theatrical snubs, supermarket blacklists. It looks orchestrated, although it isn’t. Despite appearances, Israel is nowhere near the status of apartheid South Africa, which was hit with multi-government, UN-imposed sanctions. But even non-governmental boycotts can hurt and gain inexorable momentum. Already anti-Israel bans indisputably stimulate a potent negative dynamic. 




What to do about them?WHILE WE cannot wish anything away, we can combat some homegrown boycott-collaboration, as well as counterparts within our sphere of influence. Twenty-five MKs from seven different Knesset factions, among then 10 committee chairpersons and seven whips (including former House Speaker and current Kadima whip Dalia Itzik, who sets out her own position in an article on this page) have tabled a bill that would exact a price from assorted boycott-promoters. Defaming Israel and banishing it beyond the pale might come with a price tag, if the bill is adopted. No longer would it be a frivolous luxury, for example, for an array of Israeli professors, authors, filmmakers and artistes to whip up anti-Israel sentiment abroad and directly incite to boycotts. At present, in fact, such activity is lucrative. It assures academics a hearty welcome on the most prestigious campuses, if they only vilify Israel vehemently enough. It helps sell books and movies, stage shows and mount exhibitions. The new bill, however, would impose a choice on expedient Israelis who bite the hand that feeds them. The bill specifies that Israeli citizens would no longer be allowed “to instigate, promote or assist boycotts against the State of Israel or Israeli institutions,” such as universities and hospitals, without consequence. Violators would be legally liable to pay compensatory damages to victims of specific embargoes.  The bill also extends to foreign boycott-initiators insofar as they interact with Israel or Israelis. Thus it curtails the right of individuals involved in coordinating boycotts to enter the country for a full decade thereafter. Foreign entities or anyone on their behalf promoting an anti-Israel boycott would be prohibited under the bill’s stipulations from using Israeli bank accounts, Israeli stocks or Israeli land for said purpose. This could well also apply to those Israeli Arabs who launched their own boycott of products they charge originate from Judea and Samaria. This boycott is synchronized with the ban on “settlements” goods sponsored directly by the Palestinian Authority’s highest Ramallah echelons. The PA Treasury foots the bill for the boycott’s strict enforcement. Prime Minister Salaam Fayad has personally tossed Israeli products into huge bonfires, to the approving cheers of onlookers. Violations of PA boycott ordinances could mean heavy fines and as many as five years in prison. Official Israel’s complaints that such activity violates the terms of the original Oslo Accords, and that it hardly meshes with rhetoric about “confidence-building” measures during the current proximity talks, have fallen on deaf ears. To add a punch to Israeli indignation, the anti-boycott bill proposes deducting boycott losses from the overall sums Israel remits to the PA. These moneys would then be earmarked for compensating Israeli individuals and firms directly affected by the PA’s boycott. 
The bill, argues Itzik, constitutes “self-defense. The PA knowingly
inflicts damage with its boycott. It needs to know that unless it
desists, it will damage itself as well.” Such prohibitions or restrictions, especially in our context, are
indeed akin to sabotage, another form of fighting the Jewish state. It is unthinkable that Israel would fail to minimally respond to PA
aggression, or to such provocations from abroad. Domestic hostility is
even more troubling.EVEN COUNTRIES nowhere as beleaguered or as vulnerable as Israel show
no tolerance for such phenomena. Indeed, the anti-boycott bill copies
almost verbatim the US’s own legal strictures against Americans who
instigate anti-American boycotts or boycotts against America’s allies. 
What is good for the US ought to be good for Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS 2010: Fighting back</title>
<date>12/12/2010</date>
<content>
It’s been 10 years since anti-Israel activists meeting at the now-notorious Durban I conference kicked off their campaign to “brand” Israel as an “apartheid state” through a program of boycott, divestment and sanctions. As this project enters its second decade, however, the big news surrounds not BDS itself, but the fight against it.Until recently, the fight against BDS projects has largely been ad hoc, with informal coalitions emerging to fight attempts to get boycott or divestment resolutions passed at institutions such as Harvard and Berkeley, the Presbyterian and Methodist churches, or US cities such as Somerville, Massachusetts and Seattle, Washington.




RELATED:Strauss removes support for IDF from English websiteTurning the tables on BDSBDS: Nuisance or genuine threat?While the organized Jewish community played a part in these battles, the key role in successful efforts was played primarily by members of these institutions, who rejected efforts by boycotters to import the Arab-Israeli conflict into their organizations.This year marked the first time substantial online resources became available to rival the considerable lead BDS activists have enjoyed on the Internet. A group of academics and students put together “The BDS Cookbook” (www.stopbds.com) featuring a wealth of resources for students and others dealing with boycott and divestment activities in their communities.A new BDSIsrael site (www.bdsisrael.com) builds on successful counter-boycott programs (called Buycotts) which have become widely popular in North America.StandWithUs (www.standwithus.com/divestment) provides help and support to those fighting divestment campaigns on campuses and beyond. And my own Divest This blog (www.divestthis.com) recently released a new manual providing practical advice on fighting BDS.BEYOND THESE grassroots efforts, at the start of the year the Jewish Council for Public Affairs unanimously passed a resolution denouncing boycott, divestment and sanctions activities – reflecting a rare consensus among mainstream Jewish organizations regarding what falls outside the realm of legitimate criticism of the Jewish state. This consensus was backed by action when the Jewish Federations of North America, in partnership with JCPA, announced plans to create a new Israel Action Network that will focus on the broader efforts to delegitimize the Jewish state (of which BDS is just a part).Considering the fact that boycott and divestment has enjoyed virtually no successes (economic growth and investment in the Jewish state have both exploded during the very decade in which BDS has perpetually claimed to be on the march), it is worth considering why this has become such a mainstream issue over the past 12 months.One explanation is emotional. Given the history of anti-Jewish boycotts, it should come as no surprise that the reaction to a campaign targeting Jewish individuals and organizations would be both negative and visceral.While BDS activists routinely break into song and dance claiming that their efforts are only directed at “the occupation,” the nearly infinite elasticity of that term contradicts claims of innocence regarding anti-Jewish bias. To cite just one example, the academic boycott of Israeli universities pushed particularly hard in the UK claims to target only Israeli institutions and not individuals. But when such boycotts get put into practice, it has been actual Israelis (although just the Jewish ones) who have had their papers rejected or placements denied at graduate programs.A second explanation of the new-found enthusiasm for standing up to BDS is based on experience earlier in the decade, when divestment campaigns caught Jewish organizations largely off-guard. Given how even a temporary BDS victory (such as support for divestment by the Presbyterian Church between 2004 and 2006) can “anchor” other boycott and divestment projects for years, recent emphasis on vigilance can be seen as a sensible desire to drive instead of be driven by events.In addition to the wreckage boycott and divestment fights tend to leave in their wake within civic organizations, these battles also tend to distort debate, creating an environment in which Israel’s guilt is assumed; only the question of punishment is deemed worthy of discussion. So getting ahead of the BDS curve also provides a way for Israel’s supporters to not cede the language of debate to those trying to brand Israel an “apartheid state.”This last point is particularly important, given that BDS is simply one part of a broader effort to question Israel’s legitimacy as a state or portray any effort the country takes on its own behalf (whether militarily, politically, diplomatically or even culturally) as illegal, abnormal or otherwise illegitimate.Efforts to have Israeli political or military leaders arrested if they travel abroad and other forms of “lawfare,” or ongoing efforts to limit Israel’s entry or role in international organizations are all part of this broader campaign to portray it as “beyond the pale.”WITHIN THE context of this broader campaign, BDS activists are not the small voices in the wilderness they claim to be, but are actually allied with wealthy and powerful states that dominate organizations like the UN.Given how little influence even the best-organized “civilian” political 
groups can have over the decisions of state actors and international 
bodies, the fight against BDS (which targets civic organizations such as
 schools and churches by trying to get the apartheid message to come out
 of the mouth of a well-known institution) turns out to be the one area 
where Israel’s supporters can have an impact.And the impact of exposing the unpopularity of calls to boycott or 
divest from Israel and defeating BDS activities again and again helps to
 expose (and delegitimize) the entire program to delegitimize the Jewish
 state.
The writer is a Boston-based activist who runs the antidivestment 
website www.divestthis.com and has recently published Divest This! A 
Practical Guide to Ensuring the BDS Program’s Second Decade of Defeat.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Between loyalty and betrayal: Israeli democracy in 2010</title>
<date>10/10/2010</date>
<content>
"Tyranny of the majority” is one of those Democracy 101 terms, invoked to 
differentiate as-if democracies, in which the system of government is dominated 
by adhering to the majority’s rule, from true democracies – in which the whims 
of shifting political majorities cannot trump constitutional rights: protection 
of the equality of all citizens and communities, safeguarding minority rights, 
freedom of speech, protest and dissent. These are the building blocks of a true 
democracy, the tests any real democracy must pass.Israeli democracy is 
failing its citizens. Pretending to advance “loyalty,” MKs are in fact betraying 
our democracy. The “declaration of loyalty” bill, voted through in the cabinet 
on Sunday, is just one unfortunate expression of an unprecedented, current tide 
of antidemocratic legislation, attacking democracy at its very 
heart.




RELATED:Cabinet passes addendum to Citizenship LawTibi: Israel is democratic for Jews but Jewish for ArabsIndeed, Israel, as many other countries, requires those wishing to 
naturalize and become citizens to swear allegiance to their new country. The 
current wording of this declaration, as mandated by law and as in effect for 
decades, is “I declare that I will be a loyal citizen of the State of 
Israel.”For our current prime minister, justice minister, foreign 
minister and others, for some reason that is no longer 
sufficient.Instead, they voted for a new version requiring non- Jews 
seeking naturalization to declare loyalty to “the State of Israel as a Jewish 
and democratic state.”This new version crosses the line from what is 
commonplace in democracies to what is commonplace in countries Israel would not 
want to associate with. It is one thing to require adherence to the law; it is 
another altogether to demand that free individuals in a democracy sign on to a 
specific ideology or identity – and specifically one with particular religious 
content.ONE MAY theorize that these are just words, they carry no 
concrete implications. It is symbolic, not practical. But symbols do 
matter, and in fact practical implications, and very troubling ones, do 
exist.Symbolically, the new declaration of loyalty sends a clear message 
to all non-Jews in Israel, whether they were born citizens or have naturalized. 
It tells one in five Israelis: You are less a citizen than your Jewish neighbor, 
you have less ownership of your country, less stake in its future than other 
citizens. Thus, it introduces an oxymoron into the to-be-amended Citizenship 
Law: Telling some citizens that they are less equal than others is essentially 
anti-democratic. Requiring an oath to a Jewish Israel immediately makes that 
very Israel less of a democracy.Practically, the new oath could limit 
the freedom of speech of naturalized citizens. As this country lacks a 
constitution, the conversation on its potential content rages on – as would be 
hoped for in a democracy. Many support, for instance, constitutionally 
enshrining full equal rights in a country that is a full democracy of all its 
citizens. It should be obvious that citizens in a democracy can advocate such a 
position – and indeed, there are current citizens who do.But future 
naturalized citizens could find themselves criminalized if they make statements 
supporting such a position, which could be interpreted by the authorities as 
opposing the new oath. Such are the contradictions one runs into when trying to 
legislate ideology; that is why true democracies refrain from doing so. All 
citizens’ – whether through birth or naturalization – beliefs, views and 
opinions should not be policed or criminalized.Demanding “loyalty” was 
Israel Beiteinu’s campaign highlight. The declaration of loyalty bill is an 
essential part of that party’s platform, but now it will become the law of the 
State of Israel. On its heels, we can already foresee what awaits us on the next 
step down this slippery slope, with a spate of bills all using similar language: 
the bill on MKs’ pledge of allegiance, the cinema bill that requires the entire 
crew of a film that seeks public funding to pledge allegiance and the 
anti-incitement bill (that already passed preliminary reading) which would 
criminalize speaking – oops, that is, inciting – against Israel as “Jewish and 
democratic.”To gain further perspective, it is worth pointing out that 
current laws criminalize incitement for racism or violence.It was the 
speaker of the Knesset himself, MK Reuven Rivlin (Likud), who recently said: 
“Certain MKs... create an international image of Israel as an apartheid 
state.”Alas, these are not just “certain MKs,” but the government from 
the prime minister down; and the issue is not that of “international image,” but 
of the actual reality Israelis live in. Before we continue sliding down, it is 
time to renew our loyalty to the true makings of a real democracy: human rights, 
social justice and full equality.
The writer is executive director of the 
Association of Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Borderline Views: Racism in the name of religion</title>
<date>2/11/2010</date>
<content>
Imagine you are living in New York or London. The local imam or Catholic 
priest puts out a public statement to the effect that people should not rent 
their houses to anyone who is noticeably Jewish.They look different, he 
says, some of them dress in strange garments and they bring the general property 
values down.




No, the religious leader says, I have nothing against Jews 
in principle, but they should stick to their own areas, not infiltrate into good 
Christian or Muslim neighborhoods. Anyone in the community who rents or sells to 
a member of the Jewish faith will no longer be welcome for prayers.There 
is a simple word to describe such a statement – racism. It is the sort of 
practice which in any true democracy would immediately be condemned.And, 
if it was practiced against Jews, the many Jewish protection agencies, be it the 
ADL in the US or the Community Security Trust in the UK, would immediately 
request that criminal charges be brought against the perpetrators.IT IS 
precisely this form of blatant racism which was practiced last week by the chief 
rabbi of Safed, Shmuel Eliahu, and some of his rabbinical 
colleagues.They issued a statement telling residents not to rent or sell 
apartments to Arabs, especially not to the students who come to Safed to study 
at the regional college.Anyone renting an apartment to an Arab should 
not, in the words of Eliahu, be made welcome in his local synagogue, and should 
definitely not be called up to the Torah. For a secular Jew, this may not seem 
significant, but for a religious citizen, for whom his synagogue and community 
are central to his social acceptance, this is as harsh a punishment as one could 
imagine; it is akin to social ostracism.No response was heard from the 
government, while both the (secular) mayor of the city and the (religious) 
president of the Safed college refused to condemn the statements, other than to 
say that they would not have said such things. Their lack of public condemnation 
made them accomplices. No excuses, or claims that Arab students change the 
nature of the city and its Jewish spirituality, especially on Shabbat, or that 
they smoke nargilas in areas where this was not the custom, could disguise the 
blatant racism.Nor is this the first time. In recent years, some of the 
more extreme elements in the world of religious Zionism and the extreme Right 
have issued similar statements concerning residential areas in mixed Jewish-Arab 
cities such as Lod, Ramle, Jaffa, Acre and Nazareth. Each time it happens, the 
police or the attorney-general begin an inquiry which results in nothing, while 
the religious world – even those who would not necessarily make or agree with 
such statements – is enraged that its rabbis should be questioned for their 
“religious” teachings. Religion, they will argue, is not subject to the rules of 
democracy.FOR MANY of us who grew up in the world of religious Zionism, 
for whom the struggle to combine statehood and modernity with the daily 
practices of a religious lifestyle were central to the way in which we view the 
world, it is this hijacking of religion in the name of xenophobia and – yes, 
I’ll use that word again – racism which has pushed so many of us away. It is an 
embarrassment that people, under the guise of religious leadership, relate in 
such a way to another group, in a manner which is as far removed from Jewish 
teachings as one can imagine.Yes, I can hear the arguments. Jews in 
North America and the UK are not an enemies of the state.They don’t 
threaten the safety and lives of the average citizen, while here in Israel, 
Arabs constitute a fifth column and would like the Jewish state to 
disappear.Why should we behave as friends and neighbors, as democratic 
equals, if they threaten our very existence? But it is precisely this form of 
Jewish racism which pushes the vast majority of normal Arab citizens – those 
wishing to progress in life, obtain a profession and gainful employment – into 
the camp of the “enemy.”As they realize that no action will be taken 
against those who make such statements, as they understand that the notion of a 
“Jewish and democratic” state is good only for the Jews, why indeed should they 
remain upright citizens? A country which insists on a loyalty oath for only some 
of its citizens, those who do not belong to the ethnic or national majority, is 
a country which quickly slips down the road to racism.We will continue 
to cry that we are not an apartheid state, that we do not practice 
discrimination, that we are the “only” true democracy in the Middle East. But as 
long as we allow the racist comments of Eliahu and others like him to go 
unanswered, we are betraying the tenets on which this state was 
established.As a “light unto the nations,” we should be showing the 
world how ethnic groups can live side by side, especially where political and 
national tensions exist.By following the policies that the state, with 
its loyalty oath, and religious leaders, with their calls to close the housing 
market to Arabs, are advocating, we are proving to the world that we are unable 
to be a Jewish and democratic state. And even worse, we are proving that the 
Jewish state does not practice Jewish values or demonstrate Jewish morality. It 
is a betrayal of what the State of Israel is all about, and puts us into the 
same category as all those states that, throughout history, persecuted and 
excluded Jews. It is reverse anti-Semitism, no less.
The writer is 
professor of Political Geography at Ben-Gurion University and editor of The 
International Journal of Geopolitics.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Boycott backfire</title>
<date>30/5/2010</date>
<content>
About 40 anti-Israel protesters turn up every other Saturday without fail at midday for a noisy two-hour demonstration outside Ahava’s London store. They chant “Dead Sea mud, Palestinian blood” incessantly and call on shoppers to boycott Ahava.They display their twisted version of the Israeli flag: The Star of David is replaced by the word “apartheid.” The blue ribbons are now barbed wire, and the white background is spattered with dashes of red to signify blood.




The aims of the protesters are both to force the store into closure and to demonize Israel to passers-by. They hand out leaflets sponsored by the Palestine Solidarity Campaign, International Solidarity Movement and Boycott Israeli Goods.Ahava isn’t, of course, the only legitimate trading organization that feels the wrath of the protesters. British supermarkets are regularly invaded by organized protests. The protesters dump Israeli produce into shopping carts and take them to the customer service counter for a sit-down demonstration and anti-Israel speeches.WAR ON WANT, a registered charity that receives large donations from BBC’s Comic Relief, conducted such an invasion recently at a Waitrose in central London. On the pretext of demonstrating against Waitrose selling settlement produce protesters wearing “Free Palestine/Boycott Israeli Goods” T-shirts unceremoniously dumped all of the Israeli fruit into carts. Then WOW’s executive director, John Hilary, delivered a loud anti-Israel tirade.The pre-invasion briefing took place in WOW’s offices. I should know as I was there. I tried to alert Waitrose, but the invasion proceeded and Waitrose couldn’t disperse the protesters until the police were called. You can view WOW’s video of the protest at www.waronwant.org.Back to Ahava. Its “crime”? According to the protesters’ leaflets, “Many Ahava products are produced in the illegal Israeli settlement of Mitzpe Shalom, situated in the occupied Palestinian territory of the West Bank, near the Dead Sea.”It is common parlance to term the settlements “illegal.” Disputed, maybe, controversial, for sure, but illegal? The settlements are legitimate according to UN Security Council Resolution 242, the “land-for-peace” resolution.And when you chat with the protesters, you realize quickly that, just as with WOW in Waitrose, the protests aren’t about the settlements at all; they are about Israel itself. The protesters talk of the “ethnic cleansing” of 750,000 Arabs in 1948, the Gaza “siege” and the “miserable existence” of the 1.2 million Arab Israelis.But there was no “ethnic cleansing” in 1948. According to Benny Morris, whatever took place was purely down to conditions of war.As for the “siege,” which is also conducted by Egypt, most Israelis and Diaspora Jews feel uncomfortable about this but know the deadly consequences of allowing Hamas to appropriate material meant for innocent Gazans. Still, all necessities and aid are allowed into Gaza.And as for Arab Israelis, Israel could do more to alleviate some of the poorer conditions but many live good lives, far better than they would under an Arab, including a Palestinian, government.UNTIL RECENTLY the manager of the Ahava store wasn’t too concerned by the protests. At the first, demonstrators stormed the shop and handcuffed themselves inside as frightened Ahava staff looked on. Now there is a heavy police presence outside and a security guard at the shop entrance during the protests. Despite this, profits have actually increased as many people now shop there in solidarity.The protesters have tried to sue Ahava for mislabeling, but to no avail so far. Now they have found their most effective weapon: noise.
While Ahava does very well, not so the adjoining shops and restaurants.
The manager of a neighboring women’s shoe shop told me that potential
shoppers don’t even look in his windows as their heads are turned
toward the raucous demonstration instead. So now there is the very real
possibility of some adjacent shop owners and residents petitioning
Ahava’s landlord not to renew its lease.At the most recent protest the store manager came out to speak to the
protesters to explain the pressure she was now under but, as polite as
they were, they just explained back that although she is “an innocent
bystander in all this, there’s a far bigger cause at stake.”There is a right to peaceful assembly but these protests are not
peaceful. Their regularity is a nuisance and they are discriminatory.These “peace activists” would not stand outside a Palestinian owned
business protesting Hamas’s atrocities against not just innocent
Israeli civilians but Palestinian opposition activists.Britain is a country that respects the human rights of al-Qaida
suspects and argues that they should not to be deported. There is also
the human right to work, which includes those who wishing to carry on a
legitimate business. That should apply to Ahava and to workers in
neighboring stores.

The writer is a London-based
freelance journalist, studying for an MA in Near and Middle Eastern
studies at SOAS. www.richardmillett.wordpress.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Campus fears here and there</title>
<date>5/5/2010</date>
<content>
This coming week will see the start of the annual meetings of the boards of governors of a number of Israeli universities, with members arriving from all over the world.As contributors to their respective universities, one wonders if the governors are aware that many students feel threatened by the language of some professors? Language that condemns the Jewish state, calling it a “colonial power whose indigenous population, the Palestinians, has been kicked out by the Israelis.” These students are being educated to see Israel as a pariah state.




Those students who are shocked by these pronouncements are frequently too afraid to speak out against the views being projected. They worry that to openly disagree is to pave the way for a poor mark. (Prof, Amnon Rubinstein referred to this in a November op-ed in The Jerusalem Post in which he spoke of the rights of the students.)To what extent are governors conscious of the hatred resulting from those Israeli academics that promote BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) against Israel? Is it not strange that they are able to travel abroad calling for the boycott of the very universities from which they receive their livelihood?Do governors recognize the devastating effect of this Israel-bashing on students in their respective countries? For example, a number of Israeli academics spearheaded the recent “Israel Apartheid Week” (now in its sixth year) aimed to show the country as an apartheid state like South Africa was. London was the scene of major anti-Israel activity during this “Apartheid Week,” led by an associate professor from Tel Aviv University. The prime objective was to isolate, delegitimize and dehumanize the one Jewish state. This is particularly disturbing when seen in conjunction with Jewish students who feel unable to stand up to the increasingly virulent anti-Israel bombardment on campus.WHILE WE pride ourselves on being a democratic country where free speech is a given right, every society places a limit on free speech. Surely it is unacceptable that there are those employed by Israeli universities who educate their students to see the country as a colonial and pariah state as well as travelling abroad to call for BDS.Today, it is quite clear that there is a turning away from Israel – sadly also among Jews – the result of both an effective anti-Israel media campaign together with an Israel whose leadership has long dismissed the relevance of hasbara. The student on campus is at the forefront of the battle for Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state. The question is, are Jewish students receiving the necessary support to confront the ever-growing hostility?As a former chair of the Hillel Foundation in the UK, I can say that some 12 years ago Jewish students spoke up for Israel with pride and eloquence. Today, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find student activists willing and capable of standing up and being counted. While it is incumbent on communities worldwide to support the Jewish students by ensuring they are armed with the facts, it would seem that we now have to address a second challenge, that of those who educate toward the demise of Israel.
It is from universities that tomorrow’s leaders will emerge. This
applies to the political leadership in each country as well as
leadership for the respective Jewish communities. Surely it is
incumbent on all of us, but especially on those who have connections
with universities here, to do all we can to ensure that our students
are not educated to turn away from Israel. It is of vital importance to
our Jewish future that our students are made aware of our people’s
right to its historic homeland, and to feel pride in all that this
little state has achieved since its rebirth in 1948.
The writer is co-chair of Europeans for Israel and public-relations chair of World WIZO.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: The de-Zionization of Anglo Jewry</title>
<date>24/11/2010</date>
<content>
Mick Davis, the South African-born chief executive of the powerful mining group 
Xstrata, is chairman of Anglo Jewry’s United Jewish Israel Appeal (UJIA) – the 
principal fund-raising institution for Israel of the UK Jewish 
community.He also heads a body known as the Jewish Leadership Council 
(JLC) – essentially comprised of a group of wealthy British Jews and their 
acolytes who, by virtue of their financial largesse, assume a dominant influence 
on many levels of communal life. The power represented by their collective 
wealth enables them not to be accountable to anyone and few would dare question 
their policies.




Anglo Jewry has been blessed in the past with rich 
philanthropists, many of whom were also endowed with wisdom. Despite his immense 
wealth and access to the most important leaders in the land, Sir Moses 
Montefiore was devoted to his people and, far from radiating hubris or 
arrogance, generated respect and love.In striking contrast, Mick Davis, 
also known as “Big Mick,” displays characteristics associated with the nouveau 
riche, akin to the behavior of some of the Russian- Jewish oligarchs. His 
opinions are rarely challenged and he contemptuously rejects the suggestion that 
holding a communal role in any way precludes him from publicly expressing views 
which would normally be considered incompatible for anyone occupying such a 
position.Needless to say, Davis is fully entitled to say whatever comes 
to his mind. Nobody seeks to deprive him of freedom of expression.Many 
Jews are critical of Israeli governments.But for a person holding senior 
public office in a major Diaspora community to indulge in crude public attacks 
on Israeli leaders and relate to Israel’s security requirements in relation to 
their impact on his image in non-Jewish circles is surely bizarre and utterly 
unconscionable.While occupying the role of chairman of the UIJA in a 
country in which hatred of Israel and anti-Semitism have reached record levels, 
Davis brazenly incites his fellow Jews to criticize Israel.RESIDENT IN 
London, he had the chutzpa to berate the Israeli prime minister “for lacking the 
courage to take the steps” to advance the peace process, arguing that “I don’t 
understand the lack of strategy in Israel.” He also employed the terminology of 
our enemies, predicting an “apartheid state” unless Israel was able to achieve a 
two-state solution – unashamedly blaming Israelis rather than Palestinians for 
being the obstacle to peace.His sheer arrogance was best demonstrated in 
his most outrageous remark: “I think the government of Israel has to recognize 
that their actions directly impact on me as a Jew living in London, 
UK.When they do good things, it is good for me; when they do bad things, 
it is bad for me. And the impact on me is as significant as it is on Jews living 
in Israel... I want them to recognize that.”Aside from implying that 
Israel is responsible for the anti-Semitism he is encountering, Davis is 
effectively warning that when considering defense issues which may have 
life-or-death implications for Israelis, the government must be sure not to 
create problems for him in his non- Jewish social circles. From his London 
mansion, he blithely brushes aside suicide bombers, rockets launched against our 
children and the threat of nuclear annihilation because his gentile friends 
might complain about the behavior of his Israeli friends.Jonathan 
Hoffman, vice president of the UK Zionist Federation (one of the few 
Anglo-Jewish leaders courageous enough to criticize Davis), expressed outrage 
that the UIJA chairman could make such a remark. “We are not aware that 
Hampstead is within range of Iranian or Hamas missiles, nor that its residents 
have to send their children to the IDF for three years,” he said.It is 
telling that over recent years, Davis has not been renowned for condemning the 
shameful policies of British governments in relation to Israel. And it is no 
coincidence that immediately after the UK abstained from the UN vote on the 
Goldstone Report, Davis chaired a JLC reception at which former foreign minister 
David Miliband was the key speaker. On that occasion, the “outspoken” Davis felt 
constrained not to express a single word of complaint or disappointment at the 
perfidious behavior of the British government in relation to this 
issue.Admittedly, Davis’ latest outburst is neither intellectually 
challenging nor persuasive.But emanating from a Jewish “leader” in the 
anti-Semitic UK environment in which campaigns to boycott and delegitimize 
Israel are at an all-time high, and at a time when Israel is under siege and 
fighting for its existence, it surely represents a level of unprecedented 
vulgarity.IN ANY self-respecting Diaspora Jewish community, Davis would 
have been obliged to tender his resignation immediately after making such 
outrageous remarks.Not so in sunny London.Instead of condemning 
him, the Anglo- Jewish establishment groveled. Many even seemed delighted that 
one of their leading spokesmen had distanced himself from what many of them may 
regard as the unsavory government which the people of Israel had democratically 
elected.With the exception of Jewish National Fund head Samuel Hayek, 
not a single member of the JLC criticized Davis.The president of the 
Board of Deputies of British Jews, Vivian Wineman, said, “Mick Davis is entitled 
to make his remarks – there are a wide range of views in the country and in 
Israel on these issues.”Simon Hochhauser, president of the Orthodox 
United Synagogue and a JLC trustee, may one day regret and feel ashamed for 
having stated that “there is nothing in the quoted comments I would disagree 
with.”Former UIA chairman Brian Kerner said that he was “broadly 
supportive” of the views expressed by Davis, but questioned voicing them in 
public because “it is only picked up by our enemies, distorted and used against 
us.”Harvey Rose, chairman of the Zionist Federation, also agreed with 
“much” of the position expressed by Davis, noting that “how Israel is perceived 
in the UK has a direct bearing on our comfort levels in Britain.”The 
non-Orthodox groups, some of whom had always been inclined against Zionism, 
applauded Davis as “a remarkable leader and a true Zionist 
leader.”Anglo-Jewish leaders share a long tradition of burying their 
head in the sand, avoiding confrontation and displaying a determination not to 
rock the boat under any circumstances. One of their leaders actually wrote in 
The Jerusalem Post, proudly boasting how their pro-Israel advocacy approach was 
based on “whispering” rather than “shouting.”Today, by lacking the 
courage to challenge the propriety of one of its most senior “leaders” indulging 
in coarse public condemnations of Israel, the trembling Israelite establishment 
has further undermined the standing of the UK Jewish community.When one 
proudly recalls the outstanding contribution of British Jews to the development 
of Zionism, and the role played by leaders of the caliber of Chaim Weizmann, one 
is left with a sense of profound sadness. The Anglo- Jewish Zionist pioneers 
would turn in their graves were they aware of the irresponsible behavior of 
those who have currently assumed the mantle of leadership of their 
community.
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Can Israel survive this coalition?</title>
<date>16/2/2010</date>
<content>
I have little faith in the ability of the current government to make peace with the Palestinians or with Syria. It seems that the international community largely shares this assessment and as a result Israel is on a collision course diplomatically with much of the world. Israel’s good diplomatic relations are predicated on the assumption that Israel is truly interested in peace with its neighbors and at least is trying to advance a process in that direction. The aggressive style and attitude of Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman have placed Israel in direct confrontation with neighboring states and others in a way that create a real strategic danger for us.




A recent study by the Reut Institute describes the newest national security threat to Israel as the global campaign to delegitimize Israel’s existence. Part of the campaign is based on what is portrayed as the inability to reach a “two states for two peoples solution” to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The advocates of this position claim that Israel’s settlement policies have entrenched the Israeli system so deeply into the West Bank that a binational reality has already been created there which cannot be unscrambled. This reality, however, is not one based on equality – one person, one vote – but rather on a system of forced separation, discrimination, and the creation of two completely different systems of life, with the Jewish system serving as sovereign and protecting the rights of the Jews at the expense of the Palestinians.The use of the term “apartheid” by those who work to delegitimize Israel’s right to exist is aimed at advancing the South Africa solution to the conflict, creating a single democratic state from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea. No one really believes that the current government has any real intention of implementing a “two-state solution” and, therefore, coming to the conclusion that this solution is no longer viable, or in a short time will no longer be viable, automatically brings into question Israel’s very legitimacy as a democratic state.The utterances of Lieberman and Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon, as well as other senior members of the Israel Beiteinu party together have endangered Israel far beyond what can be acceptable, even in the name of coalition politics. I was glad that Kadima was left out of the government. I believe that Kadima’s leader, Tzipi Livni, failed several important tests of leadership, but more importantly, I believe that Israel’s democracy needs a strong opposition. The opposition has an important role in our system; its job is to show the public the alternative to the policies of the government. But today, there are few differences between the Likud’s policies and those of Kadima. There is no real opposition in the current Knesset, Kadima does not fill the role and what remains of the Left is too small to be effective.AS A strong advocate of genuine Israeli-Palestinian peace based on the two-state solution, and in light of the difficulties of the past to reach a negotiated agreement, I was pleased that a right-wing government would serve and would surely fail to reach peace, thereby helping to convince the public that the Right had no magic solutions. In that respect, I should be pleased that we have backtracked and have spent a year negotiating over negotiations and that a major achievement of this government will be the launching of “proximity talks” in which Israelis and Palestinians will not even be sitting in the same room. The Israeli public, unfortunately, blames only the Palestinian side for the failure to renew the peace process. There is no real critical look at the failures of the current Israeli government. The public is also living in a false sense of security and temporary normalcy which they credit to the government, but be aware, our security forces and intelligence community failed to predict both the first and second intifadas and they are not more skilled today in predicting the future than they were the past.I am not pleased nor satisfied that the State of Israel is under attack and that our very legitimacy is being challenged. The damage done to Israel over this past year by the Likud-Israel Beiteinu alliance is too costly and too dangerous to our future. I have little confidence in Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s true desire and ability to reach peace with our neighbors, but I accept the logic that if he can do it, the acceptance of a negotiated agreement with the Palestinians that he presents to the Israeli body politic and public will be broad enough to see it implemented. IN ORDER to advance any chance, slim as it may be, towards genuine negotiations with the Palestinians, we need more responsible politicians in positions of leadership than we have today. Netanyahu, as a statesman, needs to reshuffle his cabinet. He needs to approach Livni and propose to her that Kadima fill the positions in the government held by Israel Beiteinu and that the latter take on the challenge of becoming the opposition. Netanyahu would strengthen his government, place a person viewed favorably by the international community in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and create a new partnership between Likud, Kadima and Labor which could then merge into one political bloc in future elections.The strength of such a government could potentially enable it to be bolder in negotiations with our neighbors, without fearing coalition blackmail politics from smaller parties. Perhaps it could also take on other important reforms that are always blocked because of coalition mathematics: With a coalition of 70 they could begin to work on broader issues such as depoliticizing religious affairs and even adopt policies that would advance true equality for all of Israel’s citizens.In this scenario, I would continue to challenge that government to adopt policies that would advance peace, social justice, environmental sustainable development and the rule of law. I would, however, sleep a little more soundly than I do today knowing that one of the greatest threats to our democracy were no longer in positions of power. The current coalition is strong enough to survive until the next scheduled elections. I am just not sure if Israel can survive this coalition.
The writer is the Co-CEO of IPCRI, the Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information (www.ipcri.org) and an elected member of the Leadership of Israel’s Green Movement Political Party.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Castro’s Yom Kippur manifesto</title>
<date>13/9/2010</date>
<content>
On assignment in Mexico City in 1974, I learned that, in the house preserved as 
the Trotsky Museum, his grandson had discovered a copybook in which the founder 
of the Red Army penciled his acknowledgment of Zionism as the national 
liberation movement of the Jewish people. Jewish-born Leon Bronstein apparently 
emerged from the Trotsky closet just before his assassination. Had that document 
been validated and published, it may have created havoc in the Fourth 
International and even among Soviet acolytes.A year later, the Zionism 
equals racism resolution was conceived at the UN Women’s Conference in Mexico 
City. Despite its repeal in 1991, it left an indelible imprint on the Third 
World and was the bedrock for the 2000 Durban calumny painting Israel as an 
“apartheid state,” which in turn unleashed the current boycott, divestment and 
sanctions (BDS) campaigns. Since 2003, the antiglobalization World Social Forum 
annually reconsecrates the marriage between extreme left and jihadi Islamism. In 
Brazil’s Porto Alegre stadium, 70,000 young people from around the world hoisted 
banners of Fidel Castro and Che Guevara, whooping “Viva la Intifada 
Internacional.”




EACH AUTUMN, at the satellite European Social Forum, 
atheist Trotskyites wave Hizbullah banners screaming Allahu Akbar, while 
planning flotillas and “antiwar” slogans rehearsed for Cast Lead and other such 
operations. In a rain-swept stadium in Mar del Plata, Argentina, I sat among 
thousands of soaked spectators at the Alternative Summit of the Americas, tetchy 
after almost two hours of Hugo Chavez’s peroration.The consummate 
theatrocrat, sensing the mood, withdrew his mobile phone. Placing it to his ear, 
his voice was shaking to crescendo into the microphone: “Is it? Can it be? It 
is! Fidel! The adoring multitude rose in unison, roaring “Fidel! Fidel!,” 
succumbing to another hour of Chavez oratory in the rain.Visiting Havana 
during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, I protested anti- Israeli cartoons in the 
official daily, Granma, portraying IDF soldiers as pigs plastered with Stars of 
David. A week later, Fidel asked to visit Havana’s government-supported 
Patronato Jewish Center, whereupon I was amazed to learn that the cartoons were 
suspended. Now, the 84-year-old revolutionary phoenix, risen from the ashes, has 
given us a new spin on al het.In an Atlantic interview with US 
journalist Jeffrey Goldberg entitled “Fidel to Ahmadinejad: ‘Stop Slandering the 
Jews,’” the reborn Castro declaimed: “I don’t think anyone has been slandered 
more than the Jews. I would say much more than the Muslims. They have been 
slandered much more than the Muslims because they are blamed and slandered for 
everything. No one blames the Muslims for anything. The Iranian government 
should understand that the Jews were expelled from their land, persecuted and 
mistreated all over the world as the ones who killed God. In my judgment here’s 
what happened to them: Reverse selection. What’s reverse selection? Over 2,000 
years they were subjected to terrible persecution and then to the pogroms. One 
might have assumed that they would have disappeared; I think their culture and 
religion kept them together as a nation.“The Jews have lived an 
existence that is much harder than ours. There is nothing that compares to the 
Holocaust.”The Wiesenthal Center, in a laudatory response, urged Castro 
to make good on his words by influencing “his self-proclaimed disciple, Hugo 
Chavez, to criminalize anti- Semitism in Venezuela.”We proposed that 
Castro “validate his warnings by co-opting Chavez into pressing his ally, 
Ahmadinejad, to end his Holocaust denial, his threats against Israel and his 
nuclear weaponization.”Vatican II marginalized the charge of deicide to 
right-wing schismatics and leftist proponents of the theology of liberation. A 
targeted dissemination of the new Castro manifesto could have a similar effect 
among the fashionista anti- Zionist left, with an Internet multiplier on the 
atheist/Islamist nexus.The impact in the Muslim world would further the 
fragmentation, at the same time reinforcing a Sunni rejection of Holocaust 
denial, if only as added value in isolating Shi’ite Iranian 
expansionism.Any challenge to the rationale of the Marxian-Islamist 
marriage of convenience is legitimate. Regardless of Castro’s motives, the 
potential in his 5771 gift merits celebration, and should be directed to 
encourage a shifting configuration among our enemies. It is too late for a 
redemptive “Viva Trotsky – the perhaps uncloseted Zionist.” But, even if a 
little bemused, I am ready for “Viva Fidel!” 
The writer is director for 
international relations of the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Facing our fears</title>
<date>18/11/2010</date>
<content>
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton must have given Prime Minister Binyamin 
Netanyahu quite a reception. Otherwise it is hard to understand what possessed 
him to accept the deal he accepted when he met with her last week.Under 
the deal, Netanyahu agreed to retroactively extend the Jewish construction ban 
ended on September 26 and to carry it forward an additional 90 
days.




Clinton’s demand was “Not one more brick” for Jews, meaning, no Jew 
will be allowed to lay even one more brick on a home he is lawfully building 
even as the US funds massive Palestinian construction projects. The magnitude of 
this discriminatory infringement on the property rights of law abiding citizens 
is breathtaking.The 90-day freeze is supposed to usher in a period of 
intense negotiations between Israel and Fatah. But those negotiations will not 
get off the ground because PLO leader Mahmoud Abbas has no interest in talking, 
and will never accept any peace offer made by Israel.But the Americans 
don’t care. They aren’t worried about the Palestinians accepting a 
deal.What they want are more Israeli land surrenders.And Clinton 
convinced Netanyahu to agree that the next round of negotiations will be devoted 
strictly to a discussion of the breadth and depth of Israeli land 
surrenders.The Palestinians won’t have to recognize that Israel has a 
right to exist. They won’t have to dismantle terrorist organizations. They won’t 
have to stop teaching their children to aspire to become suicide bombers. They 
won’t even have to stop their negotiations towards reconciling with 
Hamas.Netanyahu claims that the Americans agreed to continue respecting 
Jewish property rights in Jerusalem. The Obama administration has refused to 
confirm this claim. Yet rather than use the US demurral as a justification for 
walking away from a bad deal, reports indicate that Netanyahu told his lawyers 
to figure out fancy wording to hide the American refusal.NETANYAHU 
BOASTS that he received three major payoffs from Obama in exchange for his 
agreement to ban Jewish construction and discuss land surrenders with a 
negotiating partner that refuses to peacefully coexist with the Jewish 
state.First, he claims that Obama agreed not to renew his demand that 
Jews be denied their property rights. Second, he says the administration agreed 
to send Israel 20 more F-35s. Finally, he says Obama agreed to wait a year 
before signing onto anti-Israel resolutions in the UN Security 
Council.The first payoff is nothing more than the foreign policy 
equivalent of buying the same dead horse twice. Obama led Netanyahu to believe 
he had set aside his demand that Jews be denied property rights last November, 
when Netanyahu announced the first construction freeze. Yet Obama repeated his 
demands even before the last freeze ended. Obama has no credibility on this 
issue. Demonstrating this, Obama is now refusing to put this pledge in 
writing.The F-35 deal is simply bizarre. Israel needs the F-35 to defend 
against enemies like Iran.Yet the administration claims that its 
agreement to send Israel the F-35s is contingent on Israel signing a peace deal 
with the Palestinians. In other words, the Obama administration is now giving 
the PLO power to veto American military assistance to Israel by continuing to 
say no to peace.More than anything, the F-35 payoff exposes the degree 
to which Obama holds Israel in contempt.This is a president who is 
fighting Congress tooth and nail to pass a $60 billion arms deal with Saudi 
Arabia. The administration argues that the arms are necessary to enable Saudi 
Arabia to deter Iran from attacking it.That would be the same Saudi 
Arabia that despite its massive arsenal, has never had the courage or the 
competence to fight its own battles.On the other hand there is Israel – 
the US’s most reliable, courageous and competent strategic ally in the region, 
and even more a target of Iranian aggression than Saudi Arabia.Rather 
than arm Israel with all the means it requires to fight Iran, the Obama 
administration is downgrading military assistance by conditioning its transfer 
of the F-35s on an Israeli agreement to commit strategic suicide by surrendering 
its defensible borders and capital city to its sworn enemies.Finally 
there is the administration’s pledge to support Israel at the UN for a year. 
What this pledge actually means is that a year from now, the Obama 
administration will present the deal as an excuse to abandon what has been the 
policy of every US administration since Lyndon Johnson and stop blocking 
anti-Israel resolutions at the UN Security Council.ACCORDING TO sources 
close to Netanyahu, it is his fear of US abandonment at the Security Council 
that has convinced him to capitulate so profoundly to an administration so weak 
that it couldn’t even get South Korea to sign a free trade agreement with it. 
What most concerns Netanyahu these days is that the US will fail to block a 
Palestinian bid to have the Security Council recognize a Palestinian state in 
all of Judea and Samaria and in large swathes of Jerusalem even if the 
Palestinians refuse to sign a peace treaty with Israel.Since this is 
what Netanyahu fears the most, it is important to consider what is at stake. 
While harsh, the truth is not as bad as he thinks it is.If the Security 
Council recognizes a Palestinian state in all of Judea and Samaria, in Jerusalem 
and Gaza, it would be a diplomatic blow to Israel. But it would only be a 
symbolic step. The situation on the ground would remain unchanged.What 
is more problematic is what might happen in the wake of such a resolution. The 
worst case scenario would be for the Security Council to pass a subsequent 
resolution deploying forces to Judea and Samaria to fight the IDF.Given 
the political maelstrom such an effective US declaration of war against Israel 
would cause him domestically, it is very unlikely that Obama would support such 
a resolution. He would have to veto it despite the fact that Samantha Power, who 
holds the UN portfolio on Obama’s National Security Council, called in the past 
for US forces to be deployed to Judea and Samaria to fight the IDF.The 
other two possibilities are that Israel will become the target of economic 
sanctions and that Israeli citizens who live beyond the 1949 armistice lines or 
who have served in the IDF will risk arrest on war crimes charges if we travel 
abroad. The purpose of such sanctions would be to strangle Israel slowly, in a 
manner reminiscent of the economic and political warfare that brought down the 
apartheid regime in South Africa.In both these cases as well, it is 
unlikely that Obama will risk the domestic outcry that administration support 
for such resolutions would provoke. And even if he enabled such resolutions to 
pass, Congress would likely block US participation in enforcing them. This is 
not to say that Israel should ignore the threat. But such hostile action is best 
deterred by working quietly with Israel’s allies in the US to point out the 
dangers of a runaway UN campaign against a fellow democracy.At the same 
time, these threats of economic and legal warfare should sound familiar, because 
they are already being implemented against Israel. The Palestinians do not need 
a new UN Security Council resolution to advance their political and economic war 
against Israel.They just need the EU. And they have the EU.The 
PLO has already convinced several EU member states to establish unofficial trade 
boycotts as well as military and academic boycotts of Israel. Israel has been 
required to remove goods produced beyond the 1949 armistice lines from its free 
trade agreements with Europe.The legal war is also well under way. Today 
no senior military commander or politician is able to travel to Britain, for 
fear of arrest under trumped up war crimes allegations. Israeli officials have 
been similarly threatened in Spain and elsewhere.The Palestinian 
Authority has filed war crimes complaints against Israeli leaders with the 
International Criminal Court at The Hague. It has done this despite the fact 
that the Rome Statute which governs the ICC only applies to states, and the PA 
is not a state. Europe’s love for international institutions, and readiness to 
endorse nearly any diplomatic assault on Israel, has blunted European criticism 
of this perversion of law just is it has convinced the Europeans to support 
various UN bodies’ unlawful campaigns against the Jewish state.Clearly, 
a Security Council resolution is not required for the Palestinians to engage in 
the sort of activities that Netanyahu has just capitulated to the Obama 
administration to block.What all this shows is not that Netanyahu is 
wrong to fear such a resolution, but that a resolution will be a symptom of an 
already existing problem and blocking it will not end the 
problem.Pathetically, despite the fact that this campaign has been 
building for more than a decade, to date Netanyahu’s only strategy for dealing 
with it is to beg Obama for short-term protection. Obviously, this is not 
constructive.AN ALTERNATIVE strategy would be based on a three-pronged 
approach. First, Israel must attack the source of the problem – 
Europe.Israel should begin making European nations pay a price for 
engaging in political and economic warfare against it. For instance, Israel 
should suspend the issuance of diplomatic visas to British officials while it 
“studies” the British universal jurisdiction statute. It should also pass a law 
permitting the filing of universal jurisdiction claims in Israel against 
citizens of states that allow Israelis to be sued, and quietly encourage its 
supporters to file war crimes complaints for the kinds of acts claimed to be 
criminal when done by Israel, such as Indian support for Indian settlements in 
Goa and Russian support for Russian settlements in the Kuril Islands. This would 
not only point out the double standard applied to Israeli communities, it would 
compel the British to amend their obnoxious law.The second thing Israel 
should do is empower its supporters abroad by actively discrediting the UN, the 
International Criminal Court and advocates of boycotts and divestiture from 
Israel. There is ample grassroots support in the US for actions against the ICC 
whose statute places US servicemen and political leaders in its crosshairs and 
against the UN whose members seek to curtail US sovereignty and 
power.Finally, Israel must actively pursue deeper economic and 
diplomatic ties with Asian nations like India, China, Japan and South 
Korea.Enhancing relations with these states should be a top Israeli 
priority. Such a project would diminish Europe’s capacity to harm Israel’s 
economy and reduce Israeli reliance on the US at the Security 
Council.Netanyahu made a horrible deal with Clinton.Leaders like 
Strategic Affairs Minister Moshe Ya’alon have acted as patriots by actively 
opposing it. It is true that the Obama administration could help us if it wanted 
to. But it doesn’t want to. Happily, Israel has the power to help itself, if it 
dares.
www.CarolineGlick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Obama's Arabian dreams</title>
<date>21/2/2010</date>
<content>
US President Barack Obama claims to be a big fan of telling the truth. In media interviews ahead of his trip to Saudi Arabia and Egypt and during his big speech in Cairo on Thursday, he claimed that the centerpiece of his Middle East policy is his willingness to tell people hard truths.

Indeed, Obama made three references to the need to tell the truth in his so-called address to the Muslim world.

Unfortunately, for a speech billed as an exercise in truth telling, Obama's address fell short. Far from reflecting hard truths, Obama's speech reflected political convenience.

Obama's so-called hard truths for the Islamic world included statements about the need to fight so-called extremists; give equal rights to women; provide freedom of religion; and foster democracy. Unfortunately, all of his statements on these issues were nothing more than abstract, theoretical declarations devoid of policy prescriptions.

He spoke of the need to fight Islamic terrorists without mentioning that their intellectual, political and monetary foundations and support come from the very mosques, politicians and regimes in Saudi Arabia and Egypt that Obama extols as moderate and responsible.

He spoke of the need to grant equality to women without making mention of common Islamic practices like so-called honor killings, and female genital mutilation. He ignored the fact that throughout the lands of Islam women are denied basic legal and human rights. And then he qualified his statement by mendaciously claiming that women in the US similarly suffer from an equality deficit. In so discussing this issue, Obama sent the message that he couldn't care less about the plight of women in the Islamic world.

So, too, Obama spoke about the need for religious freedom but ignored Saudi Arabian religious apartheid. He talked about the blessings of democracy but ignored the problems of tyranny.

In short, Obama's "straight talk" to the Arab world, which began with his disingenuous claim that like America, Islam is committed to "justice and progress, tolerance and the dignity of all human beings," was consciously and fundamentally fraudulent. And this fraud was advanced to facilitate his goal of placing the Islamic world on equal moral footing with the free world.

In a like manner, Obama's tough "truths" about Israel were marked by factual and moral dishonesty in the service of political ends.

On the surface, Obama seemed to scold the Muslim world for its all-pervasive Holocaust denial and craven Jew hatred. By asserting that Holocaust denial and anti-Semitism are wrong, he seemed to be upholding his earlier claim that America's ties to Israel are "unbreakable."

Unfortunately, a careful study of his statements shows that Obama was actually accepting the Arab view that Israel is a foreign - and therefore unjustifiable - intruder in the Arab world. Indeed, far from attacking their rejection of Israel, Obama legitimized it.

The basic Arab argument against Israel is that the only reason Israel was established was to soothe the guilty consciences of Europeans who were embarrassed about the Holocaust. By their telling, the Jews have no legal, historic or moral rights to the Land of Israel.

This argument is completely false. The international community recognized the legal, historic and moral rights of the Jewish people to the Land of Israel long before anyone had ever heard of Adolf Hitler. In 1922, the League of Nations mandated the "reconstitution" - not the creation - of the Jewish commonwealth in the Land of Israel in its historic borders on both sides of the Jordan River.

But in his self-described exercise in truth telling, Obama ignored this basic truth in favor of the Arab lie. He gave credence to this lie by stating wrongly that "the aspiration for a Jewish homeland is rooted in a tragic history."

He then explicitly tied Israel's establishment to the Holocaust by moving to a self-serving history lesson about the genocide of European Jewry.

Even worse than his willful blindness to the historic, legal and moral justifications for Israel's rebirth, was Obama's characterization of Israel itself. Obama blithely, falsely and obnoxiously compared Israel's treatment of Palestinians to white American slave owners' treatment of their black slaves. He similarly cast Palestinian terrorists in the same morally pure category as slaves. Perhaps most repulsively, Obama elevated Palestinian terrorism to the moral heights of slave rebellions and the US civil rights movement by referring to it by its Arab euphemism, "resistance."

BUT AS disappointing and frankly obscene as Obama's rhetoric was, the policies he outlined were much worse. While prattling about how Islam and America are two sides of the same coin, Obama managed to spell out two clear policies. First, he announced that he will compel Israel to completely end all building for Jews in Judea, Samaria, and eastern, northern and southern Jerusalem. Second, he said that he will strive to convince Iran to substitute its nuclear weapons program with a nuclear energy program.

Obama argued that the first policy will facilitate peace and the second policy will prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Upon reflection, however, it is clear that neither of his policies can possibly achieve his stated aims. Indeed, their inability to accomplish the ends he claims he has adopted them to advance is so obvious, that it is worth considering what his actual rationale for adopting them may be.

The administration's policy toward Jewish building in Israel's heartland and capital city expose a massive level of hostility toward Israel. Not only does it fly in the face of explicit US commitments to Israel undertaken by the Bush administration, it contradicts a longstanding agreement between successive Israeli and American governments not to embarrass each other.

Moreover, the fact that the administration cannot stop attacking Israel about Jewish construction in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria, but has nothing to say about Hizbullah's projected democratic takeover of Lebanon next week, Hamas's genocidal political platform, Fatah's involvement in terrorism, or North Korean ties to Iran and Syria, has egregious consequences for the prospects for peace in the region.

As Fatah leader Mahmoud Abbas made clear in his interview last week with The Washington Post, in light of the administration's hostility toward Israel, the Palestinian Authority no longer feels it is necessary to make any concessions whatsoever to Israel. It needn't accept Israel's identity as a Jewish state. It needn't minimize in any way its demand that Israel commit demographic suicide by accepting millions of foreign, hostile Arabs as full citizens. And it needn't curtail its territorial demand that Israel contract to within indefensible borders.

In short, by attacking Israel and claiming that Israel is responsible for the absence of peace, the administration is encouraging the Palestinians and the Arab world as a whole to continue to reject Israel and to refuse to make peace with the Jewish state.

The Netanyahu government reportedly fears that Obama and his advisers have made such an issue of settlements because they seek to overthrow Israel's government and replace it with the more pliable Kadima party. Government sources note that White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel played a central role in destabilizing Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's first government in 1999, when he served as an adviser to then president Bill Clinton. They also note that Emmanuel is currently working with leftist Israelis and American Jews associated with Kadima and the Democratic Party to discredit the government.

While there is little reason to doubt that the Obama administration would prefer a leftist government in Jerusalem, it is unlikely that the White House is attacking Israel primarily to advance this aim. This is first of all the case because today there is little danger that Netanyahu's coalition partners will abandon him.

Moreover, the Americans have no reason to believe that prospects for a peace deal would improve with a leftist government at the helm in Jerusalem. After all, despite its best efforts, the Kadima government was unable to make peace with the Palestinians, as was the Labor government before it. What the Palestinians have shown consistently since the failed 2000 Camp David summit is that there is no deal that Israel can offer them that they are willing to accept.

So if the aim of the administration in attacking Israel is neither to foster peace nor to bring down the Netanyahu government, what can explain its behavior?

The only reasonable explanation is that the administration is baiting Israel because it wishes to abandon the Jewish state as an ally in favor of warmer ties with the Arabs. It has chosen to attack Israel on the issue of Jewish construction because it believes that by concentrating on this issue, it will minimize the political price it will be forced to pay at home for jettisoning America's alliance with Israel. By claiming that he is only pressuring Israel to enable a peaceful "two-state solution," Obama assumes that he will be able to maintain his support base among American Jews who will overlook the underlying hostility his "pro-peace" stance papers over.

OBAMA'S POLICY toward Iran is a logical complement of his policy toward Israel. Just as there is no chance that he will bring Middle East peace closer by attacking Israel, so he will not prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons by offering the mullahs nuclear energy. The deal Obama is now proposing has been on the table since 2003, when Iran's nuclear program was first exposed. Over the past six years, the Iranians have repeatedly rejected it. Indeed, just last week they again announced that they reject it.

Here, too, to understand the president's actual goal it is necessary to search for the answers closer to home. Since Obama's policy has no chance of preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, it is apparent that he has come to terms with the prospect of a nuclear armed Iran. In light of this, the most rational explanation for his policy of engagement is that he wishes to avoid being blamed when Iran emerges as a nuclear power in the coming months.

In reckoning with the Obama administration, it is imperative that the Netanyahu government and the public alike understand the true goals of its current policies. Happily, consistent polling data show that the overwhelming majority of Israelis realize that the White House is deeply hostile toward Israel. The data also show that the public approves of Netanyahu's handling of our relations with Washington.

Moving forward, the government must sustain this public awareness and support. By his words as well as by his deeds, not only has Obama shown that he is not a friend of Israel. He has shown that there is nothing that Israel can do to make him change his mind.

caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: See no evil</title>
<date>29/7/2010</date>
<content>
It’s springtime for Jew-haters. This week Oscar winning conspiracy theorist 
Oliver Stone joined Helen Thomas and Mel Gibson in the swelling ranks of 
out-of-the-closet celebrity Jew-haters. In an interview with The Sunday Times, 
Stone said that Adolf Hitler had been given a bum rap and that through “Jewish 
domination of the media,” the Jews have inflated the importance of the Holocaust 
and wrecked US foreign policy.In the wake of criticism in Jewish 
circles, on Wednesday Stone’s publicist issued a mealymouthed 
clarification.




Stone failed to retract or amend his statement that 
“There’s a major lobby in the United States.They are hard workers. They 
stay on top of every comment, the most powerful lobby in 
Washington.Israel has f---ed up United States foreign policy for 
years.”He also did not retract his view that Jews use the Holocaust to 
control American foreign policy.Stone simply referred to his claim that 
Jews make too much of the Holocaust because the Germans killed more Russians 
than Jews as “clumsy.”He then broadened his initial allegation that Jews 
make too much of the Holocaust by allowing that we are joined in our efforts by 
non-Jews.And since non-Jews are involved also, he was wrong to criticize 
us.As Stone put it, “The fact that the Holocaust is still a very 
important, vivid and current matter today is, in fact, a great credit to the 
very hard work of a broad coalition of people committed to the remembrance of 
this atrocity.”(Emphasis added.) Stone still believes that the rounding 
up and exterminating of three-quarters of Europe’s Jews is really not as notable 
or morally troubling as high Russian wartime casualties, but it’s not solely 
Jews’ fault that people don’t share Stone’s views.Arguably even more 
despicable than Stone’s display of Jew-hatred was the manner in which it was 
received. On the one hand, there was the thunderous silence of the media. And on 
the other hand there were the insistent, repeated attempts to justify his 
statements.Readers’ talkbacks to write-ups of his remarks were rife with 
assertions that Stone’s statements were not bigoted. Many agreed that Jews 
dominate the media, and since they believe this is true, they argued that saying 
so is not a bigoted act. Others claimed that while Stone’s statements were 
inaccurate, there is no evidence that he hates Jews and therefore, his 
statements weren’t bigoted. At any rate, Patrick Goldstein of the Los Angeles 
Times and many others have argued, it would be wrong for Stone to be discredited 
for his attacks against Jews.It is difficult to imagine that if someone 
trafficked in ethnic stereotypes about groups like blacks, and claimed that they 
wreck US foreign policy to serve their own nefarious aims, Goldstein and the 
talk-backers would defend him.But then anti-Jewish bigotry has different 
rules than other hatreds.Stone and his defenders are not alone in either 
their attitude towards Jews or their denial of their attitude towards Jews. 
Indeed, they are part of a worldwide trend.TAKE THE situation in Malmo, 
Sweden. Last Friday, Jew-haters set off firecrackers outside a synagogue in 
Malmo. The blasts came a day after Jew-haters posted a bomb threat on the wall 
of the synagogue for the second time in two weeks.Malmo is a hotbed of 
anti-Jewish violence and the Jews of the city are fleeing in droves.Yet 
in the face of all this, Malmo’s non-Jews cannot bring themselves to acknowledge 
that there is a problem with anti-Semitism in their city.Even those who 
are supposed to be responsible for combating anti-Semitism refuse to acknowledge 
that Jews in Malmo are being attacked because they are Jews.Bjorn 
Lagerback is the man in Malmo who is supposed to care about anti-Semitic 
violence.Lagerback serves as the coordinator of the local forum in the 
city charged with combating hate crimes. In an interview with Malmo’s The Local 
cited by the World Jewish Congress, Lagerback tried to impress on the world that 
the bombing was serious. Not because it was violence aimed at Jews, of 
course.No, according to Lagerback, this bombing is serious because it 
might hurt non-Jews. He said.“We condemn this completely. Such an event 
is not just directed against the synagogue, but also at other targets that could 
be described as ethnic or religious.”Forget about the fact that only 
Malmo’s synagogues, and not its churches and mosques, require around the clock 
security. If no other ethnic or religious groups were targeted, would bombing 
synagogues no longer warrant condemnation? The acceptance of anti-Semitism has 
reached epidemic proportions.In Amsterdam, anti-Semites are making the 
mundane act of walking around outside in broad daylight a dangerous prospect for 
Jews.Jews are regularly attacked verbally and physically by anti-Semites 
as they walk on the streets of the Dutch capital.In an attempt to catch 
and punish anti-Semitic thugs, the Amsterdam police force has dispatched 
policemen dressed as Jews to pound the pavement. The hope is that these decoys 
will be able to draw out the offenders and arrest them.Apparently, some 
Dutch have a problem with punishing anti-Semitic attackers. As Paul Belien 
reported in the Brussels Journal, “Evelien van Roemburg, an Amsterdam counselor 
of the Green Left Party, says that using a decoy by the police amounts to 
[entrapment], which is itself a criminal offence under Dutch law.”In 
other words, Van Roemburg thinks that people who walk around while appearing to 
be Jewish are asking for it.Van Roemburg no doubt also believes that 
women in mini-skirts deserve to be raped.ALL OF this brings us to a 
discussion of the most endemic form of contemporary anti-Semitism: Anti-Zionism. 
There is no reason for anyone to be surprised that anti-Semites deny that 
anti-Zionism is anti-Semitism. After all, they deny that every other form of 
anti-Semitism is anti-Semitism. Why should anti-Zionism receive special 
treatment? It is self-evident that anti-Zionism is anti-Semitism.Zionism 
after all is the national liberation movement of the Jewish people. To say that 
Jews – uniquely among all the nations – have no right to freedom and 
self-determination is obviously anti-Semitic.Anti-Semites give a variety 
of excuses to justify their rejection of the Jewish people’s right to freedom 
and sovereignty in our homeland. Sometimes they say they have no problem with 
Jewish nationalism per se. They are simply anti-nationalist generally. But 
remarkably, these anti-nationalist anti-Zionists invariably just happen to be 
outspoken supporters of Palestinian nationalism.Moreover, it is curious 
that universalist antinationalists only have a special term to describe their 
opposition to Jewish nationalism. No one ever mentions being anti-Irishist, for 
instance.When someone says they oppose Irish nationalism, the obvious 
conclusion is that they don’t like Irish people. Just so, people who are 
anti-French tend not to like French people. And yet, the anti- Zionists would 
have us believe that their opposition to the Jewish state has nothing to do with 
their feelings about Jews.Beyond their nonsensical attempts to deny the 
fact that anti-Zionism is a specific rejection of a specific – that is Jewish – 
type of nationalism, there is the fact that anti-Zionists tend inevitably to 
drink from other anti-Jewish sewers as well.Take former British 
parliamentarian Clare Short for example.During her just ended career in 
the British Parliament, Short became known as an outspoken anti-Zionist. Short 
rejected Israel’s right to exist and castigated it for its “bloody, brutal and 
systematic annexation of land, destruction of homes and the deliberate creation 
of an apartheid system.”But Short’s Israel kick didn’t end with her 
frequent condemnations of imaginary but lurid Israeli crimes. As time went by, 
Short began channeling centuries of British Jew-hatred. Like her forefathers who 
blamed Jews for rain, drought, plague and fire, Shore blamed Israel for global 
warming.As she put it in a speech at the European Parliament three years 
ago, Israel “undermines the international community’s reaction to global 
warming.”As Shore saw it, European leaders are properly obsessed with 
attacking the Jewish state. But because Israel insists on existing and so 
requires Europeans to condemn it, Israel prevents the Europeans from attending 
to the threat of carbon that, if left unregulated, will “end the human 
race.”So if the world boils over, the cauldron will be made in 
Israel.One of the most prominent anti-Zionists today is Prof. Juan Cole 
from the University of Michigan.Part of being a successful anti-Zionist 
involves claiming that Jews have no right to the land of Israel. So to be a good 
anti-Zionist, one needs to deny Jewish history.To this end, in March 
Cole published a piece of historical fiction in the Salon online 
magazine.Titled “Ten reasons why East Jerusalem does not belong to 
Israel,” Cole mixed half truths with flagrant lies to justify his denial of 
Jewish history and belittlement of the Jewish rights.Cole wrote, 
“Jerusalem not only was not being built by the likely then non-existent ‘Jewish 
people’ in 1000 BCE, but Jerusalem probably was not even inhabited at that point 
in history. Jerusalem appears to have been abandoned between 1000 BCE and 900 
BCE, the traditional dates for the united kingdom under David and 
Solomon.”This assertion is so mendacious that it takes your breath away. 
As anyone who has actually been in Jerusalem can attest, it is all but 
impossible to be physically present in the oldest areas of the city and not bump 
into relics dating from between 1000 and 900 BCE.Cole’s allegation is 
the academic equivalent of Louis Farakhan’s claim that white people are devils 
planted on earth by aliens. As an anti-Zionist anti-Semite, it was just a matter 
of time until Cole traveled into the fetid swamp of denying the historical 
record to facilitate his false claim that Jews are not a people and therefore 
are bereft of rights as a nation to our national homeland.And why 
shouldn’t he cover himself in anti- Semitic muck? So far, the stench has brought 
him great success. The very fact that I felt compelled to write an essay 
explaining why anti- Semitism is anti-Semitism and why anti-Zionism is 
anti-Semitism is depressing proof that anti- Semites have been wildly successful 
in whitewashing their bigotry.What makes contemporary anti-Semitism 
unique is its purveyors’ great efforts to hide its very existence. Their 
motivation is clear. Outside the openly genocidal anti-Semitic Muslim world, 
most anti-Semites are self-described liberals who claim to oppose bigotry. For 
these people, pretending away their prejudice is the key to their continued 
claim to enlightenment.And so the likes of Oliver Stone publish 
clarifications.And Cole invents history. And the Europeans blame Jews 
and Israel and Zionism when Jews inside and outside Israel are assaulted and 
killed.
And I am sorry I wrote this column.Because an audience 
that demands an explanation of why evil is evil is an audience that has already 
sided with evil.CORRECTION: In Tuesday’s column I wrote that the US’s 
upgrade in the PLO’s Washington diplomatic mission gave added privileges to PLO 
representatives in the US. In fact, the upgrade is a symbolic gesture of support 
for the Palestinians. The representatives do not enjoy diplomatic 
immunity.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Confronting Jews who defame Jews</title>
<date>10/2/2010</date>
<content>
Richard Goldstone’s infamous role as the token head of the UNHRC report accusing the IDF of war crimes is only one example of prominent Jews who exploit their origins as a way to defame their people. In fact, until recently, Goldstone was considered a respectable Jew, even a Zionist. He was blinded by hubris and ego, and allowed himself to be seduced by the bitterest enemies of his people into providing legitimization for a blood libel against the Jewish state.Unlike Goldstone, most Jewish renegades were driven by desperation to unburden themselves from what they regarded as their repressive ethnic and cultural roots. Historian Jacob Talmon described such deviant behavior as “a Jewish neurosis” in response to centuries of oppression and pariah status.




The purported commitment of these Jews to universal and humanitarian values was usually belied by extreme attacks on their own people and association with sponsors who were outright anti-Semites.Streams of such Jews emerged during the 19th century in the wake of emancipation. A classic example was Karl Marx, whose anti-Semitic diatribes were reflected in outbursts like “money is the jealous god of Israel, by the side of which no other god may exist... The social emancipation of the Jew is the emancipation of society from Judaism.”In czarist Russia, some Jewish social revolutionaries even endorsed pogroms against their own kinsmen, hoping that by venting their frustrations on Jews, the masses would ultimately turn on the czar.Their successors, the Yevsektsiya, the notorious Jewish section of the Soviet Communist Party, became the most vicious persecutors of their own people, frenziedly suppressing all manifestations of Jewish cultural and religious life. Ultimately they too were liquidated in Stalin’s anti-Semitic campaigns.Many Jews outside the Soviet Union joined the Communist Party out of a mistaken conviction that it represented the most effective way to combat Nazism. But once in the party, they became brainwashed, and applauded as the evil Soviet regime executed their kinsmen and institutionalized state-sponsored anti-Semitism.AFTER THE Holocaust and the struggle to create the State of Israel, most Jewish anti-Semites hibernated. As the plight of Soviet Jewry became a rallying call uniting Jews throughout the world, the few remaining Jewish communists were marginalized.Modern Israel’s first prime minister, David Ben-Gurion, a genuine social democrat, appreciated the dangers posed by left-wing nihilists. He strove strenuously to neutralize the extremists and post-Zionists, who only became influential after his retirement and the end of Mapai-Labor Party hegemony.Today, despite representing a small fringe, the disproportionate influence of anti-Zionist Jewish extremists in global campaigns demonizing Israel has reached an all-time high.Ironically, the worst elements emanate from Israel.There is the frenzied agitation by Israeli academics who abuse academic freedom by utilizing their universities as launching pads to delegitimize their own country. Neve Gordon, a political science lecturer at Ben-Gurion University and a typical Jewish defamer of Zion, published an opinion piece last year in The Los Angeles Times calling on the international community to boycott Israel. He and others like him, funded by the Israeli government and philanthropic Diaspora Zionists, exploit their academic positions to support those seeking to destroy us.A recent study by Im Tirtzu claims that over 90% of the false allegations of Israeli war crimes originating from Israel cited in the Goldstone  Report were provided by 16 NGOs who received close to $8 million from the New Israel Fund, an organization purporting to promote social integration and welfare in Israel, headed by former Meretz MK Naomi Chazan. The NIF also sponsors Arab-Israeli groups promoting a bi-national state and US lecture tours by Arab Israelis on Israel Independence Day promoting the Nakba.Last year Haaretz highlighted reports accusing the IDF of war crimes which were subsequently proven false. These received massive global media exposure and made a major contribution toward creating the hostile anti-Israeli climate preceding the Goldstone report.THE ROT extends to the Diaspora, where as a matter of course anti-Israeli groups now employ Jewish spokesmen to cover up their bias and double standards. In the US, the demonizers of Zion are exploiting the eroding relationship between the Obama administration and Israel. Former American Jewish Congress director Henry Siegman described Israel as “the only apartheid regime in the Western world.” Jewish students at campuses are increasingly bombarded with anti-Israel diatribes by Jewish academics such as Norman Finkelstein, who supports Iranians and terrorists, even exploiting the Holocaust suffering of his parents to delegitimize Israel.In the UK, Jewish parliamentarian Gerald Kaufman compares Hamas to Jewish fighters in the Warsaw Ghetto, disregarding the Hamas Charter which declares that the Day of Judgment will not come until all Jews are killed.In Belgium, a Jewish playwright scripted a play in which the Philistines assume the role of Israelis and Samson emerges as a heroic Palestinian using a dynamite-loaded vest to blow up his oppressors.Shlomo Sand, a political science lecturer at Tel Aviv University, achieved celebrity status in Europe by publishing a book titled The Invention of the Jewish People, a farrago of utter nonsense promoting the thesis that being the descendents of the Khazars from the Black Sea region who converted to Judaism in the eighth century, Jews have no historical affinity with the Land of Israel.This was endorsed in a recent UK Financial Times article by Tony Judt, an American historian who regards the creation of Israel as a mistake and favors a binational state. Under the title “Israel must unpick its ethnic mix,” Judt expressed the hope that American Jews would detach themselves from Israel, as Irish-Americans did from Ireland.The time has come for action – not to suppress freedom of expression, but to draw red lines between legitimate criticism of government policies and initiatives seeking to demonize and delegitimize the Jewish state. The first step must be to deny tenure in government-sponsored educational institutions to academics who brazenly collaborate with our enemies.It is gratifying that opposition Kadima MKs are now calling for what will hopefully become a bipartisan investigation into the activities and sources of funding for the NIF and other NGOs.Whenever criticized, those who call for boycotts of their own country and demonize the IDF as war criminals have the chutzpah to try to defame their critics as McCarthyites and fascists, and threaten libel proceedings. It is their behavior which is morally reprehensible, and we must not be intimidated by such hypocritical tactics.
Israelis and the global Jewish community should be under no illusions.
The damage inflicted by Jews collaborating with Israel’s enemies to
demonize or delegitimize their country is immense. The only way to
neutralize the impact of these renegade groups is to expose and
confront them.ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Continuing Herzl’s dream</title>
<date>19/4/2010</date>
<content>
This year we celebrate 62 years since the reestablishment of the State of Israel and 150 years since the birth of the Zionist visionary Theodor (Binyamin Ze’ev) Herzl. We can look around our nation and take enormous pride in what we have achieved in the few decades since Jewish sovereignty returned to the land of our fathers.Herzl famously wrote, “If you will it, it is no dream” more than 100 years ago, but unfortunately he died only a few years later. His dream, a Jewish state, would against all the odds be recreated in its ancient land, as he prophetically stated, less than five decades later.




Today, most of us have not known a time without the State of Israel. Few alive remember the battles, the struggles and sacrifices that the early Zionists and even early Israelis had to endure to ensure that Herzl’s vision would not remain a dream. Too many take the presence of Israel for granted, and this has allowed us to become complacent about its role and its future. We must never forget that we are a reborn nation surrounded by many enemies intent on our destruction.When David Ben-Gurion read the Declaration of Independence at the Tel Aviv Museum in 1948, the ink had barely dried before five Arab armies invaded our infant state to destroy us. For many decades afterward, Arab armies would attempt to destroy Israel on the conventional battlefield, but none were successful. Today, we can claim with pride that we have the strongest military in the region and those hostile to us have learned they cannot defeat us this way.Next, our enemies tried to defeat us economically. The Arab League initiated a boycott against our state when we were welcoming hundreds of thousands of our brothers and sisters from around the globe. They issued ultimatums to every company in the world, telling them that if they conducted business with the Jewish state, they would not be able to conduct business with any Arab state. Today we have one of the world’s strongest economies and are about to join the OECD, the forum of the most powerful global economies.After economic warfare also failed, our enemies began an unconventional and terrorist war against us. Israelis and Jews have been butchered in their thousands by extremists who chose their death over our life. Although no one can claim that the threat is 100 percent extinguished, we have managed to beat this scourge and today far fewer innocent people are being killed by terrorists, even though there are still daily attempts.HAVING FAILED on so many occasions, our enemies have lately discovered a new way to attack us. This is through the current delegitimization campaign and so-called “lawfare” and may prove to be our toughest battle yet. Our enemies know they have distinct advantages that are difficult to contend with. They have an automatic majority in international institutions and have created an orchestrated system to tar the Jewish state as akin to the Nazis or the racist apartheid regime. They prevent us from speaking on campuses or having our voice heard in forums, and deny us freedom of speech because they know that if our voice is heard our enemies’ flawed narrative will collapse.Although few know it or report on it, the Organization of Islamic Conference clearly stated on a number of occasions that it initiated the Goldstone Commission. How many of those who scream about Israeli war crimes know they are the mouthpiece of autocratic regimes? How many of those who read about the attempted arrest of Israeli officials in Europe realize that these attempts are initiated, supported and funded by those in our region who will not allow a woman to vote and kill or oppress their own people?However, the verbal terrorism and attacks on our legitimacy will fail just as every other tactic before it. Nevertheless, to win this battle we must reinforce education about our history and purpose. We need to further the understanding of our historical, religious, moral and legal rights. Too few of our people understand that our modern legal rights are not based on history, religion or the Holocaust, as important as each of these is, but because the international community came together in 1920 as rarely seen before and conferred national rights in Eretz Yisrael to the Jewish people.LESS THAN a week after we celebrate Independence Day, we will commemorate 90 years since the San Remo Conference. Few nations can show such a determined and unified statement of intent for their national aspirations. When we add this to the corpus of international statements, resolutions and treaties, we will find that although we are perhaps the only member of the United Nations whose legitimacy is regularly questioned, few nations have such modern legal instruments as the Jewish state with which to cement our legitimacy. We need to learn these facts and teach them to others.On this Independence Day, many see the glass half empty. We have so
many challenges and obstacles to overcome. However, we should remember
our achievements. Intellectual property will become the greatest
resource of the 21st century, and Israel stands at the forefront of
innovation and technology. Its inventions and technological knowledge
are making the deserts bloom in Africa, saving millions of lives
through medical innovation, creating alternative energies and securing
the future of many people around the world.We have continued
Herzl’s vision, even after our independence, and are dreaming of bigger
and better things. This is why we have a bright future, and we can make
it even brighter, not only for Israel, but for all the people who are
inspired, assisted and supported by Israel.
The writer is deputy minister of foreign affairs.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Criticism of academics is not McCarthyism</title>
<date>25/8/2010</date>
<content>
Ron Friedman’s article “McCarthy vs. Voltaire in Beersheba” (August 20) and his 
interview with Ben-Gurion University president Rivka Carmi shed some interesting 
sidelights on the university’s ugly spat with the Im Tirtzu 
organization.While eye catching, the headline is hardly appropriate, 
though typical of the manner in which words that are frequently used, like 
apartheid and occupation, are misunderstood. The reference to McCarthy is 
inappropriate in this context because the brouhaha about the abuse of academic 
freedom in Israeli universities bears no resemblance whatsoever to McCarthyism, 
which is defined in The American Heritage Dictionary as “the practice of 
publicizing accusations of political disloyalty or subversion with insufficient 
regard to evidence.”




In fact, the presentation of factual evidence by 
concerned citizens about the activities of academics who advocate sanctions 
against their own universities is the diametric opposite of McCarthyism. These 
concerns are expressed not only by Im Tirtzu but also by other organizations and 
large numbers of university faculty members, students and the public. While I am 
not in complete agreement with all of Im Tirtzu’s actions, its efforts to bring 
truthful information about the disloyal behavior of some academics to the notice 
of donors and the general public is to be highly commended.WHO WILL 
disagree that publicizing true facts is an essential right, if not a duty in a 
democratic society? In view of her achievements as a geneticist, her work among 
the country’s Beduin population and her position as the first woman president of 
an Israeli university, I criticize Rivka Carmi with great respect and 
constructively.And it is with great sadness that I view the public 
dispute between her and the Im Tirtzu group, as I respect the sincerity and 
idealism of both sides.After all, Im Tirtzu and other critics of errant 
academics are expressing much the same thoughts that Carmi expressed in an op-ed 
in The Los Angeles Times when she wrote that she strongly believes a call for a 
worldwide boycott of Israel by BGU faculty member Neve Gordon in the Times 
oversteps the boundaries of academic freedom.And more to the point, her 
views coincided with those of Im Tirtzu when she went even further in a letter 
she sent to BGU faculty members in which she implied that Gordon’s words may 
even amount to treason.In the circumstances, Carmi’s statement that Im 
Tirtzu’s letter didn’t deserve the dignity of a response is disturbing. In all 
seriousness I ask her to reconsider this elitist misjudgment. Neither the 
public, nor the Knesset nor the Council for Higher Education considers it 
undignified to respond to it.More importantly, her rejection of 
complaints about Gordon’s writings, that she herself described as bordering on 
treason, contradicts her statement during the Jerusalem Post interview that she 
considers it important that students be critical and express their opinions, and 
that critical thought is a cornerstone of academic scholarship.Very 
significantly, she said during the interview that there are people who do and 
say things she abhors, but like Voltaire, she would defend to the death their 
right to say it. If this statement of Carmi’s is to have any meaning at all, 
then surely she should defend the rights of Im Tirtzu, Israel Academia Monitor, 
Isracampus and concerned members of her own board of governors to express their 
sincere concerns.
The writer is a commentator on current affairs. His web 
site is http ://www.2nd-thoughts.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 6: Fire in the North</title>
<date>6/12/2010</date>
<content>
Fire in the North Sir, – We, the nation of Israel, have always known how join 
together in times of national tragedy. Blame will have its 
day.




Accusations will have their day as well. And we will learn from our 
errors for sure.But now is the time for mourning and for appreciating 
all who gave of themselves to protect the people of Israel and their 
land.LEE DIAMOND Kfar Saba Sir, – Northern Israel has been incinerating 
at a shocking rate.Over 40 dead; 17,000 people forced to flee their 
homes; more than 50,000 dunams of parched, drought-stricken land destroyed; more 
than five million trees devoured by unquenchable, voracious flames.We in 
Canberra know first-hand the physical, financial and emotional effects of bush 
fires. Many donated so much to us in our times of need. Let’s all help those who 
in other times helped us.Please donate generously to your charity of 
choice, or to Israeli Forest Fire Disaster Relief.May the only fires 
remaining be those on the Hanukka menoras that light our homes and hearts at 
this time of year.JUDY BAMBERGER 
O’Connor, Australia Sir, – In this era 
of man-made human tragedies, when nature takes a hand, the news of such events 
somehow carries more impact. The Carmel fire tragedy is such a case. Having 
visited Haifa and the Carmel on several occasions and been inspired by their 
beauty makes the event personal.Through your newspaper, I offer my 
condolences to the families and loved ones of the souls who perished, and my 
heart-felt sympathy for the thousands affected.However, out of this 
horror comes even more impact – for the hands that are reaching out to Israel 
with help and assistance, from people who have put aside international and 
religious animosities in the name of simple human empathy.Is there a 
message here... for us all? 

TREVOR HORNE 
South Molton, Devon, UK Sir, – Our 
hearts are broken as all of Israel feels as one with the people of the North. 
This catastrophe has affected all of us as we realize how vulnerable we are to 
tragedy. It is time to understand that we all need each other more than 
ever.Our firefighting equipment has not been as modern as it should be 
and this is a wake-up call for all of us to realize what can happen if we are 
not prepared for any and every contingency. We have to forge ahead for the 
future and make our priorities for the safety and security of each person in 
this country, and not be subject to political pressures.May God help us 
choose correctly.TOBY WILLIG 
Jerusalem WikiFallout Sir, – Kudos to Herb 
Keinon and Asher Meir for their respective coverage and analysis of the 
WikiLeaks phenomenon (“The WikiLeaks torrent” and “WikiLeaks suffers from lack 
of accountability,” Frontlines, December 3). At the same time, I respectfully 
disagree with Meir’s conclusion that calls into question WikiLeaks’s ability to 
have any significant impact due to its lack of full disclosure.Ever 
since the beginning of the printed news media, publishers and editors have 
consistently and conveniently shaped stories in accordance with their own 
personal biases. More often than not, even the most respected journalists have 
felt compelled to resort to such reporting tactics as “sources say” or 
“according to sources at...” rather than stating actual origins.In 
contrast to the world’s leading newspapers and their own respective websites, 
WikiLeaks, as its very name implies, should be perceived by any intelligent 
reader as an appealing venue for further research and investigation, and nothing 
more.To conjecture as to who exactly lies behind the release of these 
so-called cables only enhances the appeal of such “leaks” As anyone involved in 
public relations can tell you, there is no such thing as bad PR.Along 
those same lines may I add my hope that WikiLeaks – with its deliberate use of 
“highlyclassified cables” – has succeeded in bringing critical global topics to 
the forefront of news hitherto deemed irrelevant by a very massive audience. 
This ability to reach, and possibly persuade, a significant critical mass is 
what renders WikiLeaks a legitimate contributor, rather than detractor, of 
global news.RAFI LISKER 
Efrat Sir, – Reading and hearing about the 
leaks, I wonder how the world does not treat WikiLeaks CEO Julian Assange as a 
pariah and traitor of the highest caliber.Jonathan Pollard has been 
incarcerated for over 25 years for selling who knows what to whom, yet Assange 
is reaping millions for betraying country after country.And based on 
what? Documents or cables that were discussed in private conversations between 
diplomats, hopefully to save the world from the powers that wish to annihilate 
us? 

DEBRA FORMAN 
Modi’in Very familiar sound Sir, – Indian President Pratibha 
Devisingh Patil said on a visit to Syria that India recognizes that country’s 
“legitimate right” to the Golan (“India’s president calls for ‘quick and full 
return’ of Golan Heights to Syria,” November 28). His host, Syrian dictator 
Bashar al-Assad, who inherited the regime from his father, went on to bemoan the 
sufferings of the Palestinian people, blockaded by an apartheid 
wall.Assad failed to mention, of course, that India has built a several 
thousand-kilometer apartheid wall to keep out Pakistani militants from the 
world’s largest democracy, India. More than 80 percent of this security barrier 
has been constructed in disputed territory that Pakistan demands.Does 
the vocabulary sound familiar? It is obviously time for Israel to follow India's 
example and express itself in equally forthright terms: Demand an end to the 
Indian occupation of Kashmir, the tearing down of the Indian apartheid wall and 
the return of occupied Kashmir to its rightful owners, Islamist Pakistan. After 
all, friends can be equally forthright with one another, surely? 

ILYA MEYER

Gothenburg, Sweden No Jewish conspiracy Sir, – Your report on anti-Semitism in 
Britain (“Widespread use of anti-Semitic themes found in mainstream British 
circles,” November 12) quoted from an article I wrote in The Independent in 
November 2009 about the appointment of Sir Martin Gilbert and Sir Lawrence 
Freedman to the Iraq inquiry committee.At the time you reported my 
comments accurately. The Jewish Chronicle, however, published a letter from me 
on December 4 in which I said that its report had insinuated that I was anti- 
Semitic; I suggested that it might have quoted two more sentences from my 
article: All five members have outstanding reputations and records, but it is a 
pity that, if and when the inquiry is accused of a whitewash, such handy 
ammunition will be available. Membership should not only be balanced; it should 
be seen to be balanced.I added that “I knew that I was likely to be 
attacked for what I wrote, and chose my words carefully. It is sad that one 
cannot speak the truth on this subject, however carefully one chooses one’s 
words, without provoking criticism based on the assumption that one speaks from 
a habit or feeling of hostility to Jews, which in my case is not so.”I 
was again saddened, therefore, to see that your correspondent now writes that my 
comments assumed a Jewish conspiracy charge to be valid. They did no such 
thing.
OLIVER MILES 
Oxford, England
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Demonizing Israel is bad for the Palestinians</title>
<date>1/8/2010</date>
<content>
Since the establishment of the State of Israel, the international media have 
been unhesitant in criticizing the Jewish state on almost everything. This has 
evolved into a media culture by itself, to the point that many internationally 
renowned newspapers would have a button labelled “Israel” or “Israeli-Arab 
conflict” on their Web sites including very little positive content about 
Israel. Media hostility toward Israel has been mainly focused on its military 
operations and, in more quiet times, on the living conditions of the 
Palestinians in Israel.Amazingly enough, the international media, and 
particularly the Western ones, pay very little attention to the conditions of 
the Palestinians living in Arab countries, despite the extreme oppression they 
have been enduring for decades in most Arab countries.




These Palestinians 
do not have someone to speak for them in the global media, possibly because a 
news story about countries other than Israel is less interesting or “sexy” by 
media standards. This tendency to blame Israel for everything has lead to the 
development of numerous myths about the situation of the Palestinian there that 
have provided an excuse to purposely ignore and compromise the human rights of 
the Palestinian in many Arab countries.THE EXAMPLES for that are 
plentiful and sometimes cross the line into tragic comedy. While the world is 
crying over the Israel-imposed blockade on Gaza, the media, for some unknown 
reason, choose to deliberately ignore the conditions of the Palestinians living 
in camps in Lebanon.Lebanon, a country with some of the most hostile 
forces to Israel, has been holing up Palestinians inside camps for almost 30 
years. Those camps do not have any foundations of livelihood or even sanitation 
and the Palestinians living there are not allowed access to basics such as 
buying cement to enlarge or repair homes for their growing families. 
Furthermore, it is difficult for them to work legally, and are even restricted 
from going out of their camps at certain hours. Compare this to the fact that 
Palestinian laborers were still able to go to work every day in Israel while 
Hamas was carrying out an average of one suicide bombing per week a few years 
ago, and until recently launching missiles daily on southern Israel. Not to 
mention the fact that Israel allows food items and medications into Gaza if 
handled through the Palestinian Authority.The Lebanese atrocities toward 
the Palestinians have been tolerated by the international community, not only by 
the media. Today, while some Israeli military commanders have to think twice, in 
fear of legal consequences, before they visit London or Brussels, well-known 
Lebanese leaders who had directly participated in mass killings of Palestinian 
civilians, during and after the Lebanese civil war, are becoming world-respected 
political figures – Nabih Berri, for example, the leader of Amal Shi’ite militia 
who enforced a multi-year siege on Palestinian camps, cutting water access and 
food supplies to them. The Palestinians underBerri’s siege were reported to be 
consuming rats and dogs to survive. Nonetheless, he has been the undisputed 
speaker of the Lebanese parliament for a long time. He travels frequently to 
Europe and criticizes Israel for its “crimes against the Palestinians” on every 
occasion.MANY OTHER Arab countries are no different than Lebanon in 
their ill-treatment and discrimination against the Palestinians. Why do the 
media choose to ignore those and focus only on Israel? While the security wall 
being built by Israel has become a symbol of “apartheid” in the global media, 
they almost never address the actual walls and separation barriers that have 
been isolating Palestinian refugee camps in Arab countries for 
decades.While Palestinians targeted by the IDF are mostly fighters 
pledging war on Israel, the world swiftly overlooked the Sabra and Shatila 
massacre in which Lebanese Christian and Shi’ite militiamen butchered thousands 
of Palestinian women and children. Unsurprisingly, the international media 
accused Israel of being responsible for the massacre, despite the fact that live 
testimonies aired by Al-Jazeera satellite television a few years ago show 
massacre survivors confirming that IDF commanders and soldiers had nothing to do 
with the killing.The demonization of Israel by the global media has 
greatly harmed the Palestinians’ interests for decades and covered up Arab 
atrocities against them. Furthermore, demonizing Israel has been well-exploited 
by several Arab dictatorships to direct citizens’ rage against Israel instead of 
their regimes and also to justify any atrocities they commit in the name of 
protecting their nations from “the evil Zionists.”This game has served 
some of the most notorious Arab dictatorships, and still does today, as any 
opposition is immediately labelled “a Zionist plot.”This model had 
served Gamal Abdel Nasser in ruling Egypt with an iron fist until he died, and 
was the main line for Saddam Hussein, who was promoting that “Iraq and Palestine 
are one identical case” in his last years in power.The global media must 
be fair in addressing the Palestinians’ suffering in Arab countries and must 
stop demonizing Israel. It should start focusing on the broader conditions of 
the Palestinians in the Middle East region.There is much to 
see.
The writer, a Jordanian of Palestinian heritage, is a researcher at 
the University of Bedfordshire.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Desperately smearing Goldstone</title>
<date>13/5/2010</date>
<content>
Inside the Israeli echo chamber, it’s now “case closed” on the war in Gaza. The country’s biggest newspaper, Yediot Aharonot, has “exposed” Judge Richard Goldstone as an apartheid-era hanging judge. This proves he’s a huge hypocrite whose word means nothing, which proves his report on the war in Gaza means nothing, which proves Operation Cast Lead was every bit the shining example of restraint and purity of arms Israel says it was.That’s the verdict in here. Outside the echo chamber, though, in the saner parts of the world, this episode can only make us look even guiltier. To any but a brainwashed Israeli or “Israel advocate,” this Goldstone ploy is so transparent, so pathetic. All it proves is how desperate this country has become, how blind we are to ourselves and to how others see us.




Israel is accusing Richard Goldstone of having been an enforcer of apartheid. The word “chutzpa” doesn’t get it. The word “gall” doesn’t get it. The closest word I can think of to describe this is “grotesque.”I’m sure Goldstone made at least some bad, even immoral decisions from the bench during the years of apartheid. He set for himself the task of stretching a viciously unjust legal system in the direction of justice, and I’m sure there were times he could have stretched it more.But in all, he was one of the good guys of that terrible time. NELSON MANDELA knows it. After Mandela was elected president in 1994, he appointed Goldstone to South Africa’s highest court. Earlier, during the transition to democracy, Mandela concurred in Goldstone’s appointment to head an extremely explosive inquiry into regime-sponsored murder (in which it was found that Goldstone himself had been on the hit list).In the saner parts of the world, they can trust Mandela’s conclusions about the judge, or they can trust Yediot Aharonot’s.The most “damning” finding against Goldstone in Yediot’s “exposé” is that he sentenced two black murderers to hang and, as an appeals judge, upheld the hanging sentences of 26 others, and that he fully justified the death penalty in his written decisions, and that he did all this even though he’s since claimed that he opposed the death penalty all along.Goldstone says the law gave him no choice. To me, it’s no huge deal either way. The Yediot story reads: “One must be honest: In nearly every one of these cases, standing before Goldstone were debased murderers, most of whom killed with great cruelty.” Goldstone told the paper that every one of these murders was committed “in the gravest of circumstances.”I don’t consider capital punishment for sadistic killers to be immoral – even if they’re black, even if they’re living under apartheid. What’s more, I don’t think Goldstone’s decision to hang them is an argument against his Gaza war report. But then I guess I’m not a bleeding heart liberal like Yediot’s readers. The story cites decisions in which Goldstone jailed a black man for being in a “whites-only” area and a 13-year-old black boy for demonstrating. He acquitted four policemen of enforcing the law against miscegenation. He jailed two blacks for possession of a taped speech by an anti-apartheid leader. Again, Goldstone told the paper he was constrained by the law. He added: “It’s all very nice in the year 2010 to measure the decisions I made 20 and 30 years ago...”Like I said, I’m sure he made some bad, even immoral decisions back then. I’m sure he has what to apologize for about some of his rulings, and I wish he would.But still, like I said, he was one of the good guys in that awful time. Arthur Chaskalson, retired president of the post-apartheid high court, and George Bizos, Mandela’s long-time attorney, wrote: “He was the founding chairperson of Nicro, an organization to look after prisoners that have been released; he exercised his power as a judge (not often used by other judges) to visit prisoners in jail; he insisted on seeing political prisoners indefinitely detained to hear their complaints; to intervene for a doctor to be allowed to see them and where possible to make representations that their release be considered.” His landmark decision against the forced uprooting of black neighborhoods was “a great blow to the apartheid regime,” wrote Chaskalson and Bizos.It’s true there were many South African whites who fought without compromise against apartheid, and who paid a heavy personal price, which Goldstone did not. But it’s also true that the overwhelming majority of South African whites – Jews included – either went along with apartheid or outright promoted it. Goldstone was not one of the tiny number of radical freedom fighters, but neither was he by any means one of the huge, pro-apartheid majority, as Yediot portrays it. Instead, he was one of a small minority of liberal activists trying to change a monstrous system from within, making all sorts of unholy compromises that arise in such a situation. Goldstone, I’m sure, did things he should regret, but on balance, in context, and in the view of Nelson Mandela if not Yediot Aharonot, he is right to be proud of his record.NOW: CAN the State of Israel say the same? This is one of the things that makes the smearing of Goldstone so grotesque – not only does it take a good man and try to make him look evil, but it’s coming from the very last country on earth with the right to accuse anyone of collaborating with apartheid.In the last two decades of white rule, when South Africa was losing friends fast, the apartheid regime could always count on us.In the mid-’70s, “...Israel’s war-battered industries desperately needed export markets and the possibility of lucrative trade with South Africa was hard for Defense Minister Shimon Peres to resist. As [Prime Minister Yitzhak] Rabin, Peres, and a new generation of leaders inherited the [Labor] party from David Ben-Gurion and Golda Meir, the conviction that compromising certain values was necessary for survival gained sway and socialist idealism gave way to realpolitik. During the Rabin years, South African arms purchases breathed life into the Israeli economy and Israeli weapons helped to reinforce the beleaguered and isolated apartheid regime in Pretoria.” (From a new book, The Unspoken Alliance: Israel’s Secret Relationship with Apartheid South Africa, by Sasha Polakow-Suransky, senior editor at Foreign Affairs magazine.)Israel sent South Africa riot control equipment, we helped run its bantustans, we helped it and it helped us build nuclear bombs. We did business with white-ruled South Africa until the very last day before the US would have cut off our foreign aid. We made hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars off apartheid.And despite the title of the book I quoted, this is not a secret. The
whole world knows it, if not in detail then in principle. Yediot knows
it, though of course there’s no mention of it in the paper’s brave
journalistic crusade. All of our shocked, shocked spokesmen and
advocates know Israel and apartheid were the best of friends – and in
their latest denunciations of Goldstone, you won’t hear a peep about it.Inside the echo chamber, everyone’s nodding their heads. Outside, in
the more lucid-minded countries of the world, people can only be
shaking their heads in disbelief. I imagine them thinking: What has
gotten into these Israelis? We all saw the war in Gaza, we all read
about it and we all know who Richard Goldstone is – and they think
they’re going to turn us in favor of that war, or in favor of the way
they treat the Palestinians in general, by turning us against
Goldstone? Have the Israelis become so egocentric, so cut off from the
world that they don’t see how transparent this is, how pathetic? How
grotesque?Yes, people of the world, that’s how egocentric, how cut off from you
we’ve become – we don’t see it. Pardon the pun, but we’ve come to see
black as white and white as black. 
With this hatchet job on Goldstone, we figure we’ve just written “case
closed” on Operation Cast Lead. We don’t see that all we’ve done is
show, once again, how empty our case for that war, that onslaught of
choice, really is.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Durban III farce</title>
<date>18/12/2010</date>
<content>
On Monday, December 20, the UN General Assembly is slated to vote on an 
initiative calling to hold “Durban III.” If the Non-Aligned Movement and other 
Israel- and America-bashers prevail, when the General Assembly holds high-level 
meetings in New York City next September, a special ceremony will commemorate 
the 10th anniversary of the UN World Conference Against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia, and Related Intolerance held in Durban, South 
Africa.Like the 2001 conference and its successor, held in April 2009 in 
Geneva, this third incarnation will have absolutely nothing to do with its 
high-minded ostensible purpose. Instead, it will undoubtedly become a 
clearinghouse for vitriolic anti-Semitism – “the coalescence,” as human rights 
legal scholar Irwin Cotler put it when describing Durban I, “of a new virulent 
globalizing anti- Jewishness reminiscent of the atmospherics that pervaded 
Europe in the 1930s.”




The cynicism and intentional disregard of human 
rights and freedom at both Durbans was mind-boggling.One of the fliers 
distributed at Durban I, for instance, had a picture of Adolf Hitler above the 
text: “What would have happened if I had won? The good things.There 
would have been no Israel and no Palestinian’s [sic] bloodshed. The rest is your 
guess.” The Protocols of the Elders of Zion were freely handed out, together 
with huge quantities of Islamist, Trotskyist and anti-globalist propaganda 
relating to Israel as a racist, theocratic, and apartheid state. The NGO Forum 
in Durban referred to the “ethnocide” supposedly being carried out against 
Palestinians by Israel.Durban II’s organizing committee, chaired and 
cochaired by such beacons of humans rights as Libya, Iran, Pakistan and Cuba, 
issued an 88-page draft declaration ahead of the conference accusing the US, 
Israel, Western Europe and other liberal democracies of racist attitudes and 
policies against Islam. The hundreds of thousands murdered in Darfur on racist 
grounds were not even mentioned, nor were the atrocities inflicted in the Congo 
and Kenya, not to mention routine human rights abuses throughout the Muslim 
world.Judging from its track record of effortlessly mustering a majority 
to support any anti-Israel motion, there is a good chance that the General 
Assembly will vote Monday in favor of holding Durban III. There is a slim hope, 
however, that the UN will retain a modicum of reason and quash the proposal, if 
only out of respect for American sensitivities.September 2011 happens to 
be the 10th anniversary of another historic event. It would be downright evil to 
hold another hate fest against the West as Americans commemorate the loss of 
loved ones murdered by terrorists in the 9/11 attacks.IF THE UN moves 
forward with Durban III, setting the stage for a an orgy of hatred, bigotry and 
racism against America and the West, there will be no alternative but to heed 
the call by the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations 
for all sane, morally responsible countries to refrain from 
participating.Unfortunately over the years, the UN’s bright hours have 
been few and far between. Among them, on December 16, 1991, almost exactly 19 
years ago, was the revocation of the 1975 Resolution 3379 that equated Zionism 
with racism. And foremost, of course, was the UN General Assembly’s November 25, 
1947 partition resolution for Palestine, which gave birth to the State of Israel 
– and would have given birth to a Palestinian state as well if not for Arab 
states’ virulent intransigence.Sadly, the capacity of the UN to uphold 
its founders’ moral imperatives has diminished drastically since 
then.The UN has become a tool in the hands of the world’s biggest 
perpetrators of human rights abuses, used to divert attention from their own 
hideous deeds by attacking America, Israel and other countries where a valiant 
attempt is being made to safeguard freedom and liberty while waging a war 
against terror.As the historian of anti-Semitism Robert Wistrich notes 
in his book Lethal Obsession, it was the Soviet regime that in the late 1960s 
and 1970s first used the delegitimization of Israel, including constant visual 
and verbal comparisons between Israel and South Africa, as a means of rallying 
Arab and African support during the Cold War. This campaign was particularly 
successful in the UN, where the “one country, one vote” system gave 
disproportionate power to the many small African and Muslim states.
An 
organization created to advance freedom and equality has effectively been 
hijacked by authoritarian regimes. If the UN decides on Monday to launch Durban 
III, the little respect and credibility it retains will be reduced still 
further.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Economic vindication</title>
<date>11/5/2010</date>
<content>
Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz hailed it as a “historic achievement.” Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu saw it as a “particularly welcome sign of Israel’s solid international standing,” noting that any one of the 31 member states “could have voted ‘no’ and vetoed our inclusion.”They were talking about the unanimous vote yesterday at Château de la Muette in Paris by the 31 members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to accept Israel – as well as Estonia and Slovenia – into its ranks.




It was undoubtedly a victory for the embattled Jewish state. Until the last moment, there was some concern that Switzerland, Turkey, Norway, Britain and/or Ireland could torpedo the move. These countries have criticized Israel for insisting on providing economic data that includes east Jerusalem, the Golan Heights and settlements in Judea and Samaria as part of the Israeli economy. Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, evidently unperturbed by potential damage to ties with Israel as proximity talks got under way, has campaigned against Israel’s inclusion. The very fact that the well-connected Fayyad, a former International Monetary Fund economist, failed to sabotage the move is a success for Israel and for hardheaded reason. Israel’s impressive accomplishments are best appreciated when scrutinized by a forum of highly developed countries committed to democracy, liberalism, equal opportunity and the market economy using objective socioeconomic criteria. In contrast, negative misrepresentations of the “Zionist entity” as a repressive, racist apartheid state belong to the fairy-land world of hateful propaganda and a well-developed Palestinian victimization complex.ISRAEL WAS judged in accordance with 18 parameters set by the OECD, an organization that has its roots in the Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC), founded in 1948 to help administer the Marshall Plan for the reconstruction of Europe. Thanks to years of fiscal discipline, Israel’s public debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to fall to around 70 percent in coming years, compared to 90% in Germany, 96% in France, 100% in Britain, 110% in the US, 130% in Italy and a whopping 250% in Japan. Greece, with debt estimated at €156.2 billion, as well as Spain, Portugal and Ireland, the four weakest European economies, all face massive economic overhauls. Israel’s inflation over the past decade is just half of the OECD average, and GDP growth has been rising steadily (a 5.5% annual average between 2003 and 2008). In addition, Israel made changes in its intellectual-property and anti-money-laundering legislation to meet OECD criteria.True, there is room for improvement. This was evident in January when Mexican OECD Secretary-General Angel Gurría, a friend of Israel and a personal acquaintance of Steinitz, presented his organization’s economic survey of Israel. Gurría criticized the fact that one-fifth of Israel’s population lives under the poverty line, much higher than the OECD average of 11%. About half of all Israeli Arabs and 60% of the haredi population are poor, as are 23% of the elderly population. Due to low haredi and Arab employment, participation in the labor market is low, at just 59%, compared to the OECD average of 67%. There is also too much red tape inhibiting business growth.But everything, both positive and negative, is on the table for all to
see. This transparency and external scrutiny that pushes for excellence
is one of the benefits of being part of the OECD. Institutional
investors, aware of Israel’s dynamic economy, have been queuing up to
buy Israel’s bonds for the past few years. Perhaps even more will do so
now, thanks to Israel’s new OECD membership status.ONE CANNOT escape the irony of the timing of this “historic
achievement.” Israel has been seeking OECD entry for years. Finally it
has happened, at a time when Europe, the heart of the OECD, is in
economic disarray, with Greece, Spain, Ireland, Portugal and perhaps
Italy threatening to undermine the EU’s economic stability. 
Israel, meanwhile, has faced profound challenges during its short
lifetime – from the absorption of hundreds of thousands of immigrants
from underdeveloped Muslim countries in the 1950s and 1960s, and from
the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia in the 1990s, to a constant
security threat that drains a disproportionately large percentage of
the annual fiscal budget, to an international anti-Zionist campaign of
delegitimization. And yet it has become one of the world’s most vibrant
economies. The big, prestigious OECD may even have a thing or two to
learn from its latest member.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editorial: The disingenuous Nobel laureate</title>
<date>4/10/2010</date>
<content>
The state wants Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mairead Corrigan-Maguire ejected from 
Israel.After permitting Maguire ample opportunity to make her case, the 
Central District Court ruled last week in the state’s favor and the Supreme 
Court on Monday appeared poised to do the same.




We applaud this stand – 
and not because of Maguire’s outrageous comparison in 2004 of Israel’s purported 
nuclear capability to Auschwitz’s gas chambers, nor because of her absurd, 
reprehensible accusation made in court Monday that Israel is an “apartheid 
state” perpetrating “ethnic cleansing against Palestinians.”Rather, 
Maguire should be deported from Israel for undertaking actions that undermine 
Israel’s ability to protect itself.MAGUIRE, WHO at 32 was the 
youngest-ever peace prize winner when she received it in 1976 for working to end 
sectarian violence in her native Northern Ireland, was intending to lead a 
delegation called the Nobel Women’s Initiative that is visiting Israel and the 
West Bank between September 28 and October 5.Maguire is a woman with 
considerable merits who once acted courageously and peacefully to help end 
conflict in her own country. But her actions on behalf of Palestinians has 
revealed a sorrowful dearth of moral sensibilities.She was first 
deported from Israel on September 30, 2009, after she took part in an attempt to 
break the Israeli blockade of Gaza. She and the other activists from the Free 
Gaza Movement attempted to forcibly prevent Israel from defending itself against 
Hamas-controlled Gaza via the blockade, which has never prevented the transferral 
of food, medicine and other necessities that cannot be turned into rockets, 
mortars or other deadly weapons and aimed at Israeli civilians.All 
humanitarian aid on board Maguire’s ship, the Arion, was promptly transferred to 
Gaza after a security check, as is all other humanitarian aid provided by 
foreigners to Gaza’s residents, along with truckloads of Israeli aid provided 
weekly.When the Arion was stopped by the IDF, Maguire was notified that 
she would be forbidden to enter Israel for 10 years. Nevertheless, this June, a 
few days after the fateful Mavi Marmara interception, Maguire was once again on 
board a ship – the MV Rachel Corrie – attempting to violate Israel’s blockade of 
Gaza. Once again she was notified by Israeli officials that she was banned from 
entry for a decade.Yet last week Maguire ignored Israel’s sovereign 
right to decide who crosses its borders, insincerely claiming she did not know 
she was banned; she might have had the honesty to make plain that she refused to 
respect Israel’s sovereignty.If Maguire and her fellow activists truly 
desire to improve the lives of Gazans, they should send their humanitarian aid 
in coordination with Israel. More importantly, they should put pressure on Hamas 
and the other radical Islamists who control the Gaza Strip to stop senseless 
ballistic attacks on Israeli towns and villages, kibbutzim and 
moshavim.They should also insist that Hamas provide Gaza’s citizens with 
a stable, responsible leadership that respects human rights and religious 
freedom, as well as that it accept the UN-recognized right of the Jewish people 
to self-determination and political sovereignty in their historical 
homeland.But Maguire, who has called for Israel to be removed from the 
UN, seems more intent on enabling Israel’s terrorist enemies.THIS 
NEWSPAPER has argued in the past that even the most rabid critics of Israel – 
such as Noam Chomsky, who was denied entry by Israel in May – should be allowed 
to come here to voice their opinions. We trust the ability of free-thinking, 
informed individuals to distinguish between baseless and credible narratives and 
claims.But in Maguire’s case, the issue is different. Those who work to 
forcibly break the blockade on Gaza are essentially seeking to endanger the 
lives of Israeli citizens, by making it easier for Hamas to obtain the rockets 
and mortars it insistently fires into our territory.
Israel can and must 
use its hard-earned and well-deserved sovereignty to stop people like Maguire – 
people who try to exploit charges of a “humanitarian crisis” in Gaza in order to 
empower Hamas terrorists.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editor's Notes: Wrong troops, wrong ammunition</title>
<date>26/2/2010</date>
<content>
Such a lovely idea: Encourage Israelis to act as ambassadors for our misunderstood and misrepresented little nation.“Are you going overseas? Hosting people from abroad?,” asks the Ministry of Public Diplomacy’s new masbirim – “explainers” – Web page. Well then, it gushes, you too can become “ambassadors for Israel” and “together, we’ll change the picture.”




The campaign, backed by expensive advertising in the local media, is designed to offset “the vast sums of money available to Arab countries for propaganda,” our esteemed new Public Diplomacy Minister Yuli Edelstein has declared, by conscripting ordinary Israelis to fight the PR fight, armed with “tools and tips to help them deal with the attacks on Israel.”Somewhat contradictorily, however, Edelstein is also advising our new massed ranks of citizen-spokespeople to avoid discussing international politics. “Talk about your life, your neighbors, make your life sound normal,” he advises. “Tell people about going to a concert with your wife.”Easy to imagine that working, isn’t it? Picture the scene. Our well-meaning, patriotic Israeli vacationers in, say, London these past few days, get onto a Tube train packed with tight-lipped commuters absorbing their daily headline diet of  “Outrage over Mossad hit in Dubai,” “Scandal of forged British passports” and “War threat as Israel designates Cave of the Patriarchs and Rachel’s Tomb national heritage sites.”“Here’s our chance,” enthuses Moshe to Malka, and sits down with a confident grin between a middle-aged businessman reading The Independent and a young advertising-type flipping through The Guardian.“Sorry to disturb,” Moshe manages in his halting English, smiling at the gents on either side of him. “But I am from Tel Aviv and I want to tell you that Israel is much nicer than you are reading. Let me tell you about my good neighbors. No? Ok, see my wife Malka over there? Well, we went to a very excellent concert together at the, er, Heichal Hatarbut hall last week. Beethoven, Richard Strauss and Brahms. Excuse me? Sir? Please...?”The Brits wouldn’t so much as dip their dailies to acknowledge the sabra attempt at conversation. Remember, they don’t even talk to each other.OF COURSE it’s easy to scoff. And everyone’s a critic. But really, our new ministry and its new minister, created as a function of coalition arithmetic rather than in recognition of a strategic need that does genuinely exist, should stop deluding themselves and the rest of us about the nature of the challenge, and instead start meeting it properly.For the past two-and-a-half years, an experienced Israel-advocate, not a citizen neophyte, has been doing his best to advance the last such half-hearted effort to improve Israel’s image: the great national rebrand.And, what a shock, Ido Aharoni recently reached the inevitable conclusion that even Maxim magazine photo shoots of bikini-clad Israeli female soldiers don’t do the job. The way the media works today, Aharoni acknowledged in an interview with this newspaper a couple of weeks ago, “doesn’t allow enough time for presenting the facts.” As he further elaborated to a gathering of tourism professionals, the world’s perception of Israel is completely dominated by the Arab-Israel conflict, and even if people support Israel ideologically, that doesn’t translate into a positive image.THE FACT is (and yes, it is possible that I may have mentioned this once or twice in past columns), Israel doesn’t get a fair shake in much of the international media and is being relentlessly bashed in a “lawfare” campaign of delegitimization.If Operation Cast Lead prompted the last outbreak of local handwringing at the unfairness of all this a year ago, when much of the world bought the Hamas big lie about Gaza coming under unjustifiable Israeli assault, then Dubai provides a more recent case in point. Unlike any other intelligence operatives trying to save innocent lives the world over, Israel’s alleged secret agents are, at best, expected to travel on their own passports under their own names to their dangerous missions, the better to ensure their capture. But ideally, they are not meant to travel at all, because self-confessed murderers, working for a Hamas government avowedly intent on destroying Israel, should be allowed to go freely about their business of importing missiles to fire from Gaza at the civilians of Israel without having to fear for their personal safety.As confirmed by Western attitudes to the 2006 war with Hizbullah, Cast Lead, the Dubai controversy and uncountable other conflicts everywhere else on the planet, the free world still refuses to internalize the nature of the Islamic extremist enemy, with its death cult imperative to kill and be killed.But sending good-natured Israelis into the public diplomacy battlefield, to talk about how delicious Jaffa oranges are, how their nephew just went to work for this amazing new hi-tech start-up or how much the Israel Philharmonic has improved of late, is to use entirely the wrong troops with entirely the wrong ammunition for the fight. The end result will be no different from the hapless Aharoni’s doomed attempt to disingenuously rebrand Israel as the ultimate hedonist’s tourist paradise with no troubles, guaranteed sunshine and a unique splash of biblical history. And everybody in positions of authority here knows this full well.OUR ENEMIES failed to destroy Israel through conventional warfare from 1948 to 1973. They failed again through the strategic terrorist onslaught of the second intifada. But they’re doing rather well through “lawfare” – through delegitimization.Israel will start to make some headway in the long, uphill struggle to reverse the tide and to improve the way it is perceived overseas when, first of all, it starts to take that struggle seriously. When it internalizes that, no, we’re not a “normal” country with which Europe and the West can be expected to easily identify, but rather a lonely, gutsy democracy under relentless attack in a tyrannical region.Israel will fare better when, before going to war, it prepares the diplomatic and the legal and the media ground as effectively as its prepares its fighting forces. (More than a year after Gaza, rather than thoroughly debunk and outflank the outrageous canards of the Goldstone Report, it is still desperately trying to reassure itself that it has dodged the Goldstone bullet; it hasn’t.) When Israel begins to hit back diplomatically – in the memorable phrase of Canadian human rights activist nonpareil Irwin Cotler, “to delegitimize the delegitimizers.” When Israel begins to reason articulately to people who don’t give a hoot about Israel being demonized that the UN, in its lopsided, indecent obsession with our perceived iniquities, is itself becoming ridiculous and discredited. When Israel begins to make the case, again as Cotler so succinctly puts it, that those guilty of apartheid attitudes in our region are not the Israelis, seeking survival, but those who discriminate against the Jewish state and push for an Israel-free Middle East.Israel will fare better when it allocates resources to meet the public diplomacy challenge in an orderly, streamlined, strategic fashion: Israel needs a proper hierarchy to unify the disparate ministerial and army mechanisms – today, in addition to the Foreign Ministry’s personnel, the IDF Spokesman’s Office, the Government Press Office and Edelstein’s new fiefdom, we have the apparatus Ehud Olmert established in the Prime Minister’s Office, not to mention a new grouping being overseen by Strategic Affairs Minister Moshe Ya’alon – adding up to what one despairing insider terms “a looming bureaucratic train wreck.”And official Israel also needs an adequately equipped unit to monitor how it is being presented; resources to research and convey the enemy’s manipulations and deceits; funds for satellite television; funds to revive state radio’s dying foreign language broadcasts.As things stand, Edelstein’s risible masbirim initiative is only the latest in a long line of haphazard outreach efforts that have made little impact in the familiar forums where Israel is judged, and incidentally are making little impact, either, in new media.Shimon Peres has a YouTube channel. Hurrah! Danny Ayalon has a huge Facebook following. Muted hurrah! But the deeper you search on YouTube, the worse things get for Israel, and Israel demonizers are leading the field in Twitter and every other innovative avenue of social networking too.As with the old media failures – typified by the refusal to properly inform Israel-based correspondents about what was at stake ahead of the Gaza assault, and then the numb-skulled ban on their very entry which saw the war covered for the world by Palestinian stringers – so, too, in new media there is insufficient engagement with potential supporters, insufficient outreach to social networks, blogs and news sites.Insistently, pigheadedly, Israel chooses not to allocate the funds to adequately replicate AIPAC’s ongoing program to bring rising American politicians to see the reality of Israel firsthand – our very best public diplomacy tool. Politicians from the world over, along with other opinion-shapers, editors, reporters, bloggers and Twitterers – where’s the money to host them here, and to introduce them to all the passions and contradictions of our country? Where’s the effort, in President Barack Obama’s favored terminology, to engage them?ALL OF this would be a start. But even then, we should have no illusions. For all our righteous sense that we are so far more sinned against than sinning, Israel is also hobbling itself through incoherence.While Fatah ostensibly wants peace along the pre-’67 lines and Hamas unequivocally wants us gone, nobody, but nobody, knows quite what it is that we want.Our prime minister says he has a vision of a Palestinian state, but he is also planting saplings at bombastic ceremonies at West Bank settlements and extending national heritage status to the Cave of the Patriarchs. Even if that makes a certain kind of sense to some of us here, it is plain incomprehensible to most who are not. The Goldstone Report is a strategic threat to Israel but Israel is begging Mahmoud Abbas – who initiated Goldstone by accusing Israel of genocide in Gaza – to please, pretty please, come and talk peace with us. Where’s the clarity?
So, okay, let’s imagine for a moment that those Brits on that train did
put down their newspapers and got talking with Moshe and Malka. When
they’d finished discussing whose sopranos soar higher, how would our
civilian envoys cope with those incoherencies and inconsistencies?
No wonder Edelstein is advising them to stay away from politics.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ending demonization, the Canadian way</title>
<date>20/1/2010</date>
<content>
The abuse of human rights and international law as weapons to demonize Israel spread rapidly following the infamous 2001 NGO Forum of the Durban Conference. From the Jenin "massacre" myth to the Goldstone war crimes accusations, these attacks, which are often led by government-funded groups, have mushroomed.Indeed, in a recent Knesset speech, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu recognized the extent of the threat, comparing it to the Iranian nuclear program.




But in sharp contrast to many other countries involved in this process, particularly in Europe, Canada has reversed course. The government in Ottawa has sought to end the flow of taxpayer funds, recently cutting funds for a group known as KAIROS that played a central role in the BDS - boycott, divestment, and sanctions - dimension of demonization.In parallel, the current Canadian leadership also appointed new members to the board of a government organization known as Rights and Democracy. This group receives an annual taxpayer stipend of more than $11 million, ostensibly "to encourage and support the universal values of human rights and the promotion of democratic institutions and practices around the world."However, for many years, on the issue of Israel, this group discarded these principles by supporting the anti-Israel demonization process, including providing funds to radical Palestinian NGOs whose work demonizes and delegitimizes Israel. Two recipients, Al-Haq and Al Mezan, are among the leaders of the BDS and "lawfare" campaigns.In sharp contrast to the pretense of defending human rights, Al Mezan repeats the Palestinian rhetoric of violence, including labeling attacks on Israeli civilians as "resistance." During last year's Operation Cast Lead, Al Mezan also accused Israel of "genocide" and "crimes against humanity." Other allegations included "apartheid," "ethnic cleansing," "massacres," and "slaughtering civilians." The organization employs highly offensive rhetoric, referring to Israeli "incit[ement]" to "holocaust (genocide)."Al-Haq is led by Shawan Jabarin. The Israeli Supreme Court referred to Jabarin as a "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," whose alleged senior role in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine terror group stand in stark contrast to his human rights claims. In Canada, Al-Haq pursued a lawfare case in Quebec against Canadian corporations, claiming that they were "aiding, abetting, assisting and conspiring with Israel" to violate the Geneva Conventions. This NGO also partnered with Al Mezan in seeking to have Defense Minister Ehud Barak investigated for war crimes in the UK, and they are preparing additional "war crimes" cases.WHILE FUNDING for such groups under the facade of "Rights and Democracy" is bad enough, this governmental organization did so in secret, without providing any mention in its publications or activities reports. When the new board members uncovered this information, they were warned against revealing it by Remy Beauregard, the President of the organization. Beauregard and his allies refused to abide by the requirements of transparency and accountability.According to the Toronto Globe and Mail, "the agency's board voted to 'repudiate'" the grants to Al-Haq and Al Mezan, which Beauregard resisted.But when he suddenly died last month, the illicit funding for groups like Al Mezan and Al-Haq got out. (Reflecting the close relationship, Al-Haq head Jabarin's condolence note is featured on the Rights and Democracy website.) Another issue to emerge is Beauregard's November 2008 trip to Cairo, for which he spent $9,431.99 in taxpayer funds (including $6,562.79 for airfare to Cairo - costly even for first class). There he participated in a regional dialogue on "Freedom of Association," along with representatives from the Arab League and the Syrian regime, among others.These revelations have triggered a sharp debate and growing criticism, and in response, Beauregard's allies resorted to bitter personal attacks. Reportedly, "[s]taffers wrote a letter demanding three board members resign, saying they had mistreated Mr. Beauregard." Ed Broadbent, a former Rights and Democracy president from the New Democratic Party, has taken the lead in rejecting calls for transparency and accountability.In contrast, the board members who are not part of the old guard, and the government officials that refuse to bow to threats, have set an important example, which goes beyond the Canadian case.Beyond the revelations to date, the next step would be the appointment of professional and independent auditors to prepare a full public accounting of all past activities, in order to clear the air and prevent future abuses. Additionally, NGO accountability must not be subject to partisan politics. Government officials and opposition leaders alike should ensure that the rhetoric of morality and human rights is not exploited for immoral political agendas.In the past, Canada had followed Europe in allowing government-supported human rights and humanitarian aid organizations to be exploited for political warfare, including the demonization of Israel. Now, Canada has the opportunity to set an important example for Europe in reversing this process, and ending the damage that has been done. The developments at Rights and Democracy highlight the need for a sweeping review of all NGO funding provided under the banner of human rights.
The writer heads NGO Monitor and is a professor of Political Science at Bar Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Expose ‘apartheid’ charge's real agenda</title>
<date>11/3/2010</date>
<content>
Day by day, the anti-Israel alliance is seeking to make the apartheid label stick to Israel. We see this at present in the fortnight of global agitation known as “Israel Apartheid Week.” But no one should be fooled – the real agenda behind branding Israel an “apartheid state” is the disappearance of the Jewish state altogether.The real apartheid state of South Africa was rightfully dismantled by the early 1990s. It was first discredited, then delegitimized and finally dismantled to the elation of the world and the enslaved black majority who had lived under its brutality. However, to describe Israel in these terms is, quite frankly, immoral and wicked. Yet on university campuses worldwide, this is becoming a very popular cause.




Radical leftist academics and politicians are teaming up with extremist Muslim elements to pursue this goal. They want to equate Israel with the original apartheid state, yet most of these people know absolutely nothing about apartheid. They have no knowledge of the “inner workings” of the apartheid system and couldn’t even tell you the basic facts about it. But the word itself is an extremely powerful weapon against Israel – since it conjures up notions of hatred, discrimination, brutality, racism and prejudice.Essentially, apartheid was a totalitarian system of governance – not unlike many of the regimes in the Arab world today. A white minority subjugated the overwhelmingly black population. It was ideologically driven and obsessed with racial superiority. The superior whites could not mingle with or even sit on a bench with the inferior black peoples. Even the education system was “dumbed down” for black people because they were deemed mentally inferior.The towns and cities were “white by night” as all “blacks” had to be removed to their shanty towns, which served as cheap labor ghettos for the nation. The black people could not vote, own property or even move freely inside their own country.Various instruments of state were used to ruthlessly enforce a total segregation, including the police, military and judiciary. In short, it was Aryanism in a new form.THERE IS absolutely nothing equivalent to this in the dispute between the Palestinians and Israel today. Within Israel itself, Arabs and Jews share the same shopping malls, benches, hospitals, theaters and, in many cases, suburbs. The educational institutions do not have a
deliberately “dumbed down” Arab curriculum and the privilege of voting is given to all. The Knesset has Arab members, and Jews, Arabs and Palestinians often work together at construction sites, businesses, hotels and elsewhere.Most important of all is the fact that Israel is a democratic state. Not a perfect one, but it does have democratic institutions and is definitely not governed by a totalitarian minority! In the disputed territories, some 98 percent of the Palestinian Arab population now lives under the governance of their own Palestinian Authority, where they have the right to vote and change their leaders – at least theoretically. True, Israel has adopted security measures that curtail their movement, but these have been necessitated by the conflict and are legitimate acts of self-defense, rather than acts of racial discrimination.Actually, the real nature of this conflict has very little to do with politics or race, and everything to do with theology. By this I mean a radical jihadist theology that considers the whole Land of Israel and not just the West Bank as part of the “House of Islam.”This theology dictates that all this land must be returned to Islamic rule, by force if necessary. Despite its “secular” credentials, the PLO has pursued the express mission of destroying the State of Israel since its founding in 1964 because it simply cannot derogate from this Islamic doctrine. The same jihadist theology drives an even more radical Hamas.This has absolutely nothing to do with apartheid. The State of Israel is a democracy which must answer to its citizens and thus has demonstrated a willingness to make painful concessions to secure a future of peace with its neighbors. In all cases, it alone has paid the real price by giving up land, which has then been used as a launching pad for further acts of terror.Even in response to Israel’s most generous peace overtures during the Oslo era, the Palestinians have opted for violence. Waves of suicide bombers attacked Israelis from the porous boundaries surrounding the West Bank. Men, women and children were indiscriminately murdered in buses, restaurants, hotels and shopping malls. To protect herself,
Israel built a security barrier, which in some built-up areas consists of a wall. It was not built to segregate people or discriminate against them, but to protect its own citizens from attack. In this connection, the security fence has been highly successful though even Israelis admit it is regrettable.NEVERTHELESS, ISRAEL’S detractors love to deride the “apartheid wall.” These same radical leftists espouse democracy but will not allow Israeli officials and scholars to exercise their democratic right to free speech. This is exactly what the apartheid thugs in South Africa
did. They violently brought public meetings to an end if anyone opposed their view. They were scared to death that someone might just have a more truthful and compelling argument than theirs. The democratic rights they claim for themselves, they deny to others.
For sure the Palestinians have suffered, but to place the blame
entirely at Israel’s door is folly. Their failed and corrupt
leadership, missed opportunities and willingness to support violence
and terror are also central causes of their suffering. The truth is the
apartheid accusation is just another smoke screen in the war against
Israel. I should know because I grew up in the dark apartheid era in
South Africa and stood against it to my peril.

As a young minister in South Africa, the writer participated in the struggle against apartheid in the 1980s and was threatened with detention without trial by the infamous Bureau of State Security. Today, he is executive director of the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem. www.icej.org/
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 12: Recognizing courage</title>
<date>11/2/2010</date>
<content>
Recognizing courage Sir, – The Jerusalem Post’s promptly publishing Fahmi Shabaneh’s courageous act of idealism is an excellent beginning (“PA issues warrant for whistleblower’s arrest,” February 11). 




In my opinion, referring to him as a “whistleblower” relegates him to a variously-interpretable label rather than encouraging his being admired as an individual of extraordinary merit. In exposing PA corruption, Mr. Shabaneh has literally risked his life and his family’s welfare with his commitment to insist on integrity as the fundamental currency for advancing peace and equity. Israel is notorious for losing sight of the political importance of events such as this. Mr. Shabaneh deserves powerful and public recognition as a hero of humankind. The praise and support he receives for what he has done will not necessarily validate him – he accomplished that with his actions – but it will assert that Israel has finally begun to know the value of a sensitive, prompt response to valuable services that have been rendered it and civilization.    PESACH GOODLEY     Telz Stone The usual ‘occupation’Sir, – Under the guise of a passionate defense of Naomi Chazan, Gershon Baskin insists on lumping together his favored gripes under one umbrella and demands that we all seek its protection (“A dark day for democracy,” February 9). He couples human rights and civil liberties advocates with those who are against the “occupation of the Palestinian people and territories” and thus opposed to the policies of Israel’s government.I dare say that the vast majority of Israelis are, like most Jews, supporters of civil liberties and human rights, but do not accept Baskin’s stand on the “occupation.”His claim of “occupation” is a dubious one, and has been at the core of the Arab-Israel conflict ever since the inauguration of the Zionist enterprise in the historical birthplace of the Jewish people. The legal right to this homeland was recognized by the Balfour Declaration and repeatedly reconfirmed by the League of Nations. There was never an independent Arab sovereignty over this part of the globe, and following the defensive War of Independence, fought victoriously against seven invading Arab armies, the territories that came under Israel’s control should justly remain there.If Baskin really is concerned about the Palestinians, he must convince them that neither clichés nor terrorist atrocities will solve their problems, but rather a willingness to accept Israel’s existence, followed by negotiations in good faith.    ZEV CHAMUDOT     Petah Tikva 
‘Label jars, not people’Sir, – As an ex-South African who has been living in Israel for almost
29 years, I absolutely abhor the use of the term “apartheid state” in
relation to Israel (“Away with campus timidity,” February 10). Only
those who lived in South Africa during the years of apartheid can
actually know and understand from experience what it was to have
separate entrances for “whites” and “blacks” in post offices and other
public places, separate benches in parks, separate transportation,
separate hospitals where black doctors (if there were any) would treat
only black patients, separate areas where people were allowed to live,
separate schools, separate cinemas and restaurants, all according to
the color of one’s skin; to have laws prohibiting black people to marry
or have social contact with white friends, travel from area to area or
even go out at night. I could go on ad infinitum. We need only go into Israeli hospitals to disprove the use of the
“apartheid” term where everyone is treated equally and  both Jewish and
Arab doctors and nurses treat everyone.Too easily we use completely inappropriate terminology, and it causes
untold damage. Behind my desk at my work is a poster: “Label jars, not
people.” We should all try not to throw improper and harsh words around.
    NAOMI SIDELSKY
    Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 3: Segregated seating...</title>
<date>2/2/2010</date>
<content>
Segregated seating...Sir, – While there is no universally accepted definition of “democracy,” references affirm two principles underpinning any definition of democracy: equality and freedom (Wikipedia). The Israeli regime of segregated buses for the ultra-Orthodox exposes how blatantly Israel’s version of “democracy” violates these fundamental principles (“Transportation minister OKs ‘mehadrin’ buses,” February 2). 




The government funds approximately 90 segregated bus routes: women at the back of the bus, men at the front. Women aren’t free to choose where to enter buses or where to sit. Women who enter or sit in the wrong part of the bus are abused verbally and physically, with few prosecutions of abusers. The separate-and-unequal bus regime violates both principles of democracy. It also imposes on all citizens a conservative, fundamentalist view of Jewishness rejected by the vast majority of Jews, Israelis and Israel supporters.Israel’s basic laws proclaim it a “Jewish and democratic state.” And its politicians and supporters remind us constantly that Israel is “the only democracy in the Middle East.” Yet its transportation minister advocates entrenching and expanding a bus system that is neither Jewish nor democratic. And we Jews remain silent, shamefully.    JUDY BAMBERGER    O’Connor, AustraliaSir, – With regard to your reports about segregated seating of men and women on buses, I would like to make the following points.The late Rabbi Moshe Feinstein wrote in a responsa that a man may sit next to a woman on a bus. However, he adds that if a man is aware that doing so would cause him to have improper thoughts, he may not do it.The reason women are required to sit in the back is not that they are considered inferior; if women sat in the front and men in the back, the men would be able to see the women at least partially, and that would defeat the purpose of the segregation.On one occasion I unknowingly sat at the back of a segregated bus and was told by a woman to move to the front. I appreciated that she told me, although I was “forced” to sit in front. To avoid misunderstandings and problems, segregated buses should be marked clearly as such.    EPHRAIM STEIN    Jerusalem... and secular bar mitzvasSir, – In response to Deena Spigelman (“Bar sans mitzva,” Letters, January 3l):1. One becomes a bat mitzva or bar mitzva by the mere fact of belonging to the Jewish race and turning 12 or 13. Announcing to the world that you are bat- or bar-mitzva, means that you want us to know you have reached an age where certain behavior may be expected of you, be that religious or secular. It’s customary to hold a ceremony in the synagogue, but not compulsory. Nor does not doing so clear you from responsibility.2. Many mitzvot don’t relate to religious observance at all – not to prayer or keeping Shabbat or kashrut. Many are between man and man: charity, avoiding idle gossip, visiting the sick, helping others, honesty, etc. 3. We need all the Jews we can keep. A secular Jew is still a Jew. Who are you to deny such Jews their birthright?    LITA ARKIN    JerusalemStanding up to smokeSir, – Your correspondents have encouraged me to make a point of complaining to the management in any restaurant in which I eat where other diners may be smoking illegally (“Kudos to Efrat’s rabbis,” February 2). I hope I shall not be subjected to assault in consequence!    MARTIN D. STERN    Salford, EnglandA different ‘Hatikva’Sir, – I always enjoy Liat Collins’s refreshing, youthful tone. However, this once, her youthfulness tripped her up (“From Kaddish to Hatikva,” January 31). It is true that Naftali Herz Imber wrote “Hatikva.” However, the version currently used as the national anthem of Israel is not exactly what he wrote. The lines quoted by Ms. Collins did not exist in the original and are from a modification made to the text in 1948.Imber lived in Palestine briefly in the 1880s, during which time he wrote “Tikvateinu” (later renamed “Hatikva”). The poem has nine stanzas plus a refrain. The full version expresses a historic yearning for a return to the land, devoid of a political Zionist aspiration for an independent state.    HAROLD E. NEUSTADTER    JerusalemLiat Collins writes: Many thanks for enlightening us (and for the compliments). Indeed, I’m not that old, although my tone is evidently more youthful than the rest of me!Keeping memory aliveSir, – Recognizing the urgency to preserve the real memory of the Holocaust (“Preserving the (real) memory,” January 24), the Holocaust Center Boston North, headquartered in Peabody, Massachusetts, and serving New England and beyond, created Holocaust Legacy Partners, a program that matches survivors with people, who pledge to actively and accurately keep survivors’ memories alive when they are no longer with us. Using video testimonies, interviews, artifacts and other means, people schedule presentations in settings such as middle school and high school classrooms, colleges, churches and temples.Interest in such programs grows daily in communities across the country. The center encourages communities to implement Holocaust Legacy Partners to ensure not only that future generations remember, but that they never forget.    DEBORAH L. COLTIN     Board member, Holocaust Center Boston NorthAvoiding an ‘apartheid state’Sir, – Thanks for your prominent reporting of the fact that “in addressing the ramifications of a continued stalemate in negotiations, [Defense Minister Ehud] Barak said, “It must be understood that if between the Jordan [River] and the [Mediterranean Sea] there is only one political entity called ‘Israel’, it will by necessity either be not Jewish or not democratic, and we will turn into an apartheid state” (“Defense Minister preaches two states for two peoples on eve of Mubarak meeting,” January 27). But this should not be news to anyone. It is impossible to see why the Right does not understand, when every single elected government, from that of Yitzhak Rabin onward, has recognized it.I worry that Israel has become so deeply polarized among haredim, Israeli Arabs, the settlement movement and Tel Aviv liberals, that it is too paralyzed to create and seize serious opportunities and take serious actions, even if the time were ever ripe. David Horovitz has himself expressed similar concerns in his columns.I wish more people could be conservative on terrorism, but equally liberal on two viable states and territorial final status terms, which would grant reasonable Palestinian aspirations and, above all, settle an increasingly dangerous conflict and avoid Barak’s demographic “apartheid state” in order to save Israel.    JAMES ADLER    Cambridge, MA An Eilat attraction
Sir, – I have just returned from a fabulous visit to Eilat. This wonderful city has something for everyone and should be a tourist destination for all of Europe to recharge their physical and intellectual selves (“Tourism industry mulls taking over marketing strategy from government,” February 2). However, one particular attraction that needs to be rethought is King’s City.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>February 4: Huckabee's message</title>
<date>3/2/2010</date>
<content>
Huckabee’s messageSir, – The visit of former and hopefully future presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is noteworthy (“Huckabee: Obama erred in placing all the pressure on Israel,” February 3). He brought with him an entourage of over 150 people who strongly identify with Israel, and was refreshingly candid about President Barack Obama’s heavy-handed pressure on the Jewish state. Huckabee indicated that this pressure has given impetus to pressure from Europe, putting Israel in semi-isolation as far as world opinion is concerned. Israel has become a country at which everyone can throw a few epithets, because if the United States, Israel’s best friend, can do it, the rest of the world can follow suit. It will not help US policies in the Middle East to have Israel publicly pressured, and the sooner President Obama realizes this, the better the US’s image will be.




THELMA SUSSWEINJerusalemThailand says no to drugsSir, – After reading the article “‘Nazi speed’ being smuggled here in ever-larger amounts” (February 2), I would like to point out that drug suppression is one of the top priorities of the current Thai government as well as successive ones, and Thailand has stringent laws and measures in areas of prevention, suppression and rehabilitation to combat drug abuse.Severe punishments exist, and cases of drug smuggling as mentioned in the report are no exception. As drug trafficking is a transnational issue, Thai authorities work in cooperation with the international community to combat this crime.Furthermore, it should be noted that although the report makes references to the terms “Nazi speed” and “Hitler’s drug,” these terms do not exist in Thailand and certainly have nothing to do with the situation of illicit drugs there.PULIN MILINTACHINDA Royal Thai Embassy Herzliya Pituah Six million funeralsSir, – I recently attended two funerals – one of my beloved grandmother, aged 92, and the second of a good friend and neighbor. Needless to say, it was a time of personal sorrow, and I wore a black suit and tie, as is appropriate on such occasions. On January 27, I went forth from my home similarly dressed. “Another funeral?” a friend asked after sizing up my attire. “I’m going to six million funerals today,” I answered. Noting her puzzled expression, I elaborated that it was Holocaust Memorial Day, and that I was attending the ceremony in Belfast City Hall in Northern Ireland that evening in memory of the six million Jews killed in the Nazi death camps. A cantor from Dublin sang a moving rendition in Hebrew, and testimonies were read. It reminded me of living in Tel Aviv, when I would often find myself standing next to a pensioner on the bus who was wearing short sleeves in the heat, and see the tattooed number from the concentration camps. As an outsider and a non-Jew, I was taken aback when I learned what those numbers meant. I often wondered what experiences those individuals had endured at the hands of the Nazis.While living in Israel, I was moved on Holocaust Memorial Day when a siren sounded across the country and people observed a communal silence, getting out of their cars and standing in the road or stopping their work, to commemorate the millions who perished – many of whom had been friends or family. Few were unaffected. This is the tragedy of the Holocaust, in that every death was an individual loved by someone, and that is why for the Jewish people, the commemoration is such a personal and painful event. Having just marked the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau (“London ceremonies mark Holocaust Memorial Day,” January 28), let us reflect on the enormity of that hurt and learn not to forget its lessons or the memory of each and every loved one who succumbed to Nazi terror. May their memory be forever blessed.COLIN NEVINTel AvivMore birthright follow-upSir, – I was born in the former Soviet Union (in what is now Belarus) and emigrated to New York when I was six years old. My family is very much Jewish from all sides, but like most Soviet Jews I was raised secular, with virtually no engagement with the Jewish community. However, this all changed after going on Birthright, particularly due to the post-trip follow-up by Birthright Israel NEXT NY and the JEC.I went on Birthright with Oranim in June 2008 because I wanted to take advantage of the free opportunity to visit Israel. However, I did not expect the experience to be so life-changing. After the trip I truly began to appreciate Israel and the significance of my Jewish identity. Thus, I was happy to receive an invite for coffee and several follow-up e-mails from the JEC to discuss my Israel experience and opportunities to further engage the Jewish community. Since the trip, I’ve done a Holocaust study program available through the JEC for Birthright alumni, volunteered to help the Jewish community in New York through JEC efforts such as J-Care, and attended many of their lectures and activities. I even recently accepted a full scholarship to a dual MBA/MA program in Jewish professional leadership at Brandeis University.I wholeheartedly believe I would not be where I am today if it were not for Birthright, and especially the post-trip follow-up. I also don’t think I’m unique in this respect, as my friends are also taking advantage of these opportunities. Please reconsider your position or interview more Birthright alumni, because the follow-up certainly exists.DMITRY LEVIN Waltham, MASir, – I am not only a Birthright alumnus, but also an active member of Birthright NEXT and the JEC in Manhattan. I wanted to take this opportunity to comment your article “Birthright needs to transform on a larger scale” (December 30).The claim that “Jewish communities make little effort to continue their engagement” and “these programs don’t reach the majority of alums” is completely wrong. The Birthright NEXT group here in New York City is probably the most influential and caring group in which I am involved. From halla-baking classes and Shabbat dinners, to putting together meals for the less fortunate, to planning educational and social initiatives throughout the calendar year, I am constantly being contacted and encouraged to stay in touch with my fellow Jewish community members – people I would never even have met if not for Birthright and the JEC.JAMIE SZTOSERNew YorkBetter buses for allSir, – Of course the haredim deserve better bus conditions – and so do I (“Transportation minister OKs ‘mehadrin buses,” February 2). I, too, dislike being squashed against other people. The overcrowding on Jerusalem buses is intolerable. Ordinary, tired people with no cars have to travel to work and back in these dirty, old buses, with as many standing as sitting. If there is money to spare to improve conditions, let it go to the general public. With fewer passengers and more buses, we all would benefit.HELEN LEVENSTON JerusalemJerusalem of toleranceSir, – It needed to be said, and Greg Tepper said it well: “Jerusalem is indeed tolerant... an honest accounting shows religious, secular, Arab, Jew, and others working together, busing together and walking the same streets” (“O Jerusalem, city of high blood pressure,” February 2). We might add shopping together, and at times being sick together or even being treated by one another.It must also be said that this situation exists today, but didn’t exist when the “enlightened” English controlled the city, and certainly not when the Jordanians controlled the eastern half and the Old City. Israel is not an apartheid state, but one of the most tolerant anywhere, certainly in the Middle East.
BARRY LYNNEfrat
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guest Columnist: Settlement whiplash</title>
<date>18/3/2010</date>
<content>
It was only a matter of time until settlement construction – the issue that the Obama administration has chosen to situate at the very core of its Mideast policy, as if settlements have anything at all to do with decades of Palestinian recalcitrance – reared its proverbial head once again. But now that the issue is back, it’s time for some honesty on both sides of the political divide: The wisdom or folly of settlement construction is substantially less obvious than most observers are willing to acknowledge.Barack Obama, Joseph Biden and Hillary Clinton are all justifiably incensed by the embarrassment caused to Biden by the sheer buffoonery of Israel’s elected officials. But their ire says nothing about the substance of the issue, which is once again being addressed with a stridency born of the fact that everyone believes that there is absolutely no merit to the position of the other.




LIVING IN Jerusalem, you don’t have to be prime minister to have periodic bouts of settlement whiplash. Life in the Jewish capital is sometimes comprised of conversations so surprising that you wonder whether to believe your ears. In the hopes of injecting even a drop of bilateral humility into the discourse, I share two conversations that took place not long ago – before most people had heard of Ramat Shlomo, but after it was already clear that settlements were a cause célèbre once again.I was sitting at one of those ubiquitous cafés on Rehov Emek Refaim, chatting with a lay leader from New York. Biblical claims to the land no longer matter, he was telling me. Nor do picayune legalistic arguments about why this family or that has the right to inhabit this building or that. All of that, he insisted, is now irrelevant.“You’re losing us,” he explained. “Lots of deeply committed American Jews have just had it with Israel. They want to care, but they can’t. Ninety percent of America’s Jews are Reform and Conservative Jews, but the Jewish state spits on them, and then expects us to pretend that it’s rain. You never elect a prime minister with the guts to stand up to those thugs called chief rabbis. You really expect us to be loyal third-class citizens?”And he took a deep breath. “But then, you make us not only angry, but ashamed. Doesn’t anyone here give any consideration at all to how Israel’s policies play in our community? How are we supposed to defend policies that push the Palestinians off of more land and out of more neighborhoods, when the world’s decided that that’s simply abhorrent? And have you got a strategy? Do you want a two-state solution? Because if you do, you’d better start leaving them some land on which to create one. And if you don’t want a two-state solution, what do you plan to do with those millions of Arabs in Gaza and the West Bank? Kick them out? Make them non-citizens forever, and then prove that Jimmy Carter was right about the apartheid accusation all along? Are you still going to expect us to watch your backs then? Really, do you guys ever actually think?”I pushed back, but only a bit, and very gently, because I wanted him to know that I had, indeed, heard him. I disagreed with many of his factual claims, but his angst was genuine, and he was far too articulate to be easily ignored.But it was soon time to go, for I had to pick up our car from its annual service. A short while later, I found myself in the waiting room, the car not quite ready though I’d been assured it would be. Sharing the space with me was a blond gentleman in a tweed suit and a tie, speaking English with a thick European accent. We had time to kill, so I figured I might as well talk to him. He was from Scandinavia, it turned out, but was now working for the European Union in “Palestine.”Oy. This, I could tell, was just going to be one of those days. From the frying pan into the fire. I asked him about his counterparts in the Palestinian government. Some good people, he said, but a lot of corruption. They have a long way to go before they’re ready for statehood, he added.That surprised me. So I pushed. “So, are we eventually going to have peace here?”“Well,” he said, “‘eventually’ is a long time. But probably not in my lifetime, or yours.”“So,” I asked, figuring that little could be worse than that conversation at the café, “what should Israel do in the meantime?”“Just what you are already doing,” he said.“Meaning what?”“Meaning, that you keep building your country, and keep building the settlements.”I wasn’t sure I’d heard correctly. “Build the settlements?”“Absolutely.”“Why’s that?”“Look,” he said. “Some day, they’re going to be ready for serious talks. They’re going to make a huge concession, and recognize your right to exist. But they’re going to expect a similarly grand concession from you. Your concession can’t be recognizing their right to a state, because you’ve already done that. And you can’t compromise on the return of refugees, because then you have no Jewish state. So you need something massive that you can give up on – and that’s going to be the settlements. You’ll have to evacuate and destroy most of them in the end, but if you do that now, then what will you offer at the table? The settlements are your key to making peace eventually.”AT THAT moment, we were both told that our cars were ready. We shook hands, and went our respective ways. I should have asked for his card, I thought as I was driving home, because I should have introduced him to my American Jewish philanthropist friend. And my American Jewish friend should really speak not to me, but with the people who actually shape Israeli policy.
Which got me wondering: Could those people begin to hear each other? Can
 we? Not now, probably. But eventually? Perhaps. The problem, though, is
 that eventually can be a really long time.

The writer is senior vice president of
 the Shalem Center in Jerusalem. His most recent book, Saving 
Israel: How the Jewish People Can Win a War That May Never End (Wiley), recently received a 2009 National 
Jewish Book Award. He blogs at http://danielgordis.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guest Columnist: The Irish boycott: What a joke</title>
<date>8/9/2010</date>
<content>
To start with, it goes without saying that people are free to boycott whoever 
they wish. For many years now, I have chosen not to visit any country which 
practices gender apartheid – i.e. Muslim states – as I will not contribute in 
any way to a vile belief system which results in females being treated in a way 
which appears to be a cross between the way czarist Russia treated the Jews and 
Scrooge treated money.So of course the “Irish intellectuals and artists” 
who Haaretz recently reported as declaring Israel well and truly boycotted were 
totally within their rights to do so. The conceit that the Irish are telling the 
Jews that they won’t be sending them any more intellectuals does sound like the 
first line of an insulting stereotypical joke – but still, it’s their 
right.




That the artists signed a statement pledging that they will 
refrain from engaging in cultural activity with Israel “until such time as 
Israel complies with international law and universal principles of human rights” 
also sounds like a joke, and a rather bad one at that, considering that the 
Irish Palestine Solidarity Campaign has made no comment about the gender 
apartheid practiced by their pals.Last year, Hamas security forces 
attempted to arrest a Palestinian woman for not wearing a head scarf, walking on 
a beach without a male escort and laughing out loud! O, these brazen hussies – 
they’ll be wanting the right to marry who they want next, and then it’ll be 
anarchy! Luckily the woman in question, Asma al-Ghul, was a journalist at the 
Palestinian daily Al-Ayam; she said that had she not phoned Hamas and appealed 
to it personally, she would have been arrested for showing her hair and 
laughing, as has happened to less media-savvy Palestinian women since then. Even 
so, she had her passport confiscated and claims that the men threatened her with 
violence if she complained.And these people, these Hamas thugs, who 
treat even their own female journalists (goodness knows what they behave like to 
those women without a voice) like suspected streetwalkers, are the people who 
Western entertainers and academics are backing as a beacon of enlightenment 
against nasty Israel. It sort of makes sense concerning the recent Irish 
connection though; when you’ve grown up indoctrinated by a religion – 
Catholicism – which is almost as viciously gynophobic as Islamism, I guess you 
don’t notice much of a difference.CATHOLICISM IN general and Ireland in 
particular have a long, problematic history of cozying up to Jew-haters. It’s 
open knowledge that the present pope was in the Hitler Youth – though even this 
isn’t enough for Mel Gibson’s arch- Catholic, Holocaust-denying dad, who says 
the pope is gay for not being tough enough on gayness.And Papist Mel 
himself has shown his true Jew-baiting colors in vino veritas way back. And the 
prime minister of “neutral” Ireland during World War II, Eamonn de Valera, 
famously signed the book of condolences at the German Embassy in Dublin on the 
occasion of Hitler’s death.Of course there are honorable exceptions to 
this shameful roll call. At ceremonies for the first Holocaust Memorial Day in 
Ireland, January 26, 2003, justice minister Michael McDowell openly apologized 
for an Irish wartime policy that was inspired by “a culture of muted 
anti-Semitism in Ireland,” which discouraged the immigration of thousands of 
Europe’s threatened Jews. He said that “at an official level the Irish state was 
at best coldly polite and behind closed doors antipathetic, hostile and 
unfeeling toward the Jews.”And earlier this year, that great rock icon 
of Irish descent, John Rotten Lydon, defied his critics and defended his plans 
to play in Israel thus: “I really resent the presumption that I’m going there to 
play to right-wing Nazi Jews. If Elvisf* cking-Costello wants to pull out of a 
gig in Israel because he’s suddenly got this compassion for Palestinians, then 
good on him. But I have absolutely one rule, right? Until I see an Arab country, 
a Muslim country, with a democracy, I won’t understand how anyone can have a 
problem with how they’re treated.”SAYS DR. David Hirsh, a lecturer in 
sociology at Goldsmiths, University of London, and an expert on anti-Semitism: 
“In Ireland, Green/Orange politics is largely now a thing of the past, but the 
Israel boycott allows those who are nostalgic for it to carry on playing the 
game.In certain Irish imaginations, the Palestinians are drafted in to 
symbolize the Republicans and the Israelis are given the role of the Loyalists. 
The vulgar anti-imperialists bang on about their boycott of Israel, but none of 
this has anything to do with reality in the Middle East. It does, however, 
destroy the unity of the Irish Labor movement.“All over the world, local 
issues are played out over the body of the Jewish state, in the language
 of the 
Israel boycott. In Britain the boycott is about colonial guilt. In South
 Africa 
it is about apartheid.In Germany it is about the Holocaust. In the US it 
is about the Wild West. In Venezuela it is about the anti-imperialist 
rainbow. 
In Egypt and Iran it is about uniting people behind vile 
governments.”UNTIL SO many crazy countries sort themselves out and stop 
projecting their own neuroses onto the battleground of the tiny Jewish 
state, I 
guess you guys will just have to struggle on as best you can without 
those 
all-important imported Irish intellectuals. And yes, again, it does 
sound like a 
joke, but I don’t hear anyone laughing. Especially not women who wish to
 walk 
alone on Arab beaches, daring to feel the breeze in their hair.
The 
writer has been a journalist since the age of 17 and an admirer of 
Israel since 
the age of 12. The television adaptation of her teenage novel Sugar Rush
 won an 
International Emmy in 2006.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hijacking apartheid</title>
<date>28/9/2010</date>
<content>
In 1997, I was sent to the University of Cape Town by Ben-Gurion University of 
the Negev to be the master of ceremonies when the president of South Africa, 
Nelson Mandela, received an honorary doctorate from BGU. Representatives from 40 
universities from South Africa and neighboring countries marched in the academic 
procession.Being Israeli and Jewish was a welcome and appreciated 
calling card at that the event, and at others over the years. As Mandela 
eloquently declared in his acceptance speech: “In Ben-Gurion University of the 
Negev we have a center of excellence which represents the best in the traditions 
of the Jewish people: a sense of mission, internationalism and 
inventiveness.”




This May, I was again in South Africa, but this time at a 
special hearing before the senate of the University of Johannesburg to help 
respond to a petition calling for a boycott of BGU, and by implication all 
Israeli universities. The petition charged BGU with violating the academic 
freedom of a colleague who urged a boycott of Israeli universities. It also 
claimed human rights violations in the theft of Palestinian water resources. 
This allegation in particular was used to support the demand that their 
university abrogate a signed and functioning agreement with BGU for joint 
research on water use issues. Both charges echoed the now familiar claim that 
Israel is an apartheid state.The first two complaints were readily 
answered on factual grounds. BGU has a record of supporting academic freedom and 
a well-documented history of research to improve water quality for all the 
inhabitants of the region.We further cautioned that South Africans 
should beware of having their experience with apartheid hijacked for the sake of 
polemical advantage in advancing the political causes of others, just as Jews 
guard against indiscriminate applications of “Holocaust” or 
“genocide.”Yet the movement to discredit Israel by comparing it to 
apartheid South Africa is well orchestrated and has its own momentum.It 
is hard to gauge what the final result will be. A subcommittee was to have 
reported back to the senate today, September 29. The vice chancellor and the 
university administration were then to deliberate and render final judgment in a 
month or so. We hope that common sense and courage will guide them in their 
decision and that they will dismiss the absurd arguments of the detractors and 
vote for cooperation and collaboration.YET JUST last week, Bishop 
Desmond Tutu signed a second petition calling for the suspension of any 
relationship with Ben- Gurion University on the grounds that it is the creation 
of a criminal state and complicit in its noxious behavior. Even as sanctions 
were used to break apartheid in his country, he argues, sanctions should be used 
against Israeli universities.This new petition nowhere mentions the 
issue of academic freedom or violations of water rights. A host of other 
outrageous charges raised against Ben-Gurion University at the May senate 
meeting and, answered at that time, have similarly disappeared. Instead the 
second petition makes far more general indictments.They constitute, in 
effect, an accusation against Israeli society as a whole. It is hard to 
understand such animus, since it so patently and deliberately rejects both 
reason and self-interest.I have not entirely overcome the frustration 
and anger at having to answer baseless and mendacious accusations.Yet I 
believe it is clear that it is not BGU and Israel who are on trial, but the 
academics of South Africa.Israel is a world leader in arid-zone and 
water research as in much else.Literally scores of countries have 
collaborative agreements with Israeli institutions.Students and 
academics from around the world come to Israel, from the Palestinian Authority 
and Jordan, from across Africa and Europe, the US and Russia.The 
University of Johannesburg cannot match that record of achievement and 
engagement. The much maligned water project will help produce pure water crucial 
for Johannesburg. To deny fellow citizens such a benefit on the pretense that 
this action demonstrates concern for the human rights of Palestinians and 
furthers their cause is a cynical effort to appear self-righteous in the absence 
of any serious commitment. It cannot compare with and should not be allowed to 
overshadow the agricultural, technical and health collaborations and assistance 
BGU has offered over the years to UJ and other South African universities as 
well as its Arab and Palestinian neighbors.The sad irony is that the 
benefits of the UJ agreement are marginal for BGU.
There are many other 
suitors eager for cooperative arrangements. There is one benefit, though, that 
Mandela well expressed in welcoming an association with BGU. It is in the 
opportunity for service that is deeply embedded in the Zionist ethic that 
animates Israeli scholarship as a whole. Despite the indignity of confronting 
this assault on the university and the country, BGU has remained ready to reach 
out and share with colleagues everywhere who value what the application of good 
science can do for mankind.

The writer is professor emeritus of history 
and formerly dean of humanities and social sciences at Ben-Gurion 
University. He is currently director of the Schusterman Center for Israel 
Studies at Brandeis University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>If we don’t act, they will</title>
<date>28/12/2010</date>
<content>
We appear to have reached the end of the latest fruitless attempt at resolving 
this too-long and too-bloody conflict. There’s plenty of blame to go 
around. The Americans’ early focus on a settlement freeze ensured that the 
Palestinians would have a perfect excuse to avoid direct negotiations – even 
though this had never before been a condition for peace talks. Meanwhile, the 
revelation that Mahmoud Abbas had rejected Ehud Olmert’s parting offer of a 
two-state solution that went beyond anything previously offered in its crossing 
of supposed red lines was not a promising sign that the Palestinians were even 
ready to do a deal.Binyamin Netanyahu responded to the US request by 
trying to appease Barack Obama while not alienating the settlers, ordering a 10- 
month moratorium but insisting it would be a one-time event. He ignored the 
advice of wiser heads in his government, such as Dan Meridor, who urged him to 
take the opportunity to make a distinction between the settlement blocs which, 
according to all previous peace proposals, would remain part of Israel, and 
settlements that would have to be evacuated as part of any future peace 
agreement.




However, far more depressing than this entirely predictable 
failure is the unavoidable feeling that, for some members of the government 
(possibly including the prime minister), the situation simply means we can go on 
as before.They are surely familiar with the arguments for reaching a 
two-state deal. For the past decade or more, politicians on the Left and, 
increasingly, the center and even the Right have understood that Israel is fast 
heading toward a situation where the number of Arabs living in all the territory 
that it controls will outnumber the number of Jews. It would then face a demand 
for a one-state solution which would force it to either lose its Jewish 
character demographically or become an apartheid state.This country 
needs to end the occupation, not for peace, not for the cause of Palestinian 
statehood, but for itself.The reasons for this go beyond the demographic 
argument.We should not underestimate how much we gain internationally by 
virtue of being part of the West. As much as we complain, justifiably, about the 
double standards in the Western media and among certain European “liberal” 
institutions, Israel is a close ally of not just the US, but the EU states, 
Canada, Australia and the liberal democratic world. This status is manifested in 
numerous ways, from preferential trade agreements, to diplomatic support at the 
UN, to cultural ties and more.However, as Ehud Barak said just a few 
days ago: “The world is changing before our eyes, and is no longer willing to 
accept, even temporarily, our continued control over another 
people.”Quite simply, our status as a Western democracy will not survive 
our ruling over the Palestinians indefinitely. Security-based arguments for not 
returning to the pre-1967 borders are sound, but no Western government will 
accept that historical and religious ties to Judea and Samaria can justify 
Israel remaining in control there while denying the Palestinians equal 
rights.IF YOU need another argument, how about this one: If we don’t act 
to change the status quo, the Palestinians will. Threats to give up on a 
negotiated settlement and to go to the international community for support are 
not idle. If the world perceives us to be primarily to blame for the hold-up in 
negotiations (for example by continuing to build settlements in areas of the 
West Bank that will definitely be part of a future Palestinian state), there 
could be widespread support for an imposed solution, with the world – including 
our allies – recognizing the state of Palestine within the 1967 
borders.The final reason to end, finally, our control of the 
Palestinians is the simplest of all. It is wrong. Eitan Haber, who served as 
Yitzhak Rabin’s bureau chief, has described how Rabin understood “that we could 
not continue to rule 2.5 million Palestinians against their will. The 
indications of moral deterioration that had appeared as part of our rule over 
the Arabs in the territories led him to recognize that we must not continue to 
dominate another people. The scenes of what the occupation was doing to the IDF 
and the behavior of soldiers at roadblocks or in the pursuit of demonstrators 
concerned him greatly.”Rabin was steeped in the founding values of the 
IDF. For him, young men and women should be donning the uniform with the pride 
that comes with defending one’s country, not preparing to serve as the policemen 
of a military occupation.There was a time not so long ago when 
unilateral withdrawal in the absence of a peace partner was a winning political 
platform. It was Kadima’s avowed agenda when it finished as the largest 
party in the 2006 Knesset elections. The public was persuaded that we had to 
draw permanent borders which would be secure and defensible, separate from the 
Palestinians and leave to them the majority of the West Bank.Before 
long, though, that bubble had burst, pricked by the precedents set in the two 
areas already vacated unilaterally – Gaza and southern Lebanon. Hamas and 
Hizbullah rained down rockets, and the vindicated Right punctuated its 
told-you-sos with grim assurances that an evacuated West Bank would quickly 
become yet another base for genocidal Iranian proxies.However, as 
Haaretz commentator, Ari Shavit, recently pointed out, to cite the increased 
Kassams following disengagement is to miss the point: “The Right was right, but 
the Right was also wrong. It understood the latent dangers in withdrawal, but 
completely failed to understand its necessity... The Right failed to grasp five 
years ago exactly what it refuses to grasp today... Israel must take its fate in 
its hands and act wisely to create a border between itself and Palestine. Only 
thus can it ensure its identity and legitimacy as a Jewish and democratic 
state.”A withdrawal from part of the West Bank in the absence of a peace 
agreement need not be entirely unilateral. Earlier this year, Ehud Ya’ari, the 
country’s most prominent Arabaffairs journalist, proposed an “armistice 
agreement,” whereby we would evacuate settlers and soldiers from the vast 
majority of the West Bank, keeping enough territory to “thicken” the country at 
its most vulnerable points, but leaving contiguous territory for the 
Palestinians to establish a state with provisional borders. The question of 
final borders, as well as the thorny issues of the refugees and Jerusalem, would 
be left until the Palestinians were ready and willing to 
negotiate. Ya’ari believes the Palestinians could be persuaded to agree 
to this if the Western states that bankroll their economy endorse his 
plan.This is not the cry of a utopian peacenik. Ya’ari’s 
extensive sources in the Arab world tell him that the Palestinians will soon be 
pushing for one state-of-all-its-citizens – that is, one state on all the land, 
where Arabs would outnumber Jews. There would be no Jewish state here, just the 
latest Arab state: “The process of rethinking the goal of Palestinian statehood 
within the ’67 borders is already at work, and Israelis have become so apathetic 
to anything that happens on the other side of the security fence that we as a 
society are way behind in reading the writing on the wall.”Does this 
apathy extend to the country’s leaders? We must hope not. For one way or 
another, with or without a negotiating partner, we need to act. Netanyahu’s 
principal focus on stopping Iran going nuclear is understandable, but continuing 
to rule over the West Bank poses no less of an existential threat to our Jewish 
and democratic state.
The writer worked in the Public Affairs Department 
of the Israeli Embassy in London and as the ambassador’s speechwriter before 
making aliya.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In My Own Write: Why context is crucial</title>
<date>9/11/2010</date>
<content>
Though it happened over four decades ago, I vividly remember my shock the day I witnessed our respected and much-admired English teacher, Mrs. Rowlands, steal a girl’s wallet.We 14-year-old pupils at Brondesbury and Kilburn High School for Girls in London were milling about prior to the lesson. As one classmate passed under the teacher’s desk, which stood on a dais, I saw Mrs. Rowlands lean forward and deftly pluck the wallet from the back pocket of the girl’s skirt.




“You won’t believe this...” I stammered, pulling at my friend’s sleeve while I told her about the astonishing theft I had just witnessed. My mind was in turmoil.Once the class had settled down, our teacher asked, quietly: “Rosemary, have you lost anything?” and held up the wallet. Abashed, Rosemary walked up to reclaim her property.We then received a short lecture on keeping money in a sensible place to prevent it being stolen or lost.What our teacher had done – albeit in a dramatic way, befitting the actress she had once been – was to put her behavior in context. She had made us understand the motive behind her action, so dumbfounding on the face of it, taken against the backdrop of school life, in which valuable things do go missing.But had I witnessed only her action and missed the context, my image of her would have been shattered forever.IN an October 28 Post item headlined “MKs will learn some manners to avoid blunders abroad,” Gil Hoffman detailed an initiative by Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon to offer MKs a course in diplomatic etiquette.Some of the “don’ts” the MKs would learn are really an eye-opening lesson about other cultural contexts, in which behaviors Westerners consider unremarkable can elicit a negative reaction.For example: “Don’t put your hands in your pockets in Mexico.” Mexicans consider this rude.More serious, perhaps, is the gaffe of giving your Chinese host a watch as a gift because for the Chinese, “the tick-tock symbolizes how long they have to live.” Equally, beware of crossing the chopsticks on your plate in Japan since “the Japanese consider an X to be a symbol of death.”Planning a trip to Taiwan some years ago, I was advised to take along a stack of visiting cards and present them to everyone I could as a sign of respect. If I received a card, I should not slight the giver by just stowing it away, as in the West, but first lay it down and contemplate it.In parts of Africa and Asia, there is a taboo against using the left hand for eating or other social activity because it is considered “the dirty hand,” used for bathroom functions.That’s something for lefties like me to remember.‘CONTEXT,’ declared a thoughtful friend, going to the heart of the matter, “is the keystone of communication.”“Go on,” I said.“Without context,” she continued, “communication is reduced to an exchange of literal images. Context gives us a frame of reference. Without it, human interaction is rendered largely meaningless.“You’re right,” I said. “Without context, one is left sailing on a sea of superficiality.”THE importance of context was very much on the minds of those, including
 myself, who attended an event in Jerusalem organized by the British 
Israel Group in 2004.BIG had invited the London-based international lawyer Trevor Asserson to
 face off, as it were, against the BBC, which he had accused in a number
 of harsh and extensively documented reports of failing to live up to 
its charter because of “continuous partiality in favor of the 
Palestinian narrative.”Seated on the platform next to him was Andrew Steele, who had recently 
been appointed senior editor of the BBC’s Middle East Bureau.Steele’s position – this was before “disproportionate force” became a 
widespread anti-Israel charge – was that Israel, much the stronger side,
 was taking advantage of the weaker one. He denied repeatedly that the 
BBC had colluded with Palestinians to create a biased account of the 
conflict, and emphatically asserted that its journalists were “united by
 a love of truth” and a search for balance.These noble protestations notwithstanding, Steele’s grasp of “the 
situation” felt tenuous; which led me, when question time came around, 
to go up to the microphone and say: “Mr. Steele, you have only recently 
taken up your present position. Would you share with us the scope of the
 research you have done into Israel’s conflict with the Palestinians, 
going back over the past 50 – or, even better, the past 100 years?” The 
BBC’s Mideast Bureau editor seemed bewildered, even stupefied, by my 
request. He floundered for a bit, and then said, “Well, I’ve read one or
 two books, and talked to some people.”“He had no background knowledge to speak of,“ one of the event’s 
organizers told me later. This cavalier attitude to context, I 
commented, is what makes so many news reports about Israel superficial.Another media-watcher said recently that he thought the BBC’s Israel reporting had become somewhat fairer.PERHAPS it is wrong to single out the BBC when a general disdain for 
context seems to be growing, partly as a reaction to the unstoppable 
flood of information pouring out of the Internet. Demanding context – 
which is, above all, history – needs an investment in time, and who has 
the time? Not, sad to say, the majority of news and opinion purveyors 
and consumers.I was disheartened to hear a Knesset member on a popular current affairs
 radio program prefacing his response to a question with: “First, we 
need a little history...” and the interviewer cutting him off with 
“Never mind the history....”Did he, I wonder, realize that he was saying, “Never mind the context”? 
PALESTINIAN officialdom blames Palestinian ills on “the Israeli 
occupation,” a charge swallowed whole by most of the international 
community.But if they cared about context, wouldn’t they say: “Hey, before 1967 
and the Six Day War, there was no occupation. So what was Yasser Arafat 
intent on liberating in 1964, when he founded the Palestine Liberation 
Organization? Other much-cited evil Israeli machinations are “the 
(apartheid) wall” and those scandalous Israeli checkpoints, which make 
it so tough for ordinary Palestinians to go about their business. And 
let’s not forget Israel’s “siege of Gaza” which prompts all that 
international sailing activity.Those who insist on context know that the purpose of these Israeli 
measures is to block the relentless, ongoing terrorism directed at our 
small country, whether it takes the form of would-be infiltrators sworn 
to committing mayhem among our population, or rockets raining down from 
Gaza onto our southern communities.In a Post article by Benjamin Weinthal and Jonny Paul earlier this 
month, human rights scholar and activist Anne Bayefsky cited German law 
professor Christian Tomuschat, whose committee has been appointed to 
implement the findings of the UN’s Goldstone Report: “The Tomuschat 
Committee has now produced a report which never once mentions the word 
‘Hamas,’ claims ‘the de-facto Gaza authorities have made a series of 
unilateral declarations of respect for human rights,’ and decides it is 
reasonable to limit their consideration of events to ‘on or after 18 
December 2009...’ “Mysteriously,” Bayefsky went on, “Tomuschat never 
produced Hamas’s human-rights-respecting declarations, nor did he 
mention the organization’s charter and its actual commitment to 
Jew-hatred and genocide.“Instead, he decided that almost a decade of Hamas rocket attacks in 
pursuit of such goals were outside his jurisdiction, which was 
apparently to examine a war Israel launched in a vacuum.”WHEN the context in which Israel exists and functions is dismissed, it 
leaves a vacuum, and a vacuity, that is tragic on an international 
scale. In understanding any conflict – or, indeed, any form of human 
interaction at all – context is crucial.
Context might not be everything; but in the end, it’s the only thing that makes sense of people’s lives.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel Part II, the reality – Israeli Arabs</title>
<date>14/2/2010</date>
<content>
Two weeks ago, I wrote about my reasons for moving to Israel. I wanted “to help in building a nation that would be a reflection of the best of the Jewish value heritage – a country based on the prophetic vision of equality, social justice, decency and humanity.” I fully expected that the Zionist enterprise would be inclusive, pluralistic, humanistic and universal.In retrospect, almost 40 years after my aliya, I view my life here through a different lens. Perhaps I should have been more realistic, accepting David Ben-Gurion’s vision that we should seek “normalcy” and be like any other nation, which meant there would be “Jewish police and Jewish criminals.” For certain, that is true.




But, what I did not expect was institutional criminality. I am not referring to those Knesset members serving time in jail or a president and prime minister being accused respectively of rape and embezzlement. I am speaking of the type of institutional criminality that bears the mark of discrimination, separation, prejudice and bigotry. Given my idealized picture of Israel prior to my aliya, writing this sequel is not easy. No one likes his dream (read Zionist dream) shattered, especially when it undermines the very core of a Jewish state that should be based on the social prophecy of the sages of old.So, this column will address one particular broken promise, which for me is the ethical yardstick by which the ideal character of a Jewish state must be measured, and that is the treatment of Israel’s Arab population. In his book, Altneuland, Theodor Herzl, the father of modern Zionism, wrote that “the Jewish people, upon reclamation of its ancient homeland, must extend civil, human, social and political rights to the people already in the land.” This is not to deny the many positive elements of life here for Israeli Arabs. The majority Jewish population, looking upon the Arab community, is surely tempted to give itself a pat on the back in many areas of integration. Just walk into any hospital and a large number of the medical staff is Arab; at the University of Haifa, Arabs comprise 30 percent of the student population, 10% more than the proportion of Arabs in the country, and all have an equal vote in local and national elections.NEVERTHELESS, OUR overall relationship to the Arab minority, despite the above notable exceptions, has been one of disdain, unequal treatment, humiliation and out-and-out discrimination. Sadly, this conduct extends to other minorities in the country – Ethiopians and foreign workers – but none like it does to Arab citizens. Herzl’s hope for the full integration of Arabs was echoed in the diaries of Israel’s first president Chaim Weizmann: “I am certain that the world will judge the Jewish state by what it will do with its Arab population, just as the Jewish people will be judged by what it does or fails to do in this state.”These two Zionist leaders were only expressing what was mandated of the Jewish people as they went from Egyptian slavery to freedom: to create a society that would be a rejection of the abuse of power executed against them by the pharaohs. The antecedent to Herzl’s and Weizmann’s writings is the biblical decree: “When a stranger resides with you in your land, you shall not wrong him. The stranger who resides with you shall be to you as one of your citizens” (Leviticus 19:33-34).A few weeks ago, President Shimon Peres led a busload of Israeli Jewish businessmen on a trip to the North to interest them in investing in the Arab sector, helping to build factories and hi-tech companies that will bring financial relief to their economically deprived communities.Who knows what motivated this venture? Perhaps Minority Affairs Minister Avishay Braverman pushed for such an initiative. Interviewed in The Jerusalem Post (January 15), he said: “It is vital to provide Arab Israelis with full equality and partnership, not only because it says so in the Declaration of Independence, and not only because it is the right thing to do, but because it is the smart thing to do.”How long did it take Braverman to figure out the obvious? Did he suddenly realize that the Arab sector does not receive an equal distribution of the nation’s economic pie, therefore suffering from inferior educational, social, medical and municipal services? What does he expect when some members of his government are the political counterparts of France’s Jean-Marie Le Pen and Austria’s late Jorg Haider, such as unabashed chauvinists Avigdor Lieberman, Uzi Landau and Yitzhak Aharonovitch, along with Eli Yishai and his xenophobic gang of Shas medievalists?Despite Braverman’s sympathetic sentiments, his coalition rejected a bill that would enforce equal distribution of land between Jews and Arabs. Reinforcing this “principle” of inequality, Mitzpe Aviv, a rural settlement in the Misgav Administrative District, approved a charter requiring “any prospective member to declare that he believes in the values of Zionism, Jewish tradition and Israel as a democratic and Jewish state.” Two other communities in the region have adopted similar edicts, Manof and Yuvalim, with others certain to follow. These acts are an expression of the loyalty oath that Braverman’s coalition partner, Israel Beiteinu, wants to introduce.Such a charter violates a High Court ruling that prohibits selection committees from rejecting applicants on religious or ethnic grounds. It also circumvents the Supreme Court’s decision that allows Israeli Arabs to purchase and build on state-owned lands by preventing them from doing so.What about the matter of east Jerusalem, which has been formally annexed to the state? It should logically follow that the residents there are citizens. Alas, these Palestinians are allowed to vote in municipal elections, but not national ones. Further, they cannot secure building permits, while Braverman’s government approves yet another Jewish neighborhood in their midst – in Shuafat. And Jerusalem’s mayor, Nir Barkat, openly defies a court order to evacuate those Jews illegally occupying Arab homes in Sheikh Jarrah with nary a word of protest from Braverman and his coalition cronies.What do we call such all-encompassing inequality? Are east Jerusalem
Arabs half-citizens? An enlightened Israeli would euphemistically label
such treatment unjust. However, the rest of the world would use the
designation apartheid, even though the analogy is inaccurate and the
use of such nomenclature unfair. So, what should we call it? How about
calling it for what it is: racism. And it matters little whether it is
politically or religiously motivated.Such condemnable behavior toward the Arab population is not only
morally corrupt, but practically insane, as it will surely invite an
internal intifada of our own making.Until the Jewish state lives up to the urgings of Herzl and Weizmann,
let alone fulfills the Levitical directive of how we should behave
toward the “stranger” – all of which serve as the lightning rod to
define the nature of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state – the
reality of Israel will overwhelm the ideal of Israel as being a “light
unto the nations.”
The writer is a Reform rabbi, author, lecturer and ongoing contributor to the Jerusalem Post Magazine.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jordan, Dr. Peace and Mr. Apartheid</title>
<date>24/7/2010</date>
<content>
Last January, Faisal al-Fayez, a Jordanian senator and former prime minister, 
threatened Israel on national Jordanian television with “6 million Jordanian 
suicide bombers.” Fayez is considered one of the closest Jordanian officials to 
King Abdullah II; he is also a leader of the Bani Sakher tribe which has 
historically dominated the most important positions in the Hashemite 
kingdom.Another member of the tribe, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior 
Minister Nayef al-Qadi, defended an official policy of stripping Jordanians of 
Palestinian heritage of their citizenship, a policy that has resulted in the 
denaturalization of more than 2,700 so far according to a recent report by Human 
Rights Watch. In an interview with a London-based Arab newspaper, Qadi said that 
“Jordan should be thanked for standing up against Israeli ambitions of unloading 
of the Palestinian land of its people” which he described as “the secret Israeli 
aim to impose a solution of Palestinian refugees at the expense of 
Jordan.”




Furthermore, King Abdullah, in a clear gesture of carelessness 
to Israel, has extended his condolences to the family and followers of 
Muhammad 
Hussein Fadallah, Hizbullah’s spiritual leader who passed away 
recently.


THE CAUSES of Jordan’s recent line of official hostility toward 
Israel are deep-rooted in the makeup of the Jordanian state itself. 
Jordan is a 
country with a Palestinian majority which allows them little or no 
involvement 
in any political or executive bodies or parliament.


This lack of 
political and legislative representation of Jordanians of Palestinian 
heritage 
has been enforced by decades of systematic exclusion in all aspects of 
life 
expanding into their disenfranchisement in education, employment, 
housing, state 
benefits and even business potential, all developing into an existing 
apartheid 
no different than that formerly adopted in South Africa, except for the 
official 
acknowledgement of it.


The well-established apartheid system has created 
substantial advantages for East Bankers who dominate all senior 
government and 
military jobs, along with tight control of security agencies, 
particularly the 
influential Jordanian General Intelligence Department, all resulting in 
tribal 
Jordanians gaining superiority over their fellow citizens of Palestinian
 
heritage.


The fact that East Bankers have done very well under the 
current situation provides motive for Jordanian officials to maintain 
the status 
quo and work on extending it; especially as the helpless Palestinian 
majority 
has no say and very little it can do against such conditions.


The East 
Bankers’ desire to keep their privileges has gone unchallenged until 
recent 
years, when the international community mentoring the peace process has 
brought 
into its dynamics one of Jordan’s most critical commitments of the peace
 treaty 
with Israel, by which Jordan is obligated to negotiate the conditions of
 the 
displaced individuals from both sides.


When Jordanians of Palestinian 
heritage moved to Jordan in 1967, they were Jordanian citizens legally 
relocating inside their own country as Jordan had declared the West Bank
 a part 
of the Hashemite kingdom 19 years earlier. Therefore, the Palestinians’ 
move to 
Jordan was similar to an American’s move from New York to New 
Jersey.


This fact was hard to absorb by the Jordanian government, as it 
dictates that citizens of Palestinian heritage are equal to them in 
rights and 
therefore entitled to political representation.


Such concept would have 
shaken the privileged ruling elite and has been confronted by a dramatic
 rise in 
radical nationalism among East Bankers and extensive support of the 
apartheid 
policies of the government that pushes Palestinians to believe they 
should 
return to “Palestine” as their home country.


Since 2008, East Bankers 
have been embracing hostility toward Israel with dedication to 
“liberating 
Palestine” as an excuse to further exclude the Jordanians of Palestinian
 
heritage with calls for a universal denaturalization to put pressure on 
Israel. 
Such calls have been emphasized and publicized by the media, which are 
tightly 
controlled by Jordanian intelligence.


The radical nationalists went as 
far as aligning themselves with Islamists to defend their cause, as both
 call 
for turning Jordanians of Palestinian heritage into refugees rather than
 
citizens.


The anti-Palestinian/anti-Israeli conservative nationalist 
political salons in Amman have been calling for threatening Israel with 
what 
they describe as the Palestinian demographic bomb by sending the 
Palestinians to 
Israel.

The Jordanian state seems to subscribe to this idea through 
sustaining the on-going process of striping Palestinians in Jordan of 
their 
citizenships. Although it has been done to a few thousand, it is viewed 
as a 
victory for radical nationalists. This trend poses a serious threat to 
regional 
stability and Israeli national security.
Jordan cannot maintain its 
apartheid policies. The international community must make it clear to 
Jordan 
that both peace and integration of its own citizens are not privileges 
it is 
giving away to Israel or any other country.

The writer is a researcher at 
the University of Bedfordshire.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 30: Other places to probe</title>
<date>29/6/2010</date>
<content>
Other places to probe Sir, – I would like to suggest to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon to propose a UN-led investigation into Turkey and its prime minister, 
who sent his goons and pro-Palestinian activists on the Mavi Marmara (“UN 
remains lukewarm toward the Terkel Committee, June 29).




Also, it would be 
a good idea to investigate Hamas about our soldier Gilad Schalit, whom it 
continues to hold after four years without letting the Red Cross visit, which is 
an international war crime.And then, too, there’s Khaled Mashaal, the 
Hamas chief, who is now threatening to kidnap more Israeli soldiers and 
civilians.JUUP SOBELMAN Petah Tikva Wrong trajectory Sir, – The trouble 
with Sasha Pulakow-Suransky’s book on Israel’s secret relationship with 
apartheid South Africa does not lie in the facts but in the trajectory he tries 
to draw concerning Israel’s future, making out that it is on the way to becoming 
another apartheid state (“Leaden thinking,” Opinion, June 29).It is 
important to note that even if Israel’s military cooperation with South Africa 
in the 1980s was “extensive and lucrative,” by the end of the decade South 
Africa had nevertheless lost its wars in Angola and Namibia. Also, the white 
population was decreasing, as many young people decided to seek their future 
elsewhere.It was on February 11, 1990, that Prime Minister F.W. de Klerk 
began himself to dismantle apartheid by releasing Nelson Mandela from prison 
with the clear intent of handing over sovereignty to the black 
majority.Hence, I cannot see how Israel prolonged apartheid after the 
1980s.However, I can see how Israel, since those 1980s, in stark 
contradiction to white South Africa, has maintained its Jewish majority 
(primarily through the aliya of close to a million Russian olim), and also its 
military capability. Perhaps if political scientists like Pulakow- Suransky 
would stop encouraging our adversaries to believe the Jews are soon to become a 
minority, the Palestinians would be more amenable to reaching a reasonable 
resolution rather than prolonging the conflict.DR. LILY POLLIACKJerusalem Keep ducking Sir, – There are two entities that are universally 
accepted as being above politics and transcending borders – the Olympic Games 
and the International Red Cross. Yet the Olympic Games will forever have the 
bloody stain of Munich, while the Red Cross currently bears the flashing red 
light of four years with no visits to Gilad Schalit.Moral: We must (with 
God’s help) stay on the highest alert.Neither the World Cup (“West Bank 
Palestinians prefer World Cup to rock throwing,” June 29) nor any such 
universalist endeavor can or will guarantee our security.MIRIAM L. 
GAVARINJerusalem Some strategist Sir, – Our defense minister says that an 
agreed upon “diplomatic horizon” is necessary to ensure a long-term “special 
security relationship” with the US, as well as Israel’s military superiority in 
the region (“Barak calls for diplomatic initiative to secure long-term ties with 
US,” June 29).If I were Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas 
and wanted to torpedo the US-Israel special relationship and render Israel 
susceptible to attack, what would I do? I’d make sure to continue saying no to 
every offer of peace. The only way for there to be a peace agreement is for us 
to stop blaming ourselves and insist that the US put the blame where it 
belongs.What kind of strategist is Barak? BARRY LYNN Efrat Who’d be 
left?Sir, – I expected an avalanche of outrage in your Letters section in 
response to Thomas L. Friedman’s outrageously defamatory characterization of 
Israel fighting by “Hamas Rules” (“War, timeout, war, time...,” June 
28).If Friedman’s libel were true, there would be no Hizbullah in 
Lebanon and no Hamas in Gaza.Shame on him.GERRY MANDELL Omer 
Bold, concrete steps Sir, – Your editorial “Misdirected castigation” (June 25) 
takes note that “there is much that Netanyahu could do to improve Israel’s 
international standing.”Here are some bold, concrete steps: Israel could 
renounce its claim to – although, of course, not its occupation of – east 
Jerusalem and the Golan Heights. It could stop calling the occupied territories 
“disputed” and acknowledge that, except for some small swaps, they are 
Palestinian. It could begin the process of removing all settlements except for 
the large, adjacent blocs that in practically any final agreement it would 
keep.Israel could also formally resubmit the proposals Ehud Barak made 
at Camp David and Taba, which have since been removed from the table. It could 
simultaneously announce its willingness to negotiate on the basis of the Arab 
League peace plan.Together, these steps would stun the Arab and Western 
worlds, lift Israel upward to breathtakingly higher moral ground, help moderate 
Palestinian and Arab leaders (while inflicting serious damage on Hamas and 
extremism), and shift everyone out of the immobilized and ruinous status quo and 
back into the peace process.They would make Netanyahu Israel’s Anwar 
Sadat. And they would not mean a single iota of harm for its 
security.JAMES ADLER Cambridge, Massachusetts ‘Useful idiot’ inadequate 
Sir, – Regarding “Let the flotillas through” (June 25), I am surprised that 
Larry Derfner does not recommend that all of us just take a loaded revolver and 
blow our brains out.For heaven’s sake, Jerusalem Post, at what point 
will you consider the rants of this token leftist not worth publishing? After a 
while his ignorance about jihadi ideology stops being amusing and becomes 
grotesque.Even Lenin’s term “useful idiot” has become 
inadequate.MLADEN ANDRIJASEVIC Beersheba 
Sir, – Larry Derfner seems to 
have missed the point: Except for Israel’s desire to prevent the free 
flow of 
arms to Hamas, the flow of humanitarian goods has been increased by 
200%.No sovereign state can allow its sworn enemy unlimited access to 
the most advanced arms without making every attempt possible to prevent 
the 
flow. A super-strong Hamas not only threatens Israel, but undermines the
 
Palestinian Authority and Egypt, both of which are interested in seeing 
the 
uninterrupted flow of arms through the tunnels stopped.The so-called 
“freedom flotillas” have been hijacked by terrorist organizations whose 
main 
goal is to undermine the security of Israel.

P. YONAH 
Shoham 

Who does he 
think he is? Sir, – Carl Djerassi tells the Post’s Barry Davis (“Taking the pill 
literally,” June 25) that his art donations have included “none to the 
Israel 
Museum, which would be a natural home for them. It’s a shame there is no
 
interest in my literary work here.”
Djerassi’s art collection may be 
excellent, and for all I know, so may his literary work, but as long as 
he has 
the chutzpah to condition his art donations on the publication of his 
writings, 
I think the country can get along without both.

MARK L. LEVINSON 
Herzliya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>June 30: Other places to probe</title>
<date>30/6/2010</date>
<content>
Other places to probe Sir, – I would like to suggest to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon to propose a UN-led investigation into Turkey and its prime minister, 
who sent his goons and pro-Palestinian activists on the Mavi Marmara (“UN 
remains lukewarm toward the Terkel Committee, June 29).




Also, it would be 
a good idea to investigate Hamas about our soldier Gilad Schalit, whom it 
continues to hold after four years without letting the Red Cross visit, which is 
an international war crime.And then, too, there’s Khaled Mashaal, the 
Hamas chief, who is now threatening to kidnap more Israeli soldiers and 
civilians.JUUP SOBELMAN Petah Tikva Wrong trajectory Sir, – The trouble 
with Sasha Pulakow-Suransky’s book on Israel’s secret relationship with 
apartheid South Africa does not lie in the facts but in the trajectory he tries 
to draw concerning Israel’s future, making out that it is on the way to becoming 
another apartheid state (“Leaden thinking,” Opinion, June 29).It is 
important to note that even if Israel’s military cooperation with South Africa 
in the 1980s was “extensive and lucrative,” by the end of the decade South 
Africa had nevertheless lost its wars in Angola and Namibia. Also, the white 
population was decreasing, as many young people decided to seek their future 
elsewhere.It was on February 11, 1990, that Prime Minister F.W. de Klerk 
began himself to dismantle apartheid by releasing Nelson Mandela from 
prison 
with the clear intent of handing over sovereignty to the black 
majority.Hence, I cannot see how Israel prolonged apartheid after the 
1980s.However, I can see how Israel, since those 1980s, in stark 
contradiction to white South Africa, has maintained its Jewish majority 
(primarily through the aliya of close to a million Russian olim), and 
also its 
military capability. Perhaps if political scientists like Pulakow- 
Suransky 
would stop encouraging our adversaries to believe the Jews are soon to 
become a 
minority, the Palestinians would be more amenable to reaching a 
reasonable 
resolution rather than prolonging the conflict.DR. LILY POLLIACK

Jerusalem Keep ducking Sir, – There are two entities that are universally 
accepted as being above politics and transcending borders – the Olympic 
Games 
and the International Red Cross. Yet the Olympic Games will forever have
 the 
bloody stain of Munich, while the Red Cross currently bears the flashing
 red 
light of four years with no visits to Gilad Schalit.Moral: We must (with 
God’s help) stay on the highest alert.Neither the World Cup (“West Bank 
Palestinians prefer World Cup to rock throwing,” June 29) nor any such 
universalist endeavor can or will guarantee our security.MIRIAM L. 
GAVARIN 
Jerusalem Some strategist Sir, – Our defense minister says that an 
agreed upon “diplomatic horizon” is necessary to ensure a long-term 
“special 
security relationship” with the US, as well as Israel’s military 
superiority in 
the region (“Barak calls for diplomatic initiative to secure long-term 
ties with 
US,” June 29).If I were Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas 
and wanted to torpedo the US-Israel special relationship and render 
Israel 
susceptible to attack, what would I do? I’d make sure to continue saying
 no to 
every offer of peace. The only way for there to be a peace agreement is 
for us 
to stop blaming ourselves and insist that the US put the blame where it 
belongs.What kind of strategist is Barak? 
BARRY LYNN 
Efrat Who’d be 
left? Sir, – I expected an avalanche of outrage in your Letters section in 
response to Thomas L. Friedman’s outrageously defamatory 
characterization of 
Israel fighting by “Hama Rules” (“War, timeout, war, time...,” June 
28).If Friedman’s libel were true, there would be no Hizbullah in 
Lebanon and no Hamas in Gaza.Shame on him.GERRY MANDELL 
Omer 
Bold, concrete steps Sir, – Your editorial “Misdirected castigation” (June 25) 
takes note that “there is much that Netanyahu could do to improve 
Israel’s 
international standing.”Here are some bold, concrete steps: Israel could 
renounce its claim to – although, of course, not its occupation of – 
east 
Jerusalem and the Golan Heights. It could stop calling the occupied 
territories 
“disputed” and acknowledge that, except for some small swaps, they are 
Palestinian. It could begin the process of removing all settlements 
except for 
the large, adjacent blocs that in practically any final agreement it 
would 
keep.Israel could also formally resubmit the proposals Ehud Barak made 
at Camp David and Taba, which have since been removed from the table. It
 could 
simultaneously announce its willingness to negotiate on the basis of the
 Arab 
League peace plan.Together, these steps would stun the Arab and Western 
worlds, lift Israel upward to breathtakingly higher moral ground, help 
moderate 
Palestinian and Arab leaders (while inflicting serious damage on Hamas 
and 
extremism), and shift everyone out of the immobilized and ruinous status
 quo and 
back into the peace process.They would make Netanyahu Israel’s Anwar 
Sadat. And they would not mean a single iota of harm for its 
security.JAMES ADLER 
Cambridge, Massachusetts ‘Useful idiot’ inadequate
Sir, – Regarding “Let the flotillas through” (June 25), I am surprised 
that 
Larry Derfner does not recommend that all of us just take a loaded 
revolver and 
blow our brains out.For heaven’s sake, Jerusalem Post, at what point 
will you consider the rants of this token leftist not worth publishing? 
After a 
while his ignorance about jihadi ideology stops being amusing and 
becomes 
grotesque.Even Lenin’s term “useful idiot” has become 
inadequate.MLADEN ANDRIJASEVIC 
Beersheba Sir, – Larry Derfner seems to 
have missed the point: Except for Israel’s desire to prevent the free 
flow of 
arms to Hamas, the flow of humanitarian goods has been increased by 
200%.No sovereign state can allow its sworn enemy unlimited access to 
the most advanced arms without making every attempt possible to prevent 
the 
flow. A super-strong Hamas not only threatens Israel, but undermines the
 
Palestinian Authority and Egypt, both of which are interested in seeing 
the 
uninterrupted flow of arms through the tunnels stopped.The so-called 
“freedom flotillas” have been hijacked by terrorist organizations whose 
main 
goal is to undermine the security of Israel.P. YONAH 
Shoham Who does he 
think he is? Sir, – Carl Djerassi tells the Post’s Barry Davis (“Taking the pill 
literally,” June 25) that his art donations have included “none to the 
Israel 
Museum, which would be a natural home for them. It’s a shame there is no
 
interest in my literary work here.”Djerassi’s art collection may be 
excellent, and for all I know, so may his literary work, but as long as 
he has 
the chutzpah to condition his art donations on the publication of his 
writings, 
I think the country can get along without both.
MARK L. LEVINSON 
Herzliya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘Kauft nicht bei Juden’ will worsen the conflict</title>
<date>29/11/2010</date>
<content>
Kauft nicht bei Juden – “Don’t buy from Jews” – is back. The call to boycott Jewish commerce is Europe’s oldest political appeal. Once again, as the tsunami of hate against Israel rolls out from the Right and the Left, from Islamist ideologues to Europe’s cultural elites, the demand is to punish the Jews. That the actions of the Israeli government are open to criticism is a fact. But what are the real arguments? Firstly, that Israel is wrong to defy international law as an occupying force on the West Bank. But what about Turkey? It has 35,000 soldiers occupying the territory of a sovereign republic – Cyprus. Ankara has sent hundreds of thousands of settlers to colonize the ancient Greekowned lands of northern Cyprus. Turkey has been told again and again by the UN to withdraw its troops. Instead, it now also stands accused of destroying the ancient Christian churches of northern Cyprus.




Does anyone call for a boycott of Turkey, or urge companies to divest from it? No. Only the Jews are targeted.Or take India; 500,000 Indian soldiers occupy Kashmir. According to Amnesty International, 70,000 Muslims have been killed over the past 20 years by these soldiers and security forces – a number that far exceeds the Palestinians killed by Israeli forces in the same period. But the Islamic ideologues focus on Jews, not Indians.May we talk of the western Sahara and Morocco, or Algeria’s closure of the border there, making life far worse than that of Palestinians in Ramallah or Hebron? No, better not.Voltaire – anti-Semite that he was – should be alive today to mock the hypocrisy of the new high priests calling anathema on the heads of Jews in Israel.Second, the desire for peace in the Middle East is a global priority. But peace requires recognition of the Jewish state of Israel. There are 40 member states of the UN which have the words “Muslim” or “Islamic” in their names. No one challenges their right to exist or defend themselves.Israel unilaterally withdrew from Gaza. Its reward was to have the territory turned into a new launch pad for rockets intended to kill Jews.More rockets have been fired at Israel from Gaza than V1 or V2 rockets at London in 1944. No one blamed Winston Churchill for responding with all the force he could, as cities like Hamburg or Dresden faced the wrath of the RAF. But if Israel takes the slightest action against the Jew-killers of Hamas, all the hate of the world falls on its head.Third, it is hard to see how peace can be made with an Israel that so many seek to brand an “apartheid state.”I worked in the 1980s with the black trade union movement inside South Africa. We lay in ditches as the apartheid police patrolled townships hunting for political activists. I could not swim at the same beach as my wife, a French-Vietnamese, because of the racist laws. Muslims and Jews swim off the same Tel Aviv beaches. They can stay in the same hotels, be elected to the same parliament, and appeal to an independent judiciary for justice.BY DEFINITION, an apartheid state has no right to exist. It cannot be a member of the UN. The campaign to call Israel an apartheid state is a campaign to make it a non-state. How can peace be made with a state whose opponents say should not exist? In Britain, there are calls by journalists and professors to boycott the Israeli media or universities. But Israeli writers, journalists and professors are the main opponents of the counterproductive policies of their government. To boycott them is to hand even more power to the haredi and Russian nationalists who now control Right-wing politics in Israel.By any standard, the attacks on media freedom, on women, on gays or on lawyers is 1,000 times worse in Iran or Saudi Arabia. There is no democracy in Syria or Libya, limited democracy in Jordan, and open anti-Semitism displayed by the Muslim Brotherhood movements in the Arab world. Is there any call to boycott these states, their journalists or professors? No. The call – rightly – is for engagement, contacts, debate and discussion. Many even argue for talks with Hamas, although its charter, with its strident anti- Semitic language, could have been written by a Nazi.But talks with Jewish politicians, lawyers or intellectuals must be boycotted. This policy of making the Jewish citizens of Israel into objects of global hatred will only make the Middle East crisis worse. If it was directed evenly at all states which occupy and oppress territories, it might have some basis in morality. If the boycott, disinvestment and sanctions movement also called for sanctions against the new anti-Semitism of the extreme Right in Europe, it might make sense. The openly anti- Semitic Jobbik Party in Hungary parades in its fascist uniforms. Anti-Semitic politicians are elected to the European Parliament. The German politician Thilo Sarrazin can describe Jews as having “different genes” from other people. And now Europeans, of all people, once again cry Kauft nicht bei Juden.Those who dislike Israeli rightwing policies must find other language 
than that of classical anti- Semitism. I am not Jewish. As a British MP,
 I work with thousands of Muslims in my constituency. I am more often in
 mosques than in churches. I am proud of my Muslim friends who are MPs, 
peers, municipal councillors or prominent as journaIists, lawyers, 
doctors and intellectuals. The 20 million European Muslims face new 
hates which must be combated. But there is no profit for them in joining
 the hate campaigns against Jews in Israel.As Europeans we must reject the old language of boycott and economic 
campaigns against Jews. Israel, Palestine and Europe must all have a 
21st century future, and not return to the hates of the past.
The writer, a former British Labor MP, also served as minister of state for Europe. He is the author of Globalizing Hatred: The New Anti-Semitism! (Weidenfeld and Nicolson).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Keep Dreaming: To serve the Jews</title>
<date>1/7/2010</date>
<content>
With a title like this, fans of The Twilight Zone may already have some sense of what’s to come. But I’ll get back to that shortly. First, I want to make reference to the many around the world, speaking in the name of Israel’s best interests, who have of late besieged us and beseeched us on the pages of respected newspapers, in mass petitions, in open letters and in political gatherings, demanding that we change course and both adopt and project an image of a liberalism that reflects a genuine commitment to the pursuit of justice and peace in order to reclaim the sympathies of enlightened people everywhere and of liberal Jewish America in particular. They are right. And they are wrong.They are right, because it is true that we must do what they are insisting upon. They are wrong, because the ethical imperative they are preaching needs be internalized as an end in itself and not as a means of securing anyone’s support.




I, for one, have my doubts as to whether or not governments and Jews around the world would really rally to our side even if we were to rescind the blockade of Gaza completely, dismantle every roadblock in contested territory and permanently freeze any new settlement activity. Our withdrawal from Lebanon and disengagement from Gaza, after all, are not ancient history, and both resulted in far more rockets raining in than accolades. More than that, we have amassed vastly more than our fair share of UN condemnations for human rights violations, when there are so many other nations far more worthy of this distinction than we who are ignored altogether.Still, any violation of human rights, act of oppression or policy of discrimination in the Jewish state must be eschewed by those who hold fast to the Zionist dream. With whatever strand of this glorious movement for the national liberation of the Jewish people one identifies – political, cultural, religious, socialist – creating an asylum from the scourge of anti-Semitism was only a part of the plan. The other part called for “shaping an exemplary society with a unique moral and spiritual character, marked by mutual respect for the multifaceted Jewish people, rooted in the vision of the prophets, striving for peace and contributing to the betterment of the world,” as reaffirmed by the World Zionist Organization as recently as two weeks ago during its international congress.In fact, these values that we are being asked to champion and live by are fundamental to what the establishment of a commonwealth in the Land of Israel has always been about, from the time of Abraham. Through his seed, Israel – dwelling in its own land – would the entire family of nations be blessed. And it is the moral compass of this charge, at once ancient and forward-looking, that needs to guide us, the PR payoff aside.
WHICH BRINGS us back to that episode of The Twilight
Zone that my friend Brian recently reminded me of. In it,
aliens land on Earth and quickly begin eradicating all the ills of
humanity: hunger, disease and warfare. Any wariness regarding their
intentions is dispelled when the Earthlings begin decoding the
invaders’ manual, which they discover to be entitled: To Serve
Man. As people happily begin boarding a spacecraft to visit
the purported paradise of the aliens’ own planet, one of the
translators frantically tries to reach them, desperately entreating
them from a distance: “Don’t get on that ship! The rest of the book,
To Serve Man, it’s... it’s a cookbook!” But the warning comes too late. The access ramp is raised and the
passengers are helplessly and hopelessly whisked off to their fate of,
well, being served, but in a manner somewhat other than the
unsuspecting victims had anticipated.I am not suggesting that those who are calling upon us to make
sacrifices or take risks in our pursuit of peace are motivated by
anything other than their best intentions and our best interests. But
it is ultimately our responsibility, not theirs, to ensure that we are
not going to get roasted in the process. In the meantime, I regrettably
believe that they are misinterpreting the intentions of those who have
amassed on our borders.The alien invasion we are trying to ward off is not being orchestrated
to defend the legitimate humanitarian rights of suffering Palestinians
(repressed far more by their own regime than by ours), but rather to
delegitimize the very notion of a nation-state for the Jewish people.
As long as the nobility of that claim has not been dignified by public
acceptance in the Arab world, Zionism will continue to be castigated as
racism, equated with apartheid and denigrated as colonialism no matter
how enlightened a society we are able to fashion, and regardless of how
progressive the manner in which we relate to the minorities in our
midst.Today, the common goal of all who would wish “to serve the Jews” as
anything other than fodder for our enemies must be to proclaim loud and
clear, over and over again, that statehood is our inalienable right, as
is our claim to dwelling in peace within defensible borders,
unthreatened by those who are unable to reconcile themselves to our
very existence. At the same time, even as we must insist that we not be
held to moral standards any higher than those applied to others, we
ourselves need to seek to surpass them.In the Torah reading of this past week, Balak declares his enmity of
Israel by calling upon Balaam, a hybrid of sorcerer and prophet, to
curse our people. Three times he blesses us instead. “How goodly are
thy tents, O Jacob, thy dwelling places, O Israel.” While we must
jealously guard our assertion of sovereignty on the one hand, with the
other we must pursue our sacred duty to become worthy of that blessing,
so that the many who have set out to damn us will end up singing our
praises instead.
The writer is deputy chairman of the World Zionist
Organization and a member of the Jewish Agency Executive.
keepdreamingjpost@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Leaden thinking</title>
<date>29/6/2010</date>
<content>
It is always easier to dismiss the research of those you disagree with if you 
depict them as ideologically motivated hacks or viciously anti-Israel proponents 
of the Zionism=racism variety. I am neither.My book The Unspoken 
Alliance: Israel’s Secret Relationship with Apartheid South Africa argues that 
the apartheid analogy does not apply today – because a minority group is not yet 
governing a disenfranchised majority – but that it is hitting closer to home 
every day.




I am not alone in voicing this concern: In late 2007 prime 
minister Ehud Olmert said that without a two-state solution Israel would
 soon 
“face a South African-style struggle for equal voting rights, and as 
soon as 
that happens, the State of Israel is finished.”This February, Defense 
Minister Ehud Barak declared: “If, and as long as between the Jordan and
 the sea 
there is only one political entity, named Israel, it will end up being 
either 
non-Jewish or nondemocratic... If the Palestinians vote in elections, it
 is a 
binational state, and if they don’t, it is an apartheid state.”In 
addition, Emmanuel Navon suggests I am “insinuating that Israel and the 
Palestinians should follow the post-apartheid South African model” – in 
other 
words, a one-state solution.In fact, my book argues the opposite: that 
if Israel does not act soon to ensure the creation of a viable 
Palestinian 
state, it will face Barak’s no-win nightmare of a non-Jewish or 
nondemocratic 
state.I APPRECIATE Navon’s interest in my book.However, he has 
misrepresented my argument. Indeed, he suggests that he is clarifying my
 
inaccuracies when in fact his own outline of the 1967-1973 period is an 
almost 
verbatim repetition of chapters two and four of my book. While there are
 many 
issues Navon and I disagree on, the question of Israel’s relations with 
African 
states between 1967 and 1973 is not one of them.My book discusses the 
demise of that relationship with black African states in great detail – 
including the inducements offered by Arab countries and the Africans’ 
eventual 
severing of ties during and after the Yom Kippur War. Had Navon more 
carefully 
read those chapters, he would have found a reference to the same Haaretz
 
editorial he cites and to the same authors he draws on to make his own 
argument 
(Joel Peters, Aaron Klieman and Olusola Ojo). Instead, he has drawn a 
false 
dichotomy by misrepresenting my historical analysis and presenting his 
own “true 
version” as an alternative.The historical revelations in my book confirm 
what many have long suspected: that military cooperation between Israel 
and 
South Africa was far more extensive and lucrative than anyone knew in 
the 1980s, 
and that it extended into the nuclear sphere. Navon’s article is 
somewhat 
self-contradictory; if he indeed believes that “the book contains no 
historical 
revelation,” then why seek to attack precisely those new revelations 
which 
buttress my case that Israel had a more significant relationship with 
South 
Africa than did other countries – one that helped prolong the life of 
the 
apartheid regime? Navon’s reaction to my book smacks of the same 
denialism 
prevalent in the Israeli government and in American Jewish organizations
 during 
the 1980s. As UN ambassador in 1986, Binyamin Netanyahu denounced 
Israel’s 
critics as “those who wish not only to defame Israel but also to deflect
 
attention from their own furtive and enormously profitable trade with 
Pretoria.”He cited incomplete International Monetary Fund data to argue 
that Israel’s trade with South Africa was negligible, but those data 
excluded 
arms, diamonds and the joint financing arrangements between the two 
defense 
industries.When one includes these figures, the bilateral trade is much 
more significant; indeed, South Africa becomes one of Israel’s largest 
trading 
partners after the US – in close company with the UK and Germany.And 
France, which was a key arms supplier to South Africa during the 1960s 
and 
1970s, faded in importance after the socialist government of François 
Mitterrand 
came to power in 1981.Had Navon factored in newly declassified data on 
Israeli arms sales to South Africa, he would see that Paris’s arms sales
 to 
Pretoria during the 1980s were nowhere near as significant as he 
asserts.Seen in this context, using real rather than incomplete data, it 
is entirely reasonable to single out Israel because its relationship 
with South 
Africa was in fact unique in both financial and strategic terms. Indeed,
 it was 
a vital link for the beleaguered apartheid regime, and helped to sustain
 it in 
the face of international sanctions and withering criticism. Netanyahu’s
 
deceptive statement to the UN in 1986 was full of unreliable numbers, 
and Navon 
is echoing those inaccuracies today.NAVON GOES on to argue that singling 
out Israel “now” is perverse because of the Iranian nuclear menace. 
True, Iran 
is seeking to develop a nuclear weapons capability and therefore poses a
 grave 
threat to Israel’s nuclear hegemony in the Middle East – not to mention 
the 
security of many Sunni Arab states. However, just as he misrepresented 
my 
motives for writing the book as ideological and anti-Israel, he has 
mistaken 
coincidence for intent when it comes to the book’s publication date.I 
began this research in October 2003, and an earlier version of the book –
 
replete with data, documents and similar arguments – has been sitting on
 the 
shelf of Oxford’s Bodleian Library since January 2007, when I completed 
my 
doctoral dissertation. It was slated for May 2010 publication a year 
ago.The fact that Israel dug itself into a diplomatic hole by angering 
the US government in recent months and the fact that Iran is nearing 
nuclear 
weapons capability are entirely coincidental. To suggest that I or my 
publisher 
somehow have the power to influence the UN General Assembly’s 
nonproliferation 
policy is pure fantasy.Finally, Navon blames the stalled peace talks 
entirely on the Palestinian leadership while finding absolutely no fault
 with 
the Netanyahu administration’s policies and actions – actions which have
 in 
recent months angered Israel’s most powerful ally and alienated its most
 
important friend in the region. More alarmingly, he displays a misguided
 faith 
in the promise of unilateral disengagement as a solution to the Israeli-
 
Palestinian impasse, arguing that “Israel will eventually pull the rug 
under the 
Palestinians’ feet by completing the construction of the security fence 
and by 
creating a de facto double polity (like in Cyprus).”This would most 
likely be an unmitigated disaster, leading to a permanent state of war 
with one 
(or two) radical Palestinian state(s) and potentially jeopardizing the 
existing 
peace treaties with both Jordan and Egypt. Navon may believe my thinking
 is 
“radioactive,” but I shudder to think of the fallout were his own ideas 
to 
become official Israeli policy.
The writer is a senior editor at 
Foreign 
Affairs magazine and the author of The Unspoken Alliance: 
Israel’s Secret 
Relationship with Apartheid South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Learning the lessons of Kerem Shalom</title>
<date>26/6/2010</date>
<content>
I was raised in apartheid South Africa by parents who taught me to speak out if I saw something wrong, and to fix anything I could. Which is why I still feel terrible that I didn’t say anything when I did almost a month of reserve duty at Kerem Shalom a decade before Cpl. Gilad Schalit was kidnapped there. Perhaps someone would have listened.Our artillery unit was divided into groups of four, and we were dropped off at guard towers along the border with Egypt and Gaza. After a very basic shooting drill, we were ordered to split up in pairs, with each pair responsible for sitting in the tower for 12 hours and securing our position. While one pair guarded, the other would prepare meals, rest and sleep.




My group, as it happened, comprised four new immigrants, two from France, one from the US and myself (I had made aliya eight years previously). Right from the start, I felt a pervasive sense of insecurity.What if we were attacked by a group of trained gunmen? Could two soldiers hold them off? And would the others be able to help? Needless to say, I did not sleep well in our tent at nights, choosing to stay in uniform and putting my rifle under my pillow. When we were on guard duty, I always had the gun around my shoulders, causing them to ache by the end of the 12-hour shift.I remember discussing our situation with one of my comrades, a French immigrant named Maurice. He tried to reassure me by noting that the Egyptian soldiers patrolling opposite us did not even have magazines in their rifles. Besides, he added, they received food parcels just once a week, while we got a daily delivery.I was not reassured. How were these hungry Egyptians without bullets going to protect us from an armed assault by hostile gunmen? His answer was that they were there to protect themselves, and it was our job to protect ourselves.AFTER SOME thought, I came to this shocking conclusion: If anyone approaching our position was not an Israeli soldier, I would shoot first and ask questions later.The very idea of shooting someone terrified me, and I wrote the following poem while on a rest period, inspired by the location, Kerem Shalom, which means – ironically – “Vineyard of Peace.”Stop In a word, stop! Stop the killing.Stop the killing on both sides.One death would have been too many But there have been too many deaths On both sides.How many deaths will it take For you to stop? Stop acting like children, Playing tit for tat.When will you grow up And realize that there’s another way? Kerem Shalom, 1996.AT THE end of the month, I was so relieved to have gotten out of there alive that I chose not to express my reservations about our situation when it came to the traditional group summation with our commander. I was wrong.On June 25, 2006, Gilad Schalit was abducted by Hamas gunmen at Kerem Shalom after they crossed the border from the Gaza Strip through a tunnel dug under the security fence. Two soldiers were killed and three wounded. In response, the IDF launched Operation Summer Rains on June 28. The rest is history. Despite the military campaign, Hamas took control of Gaza, rearmed itself and strengthened, while Schalit has been in captivity for four long years.The other day, I heard an interview with the current commander of the Golani Brigade under which Schalit served, Col. Avi Peled. He declared with confidence that all the lessons of the abduction had been learned, but he could not promise it would not happen again.What both the interviewer and he omitted to mention was that Peled had been the commander directly responsible for the Golani soldiers deployed at Kerem Shalom during Schalit’s capture, and that he had been promoted to head the brigade a year after the abduction by Chief of General Staff Lt.-Gen. Gabi Ashkenazi, who himself rose up the ranks of Golani.An IDF team that investigated the incident found there had been “operational failures” on the part of Peled and the brigade he commanded, but did not recommend punitive steps. So I was not reassured by Peled’s comments. Schalit’s family and the families of soldiers serving at Kerem Shalom or anywhere else along Israel’s borders probably share similar sentiments.When a flotilla from Turkey left for Gaza to break Israel’s blockade 
last month, I immediately wondered: What happens if the passengers are 
armed? A friend said I should say something, or write something. I 
didn’t listen, thinking to myself that the army must be prepared for any
 eventuality.In the end, it was only because of the quick thinking of the naval 
commandos dropped onto the Mavi 
Marmara that nine Turks and not nine Israelis were killed.Now, four years after Schalit’s capture, flotillas are heading for Gaza 
from Lebanon and Iran – two countries unabashedly hostile to Israel.
What if they are carrying terrorists with heavy weapons and even 
anti-aircraft missiles that can shoot down helicopters dropping soldiers
 onto the boats? There, I said it. I have issued my warning. Now I can 
only pray that I’m wrong.

The writer is managing editor of The
 Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Let's launch 'Arab Apartheid Week'</title>
<date>11/3/2010</date>
<content>
In nearly three dozen cities across the world, a coordinated series of events is being held this week with the express aim of demonizing Israel. Now in its sixth year, the annual hate-fest known as “Israel Apartheid Week” has sought to portray the Jewish state as a bastion of bigotry, inequality and discrimination.The organizers do not mince words in describing their objectives, asserting on their Web site that they aim “to educate people about the nature of Israel as an apartheid system and to build boycott, divestment and sanctions campaigns” against the Jewish state. This, they confidently declare, is a key part of “the battle to end Israeli apartheid,” whatever that means.




Naturally, behind the sloganeering stands a clear political platform, one which essentially seeks to dismantle the Jewish state by stripping it of territory and flooding the country with millions of Palestinian refugees through the so-called right of return.The first step in this campaign, of course, is to equate Israel with the evils of apartheid-era South Africa, thereby laying the groundwork for increased diplomatic and economic pressure to make far-reaching concessions. And so, as usual, the only democracy in the Middle Eastonce again finds itself on the receiving end of yet another indefensible canard, accused of one of modernity’s greatest political sins without any basis or justification.SIMPLY PUT, this slur cannot be allowed to stand. It is an insult to Israel and its democracy and dangerously analogous to asserting that Zionism is a form of racism. If allowed to take hold in the public’s consciousness, it could have far-reaching and extremely damaging effects on support for Israel in the near- and long-term. In the past, the typical response by pro-Israel activists to such charges has been to go on the defensive, responding to the slanders and explaining in great detail the myriad differences between democratic Israel and the racist regime that once ruled South Africa.Well, I say the time has come to stop playing defense and to bring the offense out onto the field. We need to turn the tables and fight back against our opponents by taking the struggle toward their end-zone.A good place to be start would be to organize an annual “Arab Apartheid Week,” which would highlight the decrepit state of human and political rights throughout the Arab world.There is a solid case to be made that the Arab states remain the last great outpost of despotism and tyranny on earth, and people need to be reminded as much. Indeed, the Arab world today is a living encyclopedia of outmoded forms of government, from sultanates such as Oman and emirates such as Qatar, to thuggish dictatorships such as Syria and dynastic monarchies along the lines of Jordan. It may be a political scientist’s dream, but it is a nightmare for the hundreds of millions of Arabs chafing under oppression and tyranny.Basic and fundamental freedoms such as personal autonomy and individual rights are routinely trampled upon, and ethnic and religious minority groups suffer extreme discrimination andintolerance. Just ask Coptic Christians in Egypt, Baha’is in Iran or Shi’ites in Saudi Arabia for starters.This was borne out most recently by a report issued by Freedom House, the independent Washington-based group that advocates for freedom worldwide. Its annual survey, “Freedom in the World 2010,” would make for eye-opening reading for all those who cry “apartheid” whenever they see a flag with a Star of David.Consider the following findings:Of the 18 countries in the Middle East that Freedom House surveyed, only one is considered to be “free.”And just who might that be? Yep, you guessed it: Israel.Not a single Arab country – not one! – did Freedom House consider “free.” Three Arab states – Morocco, Lebanon and Kuwait – were labeled “partly free,” while 13 other Arab states as well as Iran merited the dubious distinction of being branded as “not free.”In effect, then, this means that of the approximately 370 million human beings currently residing in the Middle East, only 2 percent enjoy true freedom – namely those who live in the Jewish state.So much for “Israeli apartheid.”NOT SURPRISINGLY, in a press release announcing the report’s publication, Freedom House concluded that “the Middle East remained the most repressive region in the world.” It is this message that Israel and its supporters need to begin highlighting. By casting a spotlight on the subjugation, oppression and tyranny that typify nearly the entire Arab world, we can open some eyes out there and educate the Western public as to who really shares their democratic values.As Prof. Bernard Lewis has written, the Arab states are little more than “a string of shabby tyrannies, ranging from traditional autocracies to new-style dictatorships, modern only in their apparatus of repression and indoctrination.”
An annual Arab Apartheid Week, held on campuses and at community
centers, could be an effective vehicle for driving home this
fundamental truth.
Doing so will reframe the debate. More importantly, it will help
Westerners to finally begin recognizing the Arab regimes for what they
are: a dangerous mix of despotism and dictatorship.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Let’s mobilize the netroots against Anti-Israel Week</title>
<date>8/2/2010</date>
<content>
Historians don’t predict the future – it’s hard enough predicting the past. But allow me one prediction. Within weeks, the Jewish world is going to be in high dudgeon, outraged at the Anti-Israel Week activities on campuses across North America. And, judging by the past, and the current situation as far as I know, we will shift into temporary crisis mode, reacting and overreacting, flailing about with little discipline, little coordination, little strategy, little tactical gain, but much frustration.Our enemies – and yes, they are our enemies – have been planning this demonization-fest for a year, if not longer. One Israel-bashing Web site declares: “Mark your calendars – the 6th International Israeli Apartheid Week (IAW) will take place across the globe from the 1st to the 14th of March 2010!” True, a “week” usually lasts only seven days; our adversaries count days as sloppily as they recount the past.




These Israel-libelers claim 40 cities will participate – 12 in Canada alone – mostly on campuses. Rather than dithering and then scrambling, we must plan – in fact, planning should have started months ago.David Olesker, director of the Jerusalem Center for Communication and Advocacy Training, warns that before planning tactical responses, we must clarify our strategy. “Where do we want to be in five years? Where are we going with our arguments and advocacy?” he asks, noting how rarely pro-Israel advocates think about the big picture, although our adversaries do.Thinking strategically, the pro-Israel community should remember three Ps. First push back, but push back intelligently, remembering our target audiences. We will rarely sway with mere facts someone who has swallowed the apartheid libel and drunk the anti-Israel Kool-Aid. Our target is wavering Jewish students and the vast uninformed and uninterested middle. We should play off the radical demonizers, making them look extreme and foolish as we demonstrate our informed commitment, enlightened passion and the rightness and righteousness of our cause.Second, position Israel better as a modern democracy fighting terror, sometimes forced to make unhappy decisions. The truth is our friend. Israel has compromised – and seen withdrawals from territory and other concessions “rewarded” with violence. Until critics deal with that, they are simply Israel-bashing with no real commitment to peace. And speaking of peace, let’s call the libelers’ bluff. Those who falsely accuse Israel of practicing racist, South African-style apartheid are essentially saying Israel is so odious that, like that regime, it should not exist. How can such a libelous, historically misinformed attack advance the peace process?Third, be proud of Israel as an extraordinary old-new land, one of the great successes of the 20th century, now leading the way technologically in the 21st. Just as the US is not only defined by its racial troubles, and Canada not only by its linguistic tensions, Israel is not just about the Palestinians. It was the central conceit of Yasser Arafat and his terrorist henchmen to make every conversation about Israel revolve around them – and it worked. In taking back the narrative, we should jump to a different track, not always talking about Israel in the context of defending it or justifying its existence but celebrating it, delighting in its achievements, pluralism, values, democracy and historically redemptive role.TACTICALLY, AS we wait for the latest initiatives rumored to be in the works in North America and Israel to help galvanize and centralize pro-Israel sentiment, we should mobilize the Jewish netroots. Let us put out a call to the pro-Israel blogosphere for an approach defined by three Hs.For starters, we must be horizontal, understanding that today’s informational, ideological and political playing field is vast, chaotic and democratic. Students, bloggers and activists should speak their minds, display their passions, forge their own relationships with Israel and express their pride as effectively, as creatively, as widely as they can.This more horizontal approach must be hip; singing, rapping or tweeting a new song of Zion that is relevant, resonant, inspirational, conversational, internalized among millions of pro-Israel and pro-democracy activists, rather than dictated from above or simply inherited from our ancestors.And finally, we should not be afraid to be hysterical – to laugh among ourselves while mocking the heavy-handed propagandists who build their entire ideology on negation, investing time, money and energy in denigrating Israel rather than building anything constructive for Palestinians or anyone else. Israeli culture is improvisational – demonstrated particularly by the ingenuity of IDF commandos and the creativity of hi-tech entrepreneurs. Those same skills should be deployed in the fight for Israel’s legitimacy, but with humor, not with a heavy hand. We should mock our enemies – because their positions are laughable and because ridicule is such an effective tool on the net.We must go global and virtual in Israel advocacy, not because of Anti-Israel Week, but because we have a great story to tell. And in the virtual world millions can take the lead in celebrating Israel. For too long, Israelis have sat on the sidelines, watching their brothers and sisters flounder in the Diaspora or, even worse, allowing a small minority of Israelis to fuel the fires of anti-Zionism abroad, giving Israel and particularly Israeli universities a bad name. But today, Israelis and non-Israelis can work together – or at least in parallel – broadcasting a pro-Zionist message while ridiculing and undermining our enemies.In a country that must engage its youth in more nationalistic, values-oriented projects, and at a time when parents lament how much time their kids spend on the computer, here is a great challenge for the country’s high schools and universities. The anti-Israel forces wish to wipe Israel off the map and demonize Zionists as the new Nazis. If we fail to fight back, they will continue poisoning the discourse around Israel, especially on campuses and in Europe. Let young Israelis learn enough history to defend themselves and their country effectively on the Internet. Let this be a great virtual contact point, building relations between Israeli and Diaspora youth.Wouldn’t it be great if next year, the anti-Israel forces cancelled
their annual festival of nihilism because the push back they triggered
simply wasn’t worth it? Now that’s a strategic goal worth pursuing.
The writer is professor of history at McGill University on leave in Jerusalem. He is the author of Why I Am a Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the Challenges of Today and The Reagan Revolution: A Very Short Introduction.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 10: Stop chasing peace</title>
<date>9/3/2010</date>
<content>
Stop chasing peaceSir, – Israel has been chasing peace since before its inception (“‘Talks won’t stop until we achieve breakthrough,’” March 9).




If you chase a butterfly and cannot catch it, just sit down and turn your thoughts to other things, and the butterfly will come and rest on your shoulder.I think that it’s time for all of us – Right, Left and Center – to turn our thoughts to other important problems, of which Israel has no shortage. Maybe then the Palestinians will come to realize the need for peace without constantly being chased.    HENRY TOBIAS    Ma’aleh AdumimSir, – Which of his two conflicting statements does Defense Minister Ehud Barak expect us to believe and accept – “‘Talks wont stop until we achieve  breakthrough,’” or (on the same day) “Barak unfreezes 112 settler homes” (March 9)? Does he really think the public is that stupid? No wonder former MK Ophir Paz-Pines laughs at the two Labor rebels who claim they are returning to the fold – at the same time their supposed leader is playing games with us.    LEONARD ZURAKOV    NetanyaProximity fuseSir, – The government seems to have stumbled into a double trap (“On eve of Biden’s arrival, PA agrees to ‘proximity talks,’” March 8). First, instead of dealing with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, Israel will be negotiating with the US. Here we are the weaker, not the stronger, party, and the Palestinians are free to terminate their participation at any time, since they have not given up their “preconditions.”Second, at the end of the moratorium on construction, Netanyahu will be faced with the very difficult choice of extending it at danger to the coalition or having the whole world, including and especially the United States, blame us for Abbas walking out of the proximity talks. More accurate would be to call it a proximity fuse.    SIDNEY HANDEL    Tel AvivPainless loyaltySir, – Ajami co-director Scandar Copti’s remarks dissociating himself from Israel may come from anger, as Hannah Brown suspects (“Equal representation,” March 9), or they may come from fear. As its protagonists suffer, the film casts little if any blame on the Israeli establishment, but depicts an Arab community powerless to break out of its own societal backwardness. If the production team had been entirely Jewish, Ajami would doubtless have been widely condemned as hostile and condescending. Certainly it serves up less anti-Zionist fodder than some award-nominated Jewish-made films do. As an Arab lionized by Israel, and especially as a non-Muslim Arab, Copti may have been under pressure to demonstrate his loyalty to the Arab cause, despite the film’s social commentary, and a sound bite expressing alienation from Israel is a painless way to do that.     MARK L. LEVINSON    Herzliya‘Apartheid’ does not applySir, – Rowan Somerville of Ireland insists that Israel is an apartheid state (“Color-blindness in Israel,” Letters, March 8). As evidence, he asks if the 45,000 people of Kalkilya have freedom of movement (prevented, as they are from freedom to invade Israel with their suicide bombers, grenade throwers, and garden-variety terrorists). Those who have peaceful business in Israel can enter, and they should know that the reason there are checkpoints is that some people can’t be allowed in. The wall is there for a reason, and statistics show that it has cut down tremendously on the mayhem.In any case, the people of Kalkilya are not Israeli citizens, but Palestinians. The term “apartheid” does not apply.I wish Mr. Somerville could take off his blindfold and see this “profoundly segregated” society at work in hospitals, museums, theaters and public parks, as well as many places not so visible to tourists. Segregation means, “This bench is for Jews only. This restaurant serves only Jews. This doctor must treat Jews only. This public washroom is for Jews only.” Mr. Somerville, you don’t know what segregation is.    MARCELLA WACHTEL     Jerusalem Sir, – Mr. Somerville seems somehow to have confused the liberties of citizens and residents of Israel with the freedom allowed to residents of a neighboring enemy political entity to enter and move freely within Israel.  As the mother of one of those dedicated doctors and nurses who treat everyone, even terrorists wounded in the course of murderous sprees, I can answer his question about how they feel being used as “decoys for... human rights abuses”: They don’t feel that they are being used as decoys for human rights abuses.    NAOMI SANDLER    JerusalemTaiwan and climate changeSir, – In response to Al Gore’s article “We can’t wish away climate change” (March 7), I would like to point out that now is the time for Taiwan to participate in the UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). In respect to the numerous natural disasters that have recently occurred in several countries as a result of climate changes and global warming, I would like to note that Taiwan is excluded from participating in the UNFCCC, and as well as its specialized agencies.Climate change is a major threat to Taiwan as well. As an island in the Pacific Ocean, it is imperiled by rising sea levels and the ravages of extreme weather. The devastation left in the wake of typhoon Morakot last August is a case in point: The storm triggered massive landslides and flooding that claimed many lives and caused untold amounts of property damage. Even though Taiwan has yet to be accepted to the UNFCCC, it acts vigorously to combat climate change by developing green energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As the 18th-largest trading economy with the fourth-largest foreign reserve in the world, Taiwan has a highly technologically advanced and prosperous economy. Taiwan’s solar energy sector has already achieved significant market presence in the world with its impressive innovation, and the government encourages the development of renewable energies by legislation.As these facts prove, Taiwan has both the incentives and the means to combat climate change, and I call on the UNFCCC to consider Taiwan’s participation in the organization’s meetings and committees. This will not only help the 23 million Taiwanese to defend themselves from the next typhoon, but also benefit all citizens of the world who will be able to use Taiwan’s meaningful contributions to research on climate change and dealing with its consequences.    SIMON C. HSIEH     Taipei Economic and Cultural Office    Tel Aviv Why buy H&M?Sir, – Considering the fact that more and more Israelis go abroad, it is difficult to understand why, on their return, they cannot wait to spend hard-earned money in the international chains that operate here in Israel (“H&M’s prices have locals guessing,” March 9). Their eagerness to rush to buy is the main reason why chains like H&M and Ikea sell many of their products here at inflated prices.
In Ikea’s case, a price comparison will show that many items are well
over 50 percent cheaper in the US and Europe than they are here. If
there were buyer resistance to inflated prices, the international
chains would be forced to come into line with other international
branches. Many of the international chains here make a big play of the
fact that some few items are even cheaper in Israel than abroad. These
are the very items that make Israeli shoppers lose all sense of
reality. The Israeli owners of the stores must be laughing all the way
to the bank.    EDGAR ASHER
    Petah TikvaShed light on the world – don’t flash itSir, – Without wishing to draw further attention to Spencer Tunick’s
tomfoolery and the adulation of our tourism advisers, how can anyone
describe this man’s work as “art” (“Too much information? ‘Yediot’
story may foil mass nudity photographer’s visit,” March 9)? It is
nothing more than outright sensationalism. Do we really need to join
the rest of the world in promoting such exhibitionist rubbish?I always thought Israel was supposed to be “a light unto the nations.”
Rejecting Mr. Tunick could be a perfect opportunity to shed that light.
    DAVID ALTMAN 
    Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 11: Damage control?</title>
<date>10/3/2010</date>
<content>
Damage control?Sir, – Defense Minister Ehud Barak says the plan to build housing in east Jerusalem is “damaging” (“‘R. Shlomo plan’s timing regrettable,’” Online Edition, March 10). The question is: Is east Jerusalem part of Israel or not? If it is, then Israel and her citizens can build anything they want, whenever they want. Joe Biden doesn’t tell the mayor of Philadelphia what he can or cannot build on Market Street.




Once again, Israel should stop apologizing for its existence.ABE KRIEGER Philadelphia, PA Still building – for Jews onlySir, – Construction continues apace in Jewish-only West Bank settlements, in spite of the “construction freeze” (“Barak unfreezes 112 settler homes,” March 9). At least 33 settlements – 25% – consistently, flagrantly continue building, flaunting the law, exceeding the 3,000 acknowledged “exceptions” built into the freeze.The government does nothing. Half the violating 33 settlements receive significant financial aid via the government’s “priority list.” Now, 112 housing units have been approved in one settlement “for safety and infrastructure reasons.” Don’t Palestinians living in overcrowded conditions have “safety” needs? With Israel’s slicing, dicing, blockading, destroying Palestinian roads, don’t Palestinians deserve “infrastructure”?And then there are 1,600 housing units approved in ultra-Orthodox east Jerusalem (“Biden rebukes Israel over Ramat Shlomo housing plan, saying it ‘undermines trust,’” March 10). A“major expansion” of roads and homes – many targeted to young couples. On land confiscated from Palestinians, for Jews only, while they prevent Palestinian neighbors from building. Don’t Palestinians marry, start families, desire a cozy place of their own?How dare we do this, when we Jews know intimately discrimination and abandonment? How dare the government do unjust, illegal, un-Jewish acts in our name? How dare we, who have suffered so much, remain silent?JUDY BAMBERGERO’Connor, Australia‘Reassurances’ aren’t enoughSir, – The current strategy of sanctions against Iran is fatally flawed (“Biden reassures Israel on Teheran,” March 10). The US, pushing for further sanctions, has a failing record of enforcing them. The Obama administration and its predecessors diplomatically, politically, practically struggled to exert American authority over foreign companies and the foreign subsidiaries of American ones outside any embargo’s reach, and giving more than $100 billion in contracts to companies doing business with Iran in recent years. Is this the serious consequences and increasing isolation Biden is talking about?How can Israel’s leaders do anything but act forcefully, unilaterally if necessary, and lead the international community to reduce the increasing threat posed by the Iranian nuclear program?IAN KEOUGHToronto, CanadaShifting political positionsSir, – David Newman’s analysis of the continually diminishing support for left-wing parties made interesting reading (“Challenging the Left to move it” March 9). As one who has participated in every election since making aliya 32 years ago, I have tried to analyze why my political affiliations have changed, veering from left to right, where I am now firmly installed. Newman’s views do not explain this. Rather, it is the complete understanding that the attitude of the Palestinian leaders toward peace, as expressed by their continual refusal to accept the existence of Israel as a sovereign Jewish state with historic claims to Jerusalem and, indeed, to all of the land between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea, will not permit peace. The left-wing parties have tried to accommodate these Palestinian views, which would make it impossible to have both peace and stable Israeli security. Only support for right-wing parties, which are prepared for reasonable compromise, can ensure this.MONTY M. ZION Tel Mond‘We have met the enemy’Sir, – After reading your article on Penina Conforty and her bakery in Ashdod (“Jews for Jesus baker not kosher, state argues,” March 10), I am reminded of the words of wisdom given to us by Pogo: “We have met the enemy – and he is us.”STEPHEN BREITSTEIN Haifa‘Apartheid’ is bad PRSir, – I was born and brought up in South Africa during the apartheid era and after making aliya I still go back on regular family visits (“Not black and white,” March 7).The word “apartheid” can only be applied to the specific situation that existed in South Africa. It is an Afrikaans word used by the white government to denote “living separately” in different tribal homelands, depending on which tribe you belonged to. It does not compare to anything in Israel or any other part of the world.It is about time journalists and politicians used precise words for what they want to describe. Do not compare what the German Nazis did to the Jews, with anything in Israel. Do not compare the Holocaust to anything between Jews and Arabs in Israel. There is no comparison: Israel’s burglar-proofing wall against terrorists is not apartheid.Advice to our PR people: Throw away that ridiculous ad about the camel and the appalling ad with the half-naked man and woman. Instead, take a camera crew and journalists to every hospital in Israel and interview the myriad Arab patients, asking them how the treatment is. Then interview the excellent Arab doctors and nurses. It will be a mind-boggling report and a wonderfully positive exposure for Israel .For Christians, say, “Come to the Galilee and walk on the waters where Jesus walked and view one of the fishing boats of that time. Relax on the Mount of the Beatitudes where he gave his sermon and fed the multitudes with a few fish a loaves of bread.”Shout out to the whole world that only since the 1967 war when the Old City of Jerusalem came under Israeli sovereignty were people of all denominations free to worship at their holy places. Before that, under Jordanian sovereignty, Jews were not allowed to worship at the Western Wall.YVONNE NARUNSKY Kfar Shmaryahu Remembering David KimcheSir, – I was a close friend of David Kimche in London, before he came to Israel (“David Kimche, 1928-2010 – the man who walked in the shadows,” March 10). It was only here that he acquired the name “Dave”; in England, he was known as “Duvid.” He was proud of being a descendent of the great grammarian and biblical commentator, Rabbi David Kimchi, who was a member of a famous family that greatly enriched our Talmudic and Hebrew literature. Following the saying, “Where there is no flour [kemach], there can be no Torah,” it was said of this family that “were it not for the Kimchis, there would be no Torah.”Although too young to be an official delegate, his father attended the first Zionist Congress in Basel, which was presided over by Theodor Herzl.DAVID STEINHART Petah TikvaWelcome back, Judy!Sir, – Welcome back, Judy Montagu (“Change in the weather,” March 10)! 
I really missed Judy’s columns. I look forward to enjoying them again.And yes, about spring: I know when spring is coming when I smell the
orange blossoms. Everything is relative, isn’t it? I love when I see
gray skies and welcome a good rain storm, knowing that we will be
having those seven months or so of clear, blue, sunny skies.SHAYNA ORBAUM
NetanyaSir, – Welcome back, Judy! A nice start to our spring, indeed.
NACHAMA KANNER
Rehovot
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 14: An act of stupidity</title>
<date>13/3/2010</date>
<content>
An act of stupidity...Sir, – It takes a unique act of collective stupidity to slap the face of the vice president of the United States – a major figure from our most loyal (and almost only) ally.




It matters not what views one holds about expansion in Jerusalem. Only a person with a desire to further harm our nation would allow this act of stupidity to occur. Even the most ardent proponent of a right-wing position should have had intellect to know that this timing was absurd.It was clear that a major purpose of Vice President Joe Biden’s visit was to discuss approaches to the unusual risk Israel faces regarding Iran. To muddy the waters, as this announcement did, only weakens our position. Anyone who fails to understand that does not have the maturity or common sense to be in a senior position in our government.    STEPHEN J. KOHN     Ra’anana Sir, – Thursday’s editorial describes the present government as being “dysfunctional.” I can think of another three adjectives to add to this analysis: foolish, arrogant and dangerous. If it is true that the prime minister had nothing to do with the ill-timed statement, then he should apologize to the Vice President and put any decision on the status of Jerusalem on hold until the end of negotiations. This incident has nothing to do with the status of Jerusalem, and much to do with the little mouse that roared. The prime minister has done more to undermine the position of Israel in the eyes of the Americans than most of his predecessors. He should truly be ashamed.    PAUL BERMAN    Shoham...but the blame is misplacedSir, – Thursday’s Jerusalem Post contains several articles and an editorial all accusing the government of insensitivity or even incompetence in announcing the approval for expanded housing in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Ramat Shlomo during the visit of the American vice president (“From smooch to smack in 24 hours,” “Dysfunctional government,” March 11). This assignment of blame to the government and understanding for the vice president’s display of anger saddens me. It strikes me as one more example of the terminal ghetto mentality that stymies Israel in its efforts to be viewed as a sovereign state.It is Mr. Biden who should be criticized for his behavior. If he is truly a friend of Israel, he should understand the position held by a large majority of its citizens – that Jerusalem is the eternal and indivisible capital of the nation. Jerusalem was explicitly excluded from the building moratorium that was granted as a large concession under American pressure to facilitate resumption of peace talks with the Palestinians. It is now clear that the only effect of that concession was to whet the Palestinians’ appetite for further concessions.Mr. Biden vented his pique by criticizing Israel publicly twice, and also by being an hour late for dinner with the prime minister. Apparently he forgot that the major purpose of his visit was to coordinate America’s policy on Iran with that of its strongest and most reliable ally in the Middle East. He lost his cool when that ally was not in total lock-step with the latest American position vis-à-vis the almost-defunct peace process.If Mr. Biden’s anger is justified, and our government has been “dysfunctional” by moving forward with providing needed housing in its capital after careful review, then perhaps it is time to get out the maps and start dividing Jerusalem in earnest. With luck, our American friends will stand by us to assure that some small part of the city is kept under Israeli sovereignty. Maybe they will even recognize that rump neighborhood as the capital of the Jewish state. But of course, that can only happen if we keep our heads down and don’t assert our rights too loudly.    ARNOLD I. KISCH     JerusalemSir, – While the timing of the housing plan announcement in Jerusalem might be considered unfortunate, suggesting that it “undermines trust” is beyond comprehension, given the full picture. When demands are made only of Israel – to freeze building needed for her citizens, to open roads to Arab traffic when terrorism has been the reason for restriction, when Israel is pressured repeatedly to take steps to prop up PA President Mahmoud Abbas – there is no truth that there is a “peace process.” That expression implies give and take on both sides, and this is nonexistent.What has the Obama administration – as well as previous ones – required of Palestinian Arabs, who have used terrorism as a weapon against Jewish communities even before the re-creation of Israel in 1948, and since then have refused any Israeli offers to settle the conflict? Where is their well-deserved rebuke from those who would condemn Israel for simply providing living accommodations for its families? Indeed, the demand that Israel stop building is in itself outrageous.Uttering words of assurance to Israel regarding the US-Israel relationship is simply not enough. Both countries have common values that include democracy. Israel is the bulwark of that democracy in a region that is infested with the roots of terror in the world at large. Considering that the US and nations of the West are engaged in an effort to help Iraq achieve democracy, it is incongruous that a terrorist apartheid state be created through a fictitious process that would lead to the destruction of Israel. This reality must be conveyed to Mr. Biden, who has, no doubt, come to Israel with the best of intentions.    CHANA GIVON     JerusalemSpeaking for whom?Sir, – In her letter “Still building – for Jews only” (Letters, March 11), Judy Bamberger may have some valid points in contrasting the apparent differences in the treatment of Palestinians and Israelis, as far as housing is concerned.However, she oversteps the line when she says “How dare we do this?” Just who is the “we” she refers to?Perhaps if she left the comfort of Australia she would have the right to make such comments, but not until then.    MOISHE VEEDER     Netanya Insults...Sir, – How long must we continue to take insults from such people as Arab director Scandar Copti and the restaurant in Haifa that refuses to serve soldiers on its premises (“ACRI: Haifa eatery broke no laws by banning IDF soldiers in uniform,” March 11)?    ISSY HASS    Ra’anana....and Oscar failuresSir, – The article exploring Israel’s failure to win Oscars ignored the true explanation – one that also serves to explain those same films’ successfully being nominated (“Why Israel can’t enter the promised land,” March 11).It’s a simple fact of life: Nobody trusts a defector. The films and their directors are part and parcel of the Israeli Left’s constant attempts to curry personal favor with international audiences by attacking our country and its willingness to defend itself. That attitude will win adulation – but never respect. Europe and Hollywood will show love to any Israeli who hates Israel, but intangibles are all you’ll get out of them.US President Barack Obama continually encounters the same problem. His policies, which are designed to deliberately run counter to those of former president George W. Bush, are wildly popular in the rest of the world, and thus so is Obama himself. But all that popularity hasn’t helped him bring the Olympics to Chicago, increase NATO support for the war in Afghanistan, or convince Russia and China to support sanctions against Iran.Kowtowing to the world might get you nominations, but it will never get you the gold.
    DANIEL STERMAN 
    Jerusalem Misnomer at the UNSir, – The headline of an article written by E.B. Solomont reads
“Shalom at the UN: It’s time to impose crippling sanctions on Iran”
(March 10). I thought once again that this was a Purim spiel, until I
realized it was talking about Silvan Shalom. Just goes to show, you
can’t be too careful with your headlines.
    JACK PURKEY 
     Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 22: The US and annexed land</title>
<date>21/3/2010</date>
<content>
The US and annexed landSir, – In the corps, we sang, “From the Halls of Montezuma,” a phrase commemorating the Marines fighting in the US-Mexican war from 1846 to 1848. The cause of this war was the unilateral annexation of Mexican Texas by the US. Mexico lost the war, and America gained the annexation of Texas, California and New Mexico.




In 1998, the US warred with Spain and, as the victor, annexed the Spanish flag colonies of Cuba, the Philippines, Puerto Rico and Guam.Given its history of annexation through just wars, it is difficult to understand the US attitude toward Israel annexing territory after defeating enemies who attacked it (“US, Israel tone down spat,” March 21). The lands involved are Israel’s territorial rights by ancient and modern treaties and by the Book of Books.RAPHAEL BEN-YOSEFRamat GanGoing nuclear over... Jerusalem?Sir, – Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrives in Moscow urging Russia to delay the commissioning of a nuclear power plant in southern Iran (“US, Russia nearing deal on nukes,” March 21). At the same time, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin announces that this plant will go on line this summer (“Putin: Bushehr reactor to go online by summer,” March 21).The reactions from the US? Expressions of a “slap in the face,” “an insult,” or “diplomatic stupidity” are nowhere to be heard. Contrast this with the mighty kerfuffle caused by a statement from a mid-level Israeli bureaucrat upon Vice President Joe Biden’s arrival Jerusalem, that 1,600 residential units would be built in east Jerusalem. The planned-apartments statement made the US administration go a lot more nuclear than the Putin announcement on the Bushehr project. I wonder why.FRED EHRMAN New York Building in Tel AvivSir – So the prime minister says that building in Jerusalem is no different than building in Tel Aviv (“‘Israel won’t change its policies,’” Online Edition, March 21). Then Obama will send Hillary Clinton to say “Good point. Stop building in Tel Aviv, too.” Let’s get this man’s position out in the open.ISRAEL PICKHOLTZ JerusalemSir, – Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu proclaims, “Building in Jerusalem is like building in Tel Aviv.” No, Bibi, I don’t think so.There’s this thing called a Green Line, and in Jerusalem, Israel is building beyond that Green Line. Not so in Tel Aviv.And there’s international recognition that Tel Aviv belongs to Israel, versus only Israel recognizing its sovereignty over “greater Jerusalem.” And of course, there’s the question of where “greater Jerusalem” stops; it seems to keep changing. Just how far toward Ramallah, Jericho and Bethlehem will Israel claim as “greater Jerusalem” as it continues to expand for Jewish-only “natural growth”?No, Mr. Netanyahu, building in Jerusalem is not like building in Tel Aviv.JUDY BAMBERGERO’Connor, AustraliaTo live by the lawsSir, – Rabbi Ya’acov Litzman dictates building the new ER 300 meters from the main hospital building, delaying reinforcement of the hospital, defying medical, engineering, archeological and scientific opinions and facts (“IMA: Reject Litzman’s plan for Ashkelon’s Barzilai,” March 19). Rabbi Litzman has apparently forgotten the basic Jewish concept of “vahai bahem” – to live by the laws, not to die by them.And here we are, standing by and arguing while Kassams are flying again.Why all this apathy by the people of Ashkelon and the surrounding area – and for that matter, all of klal yisrael? Are we not interested in their health, welfare and safety?And all this on account of some 2,000-plus-year-old bones. Is it better to have a larger cemetery of thousands of new bones?CHIEL WIND, MD HolonEqual treatment...Sir, – To add to Liat Collins’s recent excellent article condemning Israel Apartheid Week (“Not black and white,” March 7) I would like to share one of my many personal experiences that illustrate the absurdity of the malevolent “apartheid” claim.My daughter spent a month in Hadassah-University Hospital, Ein Kerem, with pregnancy complications. The day eventually arrived for the Caesarean delivery of her twins, and she was taken to the delivery suite, prepared for the procedure and wheeled into the operating theater, while her family waited anxiously outside. To our surprise, she was wheeled out after only a few minutes and an Arab woman was taken in instead. A nurse explained that this patient’s situation was more urgent and her Caesarean must be performed first.Despite the tension of my daughter’s long wait, we knew that decisions are and must be made only according to medical considerations. However, it doesn’t require much imagination to envision what various NGOs and the international press would have made of the story if the opposite had occurred, and a Jewish woman had taken the place of an Arab one. PAULINE SHOMERHar Adar...and equal bansSir, – I wonder if the city of Kassel in the German state of Hesse would also ban a Palestinian flag if a similar event took place, with a similar excuse, insisting that this flag would disturb pedestrians (“German city bans Israel flag – again,” March 21). JOYCE KAHN Petah Tikva Hang in there, Israel!Sir, – Your decision to build housing units in Ramat Shlomo is entirely justified, and we vehemently disagree with our current government’s position of opposition to your recent announcement (“Crime and punishment,” March 19). Yesterday, we wrote a letter to President Obama registering our deep disagreement with recent statements made by himself, Biden, Clinton and others in the administration. The US has recently lost its way in many areas of our foreign and domestic policy. We are deeply distressed to see the retrograde position the administration has taken.We urge the Israeli government to not succumb to US pressure regarding this matter. We are deeply committed Christians and love the nation of Israel, and wish you strength and God’s love as a people and nation.RANDALL and ARLENE BEMIS Chatsworth, CaliforniaSir, – My wife and I spent eight days in Israel last month. We love Israel and we know those who bless Israel will be blessed and those who curse Israel will be cursed.Obama is so out of touch with the majority of the people in the United States. He wants national health care, and the majority of the people don’t. He doesn’t support Israel, and the majority of the people here are ashamed of the way he treats it. We support you! We pray for the peace of Jerusalem and Israel.CPDTexasSir, – Considering the current unpleasantness that has resulted from President Obama’s attempt to govern the State of Israel, I feel obliged to speak a word of reason to the citizens of our staunchest Middle-East allied nation.I am sure you are aware there are a great many wild-eyed, flag-waving
Christians over here, grateful to you in knowing that without you,
there would not be an us.Do not forget we are here, and we are,
without question, among the vast majority of the American populace who
staunchly support the Israeli people and their elected government
representatives. If I may be so bold as to speak for the US majority, I
encourage you to stand strong against your enemies and do not yield an
inch. Do what is right in the eyes of our Heavenly Father, regardless
of what someone from the White House might have to say.
Brighter days are ahead.Hang in there.JAMES Mentone, California
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 23: Bones of contention</title>
<date>22/3/2010</date>
<content>
Bones of contentionSir, – The decision of this government to cave in to Deputy Health Minister Ya’acov Litzman’s demand to waste millions of our tax shekels so as not to build where graves have been found is a national disgrace (“State comptroller to probe gov’t decision to relocate Ashkelon emergency room,” March 22). 




There is absolutely no halachic justification for this. Even if they are Jewish graves, Jewish law allows for the removal of graves under conditions like this. For too long we have bought into the misrepresentation of Halacha that some groups have tried to force upon us. Is there no integrity left in this government? When we cannot provide the medications needed because of budget problems, when we cannot finance education as we should, when poverty is rampant and people are going hungry, Jewish law demands that we not waste our resources on nonsense. The answer to Litzman’s threat to resign should have been: Good-bye. Those from Labor and the Likud who voted against him deserve credit – but one wonders why none of them threatened to resign rather than participate in this farce.    RABBI REUVEN HAMMER    JerusalemSir, – Prime Minister Netanyahu should announce that a team of archeologists has dug up ancient Jewish bones at the proposed building site in Ramat Shlomo. In view of the Barzilai Hospital imbroglio, such an announcement would allow the prime minister to scrap the Ramat Shlomo building plans, thereby placating the US State Department while confirming (yet again, as if it were necessary) our connection to and sovereignty over Jerusalem.Of course, there's the minor problem of actually finding such bones at that particular site, but as Obama and co. don’t allow themselves to be confused by facts, making the announcement before the bones have actually been found shouldn’t be cause for consternation.    DANIEL FEIGELSON    RehovotGroup worship at the WallSir, – On Friday, an editorial in The Jerusalem Post correctly called for the punishment of those who resort to violence against the Women of the Wall (“The right message at the Wall,” March 19). The editorial did not venture any opinion as to what action ought to be taken against any persons who might engage in non-Orthodox prayer. In other words, the editorial did not call for any change in the current practice that denies freedom of worship for all Jewish religious denominations.While every decent person should approve the Post’s call for nonviolence, it seems to me that the message of the Wall should extend far beyond shalom bayit (domestic peace).Liberals often fight the wrong battles. We are swamped these days with the efforts of the Conservative Movement, the Women of the Wall and their supporters to guarantee free and equal opportunities for all Jews to conduct group worship at the Western Wall. All of us liberals, of course, agree that the Orthodox monopoly is a violation of democracy and should never have been authorized. However, is the Wall a proper locale for traditional prayer or multi-denominational Jewish worship?I believe that the Wall should be open to all Jews and non-Jews who want to reflect on the significance of this holy place for an understanding of Jewish history and the role of the Jewish people in human civilization. Of course, everyone should be free to express himself or herself in meditation, personal prayer or quiet conversation.However, the current battle to foster group worship on an equal basis for all is nonsensical. Meanwhile, the proper strategy for liberals is to fight against the current system of authority. This is a fight that should engage the secular majority in Israel as well as those who want to deal with the crisis in Jewish prayer in a serious way. The real aim of democratic-minded Jews should be to prevent the distortion of holiness that is manifest in the current battle for the possession and use of the Wall.    RABBI DR. JACK J. COHEN    JerusalemThe sins of a fewSir, – Attempts by the media and others to undermine the Catholic Church due to the recent sex-scandal is unjust to the vast majority by innocent priests who are faithful to their vows (“Pope slams Irish church, no Vatican blame in abuse,” March 21). While the scandal is sickening and disheartening, it must be put in its proper perspective. A very small percentage of priests are actually sex abusers. Statistics show that within the general population, priests are among those least likely to be abusers; 80-90 percent of the cases happen in families. Even Jesus had his Judas. In addition, people should bear in mind that priests have to respect the special nature of secrecy involved in the act of confession entrusted to the church by Christ. The church will weather this storm as it has weathered every other storm and come out victorious. People should not condemn the church for the sins of a few.    PAUL KOKOSKI    Hamilton, OntarioObama’s strategySir, – It is difficult to make sense of President Obama’s policies, but we would be mistaken to think that he is inept or foolish (“Obama has crossed the line,” March 16). Obama’s successful White House campaign illustrated his extraordinary ability to focus on a goal and relentlessly pursue a long-term strategy to achieve it. We have seen, in this past week, another illustration of that process. One of the ideological goals Obama has set himself is the achievement, on his terms, of a settlement of the Israel-Palestine conflict. What we have witnessed is the apparent unveiling of a further stage of his strategy. Let us be clear: Obama’s aim is not to facilitate meaningful negotiations between Netanyahu and Abbas, leading if possible to a reasonable solution acceptable to both sides. If that were indeed his aim, then his policy would be incomprehensible, and every action counterproductive. His strategy, it appears, is to sabotage any possibility of such negotiations. The American administration’s initial demand for a full construction freeze in Judea, Samaria and Jerusalem as a prerequisite to the commencement of talks was the first step in a consistent campaign to put stumbling blocks in the path of any real progress towards a negotiated settlement. The latest event was the high-drama production of condemnation, shock, and public admonition that greeted a bureaucrat’s slip-up in timing over Ramat Shlomo. Biden was offended, Hillary Clinton’s feelings were hurt, poor Abbas (busy commemorating a past Palestinian confidence-building measure, the massacre of Jews on the coast road) has lost confidence in Israel, and the lives of American soldiers are threatened? Oh, come on! The administration’s strident, over-the-top demarches and ultimatums to Israel only makes sense if Obama has already decided the outcome of the final-status issues, and is preparing the ground for imposing his decision upon Israel.     PROF. GILBERT HERBERT    HaifaThank you, CarolineSir, – Thank you so much for Caroline Glick’s columns, especially her latest (“Obama’s war on Israel,” March 19). It’s about time the Left was called to task for its role in encouraging the jihadists.Keep up your brilliant work, Ms. Glick!And may we really clean out our hametz so we can all celebrate Pessah together!    LEAH WOLF    MetarPicture-perfect hasbaraSir, – You have found the perfect picture and caption for hasbara: “An
early Seder” (March 22) on Page 4 of the paper. What better way to
counter the “apartheid” argument than by showing Jewish and Arab
children not only being treated in the same Israeli hospital, but
participating in a Seder. Noting that some of the Arab kids live in the
Palestinian Authority, and that Arab 8women teachers helped is icing on
the cake.My question is, why wasn’t this on the front page, where it would get much more attention?
    BATYA BERLINGER
    Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 3: Dubai and the Jews</title>
<date>2/3/2010</date>
<content>
Dubai and the JewsSir, – One sentence reportedly uttered by Dubai’s police chief Lt-General Dahi Khalfan Tamim (“‘Dubai’s ban on Israelis is a blow to relations,’” March 2) really shows that meaningful relations with the Arab states is anyway virtually impossible. He said, “Police will develop ‘skills’ to recognize Israelis by ‘physical features and the way they speak.’”




Is this not what anti-Semites have always said when trying to eliminate the Jewish people? We never learn.    EDGAR ASHER    Petah TikvaZahalka’s speaking toursSir, – MKs Moshe Matalon (Israel Beiteinu) and Danny Danon (Likud) rightly claim that Israel is the only country in the world that would tolerate an MK denouncing it while being paid a salary from taxpayers (“MKs blast Balad head for accepting invite,” March 2).Balad chairman Jamal Zahalka is on a scheduled Israeli Apartheid week speaking tour.Kadima MK Robert Tibayev also condemns Zahalka, but claims that his anti-Israel speeches “actually contradicted Israel’s detractors” because it shows the world that we are a true democracy. What? To whom do we have to prove that we are a true democracy? We are a sovereign nation that takes too much criticism and advice from the world, and it is time that we took action against such MKs as Zahalka. If we did, it would deter other legislators from speaking against our country.     CHAIM GINSBERG    Ma’aleh AdumimSir, – I agree that it is an affront to have a Knesset member participate in events that undermine the legitimacy of the country to whose parliament he has been elected. To the extent that it is illegal, he should be held accountable under the law.However, let him go speak everywhere and let those who want to show that he’s wrong – that apartheid in Israel is just a lie – note simply that there is no Arab country where a Jew could be elected to parliament and then have the hubris (or stupidity) to travel the world and speak against the very legitimacy of the country he represents, without endangering his life or freedom. Not only is this man not discriminated against institutionally – as he and the organizers of Israel apartheid week would have us believe – he is living proof that Arabs in Israel are equal under the law and that even his repugnant and incorrect actions are protected.    JONATHAN FELDSTEIN    EfratRiots over HebronSir, – Gershon Baskin (“Deadly political babblings,” March 2) presents a reasonable article on the opportunity Israelis and Palestinians have to resolve the crisis over the Hebron religious sites. However, he leaves us with more questions than solutions.For one, he spends a lot of ink on blaming Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu for the riots that occurred after he opened the Hasmonean Tunnels and placed the Jewish Holy sites in Hebron on the Israeli Heritage list. The question is: Who started the riots where so many were either killed or wounded, and why? It seems to me that while every Israeli government since 1967 has worked to protect and restore Muslim holy sites, it’s just the opposite in the Palestinian Authority. While the PA has a fine police force trained by Gen. Keith Dayton of the US, not one of these police officers is deployed to ensure the safety of Jews wanting to visit the Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron. If they are not doing so now, what reasonable expectation will we have for the PA to do so in a Palestinian state living in peace alongside a recognized Jewish State of Israel? And why, with such a large police force, would it take an “international willingness” (the UN) to keep peace and protect both holy sites in Hebron?Second, what of the Jewish people living in Hebron? Are we to believe that the only solution to this issue of “conflict” is to rid Hebron of Jews? Won't this argument lead to an apartheid Palestinian state?Finally, the remark that “there is nothing special about Hebron in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict” begs the question: If it is not so important, why were there Arab/Palestinian riots in Jerusalem and Nazareth, and why did the PA and its Prime Minister Salam Fayyad hold a cabinet meeting in Hebron?The PA needs to demonstrate, today, that Jews have rights in the areas it controls, as Arabs/Palestinians have rights in Israel.    DAVE RACKNER    Hod HasharonSir, – Freedom of worship at the Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron is a reality, not theoretical (“... who is Netanyahu kidding?,” Letters, March 1). If Israel were to give sovereignty to the Palestinians at Judaism’s oldest site, Jews would have the same access to their second-holiest place as we had to the Western Wall when Jordan occupied the Old City. That is, none. Does Judy Bamberger really think that Arab control of Jewish sites would be more enlightened than Israeli control? If so, on what does she base her conclusion?    STEVE KRAMER    Alfei MenasheSir, – Judy Bamberger can put her disgust and outrage aside: Israel is not alone in having a national heritage site outside its sovereign borders. For example, as part of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, Bamberger’s own country maintains several thousand burial sites and more than 200 war monuments worldwide. The Cave of the Patriarchs in Hebron is the first recorded burial site in Judaism. By declaring the Cave of the Patriarchs an Israeli national heritage site, Netanyahu is acting no differently from the governments that make up the War Grave Commission in honoring their dead.    DR. H. B. MITCHELL    Mazkeret Batya‘Counterproductive’? The nerve!Sir, – Did you ever see Pisgat Ze’ev with your own two eyes (“White House: Pisgat Ze’ev construction counterproductive,” Online Edition, March 1)? I had a friend named Eli from my days in Tel Aviv in the 1980s. Among other things, he was an Arabic teacher in high schools. He also got married in Jerusalem and I was happy to be a guest. Eli and his wife Avia were one of the first young couples to buy a modest apartment in Pisgat Ze’ev in 1990, just before I departed the country. The neighborhood at that time was only a handful of apartment buildings and a modest shopping center. I returned to visit Eli and Avia two or three years later, and Pisgat Ze’ev stretched into the valley as far as the eye could see. It was incredible to see how many new apartments had been constructed. Breathtaking. Truly inspiring – the epitome of Zionist growth. And now some American administration official has the nerve to claim construction in Pisgat Ze’ev is counterproductive?    YONATAN SILVERMAN     Tel AvivSupporting the home team...Sir, – “Cold shoulder” (March 2) by Hilary Leila Kreiger is all about the way our elite sportsmen are treated by the Culture and Sport Ministry. Our ice dance team, the Zaretskys, are being treated the same way as our athletes in water sports because they are not like the noisy and disruptive soccer players and boorish fans. As I wrote to Metro last year, “it is too bad that even the most promising athletes have to scrounge for funds... in order to represent Israel in international competitions. Our sportsmen and women train physically and psychologically year round to represent Israel around the world, proudly carrying the flag. Not supporting them is short-sighted and isolationist for this country.”Have we learned nothing except how to be ostracized by nation after nation?    JESSICA FISCHER    Michmoret... and the homelandSir, – I felt bad about David Horovitz ridiculing Yuli Edelstein's
initiative to ask “normal” citizens to help with the hasbara effort
(“Wrong troops, wrong ammunition,” February 26).  As long as I’ve lived
here (38 years), I’ve always felt I had to represent this country as
well as I possibly could. I am at the member of a Internet forum in
Switzerland and Germany with about 150 members, and through me some of
the members received a different picture than what they get in their
respective countries. Yes, the Masbirim Web site is not very useful,
but the idea that each of us can have a little influence is sound. If
thousands of Israelis make an effort, either through personal contact
or via the Internet, I believe we can make a difference.
    RUTH SCHUELER

    Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 4: Ask Dubai</title>
<date>3/3/2010</date>
<content>
Ask DubaiSir, – Now that the right-hand man of assassinated Hamas leader Mahmoud al-Mabhouh has suggested that the security forces of an Arab country were behind the hit in Dubai (“Hamas official: Arabs may have targeted Mabhouh,” March 3), can we expect the English and Australian police to visit Iran to interview the two suspects who fled there?




    MICHAEL PLASKOW     Netanya Sir, – Dubai’s police chief has called for authorities to be on the lookout for “Jews” based on “physical features and the way they speak”  (“‘Dubai's ban on Israelis is a blow to relations,’” March 2).Will this sophisticated police force now employ the finest phrenologists to determine whether visitors are hiding horns under their wigs?    YONATAN SILVER    Jerusalem Early warning system for schoolsSir, – After the story broke about the 13 boys who allegedly gang-raped a teenage girl, questions were raised immediately in many quarters: Where were the school staff, the parents, police, social services, etc., etc., during the three years that this shocking abuse was allegedly going on (“Alleged teen gang rapists to be indicted,” March 3).School staff are under a lot of pressure, with large classes and a bulky agenda. Many parents in the modern world can be so busy working that they are likely to be insensitive to their children’s behavior patterns.What school staff need is access to information about what goes on outside the classes – on the playing fields, during social activities, etc. – particularly any irregular behavior.One option is to institute a prefect system, recruiting senior-year students who have been carefully screened to assist school staff with discipline and organization – but most importantly to be the ears and eyes of the school administration, so they can give early warning of behavior patterns that need attention. Schools in Western countries have long employed this system, which, while not foolproof, can help reveal dangerous occurrences.With the growing violence among our youth, having one’s hand on the pulse is critical.    DAVID GOSHEN    Kiryat OnoHot potatoes...Sir, – A tribe that does not revive its heritage in every generation disintegrates. That basic truth is as old as humankind. Just Gil Troy’s need to explain that essential (“Our heritage sites are not hot potatoes,” March 2), even more than the text of the article itself, illustrates its dearth today in Israeli society. But it’s the same, to some degree, in most Western countries. My one regret regarding Mr. Troy’s poignant piece is his inclusion of US President Barack Obama’s reputed statements about his patriotism during the campaign. As a vast percentage of Americans now know all too well, those words were worse than insincere.    PESACH GOODLEY    Telz Stone... and too many PR cooksSir, – Efraim Cohen sets out a highly intelligent set of rules for the government to deal with the thorny problem of hasbara, which certainly dates back to before the 40 years I have lived in Israel ( “A hasbara strategy,” Letters, March 2).Unfortunately, I doubt if anyone up top has the capacity to internalize all the steps he advocates. We have just witnessed Yuli Edelstein’s feeble and foolish attempts to dump the hasbara problem into the laps of hapless Israeli travelers abroad.The most important step put forward by Mr. Cohen is surely to establish a single body to set out and convey Israel’s message in a unified, clear and speedy manner.The plethora of departments claiming to speak in Israel’s name to the world at large is, and always has been, a surefire way to shoot ourselves in the foot.    MITZI KLEIN    JerusalemAppearances and apartheidSir, – Kudos to Brenda Katten for her very well-thought-out and perfectly expressed article (“What apartheid state?,” March 1). I could not agree more with her sentiments. In particular, I, too, feel great indignation at the ability of academics like Adi Ophir to slander our country while retaining her associate professorship at Tel Aviv University. In my opinion, people such as these are a danger, both through their influence on their students as well as to the future of our country.It is one thing to feel free to speak out and to criticize, but liberty should always be available within bounds, if chaos is not to ensue.    JACKIE ALTMAN    NetanyaSir, – I fully support Brenda Katten’s article on the “apparent” apartheid state of Israel, based on personal experiences I had. I also happened to be in South Africa in 1987 and saw apartheid in action. Last year, as I was about to go on holiday, I had a health problem and took the only possible appointment I could get on short notice – in Jaffa, a long way from where I lived in Herzliya. Arriving there, I was proud to see that Arabs and Jews were entering the clinic in equal numbers and waiting patiently for their turn to see the doctor.A few weeks later, having returned from the holiday, I sprained my ankle. This time, I decided to pay the fee of a nearby private hospital in town to have an ultrasound. Once again, Arabs were waiting to be examined in this prestigious clinic, sitting alongside their Jewish Israeli brethren. The doctor, who was very competent, turned out to be Arab as well. At the time I felt that people abroad should know how we live here. Unfortunately, the media only catch the bad news. Somehow, students abroad have to be informed of the truth that we are not an apartheid state.    HILARY GATOFF    Herzliya PituahTaiwan’s nuclear control effortsSir, – AP’s dispatch from Taipei “How nuclear equipment reached Iran” (March 2) failed to present the true efforts and policy of the Taiwanese government in preventing sensitive equipment being exported to Iran. Though Taiwan was not a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, we are well aware of the rules and protocols of the organization, as well as the importance of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons or parts. Taiwan has taken the initiative to implement the Strategic High-tech Commodities Catch-all Controls since 1995 to monitor the end-users and end-use of exported goods such as the pressure gauges the AP story mentioned. And in compliance with the UN Security Council’s adoption of sanctions on Iran for missile-testing and development of nuclear weapons, Taiwan has laid tight controls on sensitive commodities being exported to Iran since 2006. In the meantime, we have maintained close cooperation with countries concerned.Taiwan is a responsible member of the international community; we understand fully the “push-button issues of the West.” Our government, though lacking access to related international organizations, is determined to abide by the norms of civilized society. We have the expertise and resources to make a greater contribution to the world, if given the opportunity.    SIMON C. HSIEH    Taipei Economic     and Cultural Office    Tel AvivThank you, Dr. QadriSir, – It was very refreshing to read the report on the
unprecedented action of a relevant Muslim leader issuing unconditional
condemnation of terrorism or murder in the name of Islam (“UK Muslim
leader set to issue fatwa against violence in the name of Islam,” March
2). I have always maintained that my real concern is the
Muslim community’s failure to unequivocally denounce violence in the
name of the Koran. People often mistake such concerns for intolerance
or even racism. Yet the statements by Dr. Tahir ul-Qadri, a widely
respected authority on Islamic jurisprudence, suggesting that suicide
bombers are destined for hell and not paradise, were the first time
that I have ever read such a denunciation – coming from Europe, no
less. These are the true steps that lead me to believe in real peace in
our time. Thank you, Dr. Qadri, for restoring that faith in me.
    ERIC ROBICHAUD    Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 5: The fruits of apartheid and the Red Cross</title>
<date>4/3/2010</date>
<content>
The fruits of apartheid...Sir, – The editorial “The apartheid libel” (March 3) identifies correctly that the purpose behind the anti-Israel apartheid fest currently taking place in 40 cities is to tell the world that the Jewish state must be dismantled because the Jews stole the land from its rightful owners. While the statement is clearly false, the question is how many people you can convince that it is not.




The question is pertinent if one looks at what happened in South Africa. Nelson Mandela, in his book Long Walk to Freedom, writes that when in 1941 he and Gaur Radebe – both ANC members – were article clerks at the law firm  Witkin, Sidelsky and Eidelman in Johannesburg, Radebe often chided his white employers for their treatment of  black Africans. He would say to them, “You people stole our land from us and enslaved us. The situation should be reversed, and one day it will, and we will dump all of you into the sea.” Mandela writes that the Jewish lawyers kept quiet; they simply did not know how to answer back.It would be naïve to believe that this could not happen here – unless, of course, Israel learns to answer back.    DR. LILY POLLIACK    Jerusalem... and the Red CrossSir, – At first glance, the “humanitarian” effort of the International Red Cross to transport apples grown by Golan Druze to Syria appears to be quite a benevolent effort on the part of the IRC (“Golan apples sent to Syria,” March 3). A more critical reading, however, raises the question of whether the same altruistic effort would have been made on behalf of any other Israeli product that, for example, was trying to penetrate a market where the “Made in Israel” label was anathema.    ZEV CHAMUDOT     Petah Tikva Sir, – Hurrah for the International Red Cross overseeing the transportation of 10,000 tons of apples from the Golan to Syria. That is their true calling.If only they would broaden their role to include visitation rights to Gilad Schalit. Still, as they say, an apple a day keeps the Red Cross away.    PESSY KRAUSZ     Jerusalem Free giftsSir, – Dr. H. B. Mitchell interestingly cites national heritage sites outside sovereign borders such as the Commonwealth War Graves Commission (“Riots over Hebron,” Letters, March 3). The Jerusalem War Cemetery on the Mount of Olives has a tablet above the main entrance that states “Jerusalem War Cemetery – the land on which this cemetery stands is the free gift of the people of Palestine for the perpetual resting place of those of the Allied armies who fell in the war of 1914-1918 and are honored here.”At the time, Jerusalem was under military occupation by the British Army until the Mandate for Palestine was granted by the League of Nations in the 1920s.Yet according to the CWGC, this land was provided free of charge by “the government of Palestine.”    DR. COLIN L LECI     JerusalemA belief in valuesSir, – Rabbi Shmuley Boteach always has something of interest to say, and his latest article focuses on the lack of values that have now become a disturbing factor in American life (“Why America is depressed,” March 3). Young people are extremely depressed because there are no job opportunities and no hope that most young people will receive better opportunities in the future. The American system is such that one is marked by one`s job, one’s position in life. This is how one is defined, and obviously there is no guarantee that you are a person in your own right. It is not only more quality education that is needed. What is needed is
a belief that life has a purpose, that there is a Creator and that each
individual person is valued by God and by man. The Declaration of
Independence should be restudied for its moral purpose and its clarity
of vision. America needs a belief in its future and could well emulate
Israel in being proud to be a nation that serves mankind.    THELMA SUSSWEIN     JerusalemCORRECTION
The
telephone number for reservations for the March 9 IBCA event with
Justice Minister Yaakov Neeman is (09) 833-5394, and not as previously
published.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 8: Color-blindness in Israel</title>
<date>7/3/2010</date>
<content>
Color-blindness in IsraelSir, – Liat Collins’s “Not black and white” (March 7) is, simply stated, brilliant.




As an Israeli, I am proud of the great humanitarian ongoing project of Save a Child’s Heart at the Wolfson Medical Center in Holon, in saving the lives of thousands of indigent children through cardiac surgery.As a Jewish hasbara campaigner, Ms. Collins’s article gave me the ammunition to pass along to my non-Jewish friends in the USA that Israel is not an apartheid state. The Jerusalem Post is most fortunate to have her competent and knowledgeable editorial talent.LEONARD C. KAHN Zichron Ya’acovSir, – As a first-time visitor to your country, I have been fascinated, delighted and profoundly moved by the spirit and kindness of so many Israelis I have encountered. However, I sit here in the glorious sunshine of a Jerusalem spring morning astonished at the myopic propagandizing of Liat Collins’s commentary “Not black and white.”She rails against the thorny comparison of Israel’s domestic policy toward Palestinians and the South African treatment of non-whites under apartheid. “Israel does not, of course, have a perfect record on human rights. No country does,” she says, using the same defense of Israel’s human rights record that the the People’s Republic of China uses when its appalling record of abuse in Tibet is brought to light. Before this, she describes a moving story about a two-year-old girl given cardiac surgery by the Israeli “Save a Child’s Heart” organization. This is a laudable program, typical of the heartfelt efforts of so many Israelis I have encountered. I wonder how the surgical and nursing teams who are striving to heal this little girl feel about their work being used as a decoy for injustice and human rights abuses?“Israel is not a segregated society,” she writes. I am not against Israel; I believe passionately in Israel – but from what I have seen with my own eyes, what the majority of Israelis and every single Palestinian in the world know, this is a profoundly segregated society.She mentions the terrible pass system under apartheid which cruelly restricted the movement of non-whites. She announces, “It’s nothing like that here. Israel is a democracy allowing all its citizens freedom of movement.” Did the hundreds of kilometers of cement wall separating a multitude of Palestinians from their livelihoods escape her notice? Ask the 45,000 people of Kalkilya if they have freedom of movement.I do agree that the racism and segregation here is not codified into law – and that, along with the free press in Israel, is one of the critical differences between South Africa’s apartheid and the government’s treatment of Palestinians. The genius of Mr Mandela was to create two foundation stones for his country to build on: truth and reconciliation. There is no reconciliation without truth, and every time the truth is distorted or ignored, it is an act against peace, an act against humanity.ROWAN SOMERVILLE IrelandThe same page...Sir, – According to Caroline Glick’s column “Biden’s lost cause” (March 5) Sen. John Kerry’s self-proclaimed purpose for his recent visit to Israel was “to make sure that we [Israel and US] are all on the same page and that we are all clear about Iran.” How could we be on the same page when Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s bestseller How to Convert the World to Islam or Destroy It has Israel in the first chapter and the United Sates in the last chapter? In Iran’s book, at least, Israel and the US are certainly not on the same page!AVIGDOR BONCHEKJerusalem... of the same storySir, – Once again, Caroline Glick, in her defense of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, blames the Left and leftist press for his downfall during his first term as prime minister – not to mention international pressure from president Bill Clinton and others. However, while there is no question about the anti-Netanyahu atmosphere fostered then by the left wing, the fall of the government and Netanyahu was ultimately due more to infighting within the Likud and the prime minister’s rightist and religious party coalition partners, who, then as now, decided that he and his party were apparently not right-wing enough. Ergo, their active participation in forcing new elections. This was well-documented at the time, and I remember almost every political analyst and radio/TV interview discussing this phenomenon. Many signs point to a possible repetition of this today, because even though the current coalition may be much more stable and the public much less left-leaning, the constant rumblings from within certain Likud factions as the National Union and others certainly have the potential to bring down the present government, with little help from either the opposition or the Left.GERSHON HARRISHatzor Haglilit Fayyad is not inciting to violenceSir, – Many people will have read your prominently placed headline “Fayyad is inciting violence” (March 1). Unfortunately, many of those same people will not have taken the time to read the remainder of the article, which does not substantiate the headline’s claim that Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad is inciting violence. Prime Minister Fayyad has never and will never encourage violence, but instead consistently espouses a peaceful solution to the conflict, with two independent states living peacefully side by side. In fact, during his visit to Hebron on Friday, February 26, the prime minister specifically said that “we will not be dragged to violence by the terrorism of the settlers and the terrorism of the settlement project.” What he does encourage, as stated in the article, is nonviolent popular resistance. We appreciate that the article itself, save for the title and first sentence, was balanced. Our concern is that people will not take the time to read the report, and therefore assume that the headline, which is misleading, is substantiated.We hope that, in future, you will choose your headlines with more care. Also, should you need any information or clarification, please do not hesitate to contact us.ABIR KOPTY Palestinian National AuthorityPrime Minister’s OfficeRamallahHeavy heartsSir, – Friday’s paper devoted half a page to the “heavy heart” our own tennis team takes with them as they play the Chilean team this Saturday following the devastating earthquake in their country (“Ran: We will play with a heavy heart,” March 5). It was a terrible tragedy, and I pray daily for their country. I, however, have a heavy heart over our team once again playing on Shabbat. If the Chilean team wanted to postpone this week’s events for another week, everyone would have understood; but our own people do not understand how sad it is that the Jewish people do not care to postpone our own needs and wants for a single day, for God. YECHIEL AARONHashmona’im Credit where credit is dueSir, – In his article “An ethnocracy or multiethnic democracy?” (March 2), Seth Frantzman writes of a new code word for slandering Israel: “ethnocracy.” However, his claim that it appears to have its origins in 2002 with research grants to one Alexander (Sandy) Kedar is chronologically in error.Sammy Smooha offered the “ethnic democracy” model in the mid-1990s, and in an article in Israel Studies, Vol. 3, in 1998, As’ad Ghanem, Nadim Rouhana and Oren Yiftachel critically engaged the theory. In the June 1998 issue of the Tel Aviv University Law Review, Yiftachel published another article entitled “Nation-Building and the Division of Space in the Israeli Ethnocracy.” I believe credit for denigrating the State of Israel and perverting its
political, social and cultural reality should be granted to those who
truly deserve it.YISRAEL MEDAD Shiloh
Seth Frantzman
writes: Mr. Medad is correct. The origin of the term being applied to
Israel apparently does have an earlier pedigree than I gave it, and
credit should indeed go, at least partly, to Smooha, Ghanem and Rouhana.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 8: Color-blindness in Israel</title>
<date>9/3/2010</date>
<content>
Color-blindness in IsraelSir, – Liat Collins’s “Not black and white” (March 7) is, simply stated, brilliant.




As an Israeli, I am proud of the great humanitarian ongoing project of Save a Child’s Heart at the Wolfson Medical Center in Holon, in saving the lives of thousands of indigent children through cardiac surgery.As a Jewish hasbara campaigner, Ms. Collins’s article gave me the ammunition to pass along to my non-Jewish friends in the USA that Israel is not an apartheid state. The Jerusalem Post is most fortunate to have her competent and knowledgeable editorial talent.LEONARD C. KAHN Zichron Ya’acovSir, – As a first-time visitor to your country, I have been fascinated, delighted and profoundly moved by the spirit and kindness of so many Israelis I have encountered. However, I sit here in the glorious sunshine of a Jerusalem spring morning astonished at the myopic propagandizing of Liat Collins’s commentary “Not black and white.”She rails against the thorny comparison of Israel’s domestic policy toward Palestinians and the South African treatment of non-whites under apartheid. “Israel does not, of course, have a perfect record on human rights. No country does,” she says, using the same defense of Israel’s human rights record that the the People’s Republic of China uses when its appalling record of abuse in Tibet is brought to light. Before this, she describes a moving story about a two-year-old girl given cardiac surgery by the Israeli “Save a Child’s Heart” organization. This is a laudable program, typical of the heartfelt efforts of so many Israelis I have encountered. I wonder how the surgical and nursing teams who are striving to heal this little girl feel about their work being used as a decoy for injustice and human rights abuses?“Israel is not a segregated society,” she writes. I am not against Israel; I believe passionately in Israel – but from what I have seen with my own eyes, what the majority of Israelis and every single Palestinian in the world know, this is a profoundly segregated society.She mentions the terrible pass system under apartheid which cruelly restricted the movement of non-whites. She announces, “It’s nothing like that here. Israel is a democracy allowing all its citizens freedom of movement.” Did the hundreds of kilometers of cement wall separating a multitude of Palestinians from their livelihoods escape her notice? Ask the 45,000 people of Kalkilya if they have freedom of movement.I do agree that the racism and segregation here is not codified into law – and that, along with the free press in Israel, is one of the critical differences between South Africa’s apartheid and the government’s treatment of Palestinians. The genius of Mr Mandela was to create two foundation stones for his country to build on: truth and reconciliation. There is no reconciliation without truth, and every time the truth is distorted or ignored, it is an act against peace, an act against humanity.ROWAN SOMERVILLE IrelandThe same page...Sir, – According to Caroline Glick’s column “Biden’s lost cause” (March 5) Sen. John Kerry’s self-proclaimed purpose for his recent visit to Israel was “to make sure that we [Israel and US] are all on the same page and that we are all clear about Iran.” How could we be on the same page when Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s bestseller How to Convert the World to Islam or Destroy It has Israel in the first chapter and the United Sates in the last chapter? In Iran’s book, at least, Israel and the US are certainly not on the same page!AVIGDOR BONCHEKJerusalem... of the same storySir, – Once again, Caroline Glick, in her defense of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, blames the Left and leftist press for his downfall during his first term as prime minister – not to mention international pressure from president Bill Clinton and others. However, while there is no question about the anti-Netanyahu atmosphere fostered then by the left wing, the fall of the government and Netanyahu was ultimately due more to infighting within the Likud and the prime minister’s rightist and religious party coalition partners, who, then as now, decided that he and his party were apparently not right-wing enough. Ergo, their active participation in forcing new elections. This was well-documented at the time, and I remember almost every political analyst and radio/TV interview discussing this phenomenon. Many signs point to a possible repetition of this today, because even though the current coalition may be much more stable and the public much less left-leaning, the constant rumblings from within certain Likud factions as the National Union and others certainly have the potential to bring down the present government, with little help from either the opposition or the Left.GERSHON HARRISHatzor Haglilit Heavy heartsSir, – Friday’s paper devoted half a page to the “heavy heart” our own tennis team takes with them as they play the Chilean team this Saturday following the devastating earthquake in their country (“Ran: We will play with a heavy heart,” March 5). It was a terrible tragedy, and I pray daily for their country. I, however, have a heavy heart over our team once again playing on Shabbat. If the Chilean team wanted to postpone this week’s events for another week, everyone would have understood; but our own people do not understand how sad it is that the Jewish people do not care to postpone our own needs and wants for a single day, for God. YECHIEL AARONHashmona’im Credit where credit is dueSir, – In his article “An ethnocracy or multiethnic democracy?” (March 2), Seth Frantzman writes of a new code word for slandering Israel: “ethnocracy.” However, his claim that it appears to have its origins in 2002 with research grants to one Alexander (Sandy) Kedar is chronologically in error.Sammy Smooha offered the “ethnic democracy” model in the mid-1990s, and in an article in Israel Studies, Vol. 3, in 1998, As’ad Ghanem, Nadim Rouhana and Oren Yiftachel critically engaged the theory. In the June 1998 issue of the Tel Aviv University Law Review, Yiftachel published another article entitled “Nation-Building and the Division of Space in the Israeli Ethnocracy.” I believe credit for denigrating the State of Israel and perverting its
political, social and cultural reality should be granted to those who
truly deserve it.YISRAEL MEDAD Shiloh
Seth Frantzman
writes: Mr. Medad is correct. The origin of the term being applied to
Israel apparently does have an earlier pedigree than I gave it, and
credit should indeed go, at least partly, to Smooha, Ghanem and Rouhana.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 10: Addressing the threat to Zionism</title>
<date>9/5/2010</date>
<content>
The Polish hand of friendshipSir, – Thank you for the article “Polish villagers clean up Jewish cemetery” (May 9) about the village of Sokolow Malopolski. It is indeed heartwarming. The Polish organizations involved in these acts of charity deserve our warmest thanks.




It reminds me of the kindness of non-Jewish citizens in 1980s Warsaw – at that time still under the communist regime – who helped with cleaning, painting and refurbishing the only Orthodox Nozykow Synagogue intact (all others had been totally destroyed by the Nazis). I heard from Polish people across the country that they bemoaned the loss of 10 percent of their culture in the Holocaust. Today, young people in Poland are eager to learn about Judaism as much as possible.Nevertheless, reading about Sokolow Malopolski’s reportedly noncooperative municipality authorities, one could get the opinion that they were hostile to Jews. One may, however, remember that only a couple of years ago, the city of Warsaw provided a beautiful, prime area for the construction of the Jewish Holocaust Museum. It is also notable that the government of Poland is very friendly toward Israel and has proven this in its stance during the proceedings of the EU parliament.A local example is the ambassador of the RP to Israel, Agnieszka Magdziak-Miszewska. For many years, she has conducted a monthly gathering for Israelis of Polish background, in her residence or public places. Jewish festivals are always marked with an appropriate greeting or celebration. Last year, she sponsored an excellent bar mitzva party for about a dozen boys from an orphanage in her fully kashered home with a number of rabbis present. When other nations turn their backs on Israel, we can only welcome the hands of friendship stretched out to the Jewish people.HILLEL GOLDBERGJerusalem An irrelevant connectionSir, – Whatever our opinions regarding Judge Richard Goldstone acting as chairman of the UN report on Operation Cast Lead and its “findings,” his decisions to send “28 black South Africans to death during the apartheid regime” have little relevance to the subject (“Ayalon slams Goldstone over apartheid,” May 7). It is logically, historically and factually wrong to connect these two episodes of Goldstone’s life, and Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon insults the intelligence of us all by doing so.Moreover, he insults the innocence of the Nazis’ victims by drawing a comparison between Goldstone’s “response... that he was a part of the system and had to respect the laws of the state, occasionally having to enforce laws he was opposed to,” and the Nazis’ unacceptable response that they were just following orders.The rationale of this fundamental difference is that Goldstone was acting within the law, sentencing legally convicted murderers to their punishment; whereas the Nazi “explanations” to which Ayalon refers were an attempted justification of having slaughtered innocent people – of having committed crimes themselves. MICHAEL BRUNERTModi’inAddressing the threat to ZionismSir, – Your recent article “Blacking out Zionism?” (May 7) calls attention to the grave threat to the Zionist project posed by the rapid growth of the haredi and Arab populations relative to the secular Jewish one. Yet this article, like all others I have seen on the subject, fails to mention an obvious and humane solution: greatly increased non-Jewish immigration to Israel.One million or more immigrants could come from any number of countries that have no “dog” in the Arab-Israeli or intra-Jewish fights. Those immigrants would want to live and work and participate in a prosperous liberal society. For this reason, they would naturally align themselves with the progressive forces in Israel, while at the same time assimilating into and strengthening a modern Hebrew (but also multicultural) society. Israel would benefit, as would the immigrants themselves.In addition to the demographic benefits, the presence of such a group would tend to reduce the “us vs. them” tensions between Jews and Arabs.DAVID J. BALANWashingtonA question to those Haredi Israelis who don't serve in the ArmySir, – Last Wednesday evening, the Paratroopers held an inspiring induction ceremony of new recruits at the Western Wall, including two of our grandsons – one coming from a “knit kippa” family and the other from a secular but traditional family. Both are highly motivated youngsters ready to serve their country.I cannot therefore comprehend (and I strongly condemn) the attitude and actions of the haredi rabbis and politicians who encourage and allow the tens of thousands of able-bodied yeshiva boys to avoid army service. Don’t they realize the obvious consequences and dangers to the security and future of the State of Israel “where they also happen to live” – as outlined in the well-written articles by Caroline Glick and Sara Honig in this weekend’s Jerusalem Post?SAMMY BERGER Kiryat Ono The San Remo ResolutionSir, – Susie Dym asks, “When will Jewish rights become known and recognized?” (“Remember San Remo,” Letters, May 2) She then refers to the “contributions” made by Mr. Eli Hertz and MK Danny Danon in recognizing “the exclusive national Jewish rights to the Land of Israel under international law.”I have dealt extensively with this very subject in the first chapter of my book The Legal Foundation and Borders of Israel under International Law. In fact, it was I who created the term “San Remo Resolution” to denote the inter-allied agreement that laid the legal foundation for the State of Israel. The late Prof. Yuval Ne’eman – to whom I served at the time as legal adviser on Eretz-Israel at the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure, which he headed – acknowledged in a 1992 article that it was “at San Remo that the State of Israel draws its legal existence,” citing me as the legal source for his statement.Eli Hertz himself wrote me on January 17, 2009, saying that “it was Howard Grief that insisted – correctly – that the San Remo Resolution is a piece of international law and the foundation that led to the final legal document – the ‘Mandate for Palestine.’”HOWARD GRIEFJerusalemTribute to ‘Lady J’Sir, – The sudden passing of Lady Jakobovits has created an enormous
void, not only in the world Jewish community, but also among thousands
of individuals and families whose lives she touched and greatly
influenced for years (“Lady Jakobovits dies at 81,” May 9). And while Lady J will be remembered for her decades of public service,
it was her ability to impact the individual that made her so very
unique. Weekly visits to terminally sick friends, personal phone calls
when she heard someone was in the hospital, and using her unmistakable
voice to bring out a smile are but a few examples of her exceptional
personality.Lady J, we will miss you sorely, but never stop loving you.
CHAIM FACHLER 
Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 12: Background check</title>
<date>11/5/2010</date>
<content>
Background checkSir, – According to the article “Obama picks Jewish woman for US Supreme Court” (May 11), this is some of what President Barack Obama said about his choice: 




“Obama... cited Kagan’s immigrant roots and the values her parents instilled as key to her success and life path... ‘Given Elena’s upbringing, it’s a choice that probably came naturally,’ Obama said, referring to her being raised by a public school teacher and a tenant lawyer who were the children of immigrants and both the first in their families to go to college.”And Abner Mikva, “who hired Kagan as his clerk when he was an appellate judge in the 1980s and then later when he was legal counsel for the Clinton White House,” said the following: “that her closeness to the immigrant experience influenced her approach to the law. ‘I think she did identify with people who are friendless and powerless, and that the law is there to protect them, not impose further burdens on them.’” Mikva also noted that “her yiddishkeit, as I call it, informs her views on social justice and compassion and understanding what law is about... We the Jews invented the law, and it’s only fitting that someone of Jewish heritage would fall in love with the law and make it a career.”I don’t think anyone in the Jewish community is complaining about this.So why is it legitimate to make judgments about Elena Kagan based on her background and upbringing, and not legitimate to make judgments about Obama based on his background and upbringing? Why is it okay to say that Kagan’s immigrant experience will make her more sympathetic to the friendless and powerless, but it’s not okay to say that Obama’s close association with Muslims throughout his life might make him more sympathetic to their concerns?    RANDI MELLMAN OZE     Jerusalem Donors have free choiceSir, – The interview with David Newman clearly shows how certain academics, primarily those on the Left, are out of touch with how the real world works (“How to make the next Buber,” May 11). In discussing his colleague, Neve Gordon, who openly supports boycotting Israel despite receiving a salary from its taxpayers, Newman decries those donors who will no longer give to BGU, as supporters of their own kind of boycott of an Israeli academic institution. He thinks that they should continue to fund BGU even though they find Gordon’s positions repugnant. Sorry. Donors are wealthy people who have many options as to how to spend their money. If BGU turns them off, for whatever reason, or for no reason at all, they can choose to spend their money elsewhere. No one has a claim on their funds. If Gordon so turns off donors that BGU does not build another lab, then that is BGU’s choice. Just as Gordon has the free speech to vilify Israel, the donors have free choice as to where they spend their money.    DAVID GLEICHER     Jerusalem Reply to ‘humane solutions’...Sir, – What an interesting idea David J. Balan of Washington has (“Addressing the threat to Zionism,” Letters, May 10). He suggests that “one million or more non-Jewish immigrants” is an “obvious and humane solution to the rapid growth of the haredi and Arab populations relative to the secular Jewish one.” After all, who needs a Jewish state when we can be like any other state? All those silly people who prayed for thousands of years to return to the Land of Israel and kept their covenant with the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob through centuries of persecution...We need this solution like we need a hole in the head.    YENTEL JACOBS     Netanya ...and ‘irrelevant connections’Sir, – I found Michael Brunert’s letter, wherein he castigates Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon for making irrelevant connections between two episodes of Goldstone’s life, and his further accusation that Ayalon insults our intelligence by doing so, to be infused with an overdosage of casuistry (“An irrelevant connection,” Letters, May 10).Suggesting that Goldstone’s having sentenced 28 black people to death under the viciously racist apartheid laws is more morally justified than the Nazi soldier’s claim of “following orders” is contemptible. The common Nazi conscript did not enjoy the prestige or the rewards that Goldstone did in voluntarily choosing to be a proactive participant in the apartheid judiciary.    ZEV CHAMUDOT     Petah Tikva What Elie Wiesel didn’t saySir, – I hope the diplomats of the world will parse the language of Elie Wiesel very carefully, regarding the statement he issued upon his emergence from his private lunch with President Barack Obama (Axelrod to ‘Post’: Jerusalem likely to be last item on agenda,” May 5)The two Nobel laureates discussed Prof. Wiesel’s ad about Jerusalem and President Obama’s positions about Jerusalem and Israel. Wiesel, a master of the English language, said, very specifically, “the tension I think is gone.”Note what Wiesel did not say: that the differences of opinion about the issues are gone, most notably the remaining significant differences between most Israelis and Obama regarding Jerusalem, settlements, retaliatory responses, actions to be taken against Iran, exchanges of top-secret intelligence information, and agendas for proximity and final-status talks. Unfortunately we have a long way to go. I hope that all people of good will who care about the survival of Israel will not relax their efforts at persuasion just because Elie Wiesel, in the presence of his powerful host, politely made the limited observation that he thought the tension was gone. The need to continue educating and persuading the world is definitely not gone.    RABBI AARON I. REICHEL    Kew Gardens, New YorkLiving with terrorSir, –When I was in Israel in the 1990s, I became accustomed to the army always taking everything so seriously. We in the West see an empty milk carton or pop can in the bush and ignore it; Israel calls the bomb squad. This is not excessive behavior; rather, it has grown from experiences in the past, when it was not just litter in the bush – or a coat left on a rock outside an airport while the luggage was being unloaded, which ended up in the bomb-proof vault (that actually happened to me and my dad). I’m sharing this because yes, thank God in heaven, it was just a lunch box and water bottle in New York City’s latest bomb scare, though in Israel, this would have been secured and examined anyway and possibly destroyed. I’m happy we can live in peace here in the West, for now, at least (“Times Square bomb suspect US citizen Faisal Shahzad nabbed aboard plane bound for Dubai,” May 5).In 1995, when I was in Israel for four months volunteering, I nearly stepped on a bomb while going out for some food. To this day, I owe my life to an Israeli police officer for preventing me from taking what very well could have been my last steps. I witnessed the military bomb squad robot blow up the device where I had almost been standing two minutes before. My heart constantly goes out to my loved ones in Israel; I truly understand living with the threat of terror, from my experiences. I pray for all who live in such fear for protection.    JONATHAN COOTE    Owen Sound, OntarioThe rules of humous warSir, – The prospect of humous wars is most intriguing (“Make humous,
not war: Lebanese better Israeli record,” May 10). Will we need to
develop new methods of delivery – e.g., refrigerated rockets? Will the
rules of war be changed to permit the use of parsley and paprika? Will
there be an embargo on the sale of chickpeas to Israel? Might it not be
found that kubeh or some other delicacy is more efficient?
    MIKE MORRIS
    Kiryat Ono
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 16: Goldstone’s motives</title>
<date>15/5/2010</date>
<content>
Goldstone’s motivesSir, – Larry Derfner levels severe criticism on Israelis, and especially on Yediot Aharonot for likening Richard Goldstone’s history as a judge in Apartheid South Africa to his report on Operation Cast Lead (“Desperately smearing Goldstone,” May 13). 




However, what concerns so many Israelis, whom he describes as brainwashed, is not what Goldstone did in either of these two activities, but what was his motivation for accepting either position. Goldstone’s comment that he felt he could do more to lessen the evils of apartheid from within makes no sense when he admits that as a judge he had to enforce the existing laws. He could undoubtedly have achieved more by passionate defense of cruelly charged opponents of apartheid. Similarly, his acceptance of the position as head of the commission investigating infringements of human rights in the war in Gaza, knowing that on his committee there were those with a proven bias against Israel and that Israel’s refusal to participate could not conceivably result in an unbiased report, create suspicion as to his true motives.    MONTY M. ZION     Tel MondLearning to love Zion...Sir, – As US President Barack Obama’s support among Jewish voters plunges (“Foxman joins list of leading US Jews speaking out against Obama’s policies on Israel,” April 26), people like Sarah Palin and other right-minded Republicans and Independents are talking straight and strongly on supporting Israel and a united Jerusalem. They are worthy of strong Jewish and Zionist support, in my opinion.It seems a bit odd, but one can only hope that these superlative Americans are going to train US Jews to love Zion. They are doing the work for those of us Jews who ought to be speaking out forcefully on love and support of Israel and Judaism. Kol hakavod to these politicians.    MARK FEFFER    Jerusalem...and admitting it?Sir, – What’s so upsetting about Brandeis University is that its defense of Michael Oren as commencement speaker is so pareve (“The truth about Brandeis,” May 13).Here we have a Jewish-sponsored university that invites the Israeli ambassador to the US – not because he represents the realization of the ancient Jewish hope for redeemed Zion, not because we Jews who support Brandeis are pro-Zionist, but because in inviting him, Brandeis students, in the words of its president, Jehuda Reinharz, “can see somebody whose job it is to represent an important country in the Middle East and who also is a great historian... speak about an issue that is constantly in the press, constantly part of American/Israel relations.” Is this why he is invited, because he’s a great historian? There are lots of great historians around. He’s invited because he represents an important country in the Middle East? Why not invite President Bashar Assad of Syria or Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal?Down deep he’s invited, I suspect, because at some level, Brandeis supports Israel. That’s precisely what sticks in the craw of some of its self-hating Jewish students. But its commitment is so tepid.Oh, for the day when Brandeis finally calls a spade a spade, and its president says openly, “Yes, we love Israel. We’re proud of its accomplishments, and we’ll work to support it through thick and thin. That’s why we invite its ambassador to speak on our campus.”    JOEL RUTMAN, MD    Zichron Ya’acov Valuing academic freedomSir, – Prof. David Newman, Ben-Gurion University’s new dean of humanities and social sciences, derides alleged “right-wing” efforts to trample “the basic values of academic freedom” (“How to make the next Buber,” May 11). Among other assaults against such a venerated value, he cites attempts to “silence” BGU lecturer Neve Gordon, who has agitated for boycotts of Israel (which, to his credit, Newman opposes) and (a point Newman omits) has characterized the country as an apartheid state.As a respected scholar, Newman is undoubtedly aware that a hallmark of academic freedom is, in the universally accepted formulation of the American Association of University Professors, the “free search for truth and its free exposition.” Such objective inquiry is not advanced by the writings and activities of a determined minority in Israel’s academic community, who exploit their tenured positions to propound unsubstantiated and frequently false arguments that defame Israel and even call into question its right to exist.Prof. Newman might wish to consider BGU President Rivka Carmi’s response last year to Dr. Gordon’s rant in The Los Angeles Times calling for boycott and describing Israel as an apartheid regime. Such views, she wrote, are “demagoguery cloaked in academic theory.” And, if one may extrapolate from her specific reference to Gordon, she observes that such proposed actions and labels “would destroy the very fabric of the society he [read: they] claims to want to protect.”     JACK E. FRIEDMAN     Professor emeritus,     City University of New York    JerusalemMore memories of Lady JSir, – Future generations will wonder whether Lady J ever actually lived; they will find it hard to believe that such a lively, loving personality really existed (“Lady Jakobovits dies at 81,” May 9).The success of the Lord and Lady J team was that they were a partnership. It would not have worked without her; she would not have succeeded without him. Not for them the view of some contemporary rabbis’ wives that “the rabbinate is my husband’s job; don’t expect me to be part of it.”    RABBI RAYMOND APPLE    JerusalemSir, – Lady Amelie Jakobovits was a founding member and patron of the Shalshelet Centre for Enhancing Interpersonal Communication, which focuses on engaged and newlyweds – and now singles. We published her “Ten Commandments of Marriage,” especially popular with couples. At her funeral last Sunday in Jerusalem, a few stories were told, some humorous, to which I’d like to add. 
Addressing one of our parlor meetings shortly after Rabbi Jakobovits had
 been made lord, she told of her mother’s response to her engagement to 
the young Rabbi Jakobovits. As she had been quite a tomboy, her mother 
pointed out, “You might make a good rebbetzin, but you’ll never be a 
lady.” However, she was in every way. When my father in his 90th year was 
hospitalized in London, he was one of the many recipients on early 
Friday morning of her warm, freshly baked little halla 
bulkes and equally warm, uplifting Shabbat greeting.Indeed, Lady J was a legend in her own time. She will be missed, but her
 heritage of authentic caring lives on.
    DR. PESSY KRAUSZ 
    Founder, Shalshelet 
    Interpersonal Relationship Enhancement Centre 
    Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 26: Eat Jewishly, young man</title>
<date>25/5/2010</date>
<content>
Eat Jewishly, young manSir, – I am delighted to hear that we did not pay for Rahm Emanuel's restaurant party in Eilat (“Tourism Ministry: Shellfish wasn’t on us,” May 25). Mr. Emanuel makes enough money, and the members of his party, I presume, were not indigent.




However, he and his party are here to celebrate a bar mitzva. Kashrut observance is one of the great laws of Judaism, and the whole point of becoming a bar mitzva is for the young man to undertake to observe the religion’s tenets.    TOBY WILLIG     Jerusalem Not above the lawSir, – The editor of Haaretz says it’s a matter of principle not to put Uri Blau on trial for receiving and publishing state secrets that seemingly can endanger all Israelis (“Anat Kamm espionage trial begins in Tel Aviv,” May 25).This argument, prevalent throughout the media world, seems to say that journalists are above the law. I know that journalists have exposed corruption and criminality, but every case should be judged on its merits, and in the case of state secrets being revealed, the full force of the law should be brought to bear.    CYRIL ATKINS    Beit ShemeshTake it backSir, Caroline Glick so eloquently articulated my personal feelings of rage and frustration at our government's impotence and highly irresponsible negligence vis a vis its feeble response to the Palestinian narrative, which is becoming increasingly effective in its delegitimization and negation of Israel (“Reclaiming language from the Left,” May 25).Nazi propaganda vilifying Jews aggressively intensified anti-Semitism and resulted in the killing of 50 million people, including the Final Solution. In light of this horrific precedent, surely it behooves those of our many accomplished and resourceful citizens to mount an aggressive PR offensive to neutralize the hate fest and lies of our enemies.This initiative should be taken immediately and financed accordingly. Please note, Prime Minister Netanyahu!    GISH TRUMAN ROBBINS    PardesiyaSir, – In addition to misusing the "terminology of human rights," the Left puts its faith in third parties while at the same time hoping they’ll take steps to thwart the policies of an elected government. For what reason do we have our own state, then?    BARRY LYNN    EfratA little consistency, pleaseSir, – The attack against Shas chairman Eli Yishai by haredi extremists should fill us with dismay and anger (“Yishai pelted with stones, eggs,” May 25).There is no more conclusive evidence of the gross hypocrisy and self-serving interests of these extremists than a comparison of their fury over the bones at Ashkelon’s Barzilai Hospital and their deafening silence about the removal of graves from Gush Katif. The removal of entire Jewish cemeteries from Gush Katif not only dishonored the dead, but also shattered our national integrity.The continuing criminal behavior of these extremists, coupled with an apparent indifference among their rabbinic leadership, make them all party to the grievous sin of desecrating God's name.    ZEV CHAMUDOT    Petah TikvaSee for yourselvesSir, – To those judges who are deciding the fate of opening Route 443 to the entire population – I challenge them to drive the road back and forth all day, without their security detail (“Easing Palestinian traffic restrictions gains little praise from anyone,” May 25). After that, they can make an informed, logical and safe decision.    REBECCA RAAB    Ma'aleh AdumimIf you can dish it out...Sir, -- The expansive Page 2 ad by the New Israel Fund attacking NGO Monitor (May 24) is an interesting phenomenon. If memory doesn't fail me, the NIF has never made such a publicity splash, even to defend Palestinians from Israeli "fascism" and "apartheid." Why now?Until recently, the NIF and its fundees felt it was their God-given right to criticize without being criticized. NGO Monitor and other watchdog groups are now saying that no organizations or personages in our democracy are above criticism.The shortcomings of the NIF and its dependent agencies should be part of the public debate.    DOUG GREENER    Jerusalem First, peace at homeSir, – In preliminary, indirect talks with American envoy George Mitchell as the intermediary (“Palestinians, Israel agree in principle to land exchange, Abbas reveals,” May 23), how can the sides reach concrete, solid conclusions regarding borders when the Palestinians do not have their house in order?Dissenting members in any family create disharmony, disunity and dysfunction. Infighting precludes any meaningful, long-term relationships with those outside the family.Only when Hamas and Fatah become one indivisible, politically functioning body representing the entire Palestinian people can such a body politic move forward with credible, reliable and meaningful accords relative to borders.    YOEL NITZARIM    Skokie, IllinoisOrganization or disorganization?Sir, – I was greatly surprised to see Prof. Gerald Steinberg’s attack on a conference he participated in two weeks ago at Tel Aviv University on the topic of academic freedom (“Israel’s academic Left on the attack,” May 18).Prof. Steinberg was himself part of the organizing committee. He was consulted at every stage on the appropriate speakers and also made his own recommendations as to lecturers who would represent alternative positions. The conference was balanced, and he himself made a presentation that expressed his views.His attack on the conference participants does a great disservice to the cause of free speech and academic exchange.    Prof. Daniel Bar-Tal    Tel AvivSteinberg replies: While I was initially asked and agreed to be on the organizing committee, I was consulted once, and my suggestions for a balanced discussion were ignored. When the program was published, I was surprised by the highly politicized list of speakers and realized that this had been an academic ambush.Influence overlooked Sir, – I find it surprising that in The Jerusalem Post’s list of "The 50 most influential Jews in the world" (Shavuot supplement, May 18), no rabbi (with the exception of Britain's Jonathan Sacks) made it into the ratings.What about Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, whose every utterance is like a holy decree to hundreds of thousands of Jews.? It seems to me that he is a little more influential than a basketball player with the Sacramento Kings.    PAUL KOHN    HerzliyaSir, – It was interesting to read your list of the world’s 50 most influential Jews and the comments you received.Evidently, such a list is never perfect. Nevertheless, I would like to
point out that there hardly is a man or a woman of music, culture or
the arts. Does not Amos Oz belong on this list?Furthermore, it contains hardly any outstanding Jews in the former
Soviet Union. Needless to say, I am aware of Natan Sharansky and
Avigdor Lieberman, but they now live in Israel.    ESTHER HERLITZ
    Tel Aviv
    The writer is a former MK
A proposal for peaceSir, – The nation of Israel cannot let the Palestinians and their
allies continue to upset its peaceful life. The Palestinians will not
accept Israel’s right to territory. There is one answer: Separate the
two nations.Let the land-rich countries of Jordan, Iran, Syria and Lebanon give
some of their territory for a state of Palestine. Then let Israelis
help the Palestinians turn it into a capable, viable state with a good
economy, good government and productive lands.The Palestinians have never before had a land of their own. Give them
one – but not land already belonging to Israel. Iran can finance this.
The process will give the whole area a well-needed break from violence,
distrust, death  and sadness. All the money being spent on arms would
go to a much better cause.
I pray daily for the peace of Jerusalem and for all its peoples.

TONY LEE
Palmwoods, Australia
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Middle Israel: Person of the year</title>
<date>2/9/2010</date>
<content>
Our person of the year might have been a warrior, whether failed or successful, but – fortunately – in 5770 the enemy seldom coughed and our borders mostly yawned.So militarily anticlimactic was the past year that some of our generals found time for cockfights that could have inspired real politicians, as one soldier in a brown beret outflanked another in a red cap, and another tripped a fourth, one with commandos’ batwings dominating his chest.




Under other nonmilitary circumstances, they and the brouhaha they stirred could still have produced our man of the year, if only ours had been a political year, one in which such a knot of improbable wheelers, dealers, manipulators and backstabbers had been emblematic of something larger than the sum of their egos.But 5770 was no political year either. Ours could, of course, have been a
 political year if only something politically grand had happened, say 
the passage of a constitution, the adoption of a visionary school reform
 or the completion of an inspiring national project, like a Tel Aviv 
subway, or a hydroelectric canal, or even just halving our 39-person 
cabinet, or making do with one rather than two chief rabbis, or 
decimating new cars’ sales taxes.So none of this happened in 5770 – and take it from me, it won’t happen 
in 5771 either – and just like we can’t nominate a general we also 
cannot nominate a politician, which is not to say that our politicians 
will in any event not produce next year’s man of the year.FOR ONE thing, our man of the year is not necessarily someone good that 
did something nice; Hitler, Stalin and Khomeini were Time magazine’s Man
 of the Year, each in his turn, because their evil mattered so much more
 than any of their contemporaries’ goodness, and this column has also 
named, separately, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the suicide bomber. So not 
that we expect any Israeli politician to do something savage anytime 
soon, but they sure are prone to do something sufficiently stupid to 
dominate an entire year’s place in our history – in which case, of 
course, whoever it is that wins this dubious distinction can be counted 
on to be our person of the year.Obviously, there is also the happy scenario, whereby someone arises from
 the mist and, as the sages said, buys his world in one hour. In 5771 
this may happen if peace breaks out with Syria, the Palestinians, 
Lebanon, Iran, Saudi Arabia or even just Tunisia, Kuwait or Oman – 
whoever makes it happen can be counted on to be our man of the year. In 
5770, however, all this remained as elusive as ice in the Sahara.NOW THE fact that nothing noteworthy was done here last year politically
 or diplomatically does not mean something noteworthy was not done 
elsewhere, and in a way that might solve our dilemma. For in 5770 the 
Jewish state came under a new type of attack, a pincer movement led by 
studious jurists from here and boating lowlifes from there.Should our person of the year, then, be Richard Goldstone, the apartheid
 stalwart whose UN-commissioned report has blamed, shamed and defamed 
the Jewish state in a way it could no longer ignore? Well, he may have 
been, but for the technical problem that he issued his report in 5769, 
albeit in its last week, when most here still thought they could dismiss
 it as water under the bridge. Now true, the report’s damage happened 
mostly in 5770, but by then the man who wrote it all but vanished, 
apparently having himself failed to foresee the havoc it would wreak. So
 the Goldstone Report was the Document of the Year, but Goldstone, the 
man, proved to have been a tool – a cowardly Jew used by non-Jews who 
believe in turning the other Jewish cheek.Fair enough. If so, perhaps Turkish Prime Minister Recep Erdogan is our 
Man of the Year? This man, after all, did his number well within 5770, 
and stood firmly in the thick of the global effort to corner, tease, 
libel, abuse, threaten and slander the state of the Jews.Then again, like the flotilla he inspired, Erdogan did not dominate our 
year, having stopped short of severing ties with Israel, and having 
failed in his transparent quest to be crowned leader of the Middle East.IT FOLLOWS, then, that our person of 5770 should not be related to a 
particular skirmish, whether military, political or diplomatic, and that
 leaves us with people who rather than emerge in the eye of this or that
 storm, simply symbolized something we either need, crave or admire.As far as necessity is concerned, 5770 was not the year of Israeli 
innovations like the disc-onkey, ICQ or firewall software, but the year 
of the iPad, which was not developed here, and will benefit Israelis no 
more than it serves the rest of homo technologicus.As for desires, 5770 will go down as the year in which one of Israel’s 
most veteran dreams, to own minerals, was realized, after vast 
quantities of gas were found off our coasts, and now it turns out they 
may also include oil. Then again, unless we nominate the oil barrel as 
our Person of the Year, this too will not solve our dilemma as the gas 
finds are less the vision of a particular Israeli and more the doing of 
modern instrumentation that allows undersea detection from the sea 
surface.And so we are left with admiration. And on this front we have a clear choice: Nobel Laureate Ada Yonath.Born humbly in Jerusalem’s Geula neighborhood ages before it became a 
haredi bastion, and having lost her father as a child, Ada helped 
support the household by teaching Hebrew to new immigrants before 
serving in the IDF and then studying chemistry at the Hebrew University.
 Her subsequent breakthroughs at the Weizmann Institute in the study of 
the ribosome – the biological mechanism that most people never heard of,
 but manufactures the proteins without which they would not live – have 
earned her glory, and also become the butt of Israeli jokes. For 
instance, after Prof. Yonath called for the mass release of terrorists 
in return for Gilad Schalit, comedian Jacky Levi said he expected fellow
 Nobel Laureate Barack Obama to say something equally opinionated about 
the ribosome.Still, even super-hawks forgave Yonath her politics, realizing that the 
very fact she had strong views and could not resist the opportunity to 
make them known made her the ultimate Israeli. Middle Israelis, for 
their part, were heartened to receive a reminder that while their 
politicians clamor, their diplomats stammer and their generals quarrel, 
42,000 less pompous Israelis – the highest per-capita share of 
scientists in the world – explore creation as quietly, diligently, 
modestly and inventively as Yonath had done for half a century before 
anyone but her family, friends and students knew her name.Prof. Ada Yonath reminded us that, warts and all, there are wonderful 
things happening in the Jewish state, things that transcend our 
countless day-to-day hardships, frustrations and banalities, things that
 put to shame the international effort to deface us, and vindicate our 
founding fathers’ quest to build here a bastion of inspiration, 
curiosity, diligence and excellence. In 5770 Prof. Ada Yonath emerged as
 an embodiment of all this. That is why she is our Person of the Year.
www.MiddleIsrael.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Demonstrating love</title>
<date>23/5/2010</date>
<content>
Where would we be without freedom of speech? Well, obviously somewhere like Egypt, Saudi Arabia or Gaza. Not the sort of place where an opinionated female journalist would feel comfortable. Hence, I was pleased to see that what remains of the Israeli Left gathered on May 15 for a rally in Jerusalem to voice support for the Jewish state and reclaim Zionism as being more than the domain of right-wing, religious settlers, as the stereotype has it. There were even Israeli flags among the Peace Now banners, complete with the blue star in the middle. (The organization also has a trendier version which has the word “Shalom” strategically placed between the two blue stripes.)




“We want to speak to the Zionist Left in ‘blue and white’ and give them the feeling that they are at home,” explained Peace Now head Yariv Oppenheimer.Nonetheless, one placard captured on news footage caused me to do a double take: “Barak Obama: Please force peace on us.” The editor in me immediately wanted to add the letter “c” to the first name, or check that there was not a missing comma which would have distinguished between the names of Labor leader Ehud Barak and that of the US president, with whom he evidently enjoys a far greater rapport than does Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu.The slogan jarred precisely because it was not aimed at the democratically elected premier – “Netanyahu, please accept peace” would have been fine – or at the Labor Party head. It was a direct plea to the leader of the US, who, no matter how serious the issue in the global scheme of things, will not be the one who actually has to live with the consequences. A failed peace accord could admittedly endanger Obama’s chances of a second term in the White House in Washington, but that’s nothing compared to the threat it poses to those who live here. It’s not easy to forget, for example, the Palestinian suicide bombing in 2002 that killed 11 people and wounded scores at the Moment cafe, just meters from the prime minister’s official abode in Jerusalem.The call for Obama to impose his will on us is reminiscent of the 2007 crude entreaty to Condoleezza Rice by then Haaretz editor David Landau. He went way beyond the boundaries of “tough love” when he reportedly told the US secretary of state that it would be his “wet dream” for the US “to rape Israel.” Even ignoring that imagery, if you can, it is hard to understand why an Obama-imposed peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians should be any more successful than the Oslo Accords. History has shown that enforced peace treaties (à la Versailles) stand less of a chance of ending a conflict than paving the way to the next one.The growing trend for Jewish organizations to urge greater international pressure – J Street, JCall and the petition by prominent US Jews revealed by the Post’s Haviv Rettig Gur last week – is always done in the name of liberal values while trampling on one of the most basic rights of all – for a country’s citizens to democratically determine their own future. Even the right to make their own mistakes.Several years ago, I remember covering a Likud election campaign event in Jerusalem where a well-known writer for a Hebrew daily complained nonstop about the behavior of the crowd. The political supporters stood on chairs, chanted, yelled, clapped rhythmically and were, I admit, pretty indistinguishable from Betar Jerusalem soccer fans during a successful game. I looked around and correctly predicted: “Netanyahu will win.”We had both been to Labor Party events which were, frankly, boring. There was no enthusiasm, no passion and no sense of purpose. It was hard to imagine those participants even going to the polls if it weren’t for the fact that the country had a day off work.The May 15 rally managed to garner some 2,000 participants, according to police estimates, or 5,000 according to the organizers’ count. Not particularly impressive. Perhaps the timing was wrong: Religious Jews from outside the capital couldn’t get to the rally without breaking Shabbat. Most of my neighbors, as far as I could tell from the shouts and groans heard clearly through the open windows, were busy watching the Premier League football championship in which “Red” Hapoel Tel Aviv beat Betar, still considered the team of the working class and Right. I didn’t hear anyone questioning the wisdom of calling for a peace rally on “Nakba Day” – the very day when the Palestinians mark the “catastrophe” of Israel’s creation – but it proves, yet again, that public diplomacy is not the country’s forte.Why didn’t you attend, I asked a kibbutz-born and bred friend who is undoubtedly a Zionist, in her own way, but is so left wing she is in danger of falling off the political map and landing with a splash in the Mediterranean. While identifying with the ideology – she uses words like “apartheid” with alacrity, describes the settlements in terms of “cancer” and personally boycotts products from over the Green Line – she said the Saturday night rally just hadn’t worked out “but friends and other members of my family were there.”The real reason for the low turnout, I suspect, had more to do with a feeling of hopelessness Left, Right and Center. Those on the Left note with a sigh that the number of people who live over the Green Line, and the distribution of the settlements, means it will be almost impossible for the Palestinians to create a state within workable borders. Those on the Right, apart from being unwilling to vacate those settlements, fear that unless the Arab world is willing to concede Israel has a right to exist, any move will inevitably lead to more and more terror. And those in the Center – who are either a silent majority or an endangered species depending on who’s talking – look at the extremism at both ends of the Israeli political spectrum, not to mention the potential peace partners on the Palestinian side, and give up in despair. No wonder most people preferred to stay home and watch television as welcome escapism.That there are still people on the Left who care enough to rally on a Saturday night is a positive sign for all of us. The calls for international intervention, on the other hand, are not progressive but defeatist. It is legitimate to want change, but the pressure should come from within. 
The Left feels Labor – solidly sitting in the coalition – is not 
representing their best interests. The Right considers the 
Likud-government settlement freeze a disturbing concession. Kadima has 
long been perceived by centrists as an opportunist party that still has 
to declare what it stands for on its wobbly legs.Nonetheless, it is the Israeli electorate who should decide where the 
country should be heading and how. The Likud has just celebrated 33 years since the “mahapach,” the 
“turnabout” that brought it to power under Menachem Begin, giving a 
voice to those, like the Betar supporters, who felt disenfranchised by 
the ruling Mapai party. 
It was Begin who, against the odds, brought about the first peace 
agreement. Yes, the Israel-Egypt peace treaty was born with American 
help, but it was born out of the desire for an enduring, peaceful 
partnership. This is very different from the sort of relationship that 
would result from a forced marriage following a rape.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Not black and white</title>
<date>6/3/2010</date>
<content>
The picture says it all. A two-year-old Palestinian girl lies sad-eyed in a hospital bed. You just need to know how to interpret the information in the picture. Because it’s not what you might think. Toddler Razan Naaim is in an Israeli hospital, not as the result of some dastardly attack by IDF soldiers on her young life, but following cardiac surgery performed by the Israeli “Save a Child’s Heart” program at the Wolfson Medical Center in Holon, near Tel Aviv.




Last week, EU Ambassador in Israel Andrew Standley visited little Razan as he learned more about the work of the humanitarian organization, and launched a new project to provide cardiac treatment for at least 150 Palestinian children, and post-graduate training in pediatric cardiac care for eight Palestinian physicians.The Save a Child’s Heart program also recently successfully operated on Woodley Elysee, a six-year-old boy who returned from Haiti with the Israeli rescue team. I thought I’d share that with you, in case you want a different picture of Israel to carry around with you during Israel Apartheid Week.For it is that time of year again – the annual two-week, anti-Israel campaign on university campuses around the globe. Not that the world’s institutes of higher education are home to a pro-Israel love fest the rest of the year. Just ask Israel’s Ambassador to the US Michael Oren, Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon, or any of the many other prominent Israelis who have tried to address students at prestigious universities in the UK, US or Canada lately.Israel Apartheid Week first appeared in 2005 in Toronto, but spread faster than a rumor on Facebook. Last year, it was held on campuses in 27 cities. This year, Apartheid Week is being hosted in 40 cities – from Beirut to Cape Town, where they should know better.It’s easy to dismiss Apartheid Week as just one more Israel-bashing event spearheaded by Palestinian students. But it is not academic.Israel Apartheid Week is about many things, but peace, human rights and freedom of speech are not among them.Its obvious aim is to tie the terms “Israel” and “apartheid” inseparably together in the minds of the next generation of opinion makers and leaders – a generation that did not witness apartheid firsthand and cannot, in fact, remember those pre-1967 days when Israel was recognized as the David rather than the Goliath. It is the Big Lie technique – the more frequently an untruth is repeated, the more likely it is to be believed. The closer the mental association between Israel and apartheid South Africa, the easier to push for divestment, boycotts, sanctions and everything else that goes with delegitimization, the way a hooked nose goes with the caricature of a Jew.Israel Apartheid Week is a theater of the absurd. Just look at one of its actors. MK Jamal Zahalka heads Balad, one of the two Arab parties in the Israeli parliament. Zahalka’s itinerary includes a lecture sponsored by Oxford University’s Arab Cultural Society before a talk at Cambridge ahead of speeches in New York City and at the University of Ottawa and McGill University in Canada. Evidently he didn’t feel that he would be missing much in the way of parliamentary duties as he travels the globe blasting the very country whose taxpayers pay his salary, and of which he is a democratically elected official. Note that word “democratically.”You would have thought that Zahalka’s position in the Knesset would itself belie the myth of Israel as an apartheid state.Israel does not, of course, have a perfect record on human rights. No country does. Not the US, not Australia, not Canada, and certainly not Libya, even though it chaired the UN Human Rights Commission. Nonetheless, it is not a segregated society. Israel’s flaws do not include deliberate discrimination based   on gender, race, religion or color. There are Arab parliamentarians, judges, doctors and professors, and an even greater number of students who freely speak their mind on campuses in places ranging from Haifa to Beersheba and even Ariel, the country’s newest accredited university which is located over the Green Line. Yes, there are Arab university students in the “settlement” city.As my South African-born friend and colleague Steve Linde points out, anybody who accuses Israel of apartheid doesn’t know what the term means. The way he pronounces apartheid, incidentally, it rhymes  with “hate.” “You never hear Nelson Mandela comparing Israel to apartheid South Africa,” says Linde. “Anyone who does make the comparison has clearly never lived in apartheid South Africa. It was institutionalized racism, legislated by dozens of laws separating whites from non-whites, and restricting the movement of blacks via the ugly system of ‘passes’ and ‘homelands.’“It’s nothing like that here. Israel is a democracy, allowing all its citizens freedom of movement.“Every citizen is permitted to vote, travel and worship freely, and live wherever they want. When you think about it, that’s the opposite of apartheid.”But the generation on campus being exposed to the Israel=Apartheid canard has been exposed to such vitriol almost from birth. They drank it unwittingly with their earliest milk, while the Jews drank the blood of Palestinian children (or so the libel goes). Anti-Semitic/anti-Israeli sentiment is running so strong (or is so strongly organized) in Spain, for example, that this week Israel formally protested to the Spanish ambassador in Tel Aviv that schoolchildren are sending dozens of postcards to our man in Madrid carrying messages such as “Why do you kill children?” “Jews kill for money” and “Leave the country for the Palestinians.” What hope is there that children being raised in this environment will suddenly accept Israel’s legitimacy when they become university students?Today’s students do not know that the “occupation” stems from a war Israel neither started nor wanted. They don’t realize that it is the other countries in the Middle East that trample on all those values they so passionately profess. They don’t understand that the “children” held in Israeli prisons weren’t arrested for playing soccer in someone’s backyard but for throwing Molotov cocktails. There are Palestinian teenagers who were caught before they could set off the explosives strapped to their walking-bomb bodies. There are adults evil enough to have sent them.The “Apartheid Wall” was a response to the wave of suicide bombings that took the lives of hundreds – Jews and Arabs, traveling on the same buses, eating at the same restaurants, walking down the same streets.And perhaps they don’t know that there is only one IDF soldier in Gaza.
Gilad Schalit. Nobody wants him out of there more than Israel. Clearly a major result of the apartheid campaign is to split the
student body – Jews and Muslims, Left and Right – when anyone who
really cared about peace and justice should be in favor of meeting and
talking. It should, after all, be easier to make peace on a North
American campus than in Middle Eastern political corridors.
If anyone wants a reminder of why it’s really important, look again at Razan’s picture.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Rejection and acceptance</title>
<date>15/5/2010</date>
<content>
Happiness eluded me last week – at least in the virtual world. I was Googling the terms “wealth” and “happiness,” researching a different column, when I came across a tragedy which hadn’t impinged on my consciousness before. The main claim to fame of the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan is the creation of the gross national happiness index as a measure of psychological well-being much as the gross national product is an economic indicator. So it was in that particular part of the global village that I started my search. One thing led to another – as it so addictively does on Google – and before I knew it, I was witnessing the misery of the approximately 100,000 Bhutanese refugees of Nepalese origin, ousted from the kingdom for refusing to live in accordance with the Buddhist traditions which prevail there. From what I read of their condition, it seems clear that their continued existence in Bhutan – had it been permitted – would seriously have upset the happiness measure. 




Their lives following expulsion are still awful.For close to 20 years, most of these refugees, mainly Hindu, have been forced to live in refugee camps in Nepal. Last year, the UN World Food Program reportedly announced that it had to reduce food rations in the camps due to funding shortages.Several countries – the US, Canada and Australia among them – have accepted a limited number of these stateless people, but many still languish hopeless and helpless in the increasingly impoverished refugee camps.What bad luck to be born a non-Buddhist Bhutanese. At least the Palestinians have mastered the art of public relations; how many people have even heard of this Bhutanese minority? And when the “oppressor” happens to be Buddhist as opposed to Jewish, who’s going to take them seriously? Blaming poverty and a refugee problem on the Jews is so prevalent it’s practically the norm. But fingering smiling, pacifist Buddhists is as far from the bon ton as Bhutan is from Tel Aviv.Many years ago I met the Dalai Lama during one of his visits to Israel and asked him about the phenomenon of Bu-Jews and young Israeli backpackers who set off on a post-army trek in the Indian subcontinent and return months or years later as Buddhists. He told me he thought people should stick with their original religion and just adopt those customs and beliefs that they want from others. So the story of the Bhutanese minority being persecuted for refusing to adopt Buddhist traditions is even more disturbing. I thought I’d share their plight with you because it was hard to get it out of my mind once it had entered. And they obviously need help when it comes to public diplomacy.Various groups such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International are on the case, but the Far East is not the Middle East. Bhutanese refugees aren’t particularly good front-page headline material for some perverse reason. There is even a version of “proximity talks” taking place between Bhutan and Nepal, but I haven’t seen any dire warnings from President Barack Obama and his staff on what might happen if the situation isn’t resolved.NONETHELESS, MY natural cynicism took a severe but wonderful blow last week. It is so much better, as they say, to be a disappointed pessimist than a disappointed optimist. Israel is obviously not the pariah state that many of us feared. In the perfect match between happiness and wealth, the country was accepted as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) on May 10, “a historic day,” as Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz put it. Seeing that any one of the 31 member states could have prevented Israel’s inclusion, and pro-Palestinians demonstrated outside the Paris building as the voting took place, being allowed to join really seemed a cause for celebration. A confused radio presenter at one point couldn’t figure out whether an interviewee’s greeting of “hag sameah” referred to Jerusalem Day or the OECD vote.As a Jerusalem Post editorial pointed out: “Israel’s impressive accomplishments are best appreciated when scrutinized by a forum of highly developed countries committed to democracy, liberalism, equal opportunity and the market economy using objective socioeconomic criteria. In contrast, negative misrepresentations of the ‘Zionist entity’ as a repressive, racist, apartheid state belong to the fairyland world of hateful propaganda and a well-developed Palestinian victimization complex.”Israel joins an exclusive club of countries – and finds itself in the enviable situation of being stronger economically than many other members (Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Iceland, to mention but a few).Apart from the feel-good factor, joining the OECD comes with some very real benefits, including the likelihood of greater foreign investment, preferential treatment in international tenders and probable improved credit rating.One less obvious side benefit is the potential for lessening social gaps. The OECD requires frequent reports on issues relating to socioeconomic equality and can be used as a tool to improve the situation in such fields as education, poverty levels and participation in the workforce.For although we are worlds apart from places like Bhutan and happily better off financially than many other OECD member states, there is still work to be done. At least, now we should be in a better position to carry out that work.A few months ago, MK Ahmed Tibi, Yasser Arafat’s former adviser, called on the OECD to block Israeli membership until Israeli Arabs enjoy full equality. 
Tibi conveniently ignored the fact that his very presence in the Knesset
 is proof that Israel is, for all its faults, definitely a democracy. He
 also failed to internalize that the OECD could help improve the 
situation.Some commentators suggested that Israel would not have been accepted had
 the proximity talks with the Palestinians not been taking place at the 
same time. However, Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, a
 former International Monetary Fund economist, lobbied actively against 
Israel’s inclusion and was recently photographed throwing Israeli 
products on a bonfire as part of a boycott effort.That he should consider such publicity stunts as a means of improving 
his popularity sadly belies Fayyad’s image as a moderate. Even sadder: 
Instead of accepting that economic growth and development for Israel can
 have a positive effect on the Palestinian economy, Fayyad seems intent 
on stymieing progress that could benefit all. And, rather than learning 
how Israel absorbed millions of Jewish refugees and thrived, Fayyad 
still seems keen on preserving the status of the “poor Palestinian 
refugees.”
Still, he could teach the Bhutanese refugees something about gaining 
world sympathy.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Remember to remember</title>
<date>11/4/2010</date>
<content>
On the way to Jerusalem’s biblical zoo at the end of the long Pessah vacation, a taxi driver told me and my son that he had noticed the first vendors of Independence Day flags.Our flags were still neatly folded in a drawer. My custom is to hang them outside my windows as soon as Holocaust Remembrance Day has ended, and take them down five weeks later, after Jerusalem Day, celebrating the reunification of the capital. 




Although I always struggle with the knots in the dark, I have found the timing that works for me. The dates give the simple act of displaying the flags added significance, and mean I no longer find myself incongruously stringing out the row of Stars of David when most flags are flying half mast in the middle of Remembrance Day for Fallen Soldiers, which, in that peculiarly Israeli way, immediately precedes Independence Day.I used to be among those who thought that Holocaust Remembrance Day, or Yom Hashoah as we call it, could be better commemorated on a different date, perhaps on the 10th of Tevet, the date marking the start of the ancient siege of Jerusalem, and the day chosen by the rabbinate as Yom Kaddish Haklali, the memorial for those whose date of death is unknown. Or to move it to coincide with Tisha Be’av, the Ninth of Av, the day the First and Second Temples were destroyed.Now, however, I have grown to appreciate the value of having Yom Hashoah where it is, part of a continuum from Purim to Pessah and onwards. A day that symbolizes the prophesy that in every generation there is an Amalek.Years ago, I read a poignant account of a Spanish Jew expelled by the Inquisition on Tisha Be’av in 1492 – the terror of losing home, friends and family compounded by hunger, and then the sickness of forced travel by boat on a fast day.The horrors of the Inquisition were a foretaste of the Holocaust, but without Hitler’s advantage of technology.As I pondered what to write for this column, I mused that future generations will find it increasingly hard to relate to the Holocaust, not just because the firsthand witnesses are dying out, but because they are being brought up in a different world. Today’s Anne Frank would have recorded her thoughts on Facebook, and Irene Nemirovsky’s incredible Suite Francaise might be condensed to tweets.Then I received an e-mail informing me that the United Nations had launched a Twitter campaign in memory of Anne Frank, “the Jewish teenager who died in the Holocaust 65 years ago, but whose wartime diary has endured to become one of the world’s most widely read books and teaching tools.”In a joint effort with the Anne Frank Center USA, students are being asked to travel back in time and write to Anne through “tweets” – 140 characters or less – as though she could communicate with the world  from her family’s hiding spot in Amsterdam.“This exercise is meant to help young people make a meaningful connection to the Holocaust through the words of a courageous young girl,” said Kimberly Mann, manager of the Holocaust and the UN Outreach Program in the Department of Public Information’s Outreach Division in the statement.Students are asked, “What messages of support would you have sent Anne?” and “What would you have told Anne that you have learned from her life and experience?”The campaign will run through April 11,  the start of Yom Hashoah, and the tweets (twitter.com/UNandHolocaust) will be posted on-line and exhibited at the Anne Frank Center in New York.My initial sarcasm turned to sadness as I realized that such a campaign might really be needed to help the on-line generation identify with even one victim of the Holocaust. But can such a campaign play a role in preventing the next genocide? Turning Anne Frank into the posthumous recipient of Twitter messages can’t hurt, one hopes. But nothing will alter the way she died. Or the reasons why.Anne Frank died because she was a Jew. She died because the world was silent.And she died because there wasn’t a State of Israel.Along with commemorating the victims, we should perhaps be remembering the perpetrators. For in every generation there is an Amalek. The Holocaust was so devastating because it was organized and mechanized. In short, it was modern.As the world meets this week to discuss the Iranian missile threat, it is something to keep in mind. Not only does every generation have its Amalek, every generation has its means.As missiles and shells continue to fall on the Negev, the country does not need another reason to remember it still has enemies. Or how perverted they can be.Possibly the best antidote to the apartheid state myth, by the way, is to visit the Biblical Zoo and observe, not the animals, but the staff and visitors – Jews and Arabs of all types. It has become increasingly fashionable for the outside world to mark the lessons of the Holocaust via international events on January 27, the date Auschwitz was liberated. At the same time, it has become ever more common to accuse the Jewish state of being the “new Nazis.”The “siege of Gaza” has become in the (tiny) minds of some the new Auschwitz, the modern ghetto. This is the Gaza from where the attacks on Israel are being launched even as humanitarian aid is being trucked in and which, I might uncomfortably remind the mob, has in addition to a border with the Jewish state, a border with Egypt. That’s the same Egypt that did not grant the “Palestinians” there independence during the years in which it was in control, and is clearly not jumping at the chance of absorbing the “refugees” now.The Jews=Nazis line is a double sin: trivialization and perversion of the truth. This toxic combination was also seen in the farce when Pope Benedict XVI’s personal preacher Father Raniero Cantalamessa delivered a Good Friday message comparing criticism of the Church over the sexual abuse scandal to the historic persecution and “collective violence” against Jews.It was seen again in the growing protests against the pope’s planned trip to Britain, where he could reportedly face arrest under the British legal system’s interpretation of “universal jurisdiction,” which would put his alleged inaction in the – undoubtedly horrific – abuse scandal on the same level as genocide. The fact that the pope was a member of the Hitler Youth  at the time when teens like Anne Frank were writing diaries and not tweets seems to have been forgotten.
The war against the Jews is not, unfortunately, confined to cyberspace.
It is taking place in the real world, with every Kassam that falls,
with every attack on Jews and their supporters around the world, and
with every statement of delegitimization. Sadly, tweeting Anne Frank
will not stop it, any more than it can bring her – or any other of the
six million – back to life. My little message of support is to hang my string of blue-and-white
flags outside my apartment. From the end of Holocaust Remembrance Day
to the end of Jerusalem Day. 
Remember.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: The look-and-learn year</title>
<date>11/9/2010</date>
<content>
If life is a learning experience, the year just ending provided its fair share 
of interesting lessons. One lesson being that life, indeed, is not 
fair.Like most years, 5770 was not so much a learning curve as a jagged 
graph. When we were up, we balanced precariously, and when we were down we were 
very down – humiliated like a schoolchild scolded by a teacher while the class 
laughs.




Ultimately, rather than being educated, the feeling is that the 
world wanted to teach Israel a lesson in the most negative sense of the phrase. 
And what stands out is the scorching memory of the embarrassment rather than the 
point the teacher might have been trying to make.That is why, as 
Jerusalem Post columnist Amotz 
Asa-El among others has noted, although the year 
was not a bad one, it didn’t feel good. It was as if the sound of 
fingernails 
scraping on an old-fashioned blackboard drowned out the positive buzz in
 a 
classroom.Strangely, in the name of human rights, 5770 was a study of 
intolerance and double standards.MOST OBVIOUSLY there was the Goldstone 
Report on the winter 2008 Gaza campaign. This was not a “could try 
harder” kind 
of report. It read like an attempt to get Israel kicked out of school. 
Israelis 
felt like the kid who’s been bullied and beaten and, when he finally 
hits back, 
is sent by the teacher to the principal’s office.Which other country 
would be prepared to suffer 80 missiles a day before fighting back? And,
 instead 
of blasting Israel, why didn’t the UN carry out its mandate to try to 
prevent 
the mini-war by reining in Hamas? Or at least condemn it for using the 
civilian 
population as human shields? Perhaps it was easier to deal with Israel 
than 
tackle the bully (especially when the thug is best friends with 
Iran).Ask NATO soldiers about the problems of fighting terrorists who 
deliberately choose to operate among innocent civilians. The scores of 
accidental casualties in Afghanistan show that the problem is not 
restricted to 
this particular area.In fact, Israel should be careful about whom it 
chooses to learn from. Despite the increasing efforts to portray it as a
 racist 
society second only to South Africa of the apartheid era, it should be 
noted 
that it was not this country that banned the burka. It was France. Nor 
did we 
forbid minarets on mosques. That would be Switzerland. If we had even 
considered 
voting on the matter in a public referendum, the international community
 would 
probably still be working out what sanctions to impose on us.Admittedly 
this country sometimes played into the hands of those who try to 
delegitimize it 
in the school of hard knocks. And we failed to internalize what we 
learned about 
fighting a war in the age of Facebook and YouTube.We got a gold star for 
our work in Haiti, where we speedily erected the best-equipped mobile 
hospital 
the other rescue teams had ever seen. But our image was so bad that some
 people 
were willing to believe anything.A British baroness, for example, 
accused us of racing to the site of the disaster to harvest human 
organs. (You 
don’t need to have studied much history for the term “blood libel” to 
spring to 
mind.) Any positive PR from our efforts in Haiti was drowned out in the 
tidal 
wave created by the flotilla affair at the end of May. Nine Turkish 
citizens 
were killed when navy commandos intercepted the Mavi Marmara, trying to break 
the naval blockade on Gaza.So many commissions of inquiry followed – 
despite Israel’s release of footage showing the soldiers being attacked 
as they 
boarded by the ostensible peace activists – that it became clear that 
Goldstone 
isn’t the only one who wants us permanently labeled as the problem 
child. Still, 
the world might notice that Iran is Turkey’s new best friend.We already 
had a bad name when Mossad agents, using non-Israeli passports, were 
widely 
believed to be behind the assassination of Mahmoud al-Mabhouh in Dubai. 
Assuming 
it was an Israeli operation (and, in effect, one which achieved its aim 
of 
getting rid of a terrorist mastermind), the rest of the civilized world 
could 
have been a little more supportive. The operation restored deterrence, 
which is 
a good thing for any country involved in the war on terror. The 
deterrent 
factor, however, was seriously undermined when, instead of quietly 
protesting 
through diplomatic channels, countries like Ireland, New Zealand and the
 UK 
expelled Israeli officials – even without being able to prove just who 
did hang 
that “Do not disturb” sign on the hotel door.ALTOGETHER, IT was a year 
in which everyone wanted to tell Israel what it could do and where.Prime 
Minister Binyamin Netanyahu declared a construction freeze in Judea and 
Samaria 
and called, several times, for “proximity talks” and a two-state 
solution. But 
he was seriously scolded by US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and 
President 
Barack Obama for the announcement by an Interior Ministry committee, 
during Joe 
Biden’s visit, of approval to build homes in Jerusalem’s Ramat Shlomo 
neighborhood.The Palestinian Authority, at the same time, decided the 
best thing to do would be sit back and watch.Well, not all the PA was 
content to be spectators.Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, considered by many 
as the Palestinians’ great hope, joined in the jeering crowd and had his
 photo 
taken throwing Israeli produce into a bonfire. Very 
educational.Meantime, Iran, the neighborhood thug, hovered just outside 
the school gates and provided the school bullies with smuggled 
weapons.Again the world warned Israel about fighting back.There 
was also trouble at home. A small number of ultra-Orthodox zealots 
continued to 
teach us about intolerance in the name of religion. And the decision to 
expel 
several hundred illegal foreign workers drew fire.There was ugly 
politics (even within the army, it seems) and some shocking crimes.But 
it wasn’t all bad.The economy remained strong and Israel was accepted 
into the prestigious OECD. Israeli Ada Yonath won a Nobel Prize (for 
past 
achievements, not simply for showing promise like Obama).It was a record 
year for tourism, and some big-name artists including Leonard Cohen and 
Elton 
John refused to give in to the boycott calls.Israel discovered gas off 
the northern coast while dedicated environmentalists managed to torpedo 
plans 
that would have spoiled the Palmahim beach in the South. A desalination 
plant 
was inaugurated – a particular blessing in yet another drought year.The 
Holyland real-estate scandal cast a shadow as ugly as the Jerusalem 
housing 
complex, but it seems that local planning authorities learned an 
important 
lesson from it.We had successes in sports, the arts and the sciences. 
And Masada didn’t fall: It was the stage for a spectacular production of
 
Nabucco. Thousands visited the revamped Israel Museum – not because they
 were 
bused there on school trips, but because they wanted to see it.It seems 
other countries could look and learn, after all.Israelis continued to be 
united in our desire to see the return of abducted soldier Gilad 
Schalit, even 
if we bickered over the price being demanded by Hamas. Political 
activists did 
not (yet) manage to hijack the campaign for their own purposes. And I 
continue 
to pray for closure for the families of all the MIAs.Making an educated 
guess, I’d say this year, too, will bring good memories mixed in with 
harder 
ones. May we learn from the mistakes of others.The writer is the editor 
of The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No to a third intifada</title>
<date>12/10/2010</date>
<content>
Whether or not a solution to the crisis over settlements is achieved in the coming weeks, it’s becoming increasingly clear that the direct Israeli-Palestinian negotiations are in serious trouble.Haaretz quoted unnamed Western officials as saying the talks are “going nowhere.” And the most cautious, sober and measured member of the senior PLO leadership, Yasser Abed Rabbo, who is a member of the negotiating team, has been moved to declare that “there will be no serious political process with Netanyahu’s government.”Most reports strongly suggest that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has
 been unforthcoming on permanent status issues. According to these 
sources, he refuses to meaningfully discuss core questions such as 
borders and insists that security must be the main issue at this stage. 
This has led to frustration not only among the Palestinians and other 
Arabs, but in many circles in the West and the US.




This frustration is amplified by Netanyahu’s refusal thus far to accept 
an exceptionally generous American inducement package in exchange for a 
60-day extension to the partial settlement moratorium that expired in 
September.Indeed, The New York Times called the package “overly generous.”Moreover, it is unclear what the Obama administration expects to be 
different in two months, when the parties are likely to find themselves 
in precisely the same situation. If the Americans have a game-changing 
approach to unveil over the course of eight weeks, it’s the bestkept 
secret in Washington.The American hope may be that borders can be agreed in short order, 
rendering the settlement issue largely moot, but the parties themselves 
show little sign of believing that. We therefore have to face the fact 
that negotiations would appear to be both stalled in substance and 
threatened with a political crisis that may produce a breakdown. It 
might be possible to keep the ball in the air by returning to indirect 
negotiations or finding some other temporary stopgaps. But the 
experience of the past few weeks does not augur well for prospects of 
any kind of significant success in the foreseeable future.THE PROSPECT of a breakdown again raises the specter of another 
intifada, since many Palestinians may conclude that the occupation is 
either permanent or that diplomacy is simply an ineffective tool in 
resolving it and that a new uprising is the only remaining way to 
pressure Israel.The flashpoints are obvious. Especially in Arab neighborhoods of 
occupied east Jerusalem, tensions are running high. Recently, a 
Palestinian man was shot under extremely questionable circumstances by a
 settler guard, and a 14-month-old baby was killed by tear gas fired by 
security forces. Numerous buildings and even neighborhoods are under 
fierce contention between aggressive settlers supported by both the 
national and municipal authorities and Palestinians struggling to cling 
onto their homes. If another intifada erupts, it may very well begin 
there.But it is essential that Palestinians do not turn to, or allow 
themselves to be sucked into, another round of violence. A third 
intifada would undoubtedly follow the pattern established by the 
relationship of the end of the first intifada to its beginning, and of 
the second intifada to the first; a process has entailed ever-increasing
 levels of violence, death and religious fanaticism on both sides. 
Because of this pattern, the consequences of the second intifada were 
disastrous for the Palestinian people and national movement. A third is 
likely to be even worse.FOR ISRAEL, a third intifada could well signal the squandering of the 
last opportunity to divest itself of the occupation in a rational, 
workable manner, rendering what will become the de facto Israeli state 
as neither Jewish nor democratic in any meaningful sense and developing 
and entrenching an apartheid character, especially in the occupied 
territories.It is imperative that some way is found to keep diplomacy alive, even if
 it means a return to lessthan- optimal indirect negotiations.In the end, both parties have no option but to work toward a negotiated 
two-state peace agreement or continue with an ever-deteriorating 
conflict. It is essential that international actors such as the US, the 
European Union and the Arab League help find a formula to allow Israel 
to make restrained settlement expansion, and the Palestinians to make 
continued negotiations, politically plausible among both of their 
domestic constituencies.
The writer is a senior fellow at the 
American Task Force on Palestine and blogs at www.ibishblog.com. This 
article is published in conjunction with the Common Ground News Service.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Not the new kid on the block</title>
<date>11/3/2010</date>
<content>
The debate over whether Masbirim – Public Diplomacy and Diaspora Affairs Minister Yuli Edelstein’s new effort to involve average Israelis in the effort to defend the Jewish state abroad – is too right-wing exposes its inbred flaw and the Achilles’ heel that hashampered most hasbara efforts over the years.As we’re all acutely aware, there is no consensus on the conundrum we call the peace process. Just as I shudder to imagine left-wing Israelis accosting Americans in the street to lambaste the country’s “apartheid” policies toward the Palestinians, I also cringe whenthinking about my corner grocer Yossi explaining to the family behind him in the queue at Disney World why Arabs can’t be trusted and transfer is the only answer.




The concept of Masbirim is to be applauded for adapting the idea first conceived almost a decade ago that for hasbara to succeed, it must look beyond the conflict with the Palestinians.But the fact that the Masbirim site, pamphlets and training sessions are even delving into the land mine of politics – and encouraging ordinary Israelis to try to talk about subjects with which even seasoned, fluent English-speaking spokesmen get tongue-tied – is not going to help the country’s image, and could do much to further damage it abroad.AS THE Foreign Ministry’s brand management team head Ido Aharoni told the annual Israel Tourism Conference in Tel Aviv last month, when you talk about the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians abroad, it ultimately comes down to the IDF tank confronting aPalestinian youth throwing a stone. Given the fact that there’s no way to articulate Israel’s position within a short TV soundbite time constraint, it’s the image that remains and sticks in the viewers’ minds.“When we continue to try, it inevitably fails and that’s bad because it leaves the picture of the tank and the child in sight and harms the Israeli brand,” said Aharoni.Add to the already muddled mix the issue of exactly who are we trying to convince of Israel’s natural goodness and rightful place in the world? There’s a small percentage of people for whom Israel will always be the bad guy. You’re never going to persuade an Israel Apartheid Week activist that he has a skewed view of our region, and that he should give us another chance. Alternatively, there are those supporters of Israel (albeit mostly on the Right) for whom the country can do no wrong.But there’s a vast middle ground of people, in America and in the rest of the world, that frankly doesn’t care very much about politics, including the situation in our little corner of the world. Start talking about security fences and checkpoints and Kassams, and their eyes will begin to glaze over in apathy.Thankfully, the Masbirim effort includes facts about the “other” Israel that provide some ammunition that there are people with normal lives here, doing things that civilized people everywhere do.However, as Post editor David Horovitz succinctly satirized in a recent column (“Wrong troops, wrong ammunition,” February 26), the scenario of an Israeli couple verbally accosting British citizens about the classical music concerts that they attend in Israel reveals that there remain some bumpy roads ahead in honing exactly how we’re going to convey the image that we’d like to impart to the rest of the world.And we do have a load of information to convey – about how Israeli innovations and people are inventing, creating and developing new techniques, products and services every day that are being used around the world to save and improve lives.David Sable, CEO and vice president of Wunderman, a division of the Young and Rubicam advertising agency, who has conducted extensive branding research for Israel in the US, has reported that Americans “find Israel to be totally irrelevant to their lives.” As Aharoni pointed out to the tourism conference, Americans see Israel as a grim, war-torn country, not one booming with hi-tech and busy outdoor cafes. That’s why a decade ago, people like Aharoni and other top government officials started working on – and are continuing to develop – a rebranding campaign.It’s been dismissed by both the Left and Right – the former for giving short shrift to the realities on the ground and the suffering of the Palestinians, and the latter for attempting to trivialize the Jewish homeland into a spring break, bikini-filled vacation site.However, the branding process doesn’t ignore the troubling realities of present-day Israel, it asks the world to know Israelis by the full scope of their society. Likewise those who claim that these efforts attempt to turn the country into a fun, libertine paradise are woefully off target.Sure, the conflict exists, but so do breakthrough cancer drugs, groundbreaking computer technology – and yes – beautiful beaches and breathtaking models.Shouldn’t the world see Israel through that broader lens instead of the tunnel vision of only the green of the military and the black of the haredim?And maybe, isn’t that what we – and that includes the government, the left-wingers and the right-wing corner grocer – should be talking about when the topic of the conversation abroad turns to Israel? The reason for that narrow view of Israel isn’t only due to the media –it’s because the same “we” have a habit – or maybe an obsession – of only talking about the conflict when we discuss Israel with people abroad.THE ESTABLISHMENT of Masbirim on its own may have some merit, but my beef is that they’re behaving like the first kids on the block, when in fact, efforts have been ongoing for a decade to equip Israelis and supporters of Israel with the non-conflict information required tomake the country “relevant” to people around the world.For example, the organization that I used to work for – ISRAEL21c – has done wonders to take the lens cap off the camera focusing totally on the conflict and to spread the word that Israel is not only a diverse place with people living normal lives, but that it’s a land of innovation for which the world would be a poorer place if it ceased to exist.Integrating already-existing material into a new endeavor like Masbirim would do wonders to increase its chances of success and its efforts to educate ordinary Israelis about the country they live in.What would happen if Horovitz’s fictitious Israeli couple ended up discussing their respective family bouts with cancer with the British couple – and it emerged that the British husband had swallowed a miniature camera that provided X-rays of his colon and provided an early detection of cancer that may have saved his life.If the Israeli couple had been properly briefed to know that the camera
was an Israeli invention – developed by Given Imaging in Yokne’am –
they may have mentioned that and, in a second, transformed the cold,
grim, militaristic Israel into one of the most relevantthings in the British couple’s lives.Will
it change their opinion of Israel – provided they even had one?
Perhaps. But will it be included in their montage image of Israel the
next time they see a TV report in London about police and Palestinians
clashing on the Temple Mount? Absolutely.
The
writer is the deputy managing editor of The Jerusalem Post. As
editorial director of ISRAEL21c, he was involved in the initial efforts
at rebranding Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 14: Breaking the levy</title>
<date>13/11/2010</date>
<content>
Breaking the levy Sir, – Regarding your November 11 editorial “Send back the 
unfair postal package levy,” I seem to remember this fee being discussed – and 
almost implemented – a few years ago, including in a very similar editorial in 
the Post. In fact, many at the time thought it was already in force, as I 
vividly recall receiving a package from the US just days after the policy was 
announced and being pleasantly surprised when I was not asked to pay anything. 
Apparently, more sensible minds ultimately understood that such a regressive 
policy has no place in a modern global economy (not to mention its blatantly 
discriminatory nature).




Any attempt to portray this fee as some sort of 
necessity to cover “extra handling” costs for overseas packages is bunk. What 
special handling or work is required? Any package arriving from abroad goes to 
the same regional postal distribution centers as everything else and arrives at 
your local post office just like any other piece of mail, whether envelope or 
package. The only issue may be customs duties.What justification is 
there in slapping an arbitrary fee on a personal piece of mail, which, as the 
editorial points out, will often be more than the item’s purchase price and 
maybe even shipping? This is simply a throw-back to other “creative” taxes and 
levies so common to this country, like the old and infamous travel tax and 
revenue stamps, not to mention those still in force, like bank fees and the huge 
customs and other levies paid on cars, many household appliances and a host of 
other goods imported from overseas. Not even books were ever completely 
exempt.GERSHON HARRIS Hatzor Haglilit Sir, – The planned postal service 
fee on packages, in addition to other fees, will not only cause anger – it will 
result in lower volume and lower revenues. It will cause a boycott of the 
popular companies we order from, like Amazon and EBay. Rather than paying these 
exorbitant fees, people will refuse to accept their packages, thus overfilling 
postal warehouses and adding to the expense of returning them.AURI 
SPIGELMAN Jerusalem Some role model Sir, – Moshe Levy Ben-David (“Jailed for 10 
years and then deported from the US, a once-notorious rapper takes a ‘Shyne’ to 
Jerusalem,” November 11) may no longer be armed, but he remains 
dangerous.He seems to be somewhat confused.He disguises himself 
as a Belzer Hassid on Mondays, Thursdays and Shabbat, and reverts to his hip-hop 
garb of oversized basketball shirts and backward baseball cap the rest of the 
week because he needs “some leeway.”Of course, he is free to live as he 
chooses, but he becomes dangerous, in my opinion, when he aspires to be a role 
model as “an inspirational hip-hopper aimed at showing kids the path of Jewish 
values.”DEENA SPIGELMAN Jerusalem Roll out the carpet Sir, – Regarding 
“Would we go to Israel?” (Comment, November 11), I would urge The Jerusalem Post 
to extend an invitation to journalist Nabil Sharaf Eldin, asking him to visit 
Israel as a guest of the Post for a week.We have a peace treaty with 
Egypt and some in my family have visited it, as I have visited Jordan, and found 
it fascinating. Why should he not come and see with his own eyes “the alleged 
entity” for himself? REIDA MISHORY-ISSEROFF Kfar Yona Glick’s South Africa Sir, 
– As an American Jew living in South Africa, I feel the need to respond to the 
simple and onesided column by Caroline B. Glick (“Out of South Africa,” Our 
World, November 9).From reading this article, one would expect to find a 
failed state.South Africa is not a failed state.One would expect 
to find a failed society. South Africa is not a failed society.There are 
many disappointments in modern South Africa, as Glick makes clear. However, she 
seems not to have seen the enlightened constitution (written partly by Jews) or 
the court system that enforces it (with several prominent Jewish judges). She 
did not see the housing that the government has built for poor urban people. She 
also apparently did not see the health care that many citizens receive from the 
government or the strides that have been made in education or the strong economy 
that has been nurtured by the ANC governments, whatever their other 
(substantial) failings.She also did not have the opportunity to see an 
important part of the Muslim community here. For example, a call for a boycott 
against Jewish businesses triggered by the incursion into Gaza was promptly, 
publicly and repeatedly disowned by many Muslim leaders in Cape Town on the 
Internet and in a letter published in a local newspaper.Glick points out 
the apparent ungratefulness of the ANC government and South African press and 
their apparent refusal to recognize the contributions of many Jews to the 
anti-apartheid struggle. However, she may be unaware of the ambivalent attitude 
the organized Jewish community had toward the anti-apartheid struggle or the 
fact that (among other things) the man who prosecuted Nelson Mandela was a 
respected pillar of the Jewish community.Glick’s visit was very short 
and it seems she was only able to pick up on simple themes. For example, she 
notes that the Cape Town Holocaust museum’s exhibition begins with a remembrance 
of apartheid and she inexplicably concludes that “by doing so, the museum 
equates the discrimination against blacks with the genocide of 
Jewry.”Then, she finds it necessary to belittle and insult the Jewish 
community here and some of its members.For example, she apparently 
missed the point of one of the speakers at the Zionist conference she was 
invited to and then publicly insults her by name. I guess this is also 
unsurprising; she was unable to see any nuance in the country around her and 
could hardly be expected to see any nuance or grace in the talks she was invited 
to listen to.It is unfortunate that she has pronounced South Africa a 
terrible place that will surely get worse for the Jews, who should all therefore 
leave. I do wish she could have seen some of the hope that this country and its 
vibrant Jewish community have together, or its care for and love of Israel and 
South Africa, even if they don’t share her politics.JEFFREY DORFMAN Cape 
Town Sir, – Amazing, the experts in our land! Caroline B. Glick makes her first 
visit to South Africa and already knows more than anyone else about this 
wonderful land.Please ask her to stick to opinions about Israel, of 
which (maybe) she has some limited knowledge.LIONEL MALLACH Haifa Prohibitive costs Sir, – The article revealing the shocking news that parents of 
premature infants in need of the RSV vaccine must pay NIS 20,000 (“MK Orly Levy 
demands free respiratory vaccine for preemies,” November 9) leaves some very 
important points unaddressed.How is this vaccine manufactured? Is it a 
very labor-intensive process? Does it require ingredients that are rare and 
scarce? If these questions were answered, I think the information would help us 
develop a vaccine at a cost that the average parent could 
afford.MARCELLA WACHTEL Jerusalem Roll the credits Sir, – Regarding the 
Ariel theater issue (“Artists renew calls to boycott Ariel theater,” November 
7), perhaps the Post would publish a full list of the names of the boycotters 
and the institutions they work for so that we, the public, will have the power 
to exercise our choice to boycott them and their sponsors. It would be 
interesting to see just how long these idealists continue with their campaign 
when it hurts their pockets.
ALAN HALIBARD Beit Shemesh
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 17: Some backbone, please</title>
<date>17/11/2010</date>
<content>
Some backbone, please Sir, – Regarding “New freeze expected to pass security cabinet by one vote” (November 15), it is disappointing, but unfortunately not surprising, that our government is once again planning on freezing construction throughout Judea and Samaria.




Despite promises to the contrary, it seems that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is following in the footsteps of former prime minister Ariel Sharon and flip-flopping when it comes to settlement policy. Sharon promised to uphold the Likud referendum on Gush Katif in 2004, only to launch the expulsion from Gaza the following year. And now Bibi, who guaranteed that the freeze would be a one-time occurrence, is poised to reinstitute this draconian and racist policy, which discriminates against Jews because of where they live.Israel needs to stop being US President Barack Obama’s “yes man” and show some backbone by refusing to undertake policies that cause immense internal strife and damage the fabric of our society.JOSH HASTEN Elazar Sir, – How can our prime minister believe any promises made by President Obama – when his secretary of state has reneged on the promises made by former president George W. Bush to Ariel Sharon to convince us to leave Gush Katif? Before even discussing a second freeze, we should insist that Obama first undersign the contents of his predecessor’s letter of intent to Sharon – and while we are at it, Obama should arrange for the release of Jonathan Pollard. Then, maybe, this will create the atmosphere for a discussion on the pros and cons of a second freeze vis-à-vis certain promises and goodies for Israel.My humble opinion is that if the Palestinian Authority really wants us to give it a state – out of the little of what remains of the territory mentioned in the Balfour Declaration – it should be the petitioner. It should show how hard it is working to teach its people to accept Israel. It should beg us to negotiate, and not vice versa.Everyone (except, apparently, Obama) knows that PA President Mahmoud Abbas does not want a state side-by-side with Israel. Abbas wants a state to replace Israel. Hamas is at least honest in its rejection of Israel’s right to exist. What can you say about the honesty of the PA? ARIEL BROCH Shadmot MeholaMore on South Africa Sir, – While much of what is said in “Out of South Africa” (Our World, November 9) is true, Caroline B. Glick must, as a renowned journalist, know that to omit part of the truth is to depict an untruth.One wonders what her motive could be. She speaks of the Jews living behind walls and electric fences. True, but this has become a reality for all South Africans, irrespective of race or religion, so it is certainly not that Jews are targeted or feel more unsafe than any other South African.Glick has tabulated all the negatives and exaggerated some, but somehow has missed the great and vibrant Jewish community that we are. Strange for a journalist of her caliber.South Africa’s imminent demise has been predicted for as long as I can remember – at least since 1960 – but we are still here and facing daunting challenges. We live very meaningful lives, where there is much goodwill and a lack of bitterness on the ground.MONESSA SHAPIRO Johannesburg Sir, – I respect Caroline B. Glick as an outstanding journalist and political commentator. In addition, I wholeheartedly share her approach to Zionism and Israel. However, her report on her short visit to South Africa is, to say the least, distressingly negative.Although she accurately pinpoints many of the negative features regarding South African society, perhaps a first-time, one-week stay in our unique, complex socioeconomic/ political environment may not be sufficient to accurately assess the future potential of the country or the fate of its Jewish community.DAVID ABEL George, South Africa Sir, – The letters criticizing Caroline B. Glick’s “Out of South Africa” read into her column things she did not say and overlook many disturbing realities.Glick begins her article by admitting that South Africa “faces daunting challenges.” She then goes on to make certain points with which many South Africans agree, and concludes with the hope that the Jews of South Africa “will make their way to Israel,” and not merely leave South Africa, as one of your correspondents writes.Many South Africans, Jews and non-Jews, who struggled against the apartheid government have expressed disappointment with the situation in South Africa today, and not only Glick. The latest to do so is Athol Fugard, best known for his political plays opposing apartheid.As an ex-South African born before the Second World War who grew up in a truly vibrant and amazing Jewish community, I can see the trend this community has taken. It still has much to offer Jews, but it is a dwindling community and its future is uncertain. Surely the hope that Glick expresses is a reasonable one, and one the South African Zionist Federation strives to fulfill.BENNY GLUCH Beit Shemesh Sir, – I am a former South African and I refer to the lengthy letter of November 14 from Jeffrey Dorfman (“Glick’s South Africa”) criticizing her for the short period of time she spent there.Dorfman is an American Jew presently living in South Africa who regretfully doesn’t tell us how long he has been there. On the other hand, I have in my possession an e-mail received from a staunch South African who has lived there for 70 years, reading as follows: “News is very negative about South Africa and fraud, rape, murder, poor teaching, etc., etc. is the order of the day. The honeymoon is over after the World Cup and we can no longer bask in the glory. [ANC Youth League president] Julius Malema is an oaf and a clown, and I could go on moaning for a long time. I have always been very patriotic and hopeful, but one cannot remain an ostrich!”I think I prefer to rely on my South African friend’s short assessment of the situation.BERNARD LIPSCHITZ Kibbutz Rosh Hanikra A rescue plan Sir, – Gilad Schalit has been entombed in a dank, dark cellar for four years. He has not been visited by anyone.The Israeli reaction has been to hold demonstrations, to seek international intervention, to organize mass marches, to stage camp-ins, etc. Nothing has worked, and nothing will work until Israel makes Hamas’s life so miserable that it will be forced to release Schalit.Three modes of action suggest themselves: 1. Hamas is dependent on a myriad of tunnels from Egypt to smuggle in weapons, food, fuel and a host of other badly needed items. It levies a tax on all of these imports. Without it, Hamas couldn’t survive. Israel should serve notice on Hamas that each day Schalit remains in captivity, the Israel Air Force will destroy a tunnel (or two) until all are gone. Ultimately Hamas would have to give up and release Schalit.2. Side by side, Israel should cut off all aid to Hamas. There is no reason why Israel should be supplying aid to Hamas, its enemy. The Allies imposed a total boycott on Germany during World War Two. Let the Egyptians, who have a common border with Gaza, help their stricken brethren.3. Israel should impose on imprisoned Hamas terrorists the same 
conditions that Hamas has imposed on Schalit. This would provoke an 
anguished outcry from their families, who would violently demonstrate in
 the streets, joined by hungry, disillusioned, unemployed Gazans. The 
demonstrators would demand that Schalit be released in order to get 
their sons back.All three actions taken together would bring Hamas to its knees and 
bring about Schalit’s release. If Hamas retaliates by rocketing us, our 
air force would systematically destroy neighborhoods in Gaza after 
giving prior warning to the inhabitants to leave.In World War II, the Allies firebombed Dresden, Hamburg, Frankfurt and 
Berlin without giving prior warning to the residents, mainly women and 
children. Scores of thousands were killed. The British were brutal 
occupiers of Palestine from 1917-1948, killing Jews and thwarting 
efforts to create a Jewish state. The savage, inhumane British naval 
blockade locked the doors of Palestine to millions of Jews seeking to 
escape the Nazi butchery in Europe. America (which turned away a refugee
 ship) dropped two atom bombs on Japan, killing millions.Let the world not preach morality! Hamas has declared war on us. We must react decisively. It’s time to stop wringing our hands and take meaningful action.
ELIEZER WHARTMAN 
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 2: ‘Soft’ int’l law</title>
<date>2/11/2010</date>
<content>
‘Soft’ int’l law Sir, – Sunday’s Jerusalem Post reported two examples of the dangerous phenomenon of “soft” international law – the ease with which principles of international law are deliberately misstated, so that Israel can be accused of violating them, and so that our history can be denied.




First, with regard to the Palestinian refugees, Saeb Erekat is quoted as saying “the right of return was legitimate in accordance with international law and UN resolutions, first and foremost [General Assembly] Resolution 194” (“PA upset over UNRWA official’s remark on refugees not returning,” October 31).He is wrong on two points: General Assembly resolutions are merely recommendations, and are not binding under international law; and Resolution 194 does not refer to Palestinian refugees, nor does it grant them a “right of return.” On the contrary, that claim is a complete distortion of the resolution’s language.Second, the outrageous UNESCO decision that the Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron and Rachel’s Tomb in Bethlehem are an integral part of the “occupied” Palestinian territories threatens that “any unilateral action by the Israeli authorities is to be considered a violation of international law, the UNESCO Conventions and the United Nations and Security Council resolutions” (“UNESCO decision to call Patriarchs’ Tomb Palestinian is ‘absurd,’ says PM,” October 31).This decision is wrong, factually and legally. UNESCO decisions are not binding in international law, and this one defies all historical truth.DR. JAN SOKOLOVSKY Jerusalem Words in the PM’s mouth Sir, – Thanks to David Horovitz for his incisive interview with Ambassador Gould (“A most intriguing ambassador,” Editor’s notes, October 15). But it is disturbing that Prime Minister Netanyahu may believe what Horovitz has him say, that “we resent the notion that these areas” – which Horovitz also has Netanyahu call Judea and Samaria – “are consigned to the definition of ‘occupied,’ over which we have no rights, when we feel so strongly that we have a peerless claim.”I hope he realizes that by putting these words in Netanyahu’s mouth – and even more if the prime minister actually believes them – it will only make it much harder for Israel to give up the occupied areas she is going to need to give up for her sustainable Jewish identity and security and peace.There seems to remain, though, one hope. It is that Netanyahu may be the one (but only one) leader who remains, in the era after Ariel Sharon, who can show so deeply that he understands our heritage and our security needs, and hence can inculcate such confidence in his judgments that he may be able to unite the country to be able to act in her own best interests.JAMES ADLER Cambridge, Massachusetts Green dollars Sir, – University students who burned tires (“Power to the people,” photo, November 1) showed themselves to be lacking any regard for the environment and to be motivated solely by greed.MOSHE-MORDECHAI VAN ZUIDEN Jerusalem The anti-kollel kollel Sir,
 – To counter the widespread unawareness that our religious texts 
disapprove of long-term, full-time religious study without working, the 
government should provide substantial financial incentives to encourage 
the study of these religious texts (“Debate over kollel-student stipend 
goes to ‘the sources,’” November 1).YONATAN SILVER Jerusalem JFK from right to left Sir,
 – Thank you for David Geffen’s op-ed on the fiftieth anniversary of 
JFK’s election (“In appreciative memory of JFK,” October 28).How
 appropriate to begin the op-ed by quoting his famous words to Americans
 in his inaugural address: “Ask not what your country can do for you – 
ask what you can do for your country.”The main and sad problem 
is that Israelis read from right to left, and so it comes out: “Ask not 
what you can do for your country – ask what the country can do for you.”MENACHEM DAYAGI Tel Aviv Black cloud Sir,
 – The ongoing saga of the disgraceful imprisonment of Jonathan Pollard 
casts a black cloud over the vaunted American justice system (“Pollard’s
 life sentence doesn’t fit the crime,” November 1).The part that
 Israel played in Pollard’s imprisonment is also an indictment of the 
behavior of our government at the time and of those officials – elected 
and otherwise – who played into secretary of defense Caspar Weinberger’s
 hands.How can our own ally behave so viciously toward a 
prisoner whom it holds in a sentence that is out of proportion to the 
offense? CYRIL ATKINS Beit Shemesh The South African example Sir, – It 
is shocking and frightening to know that there is still no border fence 
on our southern border (“Whatever happened to the Sinai border fence?,” 
Editorial, October 31).As a white South African who fought 
against apartheid in my student days, I know the folly of not having any
 control on the border.Since the end of apartheid millions of 
black people from the surrounding countries have infiltrated South 
Africa, to the extreme aggravation of its black population, who blame 
them for the government’s inability to deliver the services they were 
promised, better education, better housing and better job opportunities.YVONNE NARUNSKY Kfar Shmaryahu Elusive piece of evidence Sir, – William Kaczynski is the son of German Jews who came to Britain in July, 1939, aged just four.After
 the outbreak of the war, his parents were interned as “enemy aliens.” 
Refugees from Hitler – some of whom had already been imprisoned inside 
the Reich – cruelly, were often interned despite having refugee status.It
 was during this period that the very young William began collecting 
stamps and letters from family, commencing with a letter from his 
cousin, interned in Canada, to his mother.William has almost 
finished writing his book Fleeing from the Fuhrer, a very unusual and 
substantial collection of postal history made up of letters, post cards,
 envelopes, ephemera and memorabilia from the Holocaust period.Some
 of the items included are postal communications to and from 
concentration camp inmates, documents reflecting the Jewish plight under
 Hitler and other items which are by-products of the emigration of 
European Jewry in the late 1930s to countries all over the world.William
 is still searching for one elusive piece of evidence for his 
fascinating book: a transit visa issued by Chiune Sugihara, who was the 
Japanese consul in Kovno, Lithuania. Defying the Japanese government, he
 issued approximately 3,500 exit visas, 2,000 of which helped Kovno Jews
 escape before the German invasion.If anyone knows of the whereabouts of one of these transit visas, please contact me.
MARCIA RUBENSTEIN PERKIN Reading, England marcia.perkin@ntlworld.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Obama's new leverage - against its ally</title>
<date>21/2/2010</date>
<content>
On September 29, Richard Goldstone presented his report on the Gaza conflict to an enraptured UN Human Rights Council. The Council, in which the Organization of the Islamic Conference holds the balance of power, commissioned his report. Goldstone promoted his 575-page smear campaign against the State of Israel by parading his Jewishness and then analogizing his work to his prior efforts to combat apartheid.

At its core, the report repeats the ancient blood libel against the Jewish people.  Or as Goldstone casts this abomination for a modern audience,  Israel "deliberatelyâ€¦terrorize[d] a civilian population;"  Israeli "violence against civilians w[as] part of a deliberate policy."

The report claims to be a human rights document but never mentions the racist, genocidal intent of the enemy which Israel finally confronted after years of restraint. It invents laws of war which never mention the "right of self-defense," and it relies on testimonies from witnesses speaking under circumstances that gave rise to "a fear of reprisals" from Hamas should they have dared to tell the truth.

After the report was presented, the Council resembled an assemblage of vultures moving in on their prey. But instead of adopting a resolution intended to implement the report's recommendations, on October 1, the matter was tabled until the following Council session in March 2010.

REPORTS INDICATE that the American administration told the Palestinian Authority to back off. So the delay is not an indication that the hysterical Goldstone report went too far even for the UN. After all, this lead human rights body is populated by the likes of China and Saudi Arabia.

What is less clear, however, is what the breathing space will mean. Does President Obama plan to use the opportunity to extract concessions from Israel in exchange for putting the Goldstone report permanently to rest? Or does he appreciate that there can be no peace progress so long as Israel's alleged "peace" partners are bent on gutting its right of self-defense, and the phrase "living side-by-side in peace and security" is meant to apply to a party of one? Initial signs are worrying.

The Bush administration refused to lend the Human Rights Council any credibility. While aware of the fact that the Council had adopted more resolutions and decisions condemning Israel than all other 191 UN member states combined, the Obama administration reversed course. The United States joined the Council and took its place as a full member for the first time at this latest session.

Given the Council's preoccupation with Israel, participating and lending it legitimacy handed the Obama administration new leverage - against its ally. In the past, Canada insisted that anti-Israel resolutions be brought to a vote, rather than railroaded through by "consensus," and courageously voted against.

But when the United States came on board, Canada rotated off the Council, thus creating a dynamic in which Israel became dependent on US proclivities.

The Goldstone report, however, has forced the Obama administration to recognize that the leverage over Israel presented by Council membership is not cost-free. No Israeli administration is going to take a seat at a negotiating table that its "peace partner" has festooned with a sword of Damocles.

So the report presents the president with a dilemma: how to avoid alienating his new friends in the Arab and Muslim world while keeping the peace process percolating? Moreover, sooner or later the Goldstone "rules" of engagement could well be turned against American action in Afghanistan, Iraq and beyond.

The Obama administration needs to make a policy decision on the Goldstone report quickly. There are likely to be various attempts to insert references to the report at the UN General Assembly this fall.

Goldstone himself can be expected to continue seeking the limelight. In September, he made the unprecedented move of commandeering the UN Headquarters' press room in New York to release his report, even though it had been authorized by a Geneva institution and was due to be considered shortly. Having made recommendations to continue the witch hunt, including at the Security Council, Goldstone is very likely to attempt to turn the report's "implementation" into a permanent meal ticket.

The president, therefore, should be under no illusions. Waxing eloquent about multilateral engagement will not make the report and its progeny all go away - if that was ever his game plan.

UNFORTUNATELY, IT appears that the president may have a different agenda. Speaking at the Council in the presence of Goldstone, the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Michael Posner said that the United States was ready "to engage in discussion of this report," and the US takes Goldstone's allegations against Israel "seriously." Posner was well aware that the report found that violence against Palestinian civilians was part of a deliberate Israeli policy, and yet could only manage to respond: "The report makes negative inferences about the intentions of Israeli officialsâ€¦ on the basis of a limited factual record." The only problem with referring the allegations to the UN Security Council and the International Criminal Court, according to Posner, was that "then the role of the Human Rights Council would be dramatically different."

In language similar to Goldstone's trashing of the Israeli judicial system, Posner asked the Council to adopt a resolution telling "Israel to investigate and address allegations through a credible domestic process." It therefore appears that the Goldstone report will continue to fester and that administration officials may be preparing to use its threatened revival as a bargaining chip.

Now is the time for concerned Americans and members of Congress to demand that this scandalous report be buried permanently and immediately, and that it not become a weapon in behind-the-scenes struggles between Israel and the United States on vital issues. The right of every democracy to defend itself against a fanatical enemy who is prepared to put its own people in harm's way depends on it.

The writer is a professor at Touro College, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and the editor of EYEontheUN.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 4: No more groveling</title>
<date>3/10/2010</date>
<content>
No more groveling Sir, – Regarding “PA decides to halt talks unless building 
freeze reinstated” (October 3) – now is the time to right the wrongs that were 
created by the Oslo Accords and the disengagement from Gaza. The Palestinians 
have never given us the confidence that they want to make peace with us. In 
fact, the opposite is true.




We seem to want a Palestinian state more than 
they do. We refuse to take apart their arguments – some of which border on the 
absurd, if they are not out-and-out lies – for fear of upsetting 
them.They continue on their merry way because they have never had to pay 
a cost for their intransigence.Building in the major settlement blocks 
should be a given with no afterthought of what the Palestinians will do 
regarding the peace process. If they want to leave it, so be it. If they refuse 
to negotiate, we should build beyond those areas and create facts on the 
ground.The Palestinians have to realize once and for all that past 
promises must be kept; otherwise, there will be a cost involved.No more 
groveling and begging from our leaders. If we stay strong, as we did in 1967, 
the Arabs will understand that they have no choice but to negotiate, and we will 
negotiate with strength.Where else in history has the defeated side, in 
a war that it started, dictated the terms of the agreement? BILL WEBER Jerusalem 
Nuptial hearing loss Sir, – Regarding “Noisy music can endanger teens’ hearing” 
(in Judy Siegel-Itzkovich’s “Health scan,” October 3): Anyone who has been to an 
Israeli wedding knows only too well that the volume of the music is way over the 
safe decibel level. One can barely hear oneself think, let alone have any 
conversation.No one would choose to be near an aircraft preparing for 
takeoff (crew members wear ear muffs), yet music at a similar decibel level is 
listened to, and the long-term detrimental effect is ignored.SALLY SHAW 
Kfar Saba Blaming the GOP Sir, – Douglas M. Bloomfield worries (in “Can the GOP 
block a Palestinian state?,” October 3) that if the Israelis and Palestinians 
really want to make peace, then the Republicans would be spoilers, because they 
would want to make Obama look bad.That’s about as ridiculous as saying 
that should Jerusalem experience a blizzard, the Republicans would withhold 
emergency snow removal equipment just to spite Obama.Rather than take 
the Obama administration to task for leaning on Israel in order to bring about 
an improbable peace accord, Bloomfield criticizes the Republicans over a 
hypothetical response to a hypothetical nonevent.His political prejudice 
is obvious.DAVID KATCOFF Jericho, Vermont Tutu no-no Sir, – In “Jo’burg 
University rejects calls to sever ties with BGU” (October 1), Jenny Gross writes 
that the proposal to sever ties “had been endorsed by antiapartheid icon 
Archbishop emeritus Desmond Tutu.” What Gross does not mention is that Tutu is 
also an anti-Israel icon.Tutu had “greatness” thrust upon him, and he 
ventures into areas about which he has no knowledge. And in these painfully 
politically correct times, no one has the guts to tell him he is way out beyond 
his depth, and his biased slip is showing from under his cassock.It is 
outrageous that Tutu is still a patron of the Cape Town Holocaust Centre, and he 
has just been appointed a patron of the new Johannesburg Holocaust Foundation. 
Political correctness and appeasement know no bounds.As an ex-South 
African (now Israeli ) I call for Tutu’s resignation or removal from the 
patronage of Holocaust centers in South Africa.BENJAMIN KATZMAN Bnei 
Dror Obstacles to peace? Sir, – Gil Troy, in “Amateur hour in Obama-land” 
(September 29) writes: “[President Obama’s] tendency to see settlements as the 
main obstacle to peace broadens his blind spot.”It is high time to 
recall former senator Jesse Helms’s sober declaration (Congressional Record S 
6171): “There were no settlements in 1948 to constitute an ‘obstacle to peace’ 
yet the trans- Jordanians invaded... There were no settlements in 1967 to 
constitute an ‘obstacle to peace’ yet the Jordanians invaded again!” KARL 
HUTTENBAUER Berlin Aid boats to the British coast Sir, – Regarding “Miliband’s 
mother among supporters of Jewish aid boat to Gaza” (September 27): That’s great 
for Israel. Now we have a Jewish leader of the Labor Party with a mother 
supporting a ship aimed to land at Gaza.I am sure that with Mrs. Kozak’s 
newfound protekzia Israeli ships full of activists will be able to reciprocate 
and bring Christmas gifts to underprivileged British children and come ashore at 
Bournemouth, Brighton or anywhere along the British coastline where there are no 
Customs/Immigration controls.What a wonderful idea. I am sure son Ed 
would approve of it.CAROLINE BRADLEY Hampshire Dignified at the UN Sir, 
– If the UN General Assembly met on a Christian or Muslim holiday, and certain 
delegations were absent due to religious considerations, would Jeremy Ruden 
(“UN-dignified,” September 27) and others be as critical of them as they are of 
the Israeli representatives for not attending Obama’s speech on Succot? Judaism 
is not a second-rate religion whose representatives conduct themselves with an 
inferiority complex. I and many others were proud to see those empty 
seats.FRED EHRMAN New York and Jerusalem Sir, – Unless our Israeli 
delegation never notified either the UN officials or the White House of the 
dates of our major festival of Succot, I find Jeremy Ruden’s article an 
affront.Those representing our Jewish State appropriately absented 
themselves from the proceedings.The speech never should have been given 
on Succot if the focus of discussion was Israel! CHANA SIMCKES Beit Shemesh Not 
a Christian organization Sir, – In the article headlined “Christian pro-Israel 
group opens headquarters in east Jerusalem” (October 1), the headline is wrong: 
Our organization is not a Christian organization at all. The Knesset Christian 
Allies Caucus is made up of 17 members of Knesset, none of them Christian. The 
International Israel Allies Caucus Foundation – the umbrella organization that 
coordinates the activities between the sister caucuses – is also a Jewish 
organization.The whole goal of the KCAC and IIACF is to reach out to 
Christian leaders in order to build direct lines of communication and 
cooperation for the State of Israel. We are both Jewish 
organizations.The Knesset Christian Allies Caucus is Chaired by MK David 
Rotem, not Benny Elon. Its headquarters is in the Knesset, though it has offices 
in the Shalom Yerushalayim building as well. The caucus was formed in 2004 by 
eight members of Knesset.Our caucus in the US Congress is called the 
“Congressional Israel Allies Caucus.” It was founded by Congressman David Weldon 
and Congressman Elliot Engel. It is chaired today by Congressman Mike Pence and 
Congressman Elliot Engel. The congressman mentioned in the article as our 
founder and chair is one of the congressmen who sit on the board of directors of 
the foundation.
JOSHUA S. REINSTEIN 
Director 
Knesset Christian Allies 
Caucus Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On the day after ‘independence’</title>
<date>2/12/2010</date>
<content>
The right of return is considered sacrosanct among the Palestinian people and no 
one who disputes it. The representatives of the Palestinian people, including 
the PLO and Palestinian Authority, base their position on the question of 
resolving the conflict on “justice” rather than on “compromise.”The 
meaning of “justice,” from the Palestinian perspective, is the realization of 
the rights of the Palestinian refugees in accordance with all the decisions of 
the international institutions, the foremost being UN Resolution 194 that they 
see as sanctifying the right of the refugees to return and receive 
compensation.




The formula of “a just and agreed-upon solution in 
accordance with Resolution 194” does not convey an implied readiness for any 
hypothetical Palestinian compromise regarding the right of return. “Agreed” 
means that one should coerce Israel to agree to implement the Palestinian 
demands for “justice.”The PLO and the Palestinian Authority continue to 
nurture in Palestinian society the idea of the return of the refugees. They 
prevent any option of resettlement of refugees outside the camps and preserve 
the role of UNRWA as a symbolic and practical expression of the demand for 
return.The Palestinian concept, that receives support from Palestinian 
and even some Israeli human rights organizations, views the right of return as a 
private right of every single refugee, and this means that the Palestinian 
people’s representatives (as well as the United Nations) have no authority 
whatsoever to forgo this right in the name of the refugees.Any 
Palestinian leader who would dare challenge the consensus and waive the right of 
return in negotiations with Israel will, in the best case, find himself 
blacklisted and removed from the stage, or in the worst case, be 
executed.According to the Palestinian consensus, the non-implementation 
of the right of return will leave the gates of the conflict with Israel open, 
and this implies justification for a continued armed struggle against Israel 
even following the establishment of a Palestinian state.The future 
Palestinian state to which Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and 
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad aspire is prepared to absorb Palestinians, including 
refugees, within its boundaries, with the reservation that this will not be 
considered in any shape or form as a waiver of the right of return.Once 
the Palestinian entity receives control over the international border crossings, 
irrespective of whether it is recognized as a state with full sovereignty or 
not, the gates will be opened for the transit of Palestinians, including those 
defined as refugees, to areas under Palestinian control. The Palestinian entity 
will not be able to prevent the entry/return of Palestinians to its borders, 
something that would be considered national treason and contravene Palestinian 
basic law and the Palestinian consensus.ALL THE Arab states where the 
Palestinians defined as refugees reside support the right of return 
unreservedly. Syria and Lebanon have traditionally adopted a policy that 
clarifies unambiguously that the refugee camps in their territory are only 
temporary and the refugees must return to Palestine when the conditions for this 
mature. It is plausible to assume that the two countries will have an interest 
in promoting the transfer of their Palestinian populations to the areas of 
“Palestine” both for internal demographic reasons and also to influence by this 
measure the creation of a demographic reversal in the areas of historic 
Palestine, to influence the Palestinian regime and make use of the Palestinians 
in the framework of the continued struggle against Israel.The Jordanian 
regime detached itself from the West Bank in 1988 and provided Jordanian 
passports to the refugees, but announced that following the establishment of the 
Palestinian state, the refugees will have to decide whether they choose to be 
Jordanian citizens or return to Palestine. The massive eviction of a Palestinian 
population has occurred a few times over the last three decades. Kuwait 
expelled 400,000 Palestinians after the First Gulf War due to PLO support for 
Iraq. Libya ordered the expulsion of 30,000 Palestinians (and later on agreed to 
accept them) following the establishment of the Palestinian Authority. Iraq 
expelled scores of thousands of Palestinians following the overthrow of the 
Saddam Hussein regime in 2003.The refugee problem that was a bubbling 
lava for scores of years could erupt after an Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 
lines and the establishment of a Palestinian state, and find expression in many 
areas: The infiltration of Palestinians into Israeli territory, and legal claims 
by refugees in Israel and in the international court in The Hague to provide the 
right of return, the restitution of property, and compensation. Focusing 
the Palestinian armed struggle on the right of return (a refugee intifada) could 
escalate the struggle in the international arena to coerce Israel into agreeing 
to the right of return (to avoid the boycott and anti-apartheid 
campaign).The widespread phenomenon of Palestinians illegally residing 
in Israel and the infiltration of scores of thousands from African countries via 
the Egyptian border into Israeli territory exemplify the dimensions of the 
challenge that Israel will be forced to contend with in the form of a similar 
and much larger phenomenon in scope from the area of the West Bank. Likewise, 
Israel can expect to face challenges in the international and legal arenas, 
given the position of the human rights organizations in this 
context. Israel will find it difficult to prevent infiltration via its 
long border with the West Bank. Additionally, the expected economic distress in 
the Palestinian state, given the massive arrival of refugees, could invite 
international pressure upon Israel to absorb a larger number of refugees within 
its territory.In the final analysis, the refugee problem is at the very 
heart of the Israeli-Palestinian dispute and is considered by the Palestinians 
as a trump card, via which they can weaken the State of Israel. After the 
establishment of a Palestinian state, the Palestinians will be able to overcome 
Israel via demography, transforming the country in the long term into an entity 
that will be submerged in a Palestinian state stretching from the Mediterranean 
Sea to the Jordan River. Since the Israeli consensus holds that the mass return 
of Palestinian refugees to Israel means national suicide, Israel will require 
robust international support in negotiations for a final status agreement, in 
order to reach an accord on the basis of defensible borders, and to find a 
permanent solution to the refugee problem based primarily on the Palestinian 
refugees receiving citizenship in their host countries or their absorption into 
a Palestinian state.
The writer is a senior researcher of the Middle East 
and radical Islam at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. He is a co-founder 
of the Orient Research Group Ltd. and is a former adviser to the Policy Planning 
Division of the Foreign Ministry. Excerpted from an article that first appeared 
on the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs website.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Opening Lines: Waiting for Godot</title>
<date>4/11/2010</date>
<content>
Pity we have to wait for things to play out in America before Israelis and Palestinians can reengage. Pity neither side of the conflict here seems to want peace like a desert wants the rain. If they did, they would talk, and ask the Americans to bridge differences from time to time. As of this writing, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is waiting for Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to climb down from his tree; Abbas is waiting for US President Barack Obama and the Arab League to help him down the tree or push him further up it; and Obama is waiting for Netanyahu to give him just two more months of settlement freeze.In the meantime, there are no direct talks. If the peace process for the negotiated two-state solution doesn’t go forward, it doesn’t stand still either; it slips backward and all sorts of other ideas get thrown into the mix. Someone suggested this week that Israel lease land from the Palestinians, so somebody else said they should lease land from us – so that idea will get mired too. Someone even suggested that Palestinians and Israelis be allowed to live anywhere they wanted to between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, but vote for their respective parliaments. Creative, but not likely.




Jerusalem is miffed that the PA continues to delegitimize it at every international organization and forum it can find (UN, ICC, OECD), even while it is supposedly at or hovering near the negotiating table. The PA is miffed that settlement construction has restarted. To inject a sense of urgency into the issue, it has threatened to petition the UN Security Council to recognize a unilateral declaration of Palestinian statehood on the June 4, 1967, borders.If the Security Council rejects this motion, as is deemed likely by a US veto, the PA has threatened to invoke Resolution 337, known as the “uniting for peace” resolution. This resolution, passed in 1950, states that, in cases where the Security Council fails to act to maintain international peace and security, due to deadlock among its five permanent members, the matter should be addressed by the General Assembly in an “emergency special session.”Resolution 377 was originally introduced by the US as a means of 
circumventing Soviet vetoes during the Korean War. The General Assembly 
has convened emergency special sessions 10 times in its history. While 
some officials in Jerusalem see this as “background noise” and “an empty
 threat” not to be taken too seriously, other Western diplomatic 
officials monitoring the peace process have cautioned Israel not to take
 its growing international isolation too lightly. They argue that 
today’s globalized, coordinated campaign against Israel’s legitimacy 
dovetails with international law in many places, and that increasingly, 
Israel is being pushed into corners it will find it hard to get out of. 
More and more, Israel is being painted as today’s apartheid South 
Africa, with all the diplomatic consequences that can derive from that.INCREASINGLY, THE international community is losing interest in Israel’s positions, and Israeli diplomatic and hasbara
 efforts to paint itself as a legitimate holder of historical rights in 
Judea and Samaria and not as a colonial occupier, in a postcolonial 
world, are not making much headway. Similarly, Israel’s oftrepeated 
contention that settlement building is not the main obstacle to peace 
talks, and never was, has not been accepted by the international 
community, which has, by and large, bought into the Palestinian 
narrative that settlements obstruct talks. How could they not, when 
Obama himself said that settlements should be completely halted.These and other similar statements have pushed Abbas up a tall tree from
 which he is finding it hard to descend. The thinking in Jerusalem is 
that the Palestinians believe they can eventually get what they want 
through international pressure instead of negotiations, so why should 
they negotiate? Despite believing that the negotiated two-state solution is the only 
real game in town and pointing to a lack of international momentum for 
any other formula, officials here have threatened unilateral measures 
that Israel could take in response to a unilateral declaration of 
Palestinian statehood, even though they haven’t spelled them out on the 
record. It is believed that if push came to shove, Israel could 
unilaterally annex settlement areas, revoke the Oslo Accords and 
discontinue security coordination with the PA. The latter two measures 
would nullify the PA and leave Fatah in a death struggle with Hamas, 
whose outcome is by no means assured. Neither Israel nor the PA, 
certainly not the PA, is interested in this scenario.Defense officials say that it is unrealistic to assert that the 
Palestinians are ready for a state because security in the West Bank has
 improved and the territory is seeing significant economic growth. While
 PA security forces have improved, Israeli officials believe it is only 
the IDF’s presence in the West Bank which is consistently and 
effectively limiting Hamas’s power. The PA certainly doesn’t really want
 to be dissolved, despite Abbas’s threats. For one thing, it needs to 
stay intact to receive its annual massive international aid. In the 
meantime, behind-the-scenes talks are trying to find appropriate 
language to bring both sides back to the table in the coming weeks.POLITICALLY, NETANYAHU has almost no support for a continued settlement 
freeze within his coalition (apart from the quickly disintegrating Labor
 Party). He has been careful to keep settlement construction in the West
 Bank at a controlled and tempered pace.There is no massive building, and several of the largest settlements, as
 first reported by this paper’s Tovah Lazaroff, are quickly running out 
of building permits.Netanyahu’s government feels it is being responsible on settlements, 
which makes the singling out of that issue so galling. In effect, the PA
 has created a bottleneck through which other final-status issues cannot
 be pushed. And there is significant international sympathy for the 
singling out of the settlements.Netanyahu may have made a strategic blunder here.For argument’s sake, he could have faced his critics on the Right, 
bitten the bullet and given Obama two more months of freeze. In other 
words, he could have called the Palestinians’ bluff. Had they still not 
agreed to resume talks, he could have placed the blame on them and said 
that it was now clear that the settlement issue is not what’s keeping 
them from the negotiating table.Doubtful the PA would have handed that little gem to Netanyahu on a 
silver platter though, but even for them entering actual talks is not 
easy. Abbas seems unable or unwilling to sell a deal to his people. The 
refrain in Jerusalem is that since Abbas continues to seek the support 
of the Arab League for any move he makes, he is politically unable to 
forge a deal on his own. And if he can’t be responsible for his own 
camp, what’s the point of signing a deal with him? Leaving Gaza aside 
(and that’s a big aside), Abbas’s constant pilgrimage to the Arab League
 shows that he doesn’t have sufficient support within his own Fatah 
party to make peace. When Abbas signs on the dotted line, whom does he 
really speak for, they ask in Jerusalem. So if Abbas can’t really 
deliver, what would Netanyahu have to lose by publicly giving him the 
chance to miss another opportunity? 
amirm@jpost.comhttp://www.forecasthighs.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Israel fights the demagogues</title>
<date>24/8/2010</date>
<content>
Israeli academia is in an uproar. And this is a good thing. Last week, the 
Zionist student movement Im Tirtzu opened a rather modest campaign against Ben- 
Gurion University’s Politics and Government Department.And the howls of 
protest stretched from the Negev to the border with Lebanon.




Im Tirtzu is 
a grass-roots initiative of university students.Over the past few years 
it has managed to amass a modest budget funded by Jewish and non-Jewish Zionists 
here and in the US.One of Im Tirtzu’s central goals is to engender an 
atmosphere of academic freedom and intellectual pluralism on university 
campuses. Over the past generation or so, those campuses, and particularly the 
humanities and social sciences faculties, have become hotbeds of anti- Zionist 
activism and intellectual terror. Stories of professorial intimidation of and 
discrimination against Zionist students are widespread, as are instances of 
outright indoctrination in the classrooms.As Ma’ariv’s Ben Dror Yemini 
reported this week, at Hebrew University’s law school, Prof. Yehuda Shenhav 
teaches a class called “Bureaucracy, Governance and Human Rights.” In the course 
of their studies, the students are expected to participate in the work of 
anti-Zionist organizations including Machsom Watch and Yesh Din. At the end of 
the year, the participants – who will be paid NIS 1,450 for their activism – are 
expected to write an article describing their experiences which will be turned 
into a booklet edited by Shenhav and anti-Zionist activists Michael Sfard and 
Yael Barda and published by their anti-Zionist NGOs.The situation at 
Ben-Gurion University’s Politics and Government Department is particularly 
distressing. It is headed by Dr. Neve Gordon, an anti-Zionist activist who has 
written that Israel is a “proto-fascist state,” has castigated it as an 
“apartheid state” and has signed petitions calling for international academic, 
scientific, economic and cultural boycotts of the country.Responding to 
complaints from students, Im Tirtzu undertook an examination of the Politics and 
Government Department faculty. It discovered that among the department’s 11 
tenured instructors, nine are involved in extreme leftist political activity. 
Led by Gordon, six of the 11 signed a letter supporting soldiers who refuse to 
serve in the IDF.Both of the department’s research fellows are notorious 
among their students for their anti-Zionist views. Eight of the department’s 19 
adjunct lecturers publicly espouse radical leftist views. Three of the 
department’s six doctoral candidates have signed letters in support of Gordon’s 
calls for international boycotts.AS EREZ Tadmor, Im Tirtzu’s research 
director, noted in a television interview last week, these views represent the 
politics of but a smattering of the public. And yet, they are the predominant 
view of the department. In a place where the most radical, dogmatic views – 
views that reject the state’s very right to exist – predominate, it is 
impossible to imagine that the average student feels comfortable exploring and 
researching other thought streams. Consequently, it is reasonable to fear that 
far from educating students, the department engages in wholesale indoctrination 
of students.Indeed, as Makor Rishon’s Yishai Friedman reported last 
Friday, the department pays them and gives them academic credit for 
participation in radical leftist NGOs. As Friedman exposed, students who 
volunteer at post-Zionist NGOs funded by the New Israel Fund receive academic 
credit for their efforts and the NIF provides them with generous NIS 7,400 
scholarships for their activism.Several of the department’s faculty 
members serve or have served in leadership positions in these groups. For 
instance, Gordon served as the head of NIF-funded Physicians for Human Rights, 
which supported the false claim that the IDF massacred Palestinians in the 
battle at the Jenin refugee camp in 2002. The scholarship program is funded 
through the NIF’s Shatil group’s Everett Social Justice Fellowship 
initiative.Last month, Im Tirtzu sent a letter to Ben-Gurion University 
president Rivka Karmi asking her to take action to correct the atmosphere of 
intellectual terror in the department.It asked that she inform the 
group, within a month, of the actions she had taken in this regard.It 
then gave her an ultimatum. If she refused to respond to its query, “we will be 
forced to utilize our freedom of speech and protest and use all legal means to 
inform the current and future student body, and especially those who support 
Ben-Gurion University in Israel and abroad, about the severity of the situation 
and the administration’s prolonged refusal to contend with the situation which 
has allowed it to reach the current level of severity. We will also recommend 
that political science students not study at Ben-Gurion 
University.Additionally we will request that the university’s donors 
place their contributions in an escrow account overseen by an attorney. The 
funds will be released to the university after it has substantively proven that 
the department’s bias and distortion, expressed by the faculty and course 
syllabi, have been corrected.”Predictably, Karmi never acknowledged Im 
Tirtzu’s letter. And so when the month ended last week, the group embarked on a 
worldwide public relations campaign against the department. The campaign, which 
was widely covered by the media (and evoked the predictable condemnation of 
Haaretz), has led to a storm of criticism by professors at Ben-Gurion and their 
comrades throughout the country. Predictably, they have castigated Im Tirtzu as 
a McCarthyist group, a fascist group, an extremist group and a farright group 
that is seeking to silence dissent and destroy the principle of academic 
freedom.So too, many professors who have spoken on the issue have argued 
that Im Tirtzu has no right to be heard. For instance, in a television 
appearance last week, Prof. Yossi Yonah from Ben-Gurion appeared on Erev Hadash 
with Tadmor. There he said, “I reject the authority, the legitimacy of a group 
like this to come and investigate my behavior as a member of the 
faculty.”These assertions are completely ridiculous. First of all, 
academic freedom is not threatened. What Im Tirtzu and other organizations like 
the Institute for Zionist Strategies have criticized is the fact that 
ideological uniformity in academic departments is not conducive to academic 
freedom.NO ONE is criticizing professors’ right to engage in academic 
study. Im Tirtzu and other groups object first to the fact that much of what is 
presented as academic work is nothing but polemical dogma, unsupported by 
empirical or theoretical research.Second they object to the fact that 
the views of the radical Left, which represents almost no one here, receives the 
majority of teaching and research positions at Ben-Gurion University’s Politics 
and Government Department.Karmi has condemned Im Tirtzu and its campaign 
as McCarthyist and an attempt to silence opposing voices. While these assertions 
are par for the course for university heads who behave as though they have a 
divine right to unlimited taxpayer and donor funds, they are utterly 
false.In acting as it has, Im Tirtzu has simply pointed out the obvious. 
No one is under any obligation to fund institutions that advance causes opposite 
to those they believe in. No one is required to study in a department that seeks 
to indoctrinate rather than educate. And both donors and students have a right 
to know what it is they are supporting.Beyond that, the truth is that 
initiatives like Im Tirtzu’s seek to expand rather than contract academic 
freedom. It is inarguable that academic freedom flourishes in environments where 
all dissenting views are given fair representation.Perhaps more 
important than the ultimate consequences of Im Tirtzu’s campaign is what both 
the initiative and the Left’s response to it tell us about the direction Israeli 
society is taking.The Left’s hysterical response tells us that it – and 
particularly the academic Left – is incapable of withstanding even the slightest 
criticism. Yonah’s insistence that the likes of Tadmor have no right to 
criticize academics exposes a deep and abiding contempt for the public harbored 
by our publicly funded professors. From a budgetary perspective, Im Tirtzu lacks 
even a small percentage of the funds available to anti-Zionist NGOs like 
Physicians for Human Rights, which enjoys seemingly bottomless financial support 
from the EU and the NIF.And yet, despite their unrivaled access to 
funds, their nearly complete control over the country’s universities, the often 
knee-jerk media support for their campaigns against Israel and their ability to 
spend sabbaticals abroad conferring with their Israel-bashing colleagues in 
places like Berkeley, for our radical academics, Im Tirtzu’s initiative to 
expose their hostility to the state that supports them evokes group hysteria. In 
response they call for Bolshevik-style rejection of the public’s right to notice 
their behavior, let alone criticize it.Despite its modest budget, Im 
Tirtzu’s message is getting across. And not for the first time. In the spring 
the group launched a wildly successful public awareness campaign about the NIF. 
The group released a report detailing the central role NIF-sponsored groups 
played in assisting the Goldstone Commission in preparing its libelous report 
accusing Israel of committing war crimes in Operation Cast Lead.What Im 
Tirtzu’s repeated success tells us is that something exciting is happening 
today. After a generation of meekly accepting the Left’s domination of the 
public discourse – in the media, in academia, in the legal system and in popular 
culture – the public has finally had enough. Young people like Tadmor and Im 
Tirtzu’s leader Ronen Shoval are finally standing up to their authority. And 
because they reflect the values and views of the overwhelming majority of the 
public, their message is getting through.
For the first time in a 
generation, the Left is on the defensive. Rather than dominating the airwaves 
with its allegations of Israeli and Zionist racism and criminality, it is forced 
to defend its right to block out all dissenting voices from the national 
debate.There is much reason for concern about prospects for the future. 
With military threats to the country multiplying by the day and with the 
political campaign to delegitimize it escalating, Israel is under assault as 
never before. And yet, what the success of groups like Im Tirtzu shows is that, 
by and large, the public remains strong, vibrant, defiant and courageous. As our 
enemies grow stronger, the public is rising to meet and defeat 
them.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Out of South Africa</title>
<date>8/11/2010</date>
<content>
Last month I was invited to South Africa by the South African Zionist 
Federation. The visit, my first to the country, opened my eyes to the daunting 
challenges facing the country and its dwindling Jewish community of 70,000 16 
years after the end of the apartheid regime.South Africa is a country of 
paradoxes. On the one hand, it is exhilarating to see the blacks now in charge 
after their long struggle. On the other, the ruling African National Congress’ 
record of governance is at best a mixed bag.




RELATED:S. African Jews use web to fight apartheid comparisons S.African Muslim supplier refuses Jews' 'blood money' On the positive side, in 
2008 it peacefully and democratically replaced the failed former president Thabo 
Mbeki with his opponent, President Jacob Zuma.But the negatives are 
glaring. Corruption is endemic. Rather than punishing officials for 
criminal behavior, the ANC is going after the messenger. South Africa’s ruling 
party intends to pass a draconian media law to bar journalists from reporting on 
governmental corruption. The ANC has dismissed opposition to the bill as racist, 
accusing opponents of attempting to advance a “white agenda.”Auguring 
particularly ill for the future is the fact that ANC’s Youth League is one of 
the most illiberal bodies in the party. Aside from being among the most 
enthusiastic supporters of the move to end press freedom, the Youth League is 
also one of the primary forces driving foreign investors away from the 
country. Its leader Julius Malema’s signature policy is his demand to 
nationalize the country’s mines.This has been a great year for South 
Africa. Throngs of tourists visited during the World Cup soccer championship, 
and the international press coverage was fantastic. Unfortunately, the relative 
safety enjoyed by World Cup tourists was a striking deviation from the norm. The 
ANC has failed to provide personal security for South Africans. According to the 
UN, South Africa has the second highest per capita murder rate in the world. 
South African sources place the annual murder rate at 23,000.South 
Africa is the rape capital of the world. In a 1998-2000 UN survey, one in three 
women said they had been raped in the past year. One in four men admitted that 
he was a rapist. Carjackings are a commonplace.Even more devastating is 
South Africa’s AIDS epidemic. Nearly 20 percent of South Africans are 
infected with the HIV virus.One of the impetuses for removing Mbeki from 
office was that he denied that AIDS is caused by the HIV virus, claiming instead 
that AIDS is caused by poverty and the legacy of white oppression. Owing to this 
view, Mbeki refused to allow South Africa to participate in international 
programs to distribute anti-retroviral drugs which stem the development of 
AIDS.Two years ago a team of Harvard scientists published a paper 
alleging that Mbeki’s actions had caused the preventable deaths of some 300,000 
South Africans. They also alleged that his refusal to provide 
HIV-positive pregnant women with access to anti-retroviral drugs caused 35,000 
babies to be born with HIV.Neighboring Zimbabwe also suffers from South 
African neglect. With its international cachet and relative military might, the 
ANC could put an end to Robert Mugabe’s reign of terror in Zimbabwe if it 
desired. But Mugabe aided ANC fighters during their struggle against apartheid, 
and the ANC refuses to act against him.According to the UN and other 
international organizations, more than two million Zimbabwean refugees have 
streamed across the border since 2000. But since the ANC effectively sides with 
Mugabe, these refugees are denied basic services like housing and health 
care.Unprotected by the government, refugees are victimized by 
xenophobic violence. Countrywide xenophobic riots in 2008 in which some 62 
people were reported killed and thousands injured have been followed by 
sporadic, often murderous violence against foreign refugees. Rather than protect 
the refugees, the ANC just announced a new visa policy that will likely see the 
deportation of millions of them.ON A per capita basis, South Africa’s 
Jewish community was more active in the struggle against apartheid than any 
other nonblack group. This fact has not won the community any gratitude or 
friendship from the government, however. In part due to the ANC’s close ties to 
the PLO, the post-apartheid government has favored the country’s large Muslim 
community and distanced itself from the Jews. Muslims hold most of the senior 
positions in the civil service.The vast majority of South African Jewry 
resides in crime-ridden Johannesburg. The physical insecurity of the community 
is palpable at all times. The Jews live behind walls and electric fences. It 
seems that everyone has either been the victim of a violent crime or knows 
someone who has. Even inside of Jewish neighborhoods, it is too dangerous for 
children to play in the streets.Partly because the state schools are 
horrible, partly because of community cohesion and religious commitment, 80 
percent of Jewish children in South Africa study in Jewish schools. With the 
children in Jewish schools, community involvement is higher than in most 
Diaspora communities.But the schools are at risk. Some years ago Jewish 
school buses were stoned. The community responded by unmarking the buses. 
Everyone entering or leaving Jewish campuses must pass through security 
posts.Community security is handled by the Community Security Organization. The day I 
arrived in Johannesburg, the community’s radio station received a bomb threat 
and the group’s representatives arrived on the scene within moments. Guards from 
the organization are present at all community events.The future of the CSO is an open question. The government just passed a strict 
gun control law that will make it difficult for its guards to bear arms. Without 
guns, it is hard to see how the CSO  will be able to provide 
protection.Crime levels are much lower in Cape Town, and it is safe to 
wander around the city. But Cape Town’s Jews face other challenges, not the 
least of which is that whereas there are some 15,000 Jews in Cape Town, the city 
is home to 750,000 Muslims.Ignoring the Jewish community’s deep 
involvement in the anti-apartheid struggle, the ANC berates it for Israel’s 
economic and military ties to the apartheid regime. The fact that the Arabs – 
and particularly Saudi Arabia – had much stronger and longer economic and 
military ties to the apartheid regime than Israel is never mentioned.The 
ANC is one of the most anti-Israel governments in the world today. After the 
Mavi Marmara incident, aside from Turkey, South Africa was the only country to 
recall its ambassador from Israel. But on the issue of Israel, the ANC and the 
South African media see eye to eye. As Beverley Goldman from the South African 
Zionist Federation explained at a Zionist conference in Cape Town two weeks ago, 
the anti-Israel bias of the South African media is overwhelming.The 
boycott, divest and sanction Israel campaign was arguably born in South Africa 
at the UN’s anti- Semitic hate fest in Durban in August 2001. It enjoys the 
support of South African notables like retired Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who just 
called for the Cape Town Opera to cancel its visit to Israel.Last month 
the University of Johannesburg narrowly defeated a motion to cancel its water 
desalination research agreement with Ben-Gurion University. However, the motion 
will likely be passed in the future, because while rejecting the motion, the 
university demanded that BGU end ties with the IDF.A movement to ban 
Israeli products from the shelves of South African stores is gaining 
steam.A Jewish-owned grocery store chain was recently 
picketed.Last month a firm that produces logo briefcases refused a 
contract with the South African Zionist Federation to produce briefcases for the 
Federation’s upcoming conference.THE JEWISH community’s responses to the 
challenges it faces are varied. Emigration rates are high and 
rising. Australia is the preferred destination, but aliya rates are also 
relatively high and rising. The Jewish Agency’s representatives are energetic 
and committed. It would be helpful if Bnei Akiva sent more 
representatives to South Africa in light of the religiousness of many members of 
the community.Most Jews leaving South Africa are young. Israel must 
adopt measures to help older Jews come here.On the other side of the 
spectrum, the number of Jews who have joined the anti-Israel chorus is 
growing. Jews were among the founders of an anti-Zionist, pro-boycott 
group called Open Shuhada Street.The option of turning on Israel and 
their community is an attractive one for many young Jews. Since the end of 
apartheid, with the rise in influence of the Muslim community and the ANC’s 
hostility toward Israel, the only way Jews can achieve sure notoriety is by 
joining forces with Israel’s enemies.For its part, the organized Jewish 
leadership struggles to remain relevant. It excels at its primary task of caring 
for the welfare needs of an aging community. But defending Israel and 
Zionism in the face of a vocal Jewish anti-Israel minority is becoming 
increasingly difficult. Cultivating good ties with a government hostile to 
Israel and committed to economic policies that hurt most members of the 
community is also growing more challenging.Sadly, it seems that despite 
the best efforts of many committed Jewish leaders, the organized community is 
breaking under the burden of these Sisyphean tasks. For instance, rather than 
attacking anti-Semites like Tutu, who among other things claims that Israel uses 
the Holocaust to justify its oppression of Arabs, South African Jews have 
honored him by making him a patron of their Holocaust foundation. Richard 
Goldstone is also a patron.In the hopes of bringing blacks to the 
Holocaust museum in Cape Town, the museum’s exhibition begins with a remembrance 
of apartheid. By doing so, the museum equates the discrimination against blacks 
with the genocide of Jewry.The community’s fear of Jewish turncoats has 
prevented it from discrediting them. For example, at last month’s Zionist 
Federation conference in Cape Town, the organizers invited a self-proclaimed 
non-Zionist attorney named Hayley Galgut to participate in a panel titled “South 
African Zionism Today.” Galgut used her time to explain why she is not a 
Zionist, and why the audience should abandon Zionism.Organizers defended 
their decision to invite her by noting Galgut’s plan to move to Israel. But the 
fact that she wishes to move to the front line of the war against Israel does 
not make hers a legitimate voice. Galgut’s presence on the panel was 
evidence of the community leadership’s unwillingness to take measures to 
maintain a coherent Zionist message.The physical beauty of South Africa 
is arresting, particularly along the coast. And the material standard of living 
that South African Jews enjoy is impressive. It is easy to see why many Jews 
find it hard to leave.But it is also clear that Jewish life in South 
Africa will only get worse. The ANC is unlikely to improve its general 
governance or its policies toward Israel. It can only be hoped that the Jews of 
South Africa will make their way to Israel before the ANC fails them even more 
spectacularly than it already has.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: The feminist deception</title>
<date>14/12/2010</date>
<content>
Making the rounds on YouTube these days is a film of a group of manly looking 
women preparing for and conducting a “flash dance” in a Philadelphia food store. 
The crew of ladies, dressed in tight black clothes and sequined accessories, 
arrives at The Fresh Grocer supermarket, breaks into a preplanned chant ordering 
shoppers not to buy Sabra and Tribe hummus and telling them to oppose Israeli 
“apartheid” and support “Palestine.”From their attire and attitude, it 
is fairly clear that the participants in the video would congratulate themselves 
on their commitment to the downtrodden, the wretched of the earth suffering 
under the jackboot of the powerful. They would likely all also describe 
themselves as feminists.




RELATED:Iran woman with stoning sentence shown on state TVTerra Incognita: Veiled nonsenseBut if being a human rights activist means 
attacking the only country in the Middle East that defends human rights, then 
that means that at the very basic level, the term “human rights activist” is at 
best an empty term. And if being a feminist means attacking the only country in 
the Middle East where women enjoy freedom and equal rights, then feminism too, 
has become at best, a meaningless term. Indeed, if these anti-Israel female 
protesters are feminists, then feminism is dead.IN 1995, then first lady 
Hillary Clinton spoke at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. There 
Clinton seemed to embrace the role of championing the rights of women and human 
rights worldwide when she proclaimed, “It is no longer acceptable to discuss 
women’s rights as separate from human rights…If there is one message that echoes 
forth from this conference, let it be that human rights are women’s rights and 
women’s rights are human rights, once and for all.”Yet as secretary of 
state, Hillary Clinton – like her fellow self-described feminists – has chosen 
to single Israel out for opprobrium while keeping nearly mum on the 
institutionalized, structural oppression of women and girls throughout the 
Muslim world. In so acting, Clinton is of course, loyally representing the views 
of the Obama administration she serves. She is also representing the views of 
the ideological Left in which Clinton, US President Barack Obama, the human 
rights and feminist movements are all deeply rooted.Since the height of 
the feminist movement in the late 1960s, non-leftist women in the West and 
Israel have been hard-pressed to answer the question of whether or not we are 
feminists. Non-leftist women are opposed to the oppression of women. Certainly, 
we are no less opposed to the oppression of women than leftist women 
are.But at its most basic level, the feminist label has never been 
solely or even predominantly about preventing and ending oppression or 
discrimination of women. It has been about advancing the Left’s social and 
political agenda against Western societies. It has been about castigating 
societies where women enjoy legal rights and protections as “structurally” 
discriminatory against women in order to weaken the legal, moral and social 
foundations of those societies. That is, rather than being about advancing the 
cause of women, to a large extent, the feminist movement has used the language 
of women’s rights to advance a social and political agenda that has nothing to 
do with women.So to a large degree, the feminist movement itself is a 
deception.The deception at the heart of the feminist movement is nowhere 
more apparent than in the silence with which self-professed feminists and 
feminist movements ignore the inhumane treatment of women who live under Islamic 
law. If feminism weren’t a hollow term, then prominent feminists should be the 
leaders of the anti-jihad movement.Gloria Steinem and her sisters should 
be leading to call for the overthrow of the antifemale mullocracy in Iran and 
the end of gender apartheid in Saudi Arabia.Instead, in 2008 Ms. 
Magazine, which Steinem founded and which has served as the mouthpiece of the 
American feminist movement, refused to run an ad featuring then foreign minister 
Tzipi Livni, Supreme Court President Dorit Beinisch and then speaker of the 
Knesset Dalia Itzik that ran under the headline, “This is Israel.”It was 
too partisan, the magazine claimed.Leading feminist voices in the US and 
Europe remain unforgivably silent on the unspeakable oppression of women and 
girls in Islamic societies. And this cannot simply be attributed to a lack of 
interest in international affairs. Islamic subjugation and oppression of women 
happens in Western countries as well. Genital mutilation, forced marriage and 
other forms of abuse are widespread.For instance, every year hundreds of 
Muslim women and girls in Western countries are brutally murdered by their male 
relatives in so-called “honor killings.”Pamela Geller, the intrepid 
blogger at Atlas Shrugs website, has steadfastly documented every case she has 
found. This year she ran an ad campaign on public buses and taxis in major US 
cities to bring public awareness to their plight. And for her singular efforts 
in championing the right to life of Muslim women and girls, she has been reviled 
by the Left as an anti-Islamic bigot.Former Dutch parliamentarian Ayaan 
Hirsi Ali was forced to flee Holland and live surrounded by bodyguards for the 
past six years because she has made an issue of Islamic oppression of women and 
girls. The Left – including the feminist movement – has treated this remarkable 
former Muslim and champion of women’s rights as a leper.IF ALL the 
feminist community’s policy of ignoring Islamic oppression of women did was keep 
it out of the headlines it would still be unforgivable. But the fact is that by 
not speaking of the central challenge to women’s rights in our times, the 
organized feminist movement, and the Left it is a part of, are abetting Islam’s 
unspeakable crimes against women and girls. It does so in two 
ways.Tyranny unchallenged is tyranny abetted.And the first way 
that the organized feminist movement and the Left abet the oppression of women 
by Islamic authorities is signaling to those authorities that they can get away 
with it. This truth is laid bare by the responses of Islamic authorities in the 
rare cases where their oppression of women has received Western 
attention.For instance, in 2006, an Iranian Islamic court found Sakineh 
Mohammadi-Ashtiani guilty of adultery and sentenced the ethnic Azeri 
kindergarten teacher and mother of two to death by stoning. She was later also 
found guilty of murdering her husband.Ashtiani’s confessions in both 
cases were extracted under torture. She has already received 99 lashes for her 
reputed initial crime. Not a Farsi or Arabic speaker, when her adultery trial 
ended, Ashtiani didn’t even know she was convicted or what her sentence 
was.In recent years, Ashtiani’s children assisted by Iranian émigré and 
non-leftist human rights groups launched a courageous campaign to save her life. 
Over the past year, the campaign was covered in the Western media and garnered 
the support of notables such as the French and Canadian prime ministers’ wives 
as well as international film stars like Lindsay Lohan, Colin Firth, Emma 
Thompson, Robert Redford and Juliette Binoche.Human Rights Watch and 
Amnesty International got on board this past summer and decried her treatment. 
Clinton herself gave a half sentence condemnation of Ashtiani’s persecution in 
August. Indeed, the international attention focused on Ashtiani may have been 
the reason the Obama administration belatedly voiced opposition to Iran’s 
election to the new UN women’s rights council. Iran was elected by acclamation 
in April, but later defeated by India when a roll call vote was 
called.Reeling from this criticism, Iranian authorities began 
backtracking. First they claimed Ashtiani’s death sentence would be 
cancelled.Then they said she would be hanged rather than stoned. Today 
her fate remains unclear and her life is still in grave danger.But if 
pressure on Iranian authorities keeps up, there is a reasonable chance that 
Ashtiani’s long ordeal will end in life, rather than death.Ashtiani’s 
case is proof that when the West makes the barbaric abuse of women an issue, the 
Islamic world attenuates its abuse of women. Pressure works. In contrast, an 
absence of pressure empowers the oppressors.THE SECOND way that the 
feminists and the Left they are a part of abet Islamic oppression of women is 
through their animosity towards Israel. When the Shariahbesotted leaders of the 
Muslim world see the Western Left devote its energies to attacking Israel – the 
only human rights and women’s rights protecting country in the Middle East – 
they see there is no reason for them to reconsider their willingness to 
tyrannize their women and girls.Take Indonesia for example. In 2003, 
then Indonesian president Megawati Sukarnoputri agreed that as part of a 
ceasefire agreement, the separatist Aceh province was allowed to institute 
Shariah law as the law of the province. In 2009, the Aceh parliament passed a 
law making adultery punishable by stoning. On the central squares of the 
province that is home to four million, people are routinely publicly whipped for 
offenses against Islam.Just last Friday, Anis Saputra, 24, and Kiki 
Hanafilia, 17 each received eight lashes in a public ceremony outside a local 
mosque for being caught kissing in October. The two are reportedly married to 
other people and they apparently were given lashes rather than stoned to death 
because they had yet to consummate their alleged romance.Last year the 
province also forbade women and girls from wearing pants. A France 24 
investigation of Shariah in Aceh showed a traumatized 14-year-old girl who was 
beset by Islamic police on her way home from school. They cut her jeans off in 
the middle of the street.Yet rather than criticize Indonesia for these 
appalling developments, last month Obama visited Jakarta and waxed poetic about 
Islamic tolerance of differences and applauded Indonesia for its commitment to 
democracy.And while ignoring Indonesia’s repressive Shariah-ruled 
province where Islamic oppression is the rule not the exception, Obama devoted 
his criticism to attacking Israel for allowing Jews to build homes in 
Jerusalem.There is no doubt that attitudes that discriminate against 
women exist today in Western countries as well as in Israel.Women in the 
free world have unique challenges to overcome because of our gender.But 
a sense of proportion is required here.These challenges are not 
overwhelming, systemic or in most cases life-threatening.On the other 
hand, hundreds of millions of women and girls throughout the Islamic world are 
terrorized daily by everyone from their families to their judges. They have no 
reason to believe that if challenged their rights – even their right to life – 
will be protected.The fact that the ladies in Philadelphia decided to 
take their stand against Israel and that Clinton and Obama attack Israel for 
building homes for Jews in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria while they all ignore 
the suffering of the women of Islam speaks volumes about the degradation of the 
West under the Left’s social and political leadership.It also tells 
non-leftist women in the West that being pro-women’s rights and being a feminist 
are increasingly mutually exclusive.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinians : look forward, not backward</title>
<date>23/6/2010</date>
<content>
Qatar is unlike many of the other Arab countries that support the Palestinians.Instead of donating lip-service and writing checks to be used in conflict, it has invested heavily in a project with a Palestinian construction company to build a new city in the West Bank called Rawabi.




The Palestinians should be focused on doing more of this; building Palestine, and switching gears from the confrontation-style politics of Hamas, Hizbullah, Iran and a lot of other losers who love to exploit Palestinian suffering.Even Turkey might consider putting a cork in its rhetoric.The confrontation politics of the past was a zero-sum game that achieved very little. In terms of Palestinian interests, it’s a step backward, not forward, to keep fighting with Israel. Instead of confronting Israel at every corner, Palestinians should spend at least some of their efforts building their country and strengthening not only its economy but national pride.Building Palestinian cities in the West Bank is just one way to do this.If Hamas had any real leaders instead of the modern-day bombastic Nassers it has now, they’d spend more time trying to lure Arab world development into the Gaza Strip to build rather than spending all their time with their confrontational go-nowhere rhetoric that helped empower Israel’s stranglehold on the Gaza Strip.We really do need to start building more cities in Palestine, mainly for the day when the refugees will be able to walk out of their camps. We need to give them a quality of life alternative to the sad existence sustained by the charity of the outside world.Not that the outside world doesn’t owe Palestinians a lot. It does.Rawabi is a brilliant vision of what Palestinian life can be after confrontation with Israel. Palestine can be a better country. It can be the economic hub of the Middle East.Palestine, in peace, can offer the region far more than as a constant antagonist.Of course, that means the activists need to stop exploiting Palestinian suffering for their own needs, too.But mainly, Palestinians need to stop listening to the no-future activists who promise only confrontation.Rather than flotillas, Palestine needs more Rawabis, places where Palestinian pride can defeat Israeli occupation. Rawabi would be the first modern, planned Palestinian city – a step that officials say will help build an independent state – located about 30 kilometers north of Jerusalem. It’s modeled on the typical US suburb.THE BIGGEST problem is Israel. Israel has been dragging its feet on giving approval for an access road. The Israelis keep saying how much they want peace and how much they want Palestinians to focus on rebuilding Palestine, but while Israel “talks the talk,” it doesn’t “walks the walk.”The $700 million Rawabi project is funded by the Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. and the Ramallahbased Massar International.Mortgage loans would be managed by the US Overseas Private Investment Corp., an investment arm of the US government.The company began pouring foundations this year and anticipates that the first families will be able to move in by 2013.But without an access road, residents would have to do the 
“Palestinian-Israeli shuffle” used to navigate Israel’s checkpoints and 
road access restrictions, traveling through narrow winding roads, 
including on two miles of West Bank land controlled by Israel. Rawabi is
 located in Area A, which is controlled by the Palestinians. The road 
access it needs is in Area C, controlled by the Israeli military, and on
 the ground, by settlers who continue to protest, angry that foreign 
dollars for settlement construction in the West Bank are going to 
Palestinians.Palestinians will continue to have to put up with the warped views of 
Israeli writers like Yoaz Hendel, who recently wrote in the op-ed “Anti-
 Jewish apartheid” for Ynet, rather inaccurately, “We [Israelis] got 
used to the world referring to the war against Palestinian terrorism as 
apartheid, we got so used to being guilty, to the point of failing to 
notice that the construction apartheid is happening to be directed 
against us. The Arabs are allowed to buy homes anywhere, while the Jews 
are not. The Arabs are allowed to build, expand and engage in 
familyreunification.The Jews are forbidden.”No Yoaz, Palestinians are not permitted to live or build anywhere.Take a trip to my land, for example, next to Gilo: 34 dunams that Israel
 has frozen so non-Jews cannot build there; land located in the West 
Bank annexed by Israel on the Israeli side of the wall. Yet Yoaz says it
 is hypocritical for Palestinians to criticize the settlers, who build 
Jewish-only settlements while the Palestinians build cities like Rawabi,
 which presumably is for Palestinians only.Well, Yoaz, the fact is that the settlers are not building homes in 
Israel. They are building them in the West Bank. The true comparison 
would be if Rawabi were being built next to Haifa, for Palestinians 
only.Of course, that’s a small detail that right-wing Israelis love to 
ignore.But if Palestinians are going to move forward, we’ll need to ignore the 
ranting and self-righteous lamentations from both the Israeli and Arab 
sides.Build more Rawabis. And in the process of building Palestine, we must 
find time to negotiate a genuine peace agreement.
The writer is an award-winning 
columnist and Chicago radio talk show host. www.YallaPeace.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Promoting peace or raising tensions?</title>
<date>18/3/2010</date>
<content>
The first official visit by Baroness Catherine Ashton, who recently
took over as the European Union’s equivalent of a Foreign Minister, is
likely to add more anxiety to Israel’s already stressed-out body
politic. Following Vice President Biden’s headline-making trip, Ashton
is expected to plant the EU’s flag, again, squarely in the middle of
the peace process, by attacking Israeli policy.Ashton’s recent statements reflect the European emphasis on
settlements, without gaining any concessions from the Palestinians.
Coming a few days after the flap over Israel’s policy on Jerusalem
construction that dominated Biden’s visit, this issue will no doubt be
another top priority for the EU delegation. Ashton has even suggested
trade sanctions against Israel as a means of increasing the pressure.




At the same time, Israel has its own list of issues with Europe. More
than the US, Europe generally needs to be reminded of continued
Palestinian violence, incitement, the potential for another war with
Hamas in Gaza and the threats Israel faces from the wider region,
including Iran.The Israeli agenda should also include the role of European government
funding for radical non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The Israeli
media has recently focused on the New Israel Fund’s support for 20 of
the most politicized groups leading the political warfare. But the EU
and its member states grant even greater amounts to almost all these
groups, affording them tremendous power and impact.The EU also funds many radical Palestinian NGOs that are central
players in the demonization, delegitimization and double-standards
employed against Israel. This strategy was codified by 1,500 NGOs at
the 2001 UN Conference against Racism, held in Durban. Their stated
goal is “the complete isolation of Israel” internationally – through
BDS (boycotts, divestment, and sanctions) and lawfare. The European
Parliament’s disturbing endorsement of the biased Goldstone Report,
which falsely accuses Israel of war crimes in Gaza, is a reflection of
this strategy.ADALAH IS one of the more egregious examples of an EU-funded NGO that
goes beyond civil rights claims to promote demonization. This group,
which was referenced 36 times in the Goldstone Report, will be the
recipient of over  € 600,000 between 2009 and 2012, and similar amounts
from a number of individual European governments. Among its activities,
Adalah published a proposed constitution for Israel that would
recognize Palestinian claims to a “right of return” – a euphemism for
the attempt to destroy Israel demographically. This document also
declares that Israel should cease to be Jewish in character, and that
immigration of Jews should be dramatically restricted.
Another disturbing example is Mada Al-Carmel. This NGO, which received
NIS 356,356 in 2008 from the EU, helped compose the Haifa Declaration,
a document that calls for an end to Israel as a Jewish state, and
accuses Israel of “exploiting” the Holocaust.


The declaration makes the absurd claim that “Israel carried out
policies of subjugation and oppression in excess of those of the
apartheid regime in South Africa.”


Mada al-Carmel was one of the partner organizations behind the “My
Land, Space, Body and Sexuality: Palestinians in the Shadow of the
Wall” campaign, featuring a poster that suggested sexual contact

between a Palestinian woman and an Israeli soldier, alongside the
caption: “Her husband needs a permit to touch her. The occupation
penetrates her life everyday!”


This crude political warfare should not receive the assistance of European governments.


THE ISRAELI Committee Against Home Demolitions (ICAHD) is now funded
via the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR),
after receiving support from the EU’s Partnerships for Peace Program
for many years. ICAHD has issued statements accusing Israel of being an
“apartheid” state, and of engaging in “ethnic cleansing” and “bloody
and sadistic actions.”


Citing ICAHD, the Goldstone Report made the tendentious claim that the
war in Gaza was Israel’s attempt at “getting rid of Gaza in order to
consolidate its permanent hold on the West Bank.”


For all of these reasons, the funding raises serious questions
concerning the highly secretive decision making process by which the EU
awards NGO grants. Indeed, this issue is central to NGO Monitor’s
January 2010 lawsuit against the European Commission, based on the
violation of its own transparency regulations. In keeping this process
secret, the EU is indicating that public revelation of the
decision-making details would be embarrassing.


If the EU wants to promote peace in the region, Ashton and other
officials urgently need to address these issues. In a recent statement,
Europe’s new head of foreign policy asked to play a “more credible” role in the region. This will require implementation of the
stated principles of the EU, based on the “support for [NGO]
initiatives that promote peace, tolerance and non-violence in the Middle East.”


The long-standing EU funding for some of the worst NGO promoters of
demonization and conflict is entirely inconsistent with these
principles.

The writer is a researcher at NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Promoting peace or raising tensions?</title>
<date>18/3/2010</date>
<content>
The first official visit by Baroness Catherine Ashton, who recently
took over as the European Union’s equivalent of a Foreign Minister, is
likely to add more anxiety to Israel’s already stressed-out body
politic. Following Vice President Biden’s headline-making trip, Ashton
is expected to plant the EU’s flag, again, squarely in the middle of
the peace process, by attacking Israeli policy.Ashton’s recent statements reflect the European emphasis on
settlements, without gaining any concessions from the Palestinians.
Coming a few days after the flap over Israel’s policy on Jerusalem
construction that dominated Biden’s visit, this issue will no doubt be
another top priority for the EU delegation. Ashton has even suggested
trade sanctions against Israel as a means of increasing the pressure.




At the same time, Israel has its own list of issues with Europe. More
than the US, Europe generally needs to be reminded of continued
Palestinian violence, incitement, the potential for another war with
Hamas in Gaza and the threats Israel faces from the wider region,
including Iran.The Israeli agenda should also include the role of European government
funding for radical non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The Israeli
media has recently focused on the New Israel Fund’s support for 20 of
the most politicized groups leading the political warfare. But the EU
and its member states grant even greater amounts to almost all these
groups, affording them tremendous power and impact.The EU also funds many radical Palestinian NGOs that are central
players in the demonization, delegitimization and double-standards
employed against Israel. This strategy was codified by 1,500 NGOs at
the 2001 UN Conference against Racism, held in Durban. Their stated
goal is “the complete isolation of Israel” internationally – through
BDS (boycotts, divestment, and sanctions) and lawfare. The European
Parliament’s disturbing endorsement of the biased Goldstone Report,
which falsely accuses Israel of war crimes in Gaza, is a reflection of
this strategy.ADALAH IS one of the more egregious examples of an EU-funded NGO that
goes beyond civil rights claims to promote demonization. This group,
which was referenced 36 times in the Goldstone Report, will be the
recipient of over  € 600,000 between 2009 and 2012, and similar amounts
from a number of individual European governments. Among its activities,
Adalah published a proposed constitution for Israel that would
recognize Palestinian claims to a “right of return” – a euphemism for
the attempt to destroy Israel demographically. This document also
declares that Israel should cease to be Jewish in character, and that
immigration of Jews should be dramatically restricted.
Another disturbing example is Mada Al-Carmel. This NGO, which received
NIS 356,356 in 2008 from the EU, helped compose the Haifa Declaration,
a document that calls for an end to Israel as a Jewish state, and
accuses Israel of “exploiting” the Holocaust.


The declaration makes the absurd claim that “Israel carried out
policies of subjugation and oppression in excess of those of the
apartheid regime in South Africa.”


Mada al-Carmel was one of the partner organizations behind the “My
Land, Space, Body and Sexuality: Palestinians in the Shadow of the
Wall” campaign, featuring a poster that suggested sexual contact

between a Palestinian woman and an Israeli soldier, alongside the
caption: “Her husband needs a permit to touch her. The occupation
penetrates her life everyday!”


This crude political warfare should not receive the assistance of European governments.


THE ISRAELI Committee Against Home Demolitions (ICAHD) is now funded
via the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR),
after receiving support from the EU’s Partnerships for Peace Program
for many years. ICAHD has issued statements accusing Israel of being an
“apartheid” state, and of engaging in “ethnic cleansing” and “bloody
and sadistic actions.”


Citing ICAHD, the Goldstone Report made the tendentious claim that the
war in Gaza was Israel’s attempt at “getting rid of Gaza in order to
consolidate its permanent hold on the West Bank.”


For all of these reasons, the funding raises serious questions
concerning the highly secretive decision making process by which the EU
awards NGO grants. Indeed, this issue is central to NGO Monitor’s
January 2010 lawsuit against the European Commission, based on the
violation of its own transparency regulations. In keeping this process
secret, the EU is indicating that public revelation of the
decision-making details would be embarrassing.


If the EU wants to promote peace in the region, Ashton and other
officials urgently need to address these issues. In a recent statement,
Europe’s new head of foreign policy asked to play a “more credible” role in the region. This will require implementation of the
stated principles of the EU, based on the “support for [NGO]
initiatives that promote peace, tolerance and non-violence in the Middle East.”


The long-standing EU funding for some of the worst NGO promoters of
demonization and conflict is entirely inconsistent with these
principles.

The writer is a researcher at NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Questions for ‘The New York Times’</title>
<date>26/7/2010</date>
<content>
The New York Times has hired a new public editor, Arthur Brisbane, to be an 
“advocate” for readers and to uphold “the highest standards in journalism.” 
Let’s hope he means it because a backlog of complaints about the publication’s 
coverage of Israel and the Middle East awaits him.Among unresolved 
matters is one evidently too hot for editors to handle.




It concerns 
Jerusalem bureau chief Ethan Bronner’s statements on MSNBC revealing a 
strikingly jaundiced view of Israelis generally. He claimed in a March 8 
broadcast that unfavorable views of Barack Obama on the part of the Israeli 
electorate reflected not just dismay over the policies of the president, but 
also collective public “prejudice” and “racism.”The incendiary charge is 
belied empirically by poll data showing Israelis had actually favored Obama over 
John McCain in the 2008 election, and until the late spring of 2009 continued to 
approve quite enthusiastically of the young American president, with 60 percent 
expressing favorable opinion toward him. Attitudes shifted when his policies 
roused concerns – not, obviously, because Israelis suddenly noticed his race. 
Yet Times editors have stonewalled in setting the record straight. (According to 
the Times’ own standards, its writers are not to make statements in other media 
outlets that couldn’t also appropriately appear in the paper.) Equally notable 
in this matter is Bronner’s double standard. While dubbing Israelis racists, he 
has avoided applying the term to bigoted Arab attacks against the Jewish state. 
A Nexis search finds not a single case in which he directly labeled Palestinians 
or Arabs racists – notwithstanding the many documented examples of anti-Semitic 
media, political and religious statements from Arab sources.IN A sea of 
similar cases, a February 28 screed by Hamas’s deputy minister of religious 
endowments aired on Al-Aksa TV just days before Bronner labeled Israelis 
racists. The Muslim cleric declared: [The Jews] want to present themselves to 
the world as if they have rights, but, in fact, they are foreign bacteria – a 
microbe unparalleled in the world.It’s not me who says this. The Koran 
itself says that they have no parallel: “You shall find the strongest men in 
enmity to the believers to be the Jews.” May He annihilate this filthy people 
who have neither religion nor conscience.I condemn whoever believes in 
normalizing relations with them, whoever supports sitting down with 
them, and 
whoever believes that they are human beings. They are not human beings. 
They are 
not people. They have no religion, no conscience, and no moral values."(Translation by Middle East Media Research Institute.) 
The question is: 
Can a 
reporter who falsely imputes bigoted sentiment to the Israeli 
population, while 
ignoring ferocious prejudice on the part of the Arabs, be trusted on any
 subject 
related to the Jewish state? There are other questions for the public 
editor, 
including those about the Times’ heavy reliance on radical NGOs for 
quotes and 
story ideas focused on biased criticism of Israel, and the paper’s 
portrayal of 
these sources as objective and credible.


Thus, reporters frequently cite 
– to name but a few – Breaking the Silence, B’Tselem and Gisha.


As 
Haaretz’s military correspondent observed regarding Breaking the 
Silence, “Any 
organization whose Web site includes the claim by members to expose the 
‘corruption which permeates the military system’ is not a neutral 
observer.”


Indicative of the disregard for fairness and objectivity, 
Israeli soldier “testimonies” posted on its Web site alleging various 
infractions are anonymous and include no dates or specifics, making 
investigation – and refutation – impossible.


B’Tselem, created to “change 
Israeli policy in the occupied territories” and to monitor treatment of 
Palestinians there, has categorized terrorists such as Abdul Salaam 
Sadek 
Hassouneh, who murdered six at a bat mitzva celebration in 2002, as 
“civilians” 
killed by Israel.


Similar distortions minimizing violence against 
Israelis color much of B’Tselem’s work.


Gisha pursues legal measures 
against Israel, charging “segregation,” and signs ads alleging it is an 
apartheid regime. Its reports minimize or ignore entirely the threats 
against 
Israel. Yet the Times invokes these groups’ claims as worthy and 
valid.


The same whitewashing of extremist sources occurs in other ways 
readers will likely never notice.


A story on May 7 by Bronner deceptively 
cited “Nancy Kricorian, a New York City novelist and poet who visited 
here for 
the first time as part of the Palestinian [writers’] festival.”


The 
“novelist and poet,” who was quoted as “infuriated” at “military 
checkpoints and 
the separation barrier,” was presented as an apolitical literary soul 
newly 
encountering Middle East realities.


Actually, Kricorian is the New York 
coordinator of the far-left Code Pink organization and promotes 
stridently 
anti-Israel political positions, including the organization’s “Stolen 
Beauty” 
boycott campaign against the Ahava company, creator and marketer of Dead
 Sea 
beauty products.


Brisbane will do the public and the paper a service to 
address squarely the increasingly tainted Times coverage, including 
urging an 
apology by Bronner for his smearing of Israelis, requiring candid 
identification 
of radical (and factually questionable) sources being cited and 
encouraging 
prominent coverage of the virulent anti-Jewish rhetoric of Israel’s 
neighbors 
that undermines hopes for peace.

The writer is executive director and 
president of CAMERA, Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in 
America.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Radioactive thinking</title>
<date>28/6/2010</date>
<content>
Sasha Polakow-Suransky’s new book The Unspoken Alliance: Israel’s Secret 
Relationship with Apartheid South Africa has a clear agenda: to argue that there 
is an ideological similarity between Zionism and apartheid, and that today’s 
Israel is the heir of yesterday’s South Africa. The book has been celebrated as 
a welcome eye-opener by Israeli journalists, scholars and politicians such as 
Akiva Eldar, Shlomo Ben-Ami, Yossi Beilin and Avi Shlaim.In truth, 
however, the book contains no historical revelation (not even the alleged 
nuclear cooperation between Israel and South Africa in the 1970s and 1980s). Nor 
is there anything new about the attempt to make a case for the ideological 
similarity between Zionism and apartheid: Arab propagandists and European 
leftists have been playing that tune for over three decades.




The story 
goes like this: Starting in the mid- 1950s, Israel built diplomatic 
relations 
with the new African states, offering its know-how and help to those who
 had 
suffered from oppression just like the Jews. But then Israel became a 
colonial 
power itself in 1967, thus alienating its African friends. After the 
1973 Yom 
Kippur War, Israel was broke and couldn’t think of a better way of 
making ends 
meet than by selling weapons to South Africa. From alienated, African 
countries 
became furious and broke their ties with the Jewish state. Today, Israel
 is 
itself an apartheid state and the only desirable outcome is for the Jews
 to 
follow the example of their Afrikaner brothers by rescinding power to 
the 
autochthonous and oppressed majority.THE TRUE story, of course, is very 
different. The fact that Israel extended its borders in June 1967 as a 
result of 
a defensive war was not a source of outrage in sub-Saharan Africa – on 
the 
contrary. Africans are still resentful of their former Arab enslavers. 
While 
they have no sympathy for the Arabs (including for the secluded Lebanese
 who 
control entire swaths of Africa’s economies), African Christians are 
staunch 
admirers and supporters of Israel.Africa is not exactly a continent 
where no territories are acquired by force (think of Muammar Gaddafi’s 
attempts 
to conquer northern Chad). Africans were not “outraged” by Israel’s 1967
 
victory. They rejoiced at the Arabs’ humiliation, and could hardly 
preach the 
“unacceptability of the acquisition of territories by force” without 
looking 
silly.So why did Israel and its African friends become estranged in the 
1970s? Because of the Soviet Union’s diplomatic indents, and because of 
Arab 
blackmail. Many African states became Marxist and pro-Soviet in the 
1970s, and 
they toed the Soviet anti-Israel party line.In addition, Libya and Saudi 
Arabia proactively lobbied the African continent, buying the goodwill of
 its 
leaders with petrodollars. By the end of the Yom Kippur War, all but 
four 
African countries (Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius and Swaziland) had severed
 
diplomatic relations with Israel under heavy Arab pressure.So it is not 
that African countries became mad at Israel because of its cooperation 
with 
South Africa. Rather, the Israel-South Africa relationship developed as a
 result 
of Israel’s international isolation, which itself was an outcome of the 
African 
betrayal. Because the Arab world managed to isolate Israel 
internationally after 
the Yom Kippur War, it was compelled to develop diplomatic ties at 
almost any 
cost and to favor realpolitik over ethics. Even Haaretz argued in 1973 
that 
Israel should normalize relations with South Africa in light of the 
betrayal of 
its former African allies.Moreover, economic and military ties with 
South Africa after 1973 were not more significant, proportionally, than 
the 
economic and military ties between South Africa and countries such as 
the US, 
Britain or France. In the 1980s, both the Reagan and Thatcher 
administrations 
led a “constructive engagement” policy with the apartheid government, 
vetoing 
the imposition of UN sanctions. In the early 1980s, more than half of 
South 
Africa’s military equipment was provided by France. The West did 
business with 
apartheid South Africa because it has abundant mineral resources (such 
as 
uranium) and because it was seen at the time as a stronghold of 
anti-communism. 
If anything, Israel had better reasons than France or Britain to be 
Machiavellian.This is the bottom line of my criticism: Singling out 
Israel on its ties with apartheid South Africa is hypocritical, and 
doing so now 
is perverse.POLAKOW-SURANSKY’S book comes at a time when Iran is defying 
and deceiving the international community with its nuclear program, and 
when the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict is deadlocked. Polakow-Suransky has managed
 to 
switch many people’s attention from Iran to Israel, making them wonder 
if it is 
not hypocritical to ask the world to stop Iran’s nuclear program when 
Israel 
developed its own nuclear program 40 years ago. Of course, it developed 
nuclear 
weapons to protect itself from relentless enemies, while Iran is seeking
 to 
achieve regional hegemony and is openly calling for Israel’s 
destruction.Shortly after the book’s publication (and favorable review 
among the usual Israelbashers), the UN General Assembly passed a 
resolution 
calling for Israel to expose its alleged nuclear arsenal to 
international 
supervision. I don’t know how much credit Polakow-Suransky should get 
for that, 
but if having an impact was his purpose, he certainly did a good 
job.Polakow-Suransky is insinuating that Israel and the Palestinians 
should follow the postapartheid South African model. His true intentions
 become 
clear in the book’s epilogue, where he “warns” that Israel may face 
South 
Africa’s fate if it does not change its behavior toward the 
Palestinians. This 
also is sheer hypocrisy. The two-state solution/ partition has been 
accepted by 
the Jews and rejected by the Arabs six times: in 1937 (Peel Commission),
 in 1947 
(UNSCOP), in 1979 (Camp David agreements), in July 2000 (Camp David 
summit), in 
December 2000 (Clinton parameters) and in September 2008 (Ehud Olmert’s 
proposal 
to Mahmoud Abbas).While the present Israeli administration has declared 
its commitment to the twostate solution, announced an unprecedented 
settlement 
freeze and removed dozens of checkpoints, the PA has refused for the 
past year 
to negotiate, setting conditions it never demanded in the past and 
naming 
streets after mass-murderers. So Israel doesn’t have to be “warned” 
about the 
need to recognize the long-term dangers of the current stalemate.Were 
Israel to become binational it would indeed turn into an apartheid 
state, 
because most Arab-dominated countries are. Which is why it is reasonable
 to 
forecast that Israel will eventually pull the rug under the 
Palestinians’ feet 
by completing the construction of the security fence and by creating a 
de facto 
double polity (like in Cyprus). The Palestinians will not be able to 
enact the 
South African precedent, but at least they will have a chance to create 
another 
failed Arab state and to collaborate with enlightened countries such as 
Iran, 
Saudi Arabia and Sudan.
The writer is the founding partner of 
the 
Navon-Levy Group Ltd., an international consulting firm, and a lecturer 
at the 
Abba Eban Graduate Program for Diplomacy Studies at Tel Aviv University.
 He is 
the author of A Plight among the Nations: Israel’s Foreign Policy 
between 
Nationalism and Realism and he blogs at www.navon.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: Islamophobia, Obamaphobia</title>
<date>22/2/2010</date>
<content>
Some of the dirtiest attacks against Barack Obama are being carried out by Jewish bigots in the US and Israel, and if Obama is the Democrat's candidate for president, which looks very likely, these smears are going to get a lot worse.

It's not a whispering campaign, it's not anonymous; Marc Zell, co-chairman of Republicans Abroad in Israel, put his name to an article in The Jerusalem Post's Web edition last week that brands Obama as a Muslim anti-Semite.

"Obama and the Jews" begins: "Less than two weeks before the critical primary elections in Ohio and Texas, Democratic voters have made it very clear: Barack Hussein Obama is for real."

Why would a Republican activist mention Obama's middle name, especially in the first sentence, especially to readers of The Jerusalem Post? Everyone knows the reason, but I'll spell it out anyway: To reinforce the false impression that Obama is a Muslim, knowing that many readers, Jewish and Christian, will hate and fear him for that reason alone.

Zell, of course, knew what he was doing.

Several Talkbackers barked on cue. (The following excerpts appear unedited. Raw.) "Could anyone imagine in 1944 an Adolph or Tojo ran for President of the US Less than 7 years after 9/11, people want to put a moslem in the White House!" (jason white - israel) "As Anti-Semite accidents are rising in the USA most probably Obama is hopping [sic] to get the votes of the Anti Jews and the Anti Israel." (Dr. D) "Manchurian Candidate For Farrakhan?" (David Rochlin - USA)

This is what's going on. And it doesn't matter how many times AIPAC and ADL and the other mainstream American Jewish organizations denounce it, how many times they repeat that Obama doesn't have an anti-Israel or anti-Semitic bone in his body, the Jewish demagogues keep on spreading their poison.

They're not a fringe element among the pro-Israel, anti-Arab community, either. Zell is a Republican neocon in excellent standing, a former law partner of pro-war zealot Douglas Feith.

He takes a remark by Obama in which the candidate blamed the Iraq war on "Richard Perle and Paul Wolfowitz and the other armchair, weekend warriors in the administration," and decides that this is an anti-Semitic statement. "Note that only Jews are singled out," Zell writes, "despite the fact that the policies in question were promoted by the entire administration."

Sorry, but Jews are ridiculously over-represented among the true-believing neocons who pushed for the Iraq war; you don't have to be an anti-Semite to think first of names like Perle and Wolfowitz - or Feith and Kristol and Podhoretz and Frum and Abrams and on and on. You just have to be reasonably well up on current events.

AS I'VE written, I support John McCain for president, and I think Obama is too inexperienced in military and foreign affairs to be president now. But as far as anyone has been able to find out, he has never made anything even close to an anti-Semitic or anti-Israeli remark in his life - unless you think that expressing sympathy for Palestinians, and preferring Middle East diplomacy to Middle East war, is inherently anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic.

There are lots of Jews in America and Israel who do think this way, and if Obama wins the Democratic nomination as expected, we are going to be hearing more from them.

Zell and his allies use the award by Obama's church's newspaper to Louis Farrakhan and try to make him into a Black Muslim. They take his pastor Jeremiah Wright's harsh criticisms of Israel and support for the Palestinians and try to put them into Obama's mouth. They take anybody Obama's ever had a conversation with who ever worked for Jimmy Carter to say this proves Obama thinks Israel is an apartheid state.

But if you want to play guilt by association, then you can also brand as an anti-Semite any politician who has a good word to say about Richard Nixon, Billy Graham, Pat Robertson or the late Jerry Falwell, just to name a few Republican and Israeli favorites who've been known to spout off against the Jews. Remember, until about the last 40 years, evangelical Christianity and the right wing of the Republican Party were saturated with anti-Semitism.

AND IF you want to play guilt by association with any kind of bigot, not just anti-Semites, then which leader is more comprehensively prejudiced, which leader has spewed hatred at a wider range of ethnic and religious groups, than Rabbi Ovadia Yosef? And which Israeli politician hasn't kissed his ass? So can it be said that all of Israel's politicians hold the same views as Rav Ovadia?

And keep in mind that not only hasn't Obama ever spoken well of Farrakhan, he denounced Farrakhan's Jew-hatred and criticized the church newspaper's decision to honor him.

The record on Obama as an anti-Semite or enemy of Israel is utterly blank. He's not a Muslim, either. (Although it doesn't speak well for America that he can't publicly say, "And what if I was?" without killing his chances for election.) But it doesn't matter - he's caused legions of Jewish crazies to come crawling out of the woodwork.

READ SOME of these Talkbacks. "Every time I hear Jewish Leaders support Obama, I am reminded of the blindness of Jewish Leaders in the Germany of the 1930s." (Morton Friedman - USA)

Yes, there is a problem of black anti-Semitism in America, but Obama isn't part of it. There's a problem of bigotry among American Jews, but Joseph Lieberman isn't part of that. If American blacks or Muslims were running an ethnic/religious smear campaign against Lieberman like Jewish extremists are running against Obama, what would Jews call it? We'd call it anti-Semitic. The one against Obama is Islamophobic, with an undercurrent of white racism. It's the exact same sort of bigotry.

There's a lot of crap thrown back and forth in a presidential election; the Democrats are no doubt going to try to tar McCain as a corrupt war-monger, which isn't true, and the Republicans are going to try to brand Obama as an ultra-liberal pacifist, which is also a crock. The standards of truthfulness, fairness and accuracy naturally get stretched out of shape in political campaigns.

But even in politics there is a red line, and on the other side of that red line is what's called a hate campaign. Deliberately drawing attention to Obama's middle name, Hussein, is the stuff of a hate campaign. Depicting him as an anti-Semite or an enemy of Israel is the stuff of a hate campaign.

For information on how you can become part of it, contact Republicans Abroad in Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Right of Reply: The future of South Africa?</title>
<date>20/11/2010</date>
<content>
A few weeks ago, the South African Zionist Federation, of which I am chairman, 
hosted Caroline Glick for a speaking tour. It was her first visit to South 
Africa. In Cape Town, she was keynote speaker at the federation’s Cape Council 
conference. In Johannesburg and Port Elizabeth, she received standing ovations 
from packed audiences.One would subsequently have expected from Glick 
some kind of communication thanking the community for its hospitality, but what 
we received was something entirely different. Her article (“Out of Africa,” 
November 10) turned out to be highly critical not just of South Africa in 
general, but of its Jewish communal leadership in particular.




The central 
theme of Glick’s article is not particularly new or original. Over the past 50 
years, many overseas commentators have opined that South Africa’s complacent 
Jewish community should flee before it is too late.Prior to dealing with 
Glick’s prophecies, some of her more glaring factual errors concerning South 
Africa and its Jewish community need to be addressed.In providing an 
example of how the SA Jewry is besieged by anti-Semitic attacks, Glick mentions 
that some years back Jewish school buses were stoned. The only problem with this 
is that no such event has ever occurred. Actually, the only time SA Jewish 
students were stoned while on a bus was on an education program to Israel while 
travelling in the West Bank. South Africa has strikingly low levels of 
anti-Semitism. Last year it recorded only 95 anti- Semitic incidents, mainly of 
a nonviolent nature, while Australia, with a similar size Jewish population, 
recorded 765.Glick claims that the role of Jewish individuals in the 
struggle against apartheid has not won the Jewish community any gratitude or 
friendship from the government, which, in deference to the larger Muslim 
community, has distanced itself from it. Nothing could be further from the 
truth.Firstly, she is wrong in stating that Muslims hold most senior 
positions in the civil service. The latter’s composition is largely reflective 
of the demography of the country, where over 90 percent are Christian. While SA 
Jewry constitutes just 0.15% of the population, senior government leaders 
regularly attend Jewish events. Every president, from Nelson Mandela to Jacob 
Zuma, in addressing the Jewish community, has expressed appreciation and 
gratitude for the role its members played in creating a free, democratic South 
Africa.The respect shown toward the community is actually quite 
remarkable. Last year, the general election date was changed because it clashed 
with the seventh day of Pessah.South Africa must be the only Diaspora 
country that invites the chief rabbi to address the nation at every presidential 
inauguration. When a deputy minister made anti- Semitic remarks during Operation 
Cast Lead, the community received an apology from the president himself and 
within two months that minister was no longer in government.Where 
government and the community primarily differ is over Israel. While it would be 
extremely convenient for us to keep our views about Israel to ourselves, we do 
exactly the opposite. Every available resource and opportunity is used to defend 
Israel in dealing with government, the media and society in general. Our efforts 
are not restricted to quiet diplomacy. When South Africa recalled its ambassador 
after the flotilla incident, the SA Union of Jewish Students held protests 
outside the relevant government offices and upon presentation of its petition 
was informed that the ambassador would return to Israel shortly (a promise duly 
kept).South African Jews are open and proud Zionists. Our celebrations 
and demonstrations for Israel are attended by tens of thousands in the streets, 
parks and stadia, are publicly advertised and receive national media coverage. 
So far as local boycott, divestment, sanctions initiatives against Israel, to 
date the community has been successful in thwarting almost every one of 
these.Glick alleges that the community’s fear of Jewish turncoats has 
prevented it from discrediting them. This, too, is nonsense; just one example to 
the contrary being the vociferous criticism of Judge Richard Goldstone for 
complicity in the disgraceful Goldstone report. If the establishment is careful 
not to go overboard in criticizing Jewish dissidents, it is because they are so 
small a minority and should not be given the publicity they seek to propagate 
their anti-Israel views.We are a community that is not afraid to debate 
what it means to be a Zionist and hear views critical of certain Israeli 
policies. We make no apologies for this and find Glick’s singling out of Hayley 
Galgut, who intends moving to Israel and supports its right to exist as a Jewish 
democratic state even if she is highly critical of some of its policies, to be 
unnecessary and vindictive.Perhaps the most insidious accusation Glick 
makes is that rather than attacking “anti-Semites” like Desmond Tutu, South 
African Jews have honored him by making him a patron of their Holocaust 
Foundation. Actually, Tutu was appointed as patron more than 11 years ago, when 
he played no role in any anti-Israel movement. His present conduct has met with 
wall-to-wall condemnation from the community, best expressed by Chief Rabbi 
Warren Goldstein’s excellent article recently published in The Jerusalem Post 
(“An open letter to Archbishop Demond Tutu,” November 4).Problems such 
as endemic corruption are not unique to South Africa (Israel, for one, also 
appears to have a revolving door between politics and prison). Despite poverty, 
unemployment, crime, AIDS and the threats of nationalization and curbing of 
press freedom, South Africans (like Israelis) are tenacious, resilient and 
creative in dealing with their country’s problems. An example is the innovative 
community policing initiatives which the Jewish community has introduced in 
Johannesburg’s northern suburbs and which have reduced crime in those areas by 
more than 90%.South Africa has an independent and vibrant judiciary, 
media and civil society. No one takes our hard-won gains for granted. In the 
past 14 years the country has experienced almost uninterrupted economic growth, 
allowing millions of South Africans to escape poverty and receive housing, 
electricity, water and sanitation for the first time.SA JEWRY has 
greatly benefited from and contributed to South Africa. In a little over 150 
years, its members have created a unique community which, for its size, exhibits 
an energy, vitality and unity almost unprecedented within the Diaspora. We are 
one of a handful of communities whose children, because of an excellent Jewish 
day school system, religious and cultural institutions and Zionist youth 
movements, have a high probability of becoming active, identifying and 
practicing Jews and Zionists. It is not by coincidence that the present governor 
of the Bank of Israel and the director-general of the Jewish Agency were both 
graduates of Habonin Dror South Africa.The federation agrees 
wholeheartedly with Glick that South African Jews should make aliya. In the past 
decade we have, with the Jewish Agency, increased aliya by 300% and 
reestablished Israel as the number one destination for Jewish émigrés. However, 
our reasons for encouraging aliya have nothing to do with any doomsday scenarios 
regarding our country’s future. Jews should immigrate to Israel because it is 
the center of Jewish life and destiny, filled with promise and opportunity. 
As 
Zionists, rather than predicting the demise of others, let’s focus on fulfilling 
our own prophecies of an ingathering of the exiles to Eretz Yisrael.

The 
writer is chairman of the South African Zionist Federation.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Right of Reply: The truth about Brandeis</title>
<date>12/5/2010</date>
<content>
I have been surprised by recent reports alleging that the Brandeis University campus, where I teach Israel studies, is in an uproar over the upcoming commencement address to be delivered by Ambassador Michael Oren, upon whom we also are conferring an honorary degree.Imagine someone telling you it’s pouring rain outside and you stick your head out the window and see there are just a couple of clouds in the sky. That is how out-of-synch with reality these reports are.




Of course there are some self-appointed would-be arbiters of what is “pure” enough for the academy – people who blithely disregard Oren’s extraordinary accomplishments as a scholar in their efforts to use him as a focus for their criticism of Israel. Brandeis is not exceptional in the diversity of opinion among its faculty and students. One can imagine similar discontent voiced at the Hebrew University, Tel Aviv University or my former institution of some 30 years, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.But these days, exaggerated reports of discontent circulate around the world at unprecedented speed, distorting and misrepresenting reality in ways that endanger our vital capacities for civility and thoughtful consideration of issues.The truth surrounding Oren’s appearance at Brandeis specifically and the campus environment on Israel generally is very different. One campus newspaper published an editorial asserting that a representative of the Israeli government makes a “divisive” commencement speaker. The other student paper came out in support. Students have voiced strong support for Oren’s appearance in both newspapers and on blogs and Facebook pages. Perhaps most significantly, when 15 students came to president Jehuda Reinharz’s office to protest the selection of Oren as commencement speaker, Reinharz could show them a petition initiated by one of their classmates that now has more than 4,000 signatures supporting the selection.A suggestion was floated in the university Senate to register public displeasure at Oren’s invitation. It got nowhere.UNQUESTIONABLY, DISTURBING and widespread actions aimed at delegitimizing Israel are taking place on campuses across the world. However, there is need for a sense of proportion over the significance of these attacks. Over the past few weeks spontaneous campus activity and organized efforts by student groups have successfully defeated well-organized divestment campaigns at Berkeley and San Diego. Countermoves against the apartheid week and conferences on the “one-state” solution are gathering force. Even those who are critical of some of Israel’s policies find the simpleminded and malicious slander unacceptable. Vigilance and actions are warranted, but paranoia serves no good purpose.Here are some additional facts about our campus that are useful for understanding the environment here: Brandeis has established the Schusterman Center for Israel Studies, which has created a successful paradigm for how an academic institution can combat ignorance and malice by exposing complexity of information and diversity of views. Today, Brandeis is a world leader in Israel studies programs with a significant number of graduate students writing dissertations on the country. They include Jews, Muslims and Christians.Interest in Israel goes far beyond the Jewish community. More non-Jews study Israel than Jews. Demography as well as widespread interest account for this. Since its inception, with the cooperation of the American Jewish Committee six years ago, the Brandeis Summer Institute for Israel Studies has attracted both senior and junior faculty, Christians, Muslims and Jews, from more than 140 universities, largely from the US but also from Australia, Latin America, Europe and Asia. Modeled on the seminars of the National Endowment for the Humanities, the intensive seminar brings together leading experts from Israel and the US to present the latest in scholarship in the diverse disciplines that constitute Israel studies.We offer no template on what to think and what to teach. On the contrary, scholars are exposed to the ongoing debates in a range of fields from film studies and gender studies to sociology, history and politics. The seminar enables them to enhance existing courses on Israel or introduce new ones. As a direct result of this program, Brandeis-trained scholars now teach hundreds of courses on Israel from Azerbaijan and India to Turkey, Ukraine and England. And China has recently been added to the list. This last summer, at their request, Brandeis inaugurated a seminar for 125 Chinese academics and advanced graduate students in Beijing and Shandong universities.
The reports – including the one in The Jerusalem Post (“If this is our
future,” May 7 by Daniel Gordis) – that the Brandeis community was
hostile to Oren as commencement speaker distorted, exaggerated and
sensationalized the attitudes of students at Brandeis and beyond. Yes, there are disagreements at our university over issues related to
Israel and its policies. This is true on and off campus, in Israel and
around the world. This is an ongoing engagement and is far from
resolved. The Brandeis approach is surely one of the most productive
and effective ways for ensuring sane and informed discourse.It is plain silly to talk about Brandeis being unwelcoming and disinterested in Israel and all things Israeli.
The writer is Stoll Family Professor of Israel Studies and director of
the Schusterman Center for Israel Studies at Brandeis University. He
was previously dean of humanities and social sciences at Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Russia: Handle with care</title>
<date>6/10/2010</date>
<content>
In a historic visit to Moscow last month, Defense Minister Ehud Barak met with 
his Russian counterpart, Anatoly Serdyukov, and concluded a defense cooperation 
agreement, allowing for increased collaboration on a range of military issues, 
including the possibility of increased Russian purchases of Israeli arms. But 
the sparkly sheen of relations acquired following this deal was quickly 
tarnished when the Russian defense minister, waving away Israeli objections, 
less than two weeks later announced that the sale of advanced P-800 antiship 
cruise missiles to Syria would go ahead.The incentives to tighten 
relations with Russia are numerous and could lead to increased diplomatic 
support, cooperation regarding Iran and, of course, the possibility of lucrative 
arms contracts, such as the 12 UAVs Israel sold Russia last year.




But the 
lessons learned from Moscow’s decision to press ahead with the sale of the 
antiship missiles to Syria will hopefully be taken to heart here, especially by 
foreign policy decision makers. Because Russia will not be a reliable diplomatic 
stalwart in the foreseeable future. Its foreign policy goals are aimed not at 
the stabilization of the international stage, but on the reassertion of its 
global influence and the resurrection of its position as a great power and 
diplomatic heavyweight.This involves activity on a number of different 
fronts. One of the most prominent aspects of Russia’s current foreign policy is 
to reassert its influence over what it refers to as its “near abroad,” the 
former republics of the Soviet Union. So in recent months, it has extended the 
lease on its military base in Armenia until 2044 and extended the lease on its 
naval base in the Ukrainian port city of Sevastopol till 2042. Moscow has 
refused to withdraw its occupying troops from the Georgian territories of South 
Ossetia and Abkhazia, thereby reneging on the cease-fire agreement which brought 
the hostilities of the 2008 Russia-Georgia war to an end. And the Russian army’s 
deployment of the S-300 air-defense system in Abkhazia is just the latest 
illustration of how Russia has made Georgia an example of how it might react if 
the vassals of its former empire stray to far from Moscow.Russia is also 
making strides in projecting its global power and influence further afield, 
particularly in the Middle East. The sale of advanced weapons systems to 
anti-Western states such as Syria and Iran is certainly one way of making its 
importance felt. It uses these sales, or the threat of them, as a means of 
leveraging influence in the region and in the international forums which seek to 
mediate the regional conflicts.The contract signed with Iran to provide 
it with the advanced S-300 system can certainly be seen in this light, and the 
intense lobbying by the US to induce Russia to cancel the sale, which it 
eventually did, gave Moscow the sense of importance it so craves, as well as a 
useful bargaining chip with which it has extracted concessions, or at least a 
blind eye, for its activities in Georgia and its “near abroad.”Other 
recent weapons contracts, such as the sale to Iran of at least 29 advanced TOR 
M1 mobile surfaceto- air missile systems (capable of shooting down aircraft and 
cruise and guided missiles and now deployed around Iran’s most important uranium 
enrichment facility at Natanz); the sale of at least 36 Pantsyr air defense 
missile systems to Syria (10 of which may have been delivered to Iran which 
bankrolled the acquisition for Damascus); the sale of portable SA-18 
antiaircraft missiles to Syria (some of which have been transferred to 
Hizbullah) and other similar arms deals all indicate that, regardless of the 
motivation behind them, Russia at present is not a reliable partner when it 
comes to Israel’s foreign policy goals and security concerns.RUSSIA’S 
RESTORATION of the Syrian port of Tartus and its agreement with Syria allowing 
it to use the port as a permanent base for its navy in the Mediterranean is 
another important step in its renewed power-projection. And the Kremlin’s 
decision to host Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal on at least three separate 
occasions since 2006 is yet another tool through which it has sought to assert 
its importance in one of its former spheres of influence.But more than 
its unreliable allegiance, it is the very nature of Russia’s current foreign 
policy and its global ambitions, irredentist, expansionist and often 
belligerent, that should make policy makers think harder about the type of 
states and regimes this country should be selling arms to and allying 
with.Israel’s record for granting arms export licenses to questionable 
regimes is not great. Having sold large quantities of advanced weapons to the 
apartheid South African government, air-to-air missiles and UAVs to China and 
having also attempted to supply Beijing with advanced radar systems, this latest 
incident with Russia should be a catalyst for a rethink.Russia’s 
dismemberment of Georgia, its construction of the Bushehr nuclear power plant 
for Iran, its arms sales to some of the most objectionable regimes in the world, 
its aggressive use of its natural gas supplies to Europe and numerous other 
antagonistic actions in the international arena should make Israel seriously 
consider whether or not the regime is the sort it should form defense 
cooperation agreements with.It is understandable that in the hostile 
international environment which Israel currently finds itself in, the country 
should seek new strategic partners.It is also understandable that 
Jerusalem should try to reduce tensions as far as possible with Moscow, and if 
that means complying with its demands to halt all arms supplies to Georgia to 
forestall the most egregiously offensive Russian arms sales, such as the S-300 
deal with Iran, then that may be a price worth paying.But to actively 
court the Kremlin with defense cooperation agreements, arms sales and joint 
manufacturing deals would seem to be naïve at best, but probably unprincipled 
too. Officials have now indicated that in light of the latest Russian missile 
sale to Syria, some of the proposed arms deals with Russia might be delayed. As 
a result, the deal with Syria may end up having a positive outcome, in that it 
seems to have finally exposed the unscrupulous and antagonistic nature of 
Moscow’s foreign policy.Hopefully, it will give further pause to those 
who would ally Israel with whoever happens to be open for business.
The 
writer is a researcher and analyst based in Jerusalem. He has worked at several 
Israeli think tanks and served in the IDF Spokesperson’s Unit.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Same coin, different sides</title>
<date>1/4/2010</date>
<content>
Apart from their stereotypically Jewish-sounding names, there is seemingly little similarity between Hagai Ben-Artzi and Naomi Klein. Ben-Artzi, brother in law of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, is a champion of the settlement movement. Klein is a strong supporter of both “Israel Apartheid Week” and the boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) campaign.However, two recent events suggest that their positions may actually represent different sides of the same coin. Last week, while discussing the recent Israel-US disagreement over building permits in Ramat Shlomo, Ben-Artzi called President Barack Obama an anti-Semite. The same day, Klein defended her support for BDS and Apartheid Week by arguing that any attempt to term her a “delegitimizer” was a “flat-out lie.”




While both are popular in their respective camps, they seem to lack a certain form of subtlety when discussing the rights and wrongs of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. For one, all criticism of Israel – even if given by the leader of its closet ally – is anti-Semitic and illegitimate. For the other, all criticism of Israel – even when adopting phraseology like apartheid or genocide – is legitimate political discourse.For one, everything constitutes delegitimization. For the other, nothing does.Absent from both philosophies is the line between criticism of Israel’s policies, which is legitimate, and undermining or delegitimizing its existence, which is not.UNLIKE FORMER US Supreme Court justice Potter Stewart’s ruling regarding pornography, we may not always be able to identify delegitimization when we see it. The line separating the two is often purposefully blurred. Indeed, such blurring has allowed the delegitimizers – who on their own possess only marginal support – to harness large swaths of Israel’s critics into supporting more extreme positions. Their success in promoting the paradigm of the one-state solution while Israeli-Palestinian negotiations over a two-state solution remain deadlocked constitutes a strategic threat that may even become existential in the near future.To fight this trend, as well as to weaken the delegitimizers, it is essential for supporters of an equitable solution for both sides to drive a wedge between critics of Israeli policy on the one hand, and delegitimizers of its existence on the other.Despite the difficulties of defining exactly where one ends and the other begins, it’s not enough to paraphrase the well-worn trope that “one man’s critic is another’s delegitimizer.” Indeed, several individuals and organizations – such as Irwin Cotler, Natan Sharansky and the All-Party Parliamentary Inquiry into Anti-Semitism headed by British MP Denis MacShane – have created working guidelines that are helpful in driving such a wedge. While differing in content and style, it is worth taking the common denominators apparent in Cotler’s, Sharansky’s and MacShane’s work to create components which, if present in”‘criticism,” may well reflect delegitimization.The first and perhaps most obvious component is the use of traditional anti-Semitic phraseology – such as bloodthirstiness, child-killing and control of media – when discussing Israel’s actions. A second is the use of language that demonizes Israel, such as Nazi or apartheid. As Cotler has written, “These are two of the great evils of the 20th century... If Israel is guilty of crimes against humanity, then it does not have a right to exist.”Another component is denying the Jewish people’s right to self-determination, whether through supporting a full right of return for millions of Palestinian refugees, actively promoting the one-state solution or arguing that Zionism is by definition a racist endeavor. A final component revolves around applying double standards – singling the country out for disproportionate criticism over and above what is reasonably expected from any other country in the family of nations.ONE NEED not agree with all the components to imagine how a discourse adopting such a framework might look. It might include disagreement over the IDF’s tactics in Gaza without comparing it to Warsaw circa 1941, or might judge Israeli actions with comparable NATO or American operations in densely populated civilian areas. It could discuss Israel’s strong support in the US without referring to Jewish bankers or conspiracy theories. It might include arguments over the route of the security barrier, Israel’s policy towards its Arab citizens or how to balance its Jewish and democratic aspects without bandying around words like racism or apartheid.Those more sympathetic to Israel also have their part to play. Britain’s response to the death of Mahmoud al-Mabhouh might be considered unfair or hypocritical, but that does not make it anti-Semitic. Criticism over settlement policy might be harsh, but it does not equal anti-Zionism (in fact, it reflects a legitimate mainstream position in Zionist political thought).
Driving a wedge based on such a framework is not simply some
politically-correct semantic game by those hoping to take the extremist
sting out of political chatter. As Israel’s international status erodes
and the movement delegitimizing its existence and promoting a
binational state expands its ideological tent ever wider, it is
essential that those supporting fair and open criticism of both sides
reclaim the discourse to make a peaceful, just resolution to the
conflict more, rather than less, likely.
The writer is an analyst at the Reut Institute which recently published its report The Delegitimization Challenge: Creating a Political Firewall on the campaign against Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Seeking inspiration from the past</title>
<date>4/4/2010</date>
<content>
A posting on the UN Human Rights Council’s Web site, accusing Israeli physicians and the IDF of harvesting the internal organs of Palestinians, is one of the more outrageous and intrinsically pernicious calumnies that have sought to demonize Israel recently. But even more ominous is the proximity of this report to the Pessah holiday, thus more than coincidentally invoking the age-old libel that charges Jews, at this time of year, with ritual murder in order to use human blood to prepare matzot.Sadly, the specter of the blood libel – the very archetype of anti-Semitism – is but one among a long string of slurs and distortions that are used with increasing frequency and mounting vehemence against both Israel and Jews in general. All of this conspires to drive wedges between Diaspora communities and their host nations and strikes at the core of Jewish peoplehood by seeking to denigrate a fundamental tenet that binds us one to another and links us collectively to the land of Israel – Zionism.




During Pessah it is of course pertinent for us to reflect on our history and our identity, to look back as we seek precedents that will help us to move forward. The story of Pessah, at once a celebration of our release from servitude and, even more importantly, the first testimony to our right of nationhood, speaks to a duality that has great resonance in today’s world. It exhorts us to resolutely protect our freedom from oppression and to preserve the Jewish collectivity that binds us by culture, tradition, religion – and homeland. Such constructs, though perhaps variably expressed, depending on place and circumstance, are inextricably bound and provide the cornerstones of what defines us as a people.Anti-Semitism, as broadly perceived, has manifested both openly and in various disguises for hundreds of years. The Compact Oxford English Dictionary defines this oldest hatred as “hostility to or prejudice against Jews” while the Merriam-Webster Dictionary characterizes it as “hostility toward or discrimination against Jews as a religious, ethnic or racial group.” Such descriptions, while still valid and universally applicable, fail to incorporate any references to the targeted, and systemic, delegitimization of Israel, which has come to be accepted as the principle element of contemporary, or the so-called “new,” anti-Semitism.It has been left to the European Monitoring Center on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) to include examples of how singling out Israel or Israelis in particular ways meets accepted criteria for ant-Semitism.SEVERAL YEARS ago, Natan Sharansky began to formulate the new anti-Semitism through what he called his “3D Test,” positing this as a way to help us determine when reasonable criticism of Israeli policies and practices crosses the line into evident anti-Semitism. Sharansky’s first “D” is the test of demonization, his second, the test of double standards (i.e. when criticism of Israel is applied selectively while countries which are obvious human rights abusers escape scrutiny), and his third, the test of delegitimization, when Israel’s inalienable right to exist is denied, “alone among all peoples of the world.”International human rights lawyer and Canada’s former Minister of Justice, Irwin Cotler, provides further clarification of the distinctions between the “old” and the “new” anti-Semitism. “In the past,” he comments, “the most dangerous anti-Semites were those who wanted to make the world Judenrein, “free of Jews,” while “today,” he continues, “the most dangerous anti-Semites are those who want to make the world Judenstaatrein, “free of a Jewish state.”In a landmark working paper titled “Global Antisemitism: Assault on Human Rights,” he gives form and substance to the defining concepts of contemporary anti-Semitism, with comprehensive proposals that are geared towards properly identifying this innately odious phenomenon, and then examining, uncovering and combating it.But inasmuch as a framework for expanding the definition of anti-Semitism has become part of the vocabulary that identifies intimidatory, racist and discriminatory practices against Jews (with Israel as “the new Jew”), there is little to suggest that such an articulation has done anything to staunch the anti-Zionist onslaught that remains so evident and so ferocious not only in international forums like the UN and its Human Rights Council, but with permeation also through government bureaucracies, NGOs and universities and colleges across the globe.As reinforced in a recent review out of the Tel Aviv-based Reut Institute, groups that seek to discredit Israel do so with the aim of isolating the country, demonizing it and ultimately turning it into a pariah state. Their tactics, among others, include the promotion of boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) campaigns and instigating legal actions against the state and its citizens (the notion of so-called ‘lawfare’).IN MY MILIEU, a Canadian university campus, we were, during early March, subjected yet again to that perfidious exercise in quintessential Israel-bashing that flies under the banner of so-called “Israeli apartheid week” (IAW). This now annual assault on the sensibilities of Jewish students and faculty has been variously described as a platform for racism, a festival of bigotry and an assault on truth. It is all of these and much more.In many ways, IAW serves as a microcosm for the broader threats that confront us as a Jewish people. Branding Israel as a state that practices apartheid – akin to South Africa between 1948 and 1994 – carries with it an attribution of criminality since apartheid itself has been defined as a criminal act both by the UN and by the International Criminal Court, through its Rome Statute. By extrapolation, those who are seen to support such a state can be similarly labeled. The intimidating, marginalizing, and possibly dehumanizing consequences that are implicit in such slander should not be ignored. Then add to this the potentially existential connotations inherent in lawfare and BDS campaigns – which were central themes in IAW events this year – and what emerges is a highly toxic brew of both overt and insidious bigotry that strikes at the very essence of the Jewish collectivity.During Pessah we’re asked to reflect not only on the passage of our ancestors from their slavery in Egypt, but also on the serial oppression of the Jewish people throughout history and into the modern age. With each threat to our existence, whether large or small, we have survived – sometimes weaker, sometimes stronger – but always with the tenacity and strength of purpose to re-assert ourselves and move forward. This ethos is as relevant today as it ever was.The message of Pessah, a celebration of our identity, should serve
as our inspiration to push back against those who wish us harm, whose
words and actions – whether scrutinized according to the paradigms of
classic anti-Semitism or cloaked in the nuances of its newer iteration
– need to be recognized for what they are and addressed accordingly.The
refrain of ‘next year in Jerusalem,’ even if not taken literally,
should nonetheless serve as a constant reminder to us of where we’re
anchored as a Jewish particularity and what our epicenter should be as
we stand in defense of our often fragile peoplehood, linked as it is,
inexorably, with the land of Israel.
The writer is a professor
of medicine at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He
chairs McMaster’s Jewish Faculty Association.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Some thoughts on ‘Israel Apartheid Week’</title>
<date>3/3/2010</date>
<content>
‘As long as in this territory west of the Jordan River there is only one political entity called Israel, it is going to be either non-Jewish or non-democratic. If this bloc of millions of Palestinians cannot vote, it will be an apartheid state.” Those are the words of Ehud Barak, defense minister and former prime minister, at last month’s Herzliya Conference, the country’s highest-profile gathering of VIPs. Barak’s statement begs the question: Seeing that Palestinians in the West Bank haven’t been able to vote in Israeli elections since the occupation started in 1967, isn’t he saying Israel has been an apartheid state since then?




So, putting Barak’s statement in the context of this week’s news, should people really be so outraged that a few dozen colleges overseas are staging “Israel Apartheid Week”?Myself, I prefer the term “colonialism” to “apartheid” when comparing Israel’s rule in the West Bank to other regimes in world history. There are important differences between the occupation and apartheid – for one, apartheid was based on race, the occupation is based on nationality. Yet there are important, obvious similarities, too, the main one being that in both apartheid South Africa and the West Bank, one group of people harshly, systematically and “legally” keeps another group of people down.Anyway, however different from apartheid the occupation may be, it’s definitely more like apartheid than it is like democracy.AT THE same time, though, neither Barak nor I are saying that “Israel proper” – Israel in its pre-Six Day War borders – is an apartheid state, a colonial regime or anything but a democracy (albeit one with a great deal of discrimination). What each of us is saying is that the occupation is killing this democracy, but that if we set the Palestinians free, this democracy will thrive.That’s the difference between Barak, myself and other Zionists, on the one hand, who want to save the Jewish state from apartheid, and the participants in Israel Apartheid Week, who think the Jewish state, even in Israel proper, is by definition apartheid.They’re wrong. While it’s possible to compare the condition of Palestinians in the West Bank to that of blacks in apartheid-era South Africa, there’s no comparison between the way blacks were treated under apartheid and the way Israeli Arabs are treated in this country.The most obvious difference is that the demand of the anti-apartheid movement was always “one person, one vote.” Arab citizens of Israel, by the starkest possible contrast, have had this right since the day the Jewish state was founded. Another brightly-lit sign that Israeli Arabs aren’t living under anything like apartheid is their wall-to-wall opposition to becoming citizens of a Palestinian state – even, as Israel Beiteinu proposes, after a change of borders that would allow them to remain on their land. Israeli Arabs aren’t Zionists, and they have altogether legitimate complaints about discrimination, but the overwhelming majority are not out to dismantle the Jewish state, only to make it more fair and equitable. (As much as I wish foreign anti-Zionists knew this, I wish even more that Israeli Jews did.) Still, I imagine a black South African, or a white South African who fought apartheid, challenging me: Why can’t Israel just do what we did – forget about Jews and Arabs like we forgot about whites and blacks, and just remake the system into a Western-style, nonsectarian democracy? Wouldn’t “one-person, one vote” be the fairest solution for Israel/Palestine, too?And I imagine myself answering: In theory, yes; in practice, it would be a disaster. The difference between the situation for blacks in South Africa and for Jews in Israel is that you’re surrounded by hundreds of millions of blacks living in other African countries, none of whom think whites should rule South Africa – while we’re surrounded by hundreds of millions of Arabs living in Arab countries, all of whom think Arabs should be ruling Israel/Palestine.Imagine if you were in our situation. Imagine if instead of South Africa being bordered by blacks, it was bordered by whites – whites who believed that their kind were the rightful rulers of your country, and who, if given the chance – say, through your color-blind immigration policy – would see to it that they ruled your country again.If South Africa’s blacks were a tiny minority in a sea of white people who held such beliefs – in a sea of old-style Afrikaners, let’s say – how secure would you feel, as a black South African, living in a nonsectarian democracy based on ‘one person, one vote’?Now maybe you see why the Jewish state, with all its inequities, is a better, fairer, safer solution for this sliver of the world than the one you South Africans chose – rightly and wisely – in your homeland.AND SO much for my imaginary dialogue. In all, what I’m saying is that
there’s only one way to go for Jews and Arabs here, and that’s with a
Jewish, democratic state alongside a Palestinian one. The Jews who want
to maintain the status quo will turn Israel into a pariah state, while
the people pushing for one person, one vote will wreck it altogether.
What this means is that everyone who believes in Zionism, justice and
peace has to oppose both the Jewish Right and the international Left.
If either of these two forces prevails, sooner or later this land won’t
be fit to live in for Arab or Jew.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Some thoughts on ‘Israel Apartheid Week’</title>
<date>4/3/2010</date>
<content>
‘As long as in this territory west of the Jordan River there is only one political entity called Israel, it is going to be either non-Jewish or non-democratic. If this bloc of millions of Palestinians cannot vote, it will be an apartheid state.” Those are the words of Ehud Barak, defense minister and former prime minister, at last month’s Herzliya Conference, the country’s highest-profile gathering of VIPs. Barak’s statement begs the question: Seeing that Palestinians in the West Bank haven’t been able to vote in Israeli elections since the occupation started in 1967, isn’t he saying Israel has been an apartheid state since then?




So, putting Barak’s statement in the context of this week’s news, should people really be so outraged that a few dozen colleges overseas are staging “Israel Apartheid Week”?Myself, I prefer the term “colonialism” to “apartheid” when comparing Israel’s rule in the West Bank to other regimes in world history. There are important differences between the occupation and apartheid – for one, apartheid was based on race, the occupation is based on nationality. Yet there are important, obvious similarities, too, the main one being that in both apartheid South Africa and the West Bank, one group of people harshly, systematically and “legally” keeps another group of people down.Anyway, however different from apartheid the occupation may be, it’s definitely more like apartheid than it is like democracy.AT THE same time, though, neither Barak nor I are saying that “Israel proper” – Israel in its pre-Six Day War borders – is an apartheid state, a colonial regime or anything but a democracy (albeit one with a great deal of discrimination). What each of us is saying is that the occupation is killing this democracy, but that if we set the Palestinians free, this democracy will thrive.That’s the difference between Barak, myself and other Zionists, on the one hand, who want to save the Jewish state from apartheid, and the participants in Israel Apartheid Week, who think the Jewish state, even in Israel proper, is by definition apartheid.They’re wrong. While it’s possible to compare the condition of Palestinians in the West Bank to that of blacks in apartheid-era South Africa, there’s no comparison between the way blacks were treated under apartheid and the way Israeli Arabs are treated in this country.The most obvious difference is that the demand of the anti-apartheid movement was always “one person, one vote.” Arab citizens of Israel, by the starkest possible contrast, have had this right since the day the Jewish state was founded. Another brightly-lit sign that Israeli Arabs aren’t living under anything like apartheid is their wall-to-wall opposition to becoming citizens of a Palestinian state – even, as Israel Beiteinu proposes, after a change of borders that would allow them to remain on their land. Israeli Arabs aren’t Zionists, and they have altogether legitimate complaints about discrimination, but the overwhelming majority are not out to dismantle the Jewish state, only to make it more fair and equitable. (As much as I wish foreign anti-Zionists knew this, I wish even more that Israeli Jews did.) Still, I imagine a black South African, or a white South African who fought apartheid, challenging me: Why can’t Israel just do what we did – forget about Jews and Arabs like we forgot about whites and blacks, and just remake the system into a Western-style, nonsectarian democracy? Wouldn’t “one-person, one vote” be the fairest solution for Israel/Palestine, too?And I imagine myself answering: In theory, yes; in practice, it would be a disaster. The difference between the situation for blacks in South Africa and for Jews in Israel is that you’re surrounded by hundreds of millions of blacks living in other African countries, none of whom think whites should rule South Africa – while we’re surrounded by hundreds of millions of Arabs living in Arab countries, all of whom think Arabs should be ruling Israel/Palestine.Imagine if you were in our situation. Imagine if instead of South Africa being bordered by blacks, it was bordered by whites – whites who believed that their kind were the rightful rulers of your country, and who, if given the chance – say, through your color-blind immigration policy – would see to it that they ruled your country again.If South Africa’s blacks were a tiny minority in a sea of white people who held such beliefs – in a sea of old-style Afrikaners, let’s say – how secure would you feel, as a black South African, living in a nonsectarian democracy based on ‘one person, one vote’?Now maybe you see why the Jewish state, with all its inequities, is a better, fairer, safer solution for this sliver of the world than the one you South Africans chose – rightly and wisely – in your homeland.AND SO much for my imaginary dialogue. In all, what I’m saying is that
there’s only one way to go for Jews and Arabs here, and that’s with a
Jewish, democratic state alongside a Palestinian one. The Jews who want
to maintain the status quo will turn Israel into a pariah state, while
the people pushing for one person, one vote will wreck it altogether.
What this means is that everyone who believes in Zionism, justice and
peace has to oppose both the Jewish Right and the international Left.
If either of these two forces prevails, sooner or later this land won’t
be fit to live in for Arab or Jew.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: Israel’s democracy wars</title>
<date>4/5/2010</date>
<content>
The most common nervous reaction among a certain segment of Israel’s left is the refrain that Israel is always threatened by undemocratic forces from within. The Tami Steinmetz Center for Peace Research at Tel Aviv University recently released a poll showing that the average adult Jewish Israeli believes “there is too much freedom of expression” and that many respondents “favor punishing Israeli citizens who support sanctioning or boycotting the country.” Haaretz’s headline screamed “Israel’s Jews back gag on rights groups.”




The reaction was fast and furious from the academic establishment, which had commissioned the study. Prof. Daniel Bar-Tal of TAU claimed “Israelis have a distorted perception of democracy – most people are almost anti-democratic.”David Newman of Ben-Gurion University and fellow Jerusalem Post columnist claimed the results were “very worrying.”THE SURVEY was a self-fulfilling prophecy. Large segments of Israeli academia and various organizations like the Israeli Democracy Institute believe the public is anti-democratic and they craft surveys to tell them exactly that. The fact that the survey measured only Jewish members of society should have been a red herring. It is no different from a survey by Ma’agar Mochrot in March that surveyed Arabs and Jews on “democracy” but primarily wanted to examine young people’s attitudes on the state’s Arab citizens. What about what the Arabs had to say about the Jews and the state?Why is it assumed that the doyens of Israeli academia are necessarily democratic and good judges of the country’s democratic character? Bar-Tal, for instance, is on the editorial board of the Palestine-Israel Journal whose logo is a Palestinian flag and an Israeli flag without the Star of David and which routinely refers to Palestinian terrorism as “resistance.” When they “understand” Palestinian terrorism, support boycotts of Israel, the “one-state solution” or encourage soldiers not go to the army, are these “democratic” choices? Is support for “Voices from Gaza” (a TAU conference), part of supporting democracy by bringing the Islamist voice of Hamas to its student body?Maybe the public doesn’t understand why year after year their tax dollars go to universities where their sons and daughters are called “Nazis” and they are said to be practicing “apartheid” and where the Jewish people’s existence is denied and the Palestinians are called “indigenous” and where the details of the Holocaust are called “unimportant.” The public doesn’t understand why “democracy” only means hatred of the State of Israel and see no benefit from this form of “democracy,” We don’t understand why those who call Israel undemocratic, like writer Gideon Levy, are the same ones who embrace Palestinian nationalism and envied the late king (say it again, king) of Jordan. Maybe the public doesn’t understand why “human rights” groups never care about their rights, such as those of Ethiopian Jews who wonder why the Israeli left was marching against Sabra and Shatilla in the 1980s but could care less as ten thousand of them died in the deserts of Sudan.YEAR AFTER year Israelis go to army and leave it with little prospects for economic success. But they soldier on, paying their taxes, waiting in lines and scraping by. They work 12-hour shifts and live crammed into tenements on the Coastal Plain or exposed to Kassams in Sderot. All the while they are demonized with contempt by those at the higher levels of society, the “free thinkers” and “critics” who call them brutish antidemocratic forces. Consider just some of what the public has witnessed in recent years: The late Prof. Yeshayahu Leibowitz of Hebrew University claimed Israel was a “Judeo-Nazi” state. Yitzhak Laor wrote the play Ephraim Returns to the Army which drew “comparisons between Israel’s occupation of the West Bank and Nazi rule in occupied Europe.” Moshe Zimmerman, director of the Minerva Center for German History at the Hebrew University, claims “there is an entire sector in the Jewish public which I unhesitatingly define as a copy of the German Nazis.” The same Zimmerman wrote that Hitler didn’t intend to kill the Jews; “Hitler improvised and raised the question of the Jews.” Hanna Yablonka of BGU called the “details” of the Holocaust unimportant. Adi Ophir at TAU opened “Israel Apartheid Week” in London at the School of Oriental and African Studies. Udi Aloni, whose work has been shown at the Museum of Israeli Art in Ramat Gan and who has presented at the Van Leer Institute, wrote in March that the “occupation and the apartheid regime is hovering over the State of Israel.”Prof. Shlomo Sand of TAU, author of The Invention of the Jewish People, claims “intellectuals of Jewish origin in Germany, influenced by the folk character of German nationalism, took upon themselves the task of inventing a [Jewish] people.” Oren Yiftachel of BGU claims the Beduin are indigenous to Israel and writes on Beduin-Arabs and the Israeli Settler State: Land Policies and Indigenous Resistance. Prof. Ze’ev Sternhell, Israeli Prize winner, advised the Palestinians in an op-ed in May 2001 on their best terrorism strategy: “Palestinians would be wise to concentrate their struggle against the settlements.” Ariel Toaff of Bar-Ilan University argued in his book Passovers of Blood that Ashkenazim may have indeed used the blood of Christian children in rituals. Numerous Israeli academics, from Neve Gordon (BGU) to Anat Matar (TAU) and Ilan Pappe (formerly University of Haifa), have all joined calls to boycott their own universities or Israel entirely. Some academics enthusiastically applaud the Palestinian nationalist cause, call for understanding Hamas and teach classes that force students to volunteer for anti-Israel “peace” organizations.AND AFTER all this there are expressions of surprise that the vast majority of Israelis tire of those whose salaries they pay and who wrap themselves in the Palestinian nationalist flag but abhor the flag with the Star of David on it. Ironically it is the public who are called “undemocratic” when the real haters of democracy are the well heeled who argue that their extremist hatred of Israel is an essential part of democracy. A survey of academics would show that a significant minority, if not a majority, hold to principles that are not mainstream democratic ones, such as supporting chauvinist nationalist Palestinian groups and excusing terrorism as “resistance.” In the dustup over Im Tirzu’s advertisements condemning Naomi Chazan of the New Israel Fund, Prof. Avner De Shalit, dean of social sciences and Max Kampelman Professor of Democracy and Human Rights at Hebrew University, urged in an e-mail “I wonder if Im Tirzu shouldn’t be sued.”
That’s very democratic: If you don’t like someone giving their opinion, sue to gag them.Abe Lincoln said, “A nation divided against itself cannot stand,” and
Samuel Adams elaborated, “A general dissolution of principles and
manners will more surely overthrow the liberties of [democracy] than
the whole force of the common enemy.” Some of the country’s best educated and brightest thinkers have few
principles or manners and they have a deep-seated hatred of the State
of Israel. Their constant refrain is that it is the people who have
lost faith in democracy. If they have, it is only because they have
learned from their cultured peers.
The writer is a fellow at the Jerusalem Institute for Market Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: McCarthyism!</title>
<date>31/3/2010</date>
<content>
Hardly a week goes by here without the claim, usually by groups on the Left, that people are being silenced and censored by McCarthyism. In an October 2009 article, Benjamin Pogrund claimed that university groups such as Isracampus and Israel Academic Monitor were attacking leftist professors in “classic McCarthyite style.” David Newman of Ben-Gurion University has written that “the academic McCarthyism of the right endangers Israeli democracy and society. It threatens the very basis of freedom of speech.”The hullabaloo over Naomi Chazan, former Knesset member, professor and chief of the New Israel Fund, in early 2010 resulted in a wave of claims of McCarthyism. An interview with her by Donald Macintyre in The Independent was titled “The new McCarthyism sweeping Israel.” Hagai El-ad of the Association for Civil Rights in Israel claimed “these are classic McCarthy techniques, portraying our organizations as enemies of the state.”




Then earlier this month, the Education Ministry ordered its logo
removed from a Web site called Common Ground that is supported by the
Abraham Fund, an organization that claims it supports “coexistence.” In
response, a senior official at a non-governmental organization claimed
that “this is a McCarthyist period we’re going through.” Prof. Daniel
Bar-Tal and many others have, in recent years, joined the chorus
claiming McCarthyism is growing in Israel.When Joel Kovel, author of the anti-Israel book Overcoming Zionism, was sacked at Bard College, one commentator claimed it was a sign of “McCarthyism.” In a 2007 article in The Nation,
Larry Cohler-Esses argued that Nadia Abu el-Haj, a Barnard professor,
was a victim of McCarthyism because pro-Israel groups were angered that
someone they perceived as a radical ideologue was up for tenure; “This
is the modus operandi of the New McCarthyism. It targets a new enemy
for our era: Muslims, Arabs and others in the Middle East field who are
identified as stepping over an unstated line in criticizing Israel.”IT
IS obvious that a lot of people think that McCarthyism is in the air.
But do their fears and claims truly illustrate knowledge of what
McCarthyism was? The use of words like “McCarthyism,” “apartheid” and
“Nazism” in contemporary parlance should require that those using them
and those reading them at least have a modicum of understanding of what
they originally described.Joseph McCarthy was born in 1908 and
raised on a farm in rural Wisconsin. At 33 he served as a Marine Corps
officer in World War II and was decorated. McCarthy was elected to the
US Senate in the postwar Republican landslide. He came to the nation’s
attention in 1950 with his speech at Wheeling, West Virginia in which
he claimed that “the State Department is infested with communists.”In
1953, after winning reelection, McCarthy was made head of the Senate
Committee on Government Operations, an obscure body that he transformed
into a center of investigations into communist influence in the US
administration. He used this committee and his legal lieutenants, such
as Bobby Kennedy, to go after government bodies such as Voice of
America and the International Information Agency (an overseas library
program).In 1954 McCarthy laid into the US Army and ran afoul
of Dwight D. Eisenhower, who had so recently left the service to become
president. By this time, the American public had tired of McCarthy’s
claims and outbursts and famed journalist Edward Murrow noted, “We
cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home.” By December 1954 it was all over. McCarthy was censured by the Senate and he died two and a half years later.The
irony of McCarthy’s life is that his activities became associated with
“McCarthyism.” In fact it was the House Committee on Un-American
Activities in the House of Representatives that became infamous for
blacklists and subpoenaing civilians, such as Hollywood writers. It was
this committee that demanded to know: “Are you now or have you ever
been a member of the Communist Party of the United States?” The
blacklist was a series of directives by Hollywood studio executives in
which they refused to hire communists. Many of the Hollywood directors
affected were Jewish. Never did the US government order people to be
fired.The truth about McCarthyism is that while originally some
people had their careers harmed or ruined by having been, or accused of
having been, communists, the claim of being a “victim” of McCarthyism
has been far more helpful to people’s careers than actually being a
victim was ever harmful. Those who today claim they are victims of
McCarthyism dream of being victims; they want to be the lone voice
standing up to the government.But theirs is a fantasy, no government is behind the campaigns against
Haj, Chazan or the Abraham Fund. Instead, private individuals,
expressing their right to freedom of speech, have condemned the
activities of those they disagree with. When, several years ago, a
student at the Hebrew University’s Rothberg International School penned
an editorial on Ynet about how his professors were using the classroom
to spread anti-Israel propaganda, he was called in by administrators to
explain himself; “they basically made me promise not to write anything
else.” He didn’t cry “McCarthyism!”Those who cry McCarthyism want attention. They are fear-mongers and
extremists with little understanding of the concept of free speech and
less understanding of history.
The writer is a PhD researcher at Hebrew University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: When only the critics are heard</title>
<date>6/7/2010</date>
<content>
Among the themes that top the list of the coming year’s publications dealing 
with the Middle East are Iranian history, Lebanon’s vibrancy, Saudi Arabia and 
stories of American combat soldiers. But there is one that, unsurprisingly, 
towers above all the rest: Israel and the Palestinians. Of the 700 books that 
will be published in English on the Middle East in the next year, 107 (15 
percent) of them will be devoted to the conflict or aspects of it. This is based 
on a careful examination of forthcoming publications at Amazon.com, although 
there are probably other obscure publications lurking out there.That 
there is so much focus on the Holy Land is a fact of life. But the trouble with 
the forthcoming publications is that the narrative of Israel and its history is 
being communicated to the English-speaking world almost entirely by those who 
dislike it. Lone defenders like Alan Dershowitz and reasoned supporters like 
Martin van Creveld and Martin Gilbert are among the authors of next year’s 
harvest (Dershowitz is the author of a novel about Israel, Trials of Zion, not a 
nonfiction account).




Holland-born Van Creveld is a military historian who 
wrote a well received history of the IDF and now argues in The Land of Blood and 
Honey that Israel is the “greatest success story in the entire 
20th century.” 
London-born Gilbert, a biographer of Winston Churchill, is publishing a 
book on 
Jews in Muslim lands which is described as a “moving account of mutual 
tolerance 
between Muslims and Jews... a template for the future.” Italian 
journalist 
Giulio Meotti also writes on the 
Untold Stories of Israel’s Victims of 
Terrorism.For the Israel bashers that dominate publications on the 
region, Gaza is a favorite topic.Nine books are in the pipeline for that 
small sliver of land. James Patras, a retired professor from Binghamton 
University and author of numerous books on the Israel “lobby,” has just 
published War Crimes in Gaza 
and the Zionist Fifth Column in 
America. In Gaza: 
Beneath the Bombs, an International Solidarity Movement volunteer
 and another 
radical left colleague write about Gazans facing “oppression not only 
with 
courage but with humor.”Haaretz fixture Gideon Levy is 
publishing The 
Punishment of Gaza which examines “the brutality at the heart of 
Israel’s 
occupation of Palestine.” Norwegian Aid Committee members Mads Gilbert 
and Erik 
Fosse bring us Eyes in Gaza 
with a cover festooned with the beaming eyes of a 
baby and the claim that the two were “the only Western eyewitnesses in 
Gaza” for 
14 days during the winter 2008- 2009 war. Vittorio Arrigoni, an ISM 
volunteer in 
Gaza, writes Gaza: Stay Human 
with his fellow travelers Daniela Filippin and 
Haifa-born Ilan Pappe. The title “stay human” was taken from peace 
protests in 
Italy; it is not clear if it also implies that Israelis or Palestinian 
risk not 
being human. Joe Sacco, a veteran Israel hater, is publishing a comic 
book about 
Gaza called Footnotes in Gaza, 
and Noam Chomsky, Frank Barat and the prolific 
Pappe edited Gaza in Crisis: 
Reflections on Israel’s War Against the 
Palestinians.Four books being published will be adorned with the 
unoriginal “separation fence” on the cover. To be fair one is merely the
 
paperback version of Columbia University Prof. Rashid Khalidi’s The Iron Cage: 
The Story of the Palestinian Struggle for Statehood. Pappe is 
publishing two 
books using the fence as a motif. The first, Peoples Apart: Israel, South Africa 
and the Apartheid Question, claims that “for the first time one 
of Israel’s most 
celebrated academics, Ilan Pappe, has gathered together perspectives” on
 whether 
Israel is an apartheid state. The conclusion won’t be surprising, Pappe 
already 
claimed Israel committed ethnic cleansing in 1948. One wonders what 
original 
allegation will come next? Pappe and Jamil Hilal, a sociologist at Bir 
Zeit 
University, are also publishing Across
 the Wall: Narratives of 
Israeli-Palestinian History.Jeff Halper, an American-born activist in 
the Israel Committee Against House Demolitions, uses a photo of the wall
 on the 
cover of the second edition of his An 
Israeli in Palestine: Resisting 
Dispossession, Redeeming Israel. The mufti, Haj Amin el-Husseini,
 and the Nazis 
get some attention. Klaus Gensicke, a German scholar, covers the topic 
in his 
The Mufti of Jerusalem and the Nazis,
 and three authors collaborate on a volume 
examining Nazi Palestine: The Plans 
for the Extermination of the Jews of 
Palestine. Pappe (again) examines the Rise and Fall of a Palestinian Dynasty: 
The Husaynis. He follows in the footsteps of his fellow Israeli 
historian living 
in the UK, Avi Shlaim, author of Lion 
of Jordan: The Life of King Hussein, in 
casting Arab politicians as remarkable figures.The two-state solution 
gets short shrift in the coming year with Hasan Afif el-Hasan’s Is the Two-State 
Solution Already Dead? and Virginia Tilley’s paperback edition of
 The One State 
Solution: A Breakthrough.THE PALESTINIANS get doting coverage by 
academics and authors who genuinely appreciate them. Hillel Cohen, an 
excellent 
Israeli writer, publishes on The Rise 
and Fall of Arab Jerusalem. Amal Jamal 
examines Arab Minority Nationalism in 
Israel, and Rochelle Davis, assistant 
professor of anthropology at Georgetown University, researches Palestinian 
Village Histories.Azzam Tamimi, a London-based scholar, offers a 
“sympathetic analysis” in Hamas: A 
History from Within. Basam Ra’ad attempts to 
reconstruct an indigenous history of Palestine in his Hidden Histories. Nicolas 
Rowe, an Australian expert on dance who lives in Ramallah, gives us a Cultural 
History of Dance among the Palestinians.Books on the Jews in Israel 
hardly compare in their sympathy. In his “personal search for the soul 
of a 
nation,” NBC Tel Aviv bureau chief Martin Fletcher has written Walking Israel, 
but he incongruously uses a photo of an Arab village, probably Taiba, 
and 
minaret on the cover. One wonders if he would have put a church on the 
cover of 
a book about Egypt? Tudor Parfitt and Emanuela Trevis Semi edit The Jews of 
Ethiopia: The Birth of an Elite, which includes essays calling 
the mass deaths 
of Ethiopian Jews in Sudan a “myth” and claims Europeans may have 
created an 
Ethiopian Jewish identity. Thus the Palestinians get a genuine narrative
 from 
academics, but even the Ethiopian Jews cannot mourn their dead without 
being 
denigrated.The history of Israel has been left almost entirely to those 
who hate it, while the Palestinians have conquered both the academy and 
the 
intellectual world with stories of their suffering, narratives and 
history. Even 
Hamas and Haj Amin, both of whom borrowed from Nazi rhetoric, are 
considered 
sympathetic.Anyone visiting Israel’s leading bookstore, Steimatzky, will 
find the Israel section crowded with Shlomo Sand’s The Invention of the Jewish 
People and Yitzhak Laor’s The 
Myths of Liberal Zionism. They will be hard 
pressed to find anything positive about the country.It is a commentary 
not only on the publishing world, both academic and popular, but also on
 
Israel’s cultural elites, who show little interest in writing positive 
things 
about their country. It is a remarkable testament to the moral 
bankruptcy of the 
West, which finds so little positive in Israel but can be open to the 
most 
conservative chauvinisms of Palestine. Unless we struggle to change the 
narrative, our history will soon be left to our critics.
The writer is a 
PhD researcher at Hebrew University and a fellow at the Jerusalem 
Institute for 
Market Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The apartheid libel</title>
<date>2/3/2010</date>
<content>
The sixth international Israeli Apartheid Week kicked off on Monday, promising 14 days of Israel-bashing in about 40 cities around the world, mostly on college campuses. Organizers say the events will “educate” about Israel’s so-called “apartheid system” and encourage BDS (boycotts, divestment and sanctions) against the Jewish state. Punishing Israel into submission will lead to the end of “colonization” of Arab land, the beginning of equal rights for Arab-Palestinians, the dismantling of the security barrier, and instituting the right of return for Palestinian refugees.Naomi Klein, the Jewish anti-globalization savant who has in recent years branched out to include demonizing Israel in her repertoire, pointed out in the opening speech of last year’s extravaganza that “serious movements have serious enemies,” arguing that the fierce opposition to Israeli Apartheid Week proved its importance. According to that reasoning, perhaps it would be better to simply ignore the festivities and allow the whole thing to blow over.




Problem is, if left unchallenged, proponents of the apartheid analogy are liable to stifle free speech and trample open debate on campuses by using intimidation and bullying tactics. They recently prevented Ambassador Michael Oren from finishing a speech at UC Irvine, and on the same day in Cambridge they interrupted Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon, allegedly shouting in Arabic, “Slaughter the Jews.” Meanwhile, Cambridge University’s Israel Society bowed to pressure from Muslim students to cancel a speech by historian Benny Morris.CONSIDERING ITS sordid historical roots, it is not surprising that Israel Apartheid Week’s proponents are hostile to free expression.In his new book, A Lethal Obsession, Robert S. Wistrich shows that the intellectual roots of the apartheid libel can be traced to Soviet totalitarianism. Building on deep-seated anti-Semitism dating from the czarist era, the Soviet Union launched a ferocious anti-Israel campaign in the wake of Israel’s victory in the Six Day War in an attempt to squash Zionism and with it other national liberation movements that threatened to challenge blind loyalty to the Soviet Republic. Equating Jerusalem with Pretoria also served the Soviets in gaining influence in Africa and aligning the Third World against the US and other western states that supported Israel. Interestingly, Trotskyists – with Jews prominent in their ranks – became the most enthusiastic propagators of the Zionist racist mythology, perhaps in an attempt to negate their Jewishness and prove their fidelity to the communist cause. In the ’70s the PLO and Arab governments, recognizing the political efficacy of latching on to the Soviet-made analogy, joined forces with the USSR to spread lies about Israel. “The apartheid libel transformed Zionism (and by implication Jews and Judaism) into an inhuman ideology and the foundation of a state policy that supposedly divides the world into Jews (a chosen people) and goyim (inferior beings designated to be slaves),” writes Wistrich. Once this was accomplished, dismantling the Jewish state with the use of boycotts, divestment and sanctions could be justified. Even terrorist violence could be forgiven.Sadly, Soviet propaganda has worked.While rogue states such as Sudan commit horrendous crimes against humanity, and Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and other self-proclaimed Muslim states do not even attempt to hide their contempt for non-Muslims, only Israel is singled out for castigation. This is the Israel that translates hostile Palestinian authors into Hebrew; that maintains a Supreme Court that defends the human rights of Palestinians, including its recent ruling to open Route 443 to Palestinians despite real fears that this could lead to drive-by shootings; that keeps its universities open to Arab citizens and grants them the right to vote.It’s not only Desmond Tutu and former US president Jimmy Carter who make the apartheid case. Even Defense Minister Ehud Barak has stumbled. “As long as in this territory west of the Jordan river there is only one political entity called Israel, it is going to be either non-Jewish, or non-democratic,” Barak said during a speech last month at the Herzliya Conference. “If this bloc of millions of Palestinians cannot vote, that will be an apartheid state,” he added, playing into the hands of Israel’s most manipulative detractors and ignoring the facts that Israel is committed to seeking an accommodation with the Palestinians precisely to avoid any such state of affairs, and that it is those who would seek to deny the Jewish nation its only state who are guilty of apartheid attitudes.
Instead of adopting anti-Semitic newspeak, Israel’s representatives
need to perfect the craft of hitting back diplomatically – “to
delegitimize the delegitimizers,” in the memorable phrase of Canadian
law professor and human rights activist Irwin Cotler. Part of that task
is knowing the despicable history of the apartheid libel, understanding
whose interests it serves and, most importantly, protecting free speech
against those who would deny it.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The banality of Methodist evil</title>
<date>4/7/2010</date>
<content>
The decision last week by the Methodist Church of Britain to launch a boycott 
against goods emanating from settlements in the West Bank and east Jerusalem 
will send a shiver down the spine of anyone with a feel for where the rancid, 
global campaign against the Jewish state is currently heading.The 
boycott will involve transactions of the church itself, and extends to 
encouraging all affiliated Methodists to follow suit. The Methodists boycott no 
other country.




The fact that an institution professing allegiance to 
values of love, truth and justice should have succumbed to an agenda of 
hatred, 
hypocrisy and barbarism is sadly emblematic of the degraded spirit of 
our times, 
and of the moral inversions which blow through them.But who, these days, 
can really be surprised about such happenings in modern Europe? It is 
only the 
banality, to appropriate Hannah Arendt, of this particular evil that 
still has 
the power to shock us. For, in watching the discussions at the Methodist
 
Conference which approved the boycott, there was little in the way of 
the 
visceral hatred of Israel which we have become so accustomed to seeing 
in 
academic settings or in the trade unions. Here was a group of almost 
stereotypically ordinary, middle-class, English Christians calmly 
reciting every 
hackneyed anti-Israeli calumny in the book.“What is happening in 
Palestine today is what was happening in South Africa in the recent 
past,” one 
delegate said. Another spoke of the “66 percent of 9- to 12-month-old 
babies 
[that] are anemic in Gaza.”Yet another described a picture, which she 
held up in front of her, of a small boy “with large eyes” and “deep 
pain” in 
those eyes. “This little boy lives in Gaza,” she said ominously, adding 
(without 
irony) that the conference should “speak and act for those whose voices 
are not 
heard.”Later, the point was repeated with one speaker lamenting the 
position of the Palestinians who have “no one to tell of what they’re 
going 
through.”There was a lecture on the Old Testament, the Jews as “the 
chosen people,” the children of Abraham, and the revelations of Jesus: 
“Jesus... 
never speaks of the land or owning it; he speaks of the kingdom and 
joining it,” 
said the delegate joyfully. “...He teaches us God is not a racist God [her 
emphasis] who has favorites. God loves all
 his children [her emphasis] and 
blesses them.”A student of archeology from the University of Manchester 
protested against accusations of one-sidedness in a report on the 
conflict which 
underpinned the boycott resolution: “No conflict is ever one-sided, “ he
 said 
before concluding, literally seconds later, that “perhaps it is not the 
report 
that is one-sided, but simply the conflict.”IF TOTAL illogicality, 
intimations about the dangers of Jews worshiping a racist God, 
preposterous 
assertions about the Palestinian cause not getting an airing in the 
outside 
world and depraved and asinine comparisons with apartheid South Africa 
were the 
stock in trade of the ordinary delegates, the church’s sophisticates 
were not to 
be outdone.Here is the Rev. Graham Carter, the chairman of the working 
group that produced the initial report. He is speaking at the end of the
 first 
debate, just after having made his (pro forma?) reference to upholding 
the right 
of Israel to exist: “We didn’t go through the list of criticizing other 
governments, because there was no place to stop,” he said. “We could 
have 
criticized the United States for its past unquestioning support of the 
government of Israel. We could have questioned our own government for 
the 
equivocality of its approach. Where would we stop? So we concentrated 
simply on 
the situation in Palestine itself.”In referring to criticism of 
governments around the world other than Israel, one might have expected 
that 
this was his cue to explain why Israel had been singled out. Not a bit 
of it. It 
never appeared to occur to him that the question of gross hypocrisy 
might be an 
issue. His only thoughts about other governments concerned the sense in 
which 
they might have been criticized for complicity in Israeli behavior! But 
it is 
when he comes to the question of anti- Semitism that he meets his 
undoing. “I 
want to state quite clearly and categorically that there is no hint of 
anti-Semitism in what we have said or in what we intend,” he stated 
boldly. “If 
other people want to do things like that, that is their problem. It is 
not our 
problem as a Methodist church. We need to be honest about where stand 
and what 
we feel. And if we are concerned about anti-Semitism, why don’t we talk 
about 
the anti-Islam approach?” I leave it to others to judge whether there is
 a “hint 
of anti-Semitism” in what they have said or intended.But, in so far as 
his comments make any sense at all, one way of summarizing the rest 
could be as 
follows: “If this campaign against Israel results in more anti-Semitism,
 we in 
the Methodist Church wash our hands of it. We’ll act, and the Jews can 
take the 
consequences.And what’s the big deal about anti-Semitism anyway? Can’t 
we talk about Islamophobia.”I DID not have the pleasure of talking to 
the Rev.Carter, who would certainly reject any suggestion of wrongdoing, 
let alone that he had taken his church down the road to bigotry. But I 
did speak 
to the Methodist Church’s head of media relations, Anna Drew, whose well
 
prepared brief offered a lesson in where things have gone so badly 
wrong.“Do you have any boycotts of other countries in the world, Saudi 
Arabia for example, where Christianity is banned?” I asked.“Almost 
certainly not,” she said.“So why have you singled out the Jewish state?” 
I asked.“We have not singled out the Jewish state,” she replied, saying 
that the boycott was not against Israel, merely against the occupied 
territories.And so the conversation went on, going round and round in 
circles as Drew summoned up every ounce of conceivable pedantry to argue
 that 
singling out the policy of a particular country was substantially 
different from 
singling out the country itself, even though such a boycott applied to 
no other 
country or its policies.“Don’t you realize that you’re joining a massive 
global campaign against Israel?” I asked.“There isn’t a campaign against 
Israel,” she replied firmly. “It’s not as simple as that.”“You don’t 
accept that you’ve just jumped on a fashionable bandwagon?” I asked in 
amazement.“We are the first church... to do this... so we are not being 
fashionable,” she replied.At which point, what can you really say? 
Overall, a church that behaves in the manner of the Methodists has 
buried its 
credibility under a gigantic dunghill of intransigence, pedantry, lies 
and 
distortions.But let us not allow this matter to rest with a mere 
recognition of whom and what they have chosen to become.If the Methodist 
Church is to launch a boycott of Israel, let Israel respond in kind: Ban
 their 
officials from entering; deport their missionaries; block their funds; 
close 
down their offices; and tax their churches.If it’s war, it’s war. The 
aggressor must pay a price.
The writer is director of 
international 
affairs at the Henry Jackson Society in London. He is the author of
 A State 
Beyond the Pale: Europe’s Problem with Israel
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The gloves are off</title>
<date>12/12/2010</date>
<content>
For a couple of years now, I’ve thought of writing an article called “The gloves 
are off.” But I delayed because I didn’t want the gloves to be off, and even if 
they were off, I didn’t want to be the one to state that they were. But now they 
are off, and the person who really helped us admit it is Mick Davis, chairman of 
the UJIA in the UK.In a recent speech, Davis berated Prime Minister 
Binyamin Netanyahu for “lacking the courage to take the steps” to advance the 
peace process, adding: “I don’t understand the lack of strategy in 
Israel.”




He also predicted an “apartheid state” unless Israel is able to 
achieve a two-state solution.His remarks caused a furor in the UK Jewish 
community, with many prominent Jews in public positions defending his remarks, 
noting that it was high time “that honest and open discussions” about Israel 
took place in the public arena. Other Jewish leaders were chagrined or 
irritated, and issued mixed statements, while only a very few – most notably 
Jonathan Hoffman of the Zionist Federation and Lord Stanley Kalms – professed 
outright indignation.Davis’s comments are disturbing because of who he 
is. As chairman of the UJIA, he has devoted much time and energy to raising 
funds for Israel. Yet he still used this language in a public forum. This means 
that a growing desire to openly criticize Israel is moving from the fringes of 
the Jewish community into the mainstream. This is the new discussion, and 
arguments about whether it should or shouldn’t be suppressed, are moot. It’s out 
there and it’s gaining momentum.I’M ASSUMING that as a UK-born Israeli 
who has spent 25 years living, working, voting and paying taxes here, I can be 
part of this discussion. After all, if we’re going to be honest and open, it’s 
best to get a lot of stuff which hasn’t been articulated on the Israeli side out 
on the table.But before I do this, I’m going to say that if your love of 
Israel is unconditional, if you’ve come to the conclusion that Israelis are 
pretty much doing the best they can and are paying a high price to do so, you 
can skip this article.But if you’re thinking of joining this new chorus 
of public criticism, here are the two things that I would like to put across to 
you.One: There are areas of criticism where you cause grave offense, and 
others where your input is necessary and welcome.In the welcome category 
are issues which affect Jews everywhere, and where I would be glad to see a 
concerted joint effort and involvement in Israeli affairs. For example, I don’t 
see the Western Wall as Israeli only but as a Jewish historical and spiritual 
heritage that concerns us all. I’m increasingly alarmed at the haredi takeover 
of this site, and would love for women of all denominations to mount a campaign 
to claim equal and respectable space, freedom of worship and visual access to 
the men’s section. Similarly, the behavior of the rabbinical courts in matters 
of marriage, divorce and conversion affect all of us. I think it perfectly 
legitimate for there to be loud and furious debate on these issues across the 
globe.I would also love to get more of your input and expertise for our 
school systems and community centers. The achievements of Diaspora communities 
in Jewish education and engagement, communal cohesion and responsibility and 
religious diversity and creativity could greatly benefit Israeli society, and 
have indeed already begun to do so.But there are some in the UK Jewish 
community who seem increasingly inclined to level criticism in the grave offense 
category, on the subject of our conflict with the Palestinians, the finalization 
of our borders and our responses to provocation from Hamas and Hizbullah. On 
these issues, I believe you have no right to speak at all, mainly because you 
have not risked your lives and futures, and the lives and futures of your 
children, for Israel’s security. We may be equals in many things, but in this 
matter we are not, because we have not invested equally. We are separated by a 
vale of tears and an ocean of blood, mostly very young blood.In my 
particular case, I’m separated from you guys by two Lebanon wars, two Gulf wars, 
two intifadas, two children who’ve completed army service and a third about to 
begin, seven general elections, four unsuccessful peace processes and five 
terrorist organizations operating in my region. So I don’t believe that your 
understanding of our region is as nuanced as er… mine.I do see that 
these security issues affect your comfort level in British society. But the 
government can hardly be expected to make tough decisions on the basis of that. 
Anyway, I think we’ve each chosen our level of discomfort.You chose the 
UK, so you get to squirm when the BBC reports, as a deliberate lie, that there’s 
been a massacre in Jenin. My neighbors and I, on the other hand, chose Israel, 
so we get to send our sons into Jenin, hoping against hope that they’ll come out 
again. Which they sometimes don’t (or do, but as paraplegics).This is 
why the remarks you fling in our direction leave us astonished and 
dismayed.We may not make a big deal of it, but we walk in 
shadow.The chief rabbi of the UK, Lord Jonathan Sacks, understands this 
perfectly well. In a recent piece on the United Synagogue website, he wrote that 
the debate that has erupted over Davis’s remarks is “deflecting us from the real 
issue,” which is that Israel’s enemies – Hamas, Hizbullah and Iran – refuse to 
recognize its existence as a matter of religious principle. And as long as this 
is the case, he says, “there can be no peace, merely a series of staging posts 
on the way to a war that will not end until there is no Jewish state at 
all.”THERE ARE other areas where the offense is not grave, just 
annoying. Take the issue of African refugees pouring across the border with 
Egypt in their tens of thousands.Let’s see – the government has just allocated millions of 
shekels for the construction of a new transit center for these illegal 
immigrants.I pay 50% income tax, so with the greatest compassion in the world, I’m not sure I want to finance their long term support. But no doubt, when the numbers in these temporary dwellings have swelled beyond the originally intended figures, and this holding facility becomes nothing more than an overcrowded slum, many Jews living outside of Israel will be campaigning for the food and health and shelter of these immigrants, and they'’ll be campaigning for me to pay for it. Last year, my son spent three months of his IDF service on the 
Egyptian border, dragging the bodies of dead and wounded refugees to waiting 
ambulances because they’d been shot on the Egyptian side. One Eritrean, faint 
from hunger and exhaustion, sank to his knees and wrapped his arms around 
Yonatan’s legs when he discovered he’d reached the Israeli side. This refugee 
presumably hadn’t listened to CNN or BBC, so he didn’t know that Israel was a 
hotbed racism and apartheid. He only knew that nobody on the Israeli side would 
try to kill him, and that he’d get a hospital bed for his wounds and food and 
shelter for his family, before being released into Eilat to look for a 
job.Of course this issue is ethically complex.It’s just that I 
find the need of Jews living outside Israel to enlighten me on those 
complexities incredibly patronizing. What is their investment level in this 
social and political dilemma? If it’s zero, then that’s what the opinions are 
worth.POINT TWO: What is the motivation behind this need for public 
criticism? This is a very important factor in the debate. I can castigate a 
friend or sibling if I believe her behavior to be selfish or unreasonable, but 
if I do so in public, I will only humiliate and wound her. I would be mad to 
think that making her look ridiculous in front of others, and permanently 
damaging their perception of her is going to produce good results. In fact, I 
would only do such a thing if my friend’s wellbeing were not the primary object. 
I might want to hurt her and put her down for complicated reasons of my 
own.I speak for myself and many other Israelis when I say that for us, 
public criticism by UK Jews is suspect. For one, your call for “openness” has 
escalated at exactly the same rate as the delegitimization and demonization of 
Israel by the British establishment. This vindictive ostracizing of Israel has 
resulted in an extreme lowering of comfort levels for the Jewish community, as 
we’ve agreed. But should it result in your shouting to join that vindictiveness? 
And if you join in, does it increase your status and respectability in British 
society? My feeling is that it certainly does. So you’ll forgive me if I doubt 
the integrity of your backing the shrill accusations of the British government 
and media.I actually think this discomfort is an encouraging sign that 
the heart and soul of British Jewry is in good working order. If British Jews 
were not viscerally connected to Israel, the feeling would be one of apathy or 
contempt, not discomfort. But they are connected.To so many of them, 
Israel is precious and important. When they land at Ben-Gurion Airport, their 
hearts are filled with belonging.This is something we all share, we who 
live here and we who come to visit. To sever us from this profound recognition 
and unity in our psyche, to force us to feel that we have no choice but to 
expunge it, is to cripple us indeed. So my suggestion to you is don’t agree to 
be crippled. Hold your head high, take it on the chin, fight it like a lion or 
leave.Where does that leave us, you and I? I personally would rather we 
did not go this route.But if you would like to criticize Israel as much 
as you like, then I, by the same token, will feel free to criticize you as much 
as I like. We will call this new way of relating “tough love.”We will 
use the two-directional model, instead of Diaspora Jews behaving as if their 
criticism is a lifesaving antibiotic, which Israel, the ever truculent child, 
refuses to swallow.In conclusion, I’d like to invite Jonathan Hoffman, 
Lord Kalms and Chief Rabbi Sacks to dinner the next time they are in Beit 
Shemesh. In a crisis, it sure is nice to know who your friends are. As for poor 
Mick Davis, he will not get even one bite of my fabulous lasagna.
The 
writer is a filmmaker.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Hashemite Kingdom of Apartheid?</title>
<date>25/4/2010</date>
<content>
In its recently published survey, Freedom House concluded that Jordan is not a “free” country. This startling finding raises serious doubts over the Hashemite regime’s commitment to modernize and build a moderate, peaceful and democratic society.Jordan is in the midst of a full-scale political and economic crisis due to the King Abdullah II’s inability or unwillingness to build a modern democratic system. Indeed, contrary to the king’s public pronouncements regarding his commitment to political and economic reform, it is clear that the Hashemite regime’s long-term strategy is to acquire permanent status as an “emerging democracy,” without the need to actually deliver on its public commitments for political reform.




In spite of the $6 billion in economic aid that Jordan has received from the US since 1991, the Hashemite regime has been unable to transform the fortunes of the ailing Jordanian economy. Indeed in 2010, Jordan’s deficit doubled to 9 percent of gross domestic product and led to a steep rise in public debt to a staggering $13 billion, or 60% of GDP. Due to the failure and obvious shortcomings of the government’s economic reform program, the king feared that Jordanian nationalists would try to capitalize on widespread public frustration and discontent by applying increased pressure on his fragile regime. In 2009, he dissolved parliament in a thinly disguised attempt to quash any political opposition to his regime. TRADITIONALLY, JORDANIAN tribes have supported the Hashemite regime, as long as they have benefited from economic patronage from the state. However, when this economic support was subsequently withdrawn – due to the mismanagement of the economy, the tribes considered this a breach of the unwritten agreement it had in place with the state. Consequently, the king has sought to counter this potential conflict with the tribes by maintaining “ethnic cohesion” inside the security/military establishment. This has had the added benefit of enabling the regime to collaborate with the US Army in training troops in Iraq, Afghanistan and, most recently, in Yemen. It has also allowed the regime to secure US military aid.As a consequence of the above policy, the king has failed to integrate the urban Palestinian-Jordanian majority into the security/military structure. Instead, the king has adopted his grandfather’s 1920s policy by appointing Bani Sakher as the major tribe in control of Jordan’s security affairs. The heads of military, public security as well as the minister of interior now belong to a single tribe that fought other tribes on behalf of the Hashemites before the creation of the Arab Legion.This policy has exacerbated ethnic tension within the kingdom, and the adoption of a policy of apartheid, clearly demonstrated by the withdrawal of the Jordanian citizenship of more than 2,700 Palestinian-Jordanian citizens. This clearly creates additional challenges for any potential resolution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, and signals a willingness by the Jordanian nationalists to adopt hostile measures against Palestinians and Israelis.The lack of ethnic diversity in the security establishment has raised concerns that the king may be losing legitimacy in Jordan. Accordingly, the Hashemites are reestablishing kinship ties as a way to preserve his influence in security-related decisions. But this policy has also put the lives of Jordanians, Americans and even Afghanis at risk. The Khost attack on seven CIA officers last January in Afghanistan was the direct result of the misguided appointment of Prince Ali bin Zeid as the Jordanian case officer, who seemingly failed to convince the Jordanian al-Qaida bomber to cooperate with Jordanian intelligence.Due to the obvious differences in their social, economic, cultural and ethnic background, the prince was unable to establish and build a relationship of trust with the Jordanian bomber, which would lead to a successful operation. Apparently, the royal family was hungry for a historical victory against al-Qaida, and perhaps huge financial rewards from the US.AS TRIBALISM flourishes, freedom within Jordanian society will gradually erode. This has led to a weakening of state control that has already resulted in chaos and anarchy erupting in major rural towns. Almost five citizens are killed in Jordan on a weekly basis as a consequence of tribal clashes. The security forces have been unable to maintain order; fortunately, local sheikhs have stepped in to prevent further disturbances.This is a further example of a weakened state, unable to control actors or impose the rule of law within its own borders – returning back to the Transjordanian norms that characterized the society prior to the establishment of the kingdom. Consequently, the tribes are becoming an increasingly important and active force within the state, which has been greatly assisted with the widespread availability of weapons to citizens.Jordan’s domestic policies are inconsistent with what is needed to
achieve regional stability – vis-à-vis the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Apparently, the effect of rising tribal-based nationalism is that it is
eating into the cohesive force of citizenship and its institutional
manifestations. Accompanied by the weakening structure of the state,
the emergence of violent non-state actors is becoming evident. The rise
of radical Transjordanian nationalism is leading to increased
provocative measures being taken against, and engendering hostility
toward, neighboring countries – as well as Jordanian citizens from
other ethnic backgrounds.
Perhaps it is time for the international community to revise its
policies toward the kingdom – taking into consideration its recent
adoption of a policy of apartheid and the lack of political and
economic reform within the kingdom.


The writer is a policy analyst and senior fellow at the Center for Liberty in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The humanitarian show</title>
<date>11/7/2010</date>
<content>
Additional humanitarian aid flotillas from Lebanon, Iran, Libya and the West may 
be en route to the Gaza Strip as we speak. But it seem that the plight of the 
Turks, Iranians and the Palestinians in Lebanon is far worse. Here are the 
facts.Turkey was the most prominent country in the recent Gaza-bound 
flotilla. The Mavi Marmara with members of the IHH, an organization affiliated 
with global jihad, sailed from that country. Lebanon is dispatching a ship that 
is due to arrive perhaps in the coming days. Even Iran, that bastion of 
humanitarian justice, is joining the party. Thus, it is worth checking what is 
happening in these compassionate countries, which are showing such noteworthy 
generosity in dispatching humanitarian aid to an “oppressed” 
population.




Infant mortality is one of the most important indicators in 
gauging a humanitarian situation. And according to the data, Turkey is in worse 
shape than Gaza.Infant mortality in Gaza is 17.71 per thousand; in 
Turkey it is 24.84. The Gaza Strip is in a much better situation than the global 
average, which is 44 infants per 1,000 births. It is also better than most of 
the Arab countries and several South American countries, and is certainly better 
than Africa.Life expectancy is another important indicator. And here, 
life expectancy in Turkey is 72.23, whereas in the Gaza Strip it is 73.68, much 
higher than the global average of 66.12. In comparison, life expectancy is 63.36 
in Yemen, 52.52 in Sudan and 50 in Somalia. These countries are crying out for 
international attention, for aid, for any rescue ship. But none 
come.Regarding population growth, the Gaza Strip is ranked sixth, with a 
growth rate of 3.29 percent per annum. This may not be an indicator for quality 
of life, but it seems that the high rate of growth, along with the high life 
expectancy and the low infant mortality rate, attests to one thing: There is no 
hunger, no humanitarian crisis and tales of 1,001 nights from 1,001 human rights 
organizations.Even by other indicators, such as personal computer use or 
Internet access, the situation in the Gaza Strip is much better than that of 
most of the world. To complete the picture, it should be noted that two years 
ago, a British politician claimed that life expectancy in Glasgow East was much 
lower than that in the Gaza Strip.The claim caused an uproar. Britain’s 
Channel 4 carried out a scrupulous check and issued its “verdict”: Indeed, life 
expectancy in Glasgow is lower than that in the Gaza Strip.Thus, it is a 
little strange that humanitarian aid comes from people whose situation is much 
worse. It could be that there is a need for additional ships. But the direction 
should be reversed. It is Turkey that needs the help.The Gaza Strip 
which should join the aid delegation for the benefit of the poor 
Turks.ONE OF the bans imposed by Israel is on building 
materials.Experience has shown that materials that reach the Gaza Strip 
do not serve the residents but Hamas’s military goals. Thus, no sane country, 
and let us hope that Israel is one of them, would supply an enemy organization 
with materials from which the bunkers for the struggle against it would be 
built.Here as well, a reminder is needed. Hundreds of thousands of 
Palestinians live in neighboring Lebanon.They live in refugee camps, 
under various restrictions that could fill a chapter on Arab apartheid against 
the Palestinians. One of the most severe restrictions is a ban on construction. 
This ban is enforced even in the Nahr al-Bared refugee camp, bombed by the 
Lebanese army in 2007. The extensive damage caused 27,000 of the camp’s 30,000 
inhabitants to become refugees again.They paid a heavy price for the 
fact that a mere 450 men were members of the rebel group Fatah 
al-Islam.The struggle against radical Islam, which tried to establish 
itself in the camp, was used as a pretext for the vast devastation that was 
inflicted. It is interesting to note how the world encouraged Lebanon’s 
heavy-handed in this situations, while Israel is always asked to knuckle under. 
There are donations for reconstruction and there is also agreement for 
reconstruction projects but the Lebanese government is making things 
difficult.LET US not forget Iran. According to every possible indicator, 
the situation there is worse. Infant mortality, for example, is 34.66 per 1,000 
births. Life expectancy is 71.43 – less than the Gaza Strip and Turkey. With the 
imposition of Shari’a law in the Hamas Strip, as in Iran, and when stoning women 
becomes the norm, one may assume that the residents of the Strip will 
deteriorate to Iranian levels. It was only last week that news came from Iran of 
a 43-year-old woman, Sakineh Mohammadi e Ashtiani, in danger of being put to 
death by stoning, following a sham trial for adultery. But in the meantime, it 
is preferable for aid to go from Gaza to Iran. Let us hope that Egypt will allow 
passage through the Suez Canal.MOST INHABITANTS on this planet are worse 
off than the residents of the Gaza Strip. American aid per capita to the Gaza 
Strip is 7.5 times higher than aid per capita to Haiti. By any possible 
indicator, economic or medical, the residents of the Gaza Strip are incomparably 
better off those of Haiti. Gazans are also better off, by every possible 
indicator, than the Palestinians in Lebanese refugee camps. But we have not seen 
demonstrations in solidarity with those suffering in Lebanon; and no aid 
flotillas either.What is true is that it is thanks to Israel that the 
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip are better off than most of their 
brethren in the 
neighboring countries. Because of the “brutal” occupation, life 
expectancy in 
the Gaza Strip rose from 48 in 1967 to 66 in 1993 and, as we have shown,
 life 
expectancy continues to rise.But please, let us not confuse a “human 
rights activist” on the aid flotilla with the facts. They do not send 
aid 
flotillas to Iran, Lebanon or Turkey, and certainly not to Darfur in the
 Sudan. 
The humanitarian distress does not interest them. It is the anti-Israel 
obsession that interests them. This is not to say that they cannot be 
presented 
with the facts. They want to embarrass Israel. But the basic facts are 
likely to 
embarrass them.Nons of the above aims to make the case that there is no 
true distress in Gaza. There certainly is, even if according to 
objective data, 
it is worse in Turkey, Iran and Lebanon. Israel has an interest in 
bettering the 
situation in Gaza. Israel disengaged in 2005 so that Gazans might 
develop an 
independent life.But the Hamas takeover has led to a situation in which 
instead of developing and producing, the only development is on the 
Kassam 
rocket front. The blockade was imposed because the Hamas regime refuses 
to 
acknowledge previous agreements, recognize Israel or enter into the path
 of 
peace and reconciliation. The regime in Gaza has instead chosen Iran and
 global 
jihad. And despite this, everything could change in a day – if Hamas 
would only 
decide to accept the Quartet’s conditions. The keys are in its hands.
The 
writer is a columnist at Maariv, where a longer version of this article 
first 
appeared.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Iranian freedom movement and Israel</title>
<date>3/10/2010</date>
<content>
Once again the world has let Iran’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad use the propaganda 
platform he loves most: the speaker’s desk in front of the UN General Assembly 
in New York. As Frank Sinatra put it: “If I can make it there, I’ll make it 
anywhere.”American progressives had a dinner party with the 
self-appointed Iranian president and there was a long queue for interviews with 
him. Years of the same procedure have still not tired Western leaders and media 
from detecting “signals for dialogue” somehow hidden in Ahmadinejad’s rambling 
conspiracy theories and well-known anti- Semitic slanders against the State of 
Israel.




Iranians living under the mullahs’ dictatorship or in exile are 
wondering if any insult or threat from the mouths of Ahmadinejad or Supreme 
Leader Ali Khamenei will ever convince the West to abandon its fantasies of a 
dialogue with the leaders of the Islamic Republic. Israelis might have the same 
questions. It is time to ask how much the two groups have in 
common.Ahmadinejad called the 9/11 attacks a plot to “to save the 
Zionist regime” and accused Western countries of sacrificing freedom of speech 
on the “altar of Zionism.”While it is exactly this anti-Semitism that 
gains him a global popularity other dictators can only dream of, it does not 
work in Iran, where he has become the most hated political figure in the 
country.After three decades of Islamic theocracy, even some mullahs have 
lost their faith in the Islamic Republic. Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazeri, once 
the designated successor of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, died under house arrest 
last year. Ayatollah Hossein Kazemeyni Boroujerdi has been imprisoned since 2006 
for advocating the separation of religion and state.The regime can’t 
hope to attract domestic support on religious grounds anymore. It can only seek 
to destroy all alternatives to itself by the bloody persecution of its opponents 
and by dragging Iran into a war against Israel.THE VOICE of Israel has 
been present in Iran via the Persian service of Radio Israel even before the 
revolution of 1979. Under the dictatorship of the mullahs, it became one of the 
most important sources of information for ordinary Iranians.But the 
mortal enmity of the regime to Israel, despite or because of its omnipresence, 
has been a taboo for many Iranian opponents of the regime even if they 
themselves felt no resentment against the Jewish state. The events of last 
summer have fundamentally changed this situation.The turning point was 
the socalled Kuds day in September 2009, when Iranians massively protested 
against the regime’s hate show against Israel. They countered the regime’s 
slogans “Death to America!” and “Death to Israel!” with chants against the 
allies of the Islamic Republic, Russia and China, and tore down solidarity 
banners for Hamas and Hizbullah. The popular rallying cry “No to Gaza, no to 
Lebanon, my life is for Iran” clearly expressed the refusal of the jihadi 
expansionism of the regime.This day was an assault on the ideological 
foundations of the Islamic Republic, so painful to its leaders that they are 
still talking about it a year later, accusing the Islamic reformists of being 
the source of the demonstrators’ slogans.Hatred of Israel has always 
been a common denominator between so-called reformist and hard-line Islamists in 
Iran. And without doubt, not only among the ruling theocrats are anti-Semitic 
and anti-Zionist sentiments existent in Iranian society.But their 
political expression has practically been reduced to those political factions 
that shared their anti-Israel beliefs already back in 1979: the different 
Islamist currents and a traditional Stalinist left, waning in 
influence.After the Mavi Marmara incident, a group of Iranian leftist 
and Muslim intellectuals and artists from abroad signed a statement claiming to 
find “similarities between the violence exhibited by the occupying regime of 
Israel and the suppressive regime of the Islamic Republic” and supporting the 
“admirable and brave struggle of the Palestinian people for freedom and 
democracy.”In a counter petition, Saeed Ghaseminejad, speaker of the 
liberal students of Iran and other Iranian intellectuals and activists denounced 
this equation as an insult to the peaceful protest movement in Iran and as a 
tragic failure to correct the anti-Semitic past of the Iranian 
Left.Since the rigged elections of June 2009 it has become clearer every 
day for Iranians that effective resistance against a totalitarian dictatorship 
is only possible if its opponents are willing to challenge openly all its 
ideological foundations – and besides gender apartheid, anti-Zionism is the most 
important one.Many have claimed that the anti- Israel aggressions of the 
Islamic Republic should be documented separately from its human rights record to 
protect the opposition against regime charges of being “agents of 
Zionism.”This has always been futile because “Zionist” has been a regime 
accusation against all serious opponents from the beginning – regardless of 
their relation to Israel and the Jews.Today this warning has become 
obsolete because Iranians do not let themselves become intimidated anymore by 
the regime’s conspiracy theories. Hassan Dai, a journalist who has consistently 
exposed the work of the Iranian regime lobby in the United States, has recently 
published several articles focusing on anti-Zionism as the ideological platform 
this lobby is acting on. And the political analyst Nima Rashedan urges his 
readers to compare the camp of the sympathisers of Israel to that of its 
enemies, concluding that “friendship to and hatred against Israel are the 
criteria to tell apart civilization from primitiveness.”
In Europe and 
other parts of the world, hatred of Israel is an intellectual resentment and a 
tool to gain influence in the Middle East. For democratic Iranians, it is a 
vital matter of self-interest to renounce the terrorist foreign policy of the 
regime, which at the end of the day is exerted against them. Iranian society 
today is questioning everything the Islamic Republic stands for.

The 
writers are founding members of the German chapter of the European coalition 
Stop the Bomb.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The search for the truth</title>
<date>12/10/2010</date>
<content>
Inquiries following international “incidents” are ingrained in the Israeli political culture. When politicians are called to testify, the public listens with a certain healthy suspicion. Allegations about the behavior of rivals are taken with a large grain of salt.Unfortunately, the UN, international community and respected experts who are chosen to head investigations show no such skepticism when political groups and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) make allegations against Israel. NGOs, particularly those claiming to protect human rights, enjoy a “halo effect” that masks their own political ideologies and motives.




THE TURKEL Commission, established to investigate the May 31 “Free Gaza 
Flotilla” violence, has invited three NGOs to provide information on the
 “humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip, the Strip’s economy and the 
delivery of goods into Gaza.” The NGOs, -B’Tselem, Gisha and Physicians 
for Human Rights-Israel (PHR-I) – have consistent records of biased and 
unsubstantiated allegations against Israel.Nevertheless, they enjoy this “halo effect,” and thus the testimony of 
these groups is likely to be taken at face value by some members of the 
commission and international community.Based on previous examples, little attention will be paid to the 
political ideologies of these NGOs, as well as the funders to which they
 answer.The political role of the NGO network was evident during and immediately
 after the flotilla incident, and continues to be highlighted in ongoing
 delegitimization campaigns.Regarding the attacks on soldiers upon boarding the flotilla, B’Tselem 
claimed that this “information is based solely on statements of 
soldiers.” In actuality, the video evidence of violent extremists 
attacking soldiers with knives and clubs clearly supports the soldiers’ 
claims.PHR-I also issued a statement referring to passengers on the flotilla as
 “human rights and peace activists, journalists and members of 
parliament.” Nowhere in the statement did it reference the connection to
 IHH, the main flotilla organizer and a member of Union of the Good, an 
umbrella of 50+ Islamic organizations that was designated by the US 
government as “an organization created by Hamas leadership to transfer 
funds to the terrorist organization.”And Gisha used the flotilla incident as an opportunity to claim that 
“this incident is proof that despite claims to the contrary, Israel 
never ‘disengaged’ from the Gaza Strip but rather continues to control 
its borders – land, air and sea,” ignoring the mass weapons smuggling 
from Iran and Syria that necessitate such policing.Should we be surprised by these biased and unsubstantiated statements? No.Political advocacy NGOs often exploit human rights and legal 
terminology, including accusations of “apartheid” to attack Israel. 
PHR-I has referred to the IDF as the “Israeli Occupation Forces” and 
simply recycles statistics from the UN and the Palestinian NGO Al Mezan 
in its reports about Gaza.The UN data is usually based on Palestinian claims that no one can verify.And Al Mezan’s claims are entirely political and lack credibility, 
including the practice of labeling hundreds of Hamas and Islamic Jihad 
combatants as “civilians.”The group also has accused Israel of “genocide” and employs Nazi 
terminology to attack Israel. Hamas’s illegal rocket attacks against 
Israeli civilians are called “resistance.”By relying on these sources and repeating Al Mezan’s claims, PHR-I has become an echo for Al Mezan’s agenda.So, when these groups give their testimony before the commission, 
including condemnations against Israeli policy, and discuss the 
humanitarian “crisis” in Gaza, we should listen with that healthy 
skepticism that was employed concerning the testimony of politicians and
 defense officials.IN THE democratic process, all voices and opinion should be heard – 
including the views of these and other NGOs with different perspectives 
and analyses. As part of a wide inquiry, the statements by NGOs, whose 
allegations have played a major role in impacting international 
reactions to the flotilla, should be rigorously evaluated, and 
vigorously cross-examined.Their claims should certainly not be taken at face value.It is also important to recognize the role of this group of NGOs in the 
demonization campaigns against Israel. It is important to recognize that
 PHR-I may claim to be part of Israeli civil society, but this political
 organization receives funding from the EU, Oxfam, Christian Aid, Ford 
Foundation and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It 
files reports and makes claims that are then referenced by many of these
 same entities as credible and factual. Because they are doctors, their 
“halo” is amplified.
The Turkel Commission’s invitation to these NGOs highlights the 
questions regarding what should be done to counteract this “halo 
effect.” To that end, we need greater transparency of NGO funding and 
increased accountability for their actions and reports. In the history 
of Israeli inquiries, politicians are held accountable when they lie or 
have been found to take money dishonestly. The Turkel Commission should 
apply similar standards to political advocacy NGOs, as well.

The writer is communications director for NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think Again: Boycott’s bark is still worse than its bite</title>
<date>23/12/2010</date>
<content>
When the St. Louis Palestine Solidarity Committee staged some street theater 
inside a Best Buy outlet two weeks ago, it could hardly have been aware of the 
multiple meanings to its performance.A group of about 40 mostly young 
women gathered in the middle of the store and, to the music Lady Gaga’s 
“Telephone,” urged customers to “Change what you buy, Pick a different phone, 
See it in the store, Just leave it alone, Motorola supports war crimes, Justice 
now in Palestine.”




Israelis and others familiar with the issues would no 
doubt be offended by the troupe’s half-truths and outright distortions. But, 
this being America – and just three weeks before Christmas to boot – most of the 
shoppers looked too preoccupied to pay much attention to the show.In any 
case, the amateurishness of the production was such that Israel barely got a 
mention, except for one brief reference to “Israeli apartheid” before the music 
began. The St. Louis committee didn’t delegitimize the country as much as it 
delegitimized Motorola – and not for its big manufacturing and R&D 
operations here but for supplying equipment to the army. At least that was 
something the shoppers might have understood if it had been communicated 
better.But, five years after it formally got under way, street theater 
is about all there is to the global boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) 
campaign.The list of accomplishments the movement can point to is far 
smaller than the false alarms it regularly serves up even as the country has 
suffered some of its worst public-image setbacks.The BDS movement 
repeatedly took credit for sell-offs of Israeli shares by college endowments, 
pension funds and other institutional investors this year. But, in fact, the 
sales were all connected with our admission to the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development and were undertaken for purely technical 
reasons.The most dramatic calls come from the likes of student unions 
and church synods that don’t actually buy anything. The boycotts with any meat, 
such as the one called by British academics in 2006, more often than not get 
reversed. The last actual boycott of products dates from last July when Olympia 
Food Co-op in Washington state threw the weight of its two stores behind the 
campaign. And, that isn’t final. Olympia’s website contains a petition to 
“revise” its boycott policy.The BDS threat has yet to emerge and may 
never, but that doesn’t mean it shouldn’t be fought.The movement’s 
formal political program demands an end to the occupation, equal rights for 
Israeli Arabs and the right of return for Palestinian refugees. Officially, the 
parve political agenda is designed to attract a broad base of supporters, but it 
also serves to obfuscate. Thus the handful of European government investment and 
pension funds that have divested from companies because of their alleged role in 
helping the occupation become linked with groups that question Israel’s right to 
exist or portray it as so wicked as undeserving a place in the community of 
civilized nations.THE BLAME for the state of affairs falls as much on 
Israel as the BDS movement. In spurning the Obama initiative, we have let the 
current government mortgage the entire country to the 
settlements. Without any semblance of a peace process under way and no 
discernible protest from the public, the entire country becomes complicit in a 
campaign to take land and impose a regime in the West Bank that may not be 
apartheid but looks pretty close to the real thing to a lot of reasonable 
people. The apartheid label BDS affixes looks plausible.That is 
why the BDS movement may ultimately succeed – although not in the way it dreams 
of. Israel is too amorphous a target for a boycott. For the most part, 
the important things it makes are hidden deep inside computer networks or other 
products, untouchable for a boycott. The irony is that even if a Best Buy 
shopper opted not to buy Motorola, he would inevitably be helping some Israeli 
company whose technology is embedded inside a competing phone. Teva 
Pharmaceuticals is a possible exception to this rule, but telling people not to 
take medicine because it is made here is a lost cause. That leaves BDS activists 
staging sitins at the London Ahava store or campaigning against packaged humous 
made by Strauss. It makes for unpleasant television, but it won’t bring down the 
economy.In any case, a mass consumer boycott movement isn’t an easy 
thing to cultivate, even when the target is easy. Consumers won’t boycott 
because they love Palestinians but because they hate Israel. It’s true that we 
do pretty badly in opinion surveys, at least in Europe. But it is one thing to 
answer a pollster’s question about your feelings; it’s quite another to act on 
them by not buying a product you would like or paying a higher price. And if 
you’re not ready to give up on Ahava cosmetics, you certainly won’t refuse 
yourself a Motorola phone.The real threat doesn’t come from consumer 
boycotts but from government-imposed sanctions. And, contrary to 
conventional wisdom, those have a pretty good record of success – about 34 
percent historically, according to a 2009 study by the Peterson Institute for 
International Economics. By the study’s reckoning, Israel is particularly 
vulnerable – a small country with a democratic government that will likely be 
targeted by its closest friends and trading partners, namely the US and 
Europe.
It is easy to see how such sanctions could emerge. On the one 
side, Washington, with Europe in tow, comes to regard us as a strategic 
liability; on the other, thanks to the BDS movement as much as to our actions, 
public opinion makes a subtle shift from friendly-neutral to 
neutral-hostile. Fighting the BDS movement may help delay that day, but 
it can’t substitute for an honest effort at peacemaking.

The writer is 
executive business editor at The Media Line. His book Israel: The Knowledge 
Economy and Its Costs will be published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2012.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think Again: More free speech follies</title>
<date>18/2/2010</date>
<content>
Fast and furious was the reaction to the recent accusation by Im Tirtzu, a Zionist student group, that 92 percent of the Goldstone Report’s citations came from 16 NGOs funded by the New Israel Fund. David Newman described Im Tirzu’s efforts, in these pages, as “the latest campaign to trample freedom of speech and political activity within our dying democracy,” pure McCarthyism (“The politics of delegitimization,” February 10). That statement was typical Left-academic fare, both in its casual dismissal of Israel’s “dying” democracy and in its misunderstanding of free speech.




In his classical defense of free speech, John Stuart Mill imagined a free marketplace of ideas, in which truth will usually prevail. But Newman could not be bothered to respond to a single item in Im Tirzu’s meticulously documented report on NIF funding. Instead of refutation, he offered only name-calling.Free speech presupposes criticism, without which there can be no marketplace of competing ideas. It does not mean that no one who has won in the battle of the marketplace of ideas will ever act upon their perception. Free speech is precious precisely because ideas have consequences. The NIF would prefer its donors to think that it is involved in social welfare projects or pushing religious pluralism. It tells donors that it does not fund groups that call for disinvestment or boycotts of Israel, or who negate the existence of Israel as a Jewish state, or which advocate the Palestinian right of return, or which engage in propaganda. Each of these claims is false. Im Tirzu shone a light on the activities of the NIF that the organization would rather hide. But increasing public knowledge is precisely what the marketplace of ideas is supposed to do.Many on the Left employ a double standard concerning free speech. They want their own advocates or professors immunized from criticism – thus Prof. Newman’s outrage at groups, such as Campus Watch, which publicize what professors say in and outside the classroom. On the other hand, they develop an elaborate set of rules to disallow the speech of others as incitement, Islamophobia, homophobia, sexism, racism, or McCarthyism.Neve Gordon is an egregious example. He published a widely disseminated op-ed in The Los Angeles Times calling for a boycott of Israel, but whines when others point out what kind of people head Ben-Gurion University’s Political Science Department and files libel suits to silence critics. Similarly, NIF’s CEO Larry Garber characterized those who take note of NIF’s funding of organizations that call for an end to Israel as a Jewish state as “contemplat[ing] ethnic cleansing.” FINALLY, THE Goldstone Report is a crucial public issue demanding the most robust public debate. The Goldstone findings place Israel in an intolerable bind, unable to defend itself. Goldstone could provide no answer in the Brandeis debate to Ambassador Dore Gold’s question: What should Israel do in response to rocket attacks? If every Israeli response to terrorists using civilian populations as a shield is automatically labeled a “war crime” or “disproportionate,” Israel is left with the unpalatable choice between swallowing terror attacks or risking international condemnation and possible sanctions. All those concerned with Israel’s security have a right to know who laid the groundwork for Goldstone. Shmuel Rosner, also writing in these pages, did not accuse Im Tirzu of stifling free speech. He did, however, describe Im Tirzu’s campaign as “ugly, brutal and quite disgusting” (“I would have done the same,” February 9). Presumably, he was referring to the billboards and newspaper ads depicting Chazan with a horn affixed to her head (a visual pun on the identity of the Hebrew word for fund and for horn). Those ads undoubtedly succeeded in drawing much more media attention to Im Tirtzu’s thoroughly researched 135-page report.I’m not an aesthetician, but it strikes me that the horned Chazan is not nearly as ugly as an internationally circulated letter signed by Chazan on the second day of Operation Cast Lead accusing Israel of a “massacre” of Palestinian civilians, while not even mentioning Hamas rocket attacks on Israel. Nor as ugly as the statement by seven NIF-funded NGOs to the Goldstone Commission claiming that Israel had no military purpose in Operation Cast Lead, and sought only to wreak havoc and destruction on Gaza. Nor as ugly as the letter written by another NIF-sponsored NGO to British Prime Minister Gordon Brown demanding the issuance of arrest warrants against Ehud Olmert, Ehud Barak and Tzipi Livni for their oversight of Operation Cast Lead.Rosner also made the truly startling claim: “The NIF has nothing to do with the Goldstone Report.” Hey, if you have a lot of friends some will turn out to be bad apples.But the 16 NGOs discussed in Im Tirzu’s report were not small fry. Collectively, they received millions of dollars in annual funding from NIF. Nor were their efforts at delegitimizing Israel incidental to their main task. B’Tselem describes its primary task as “changing Israeli policy in the Occupied Territories.” Nor is it just a coincidence that the same groups funded by NIF also received many millions more from those with an established animus to Israel – the Ford Foundation (an NIF partner), the EU and European governments, George Soros’s Open Society Initiative, and mainline Protestant church groups. Far from being unknown to the NIF, the activities of these NGOs were frequently highlighted in “updates” on NIF’s Web site.FINALLY, THE delegitimization of Israel by the 16 NGOs was long-standing. Adalah, which poses as a defender of civil rights of Israeli Arabs, was actively involved in the preparation of the 2001 Durban Conference, which turned into an anti-Israel hate-fest. Adalah helped draft the final resolutions, including one recognizing the right of Palestinian resistance (i.e., terrorism) against Israeli apartheid and another calling for the right of return.The State Department’s 2003 Report on Human Rights Practices, which relied heavily on B’Tselem and Physicians for Human Rights-Israel, both funded by NIF, made no individual mention of any of the 213 Israelis killed and 900 injured in terrorist attacks that year, but detailed Palestinian grievances done to three beds destroyed in a Nablus hospital.Perhaps nothing better captures NIF’s long-standing agenda than a March 23, 2001, letter to The Jerusalem Post by one Evalyn Segal, who describes how she was a “devout Zionist,” until she came to Israel for the first time on a 1989 NIF study tour and had her eyes opened to the “racist contempt of the Israel government ... toward Palestinians [and] how the founders of Zionism schemed from the start to take over, by any means necessary, the whole of Palestine and to cleanse it of Palestinians.”Do I think that Naomi Chazan wants to see Israel destroyed? No. I think she believes that only a quick withdrawal to the 1949 armistice lines can save Israel. And she knows that after the failure of Oslo and the disaster of the Gaza withdrawal, there is no chance that the majority of Israelis will agree with her proscriptions. Therefore she and NIF seek to maximize international pressure on Israel, even at the cost of delegitimizing Israel.
That is not something to which those of us in the majority should remain oblivious.The writer is the director of Jewish Media Resources. He has written a regular column in The Jerusalem Post Magazine since 1997, and is the author of eight biographies of modern Jewish leaders.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think Again: The court comes up empty-handed</title>
<date>24/6/2010</date>
<content>
What could the High Court have been hoping to achieve by ordering 43 parents from Emmanuel jailed for contempt of court for sending their children to a hassidic school in Bnei Brak, after it had banned a separate hassidic track within the Beit Ya’acov school in Emmanuel?All the court succeeded in doing was unifying the diverse haredi community by striking directly at the very heart of haredi life – the right of parents to transmit the Torah to the children, according to their convictions. Even a neighbor who regularly stops me to air his criticisms of the haredi leadership was gung-ho for last week’s Jerusalem protest rally.




The prayer gathering on Thursday drew a crowd estimated at 100,000 or more, and was the antithesis of a series of demonstrations involving a few hundred demonstrators, primarily drawn from Mea She’arim, over the past year. The broader haredi community looked on the latter with horror when they turned violent. Last week’s gathering, called by a broad cross-section of rabbinical authorities, was, by contrast, completely peaceful.BESIDES UNIFYING the diverse haredi community, a second unintended consequence of the court’s sentencing of the parents to jail was to reinforce the most conservative elements in the haredi community. A community that feels besieged will draw the wagons tighter. At a time when many in the haredi community seek greater economic integration into the broader society, the court unwittingly gave credence to those who suspect the government of seeking to destroy haredi society, and dealt a setback to those who do not believe that relations between haredim and non-haredim are a zero-sum game.The court foolishly chose to enter a power struggle it could not win. For haredim raised on stories of Jews throughout history who gave up their lives rather than betray their beliefs, the relatively minor “martyrdom” of two weeks in jail is little deterrent. By sentencing mothers and fathers of large families to jail, Justice Edmond Levy cast himself in the role of Antiochus trying to force each of Hannah’s seven sons to bow down to him.Sunday’s report that he asked the attorney-general to launch a criminal investigation of haredi MKs for their criticism of the court demonstrates the degree to which he has been maddened by the desire to prevail, no matter how Pyrrhic the victory.The court’s contempt order was not only strategically counterproductive, but legally dubious. Contempt orders normally apply only to the parties to a case. The parents were not parties to the original suit against the Education Ministry and Hinuch Atzma’i. Nor did the court’s original order direct them to do anything.So what did the court gain from its efforts? In less than two weeks, the school year ends and the parents will be freed. And the court has already indicated that next year the Slonimer Hassidim will be allowed to establish their own fully independent school in Emmanuel or bus their children to Bnei Brak. Ironically, the ones most hurt by the court’s order are the Sephardi girls currently enrolled in the hassidic track. If no hassidic school is established next year in Emmanuel, they may be forced to return to the general Beit Ya’acov school, where a number of them have complained of being bullied for acting “too Ashkenazi” – i.e. too observant.FROM THE BEGINNING, the dispute over the two tracks in the Emmanuel Beit Ya’acov – hassidic and general – has been falsely portrayed as a case of blatant ethnic discrimination.It would not be surprising if there were few Sephardi girls in the hassidic track – there were, after all, few Sephardim in the areas of Eastern Europe from which Slonimer Hassidim hail – but, in fact, over a quarter of the girls in the hassidic track are of Sephardi origin.Advocate Mordechai Bas, who was appointed by the Education Ministry to evaluate the school, found that while the split of the school was administratively improper, “it was not done with the intention of discriminating against students because of their ethnic background.”“No parent who wanted or wants to register their daughters in the new school, and who was or is prepared to meet the conditions for doing so, has been refused,” Bas determined.One might think that the religious restrictions in the hassidic track are too strict. (My daughter, for instance, would not have been accepted.) In the Internet age, however, when one student exposed to pornographic material can affect an entire class, the trend in all haredi schools has been toward greater protections.And one might support a more inclusive approach, such as that of the Klausenberger Hassidim in Netanya, whose school system includes a very large percentage of Sephardi girls from the orphanage founded by the late Klausenberger Rebbe. But there are dozens of government-supported hassidic girls’ schools in Jerusalem and Bnei Brak made up primarily of students drawn from one hassidic court or another. (Ironically, when other hassidic groups broke away from the general Jerusalem Beit Ya’acov system in 1989, Slonimer Hassidim remained behind with the “Lithuanians” and Sephardim.) The court has explicitly recognized the right of Beit Ya’acov schools to determine criteria of religious conduct. The only thing different in Emmanuel is that the hassidic track shared the same building with the general track.The High Court did not question the finding that no parent seeking admission to the hassidic track had been turned away. Rather, Justice Levy summarily concluded that the underrepresentation of Sephardim in the hassidic track demonstrates ipso facto discriminatory intent. By that standard, the High Court is the most discriminatory institution in the country.Levy is the only one of the 14 permanent members of the current court of Sephardi origin, a consistent pattern since 1948. Former court president Aharon Barak once told a group of journalists that it would be impossible to increase Sephardi representation on the court without diluting its quality. Yet that remark was largely covered up by the media.AFTER THE court, the most overwhelmingly Ashkenazi institution in the country is broadcast journalism. Yet the media have been quick to hurl the racism label at Slonimer Hassidim. I listened to radio interviews in which the interviewer simply ignored hassidic parents when they cited the significant number of Sephardim in the hassidic track, and returned, without pause, to badgering them about why they discriminated against Sephardim.The AP report of last week’s demonstrations reflected the Israeli media in willfully ignoring the undisputed fact that no Sephardi parent had been discriminated against: “Parents of European, or Ashkenazi, descent at a girls’ school in the West Bank settlement of Emmanuel don’t want their daughters to study with schoolgirls of Mideast and North African descent, known as Sephardim.” Last Friday’s front-page headline in The Jerusalem
Post described the hassidic track in Emmanuel as a
“segregated” school – a characterization about as accurate as the
frequent characterization of Israel as an “apartheid state.” Indeed there are numerous parallels between the recent media treatment
of haredim and the world media’s treatment of Israel – something
perhaps worth pondering.Is the haredi community free of all taint of ethnic prejudice? Of
course not. There are yeshivot, for instance, where a Sephardi
applicant from an impeccable haredi home will need to be better than
his Ashkenazi counterpart to be accepted – a point noted critically by
numerous haredi commentators last week. But Emmanuel was not a reflection of that prejudice. And unless one
believes, as some do, that it does not matter that Muhammad al-Dura was
not shot by Israeli bullets because other Palestinian children may have
been, it is an injustice to report the dispute in Emmanuel that way.
The writer is the director of Jewish Media Resources. He has
written a regular column in The Jerusalem Post Magazine
since 1997, and is the author of eight biographies of modern
Jewish leaders.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think Again: The taint of partisanship</title>
<date>19/8/2010</date>
<content>
The cover of a recent Time magazine featured a beautiful Afghani teenager with 
her nose cut off, reportedly by the Taliban for attempting to flee from abusive 
family members. The cover posed the question: “What happens if we leave 
Afghanistan?” (Child marriages and other forms of abuse of women are standard 
practice in much of the Muslim world. Hamas, for instance, recently arranged 
marriages for 450 girls, most of whom appear on Al-Jazeera to be between five 
and seven.) The horrifying Time cover made a moral argument: It would be wrong 
to abandon Afghani women to their fate and allow the Taliban to once again take 
over the country. That argument also justifies not only the initial invasion of 
Afghanistan – under the Taliban, Afghani women were not allowed to leave their 
homes unattended by a male relative or to be treated by a male physician – but 
the Second Gulf War as well (even absent any claim that Saddam Hussein possessed 
weapons of mass destruction). More than one million people died in wars 
initiated by Saddam; he gassed tens of thousands of his own people; he and his 
equally sadistic sons thought nothing of dropping people alive into giant meat 
grinders; and, in the latter years of Saddam’s regime, 60,000-70,000 children 
died annually of malnutrition, while he diverted billions of dollars to 
maintaining his state security apparatus. Iraqi refugee Zainab al Suwaji 
describes how in anticipation of liberation in 1991, she and her fellow Iraqis 
found themselves speaking openly to another human being for the first time in 
their lives, without fear of government informers.Yet when George W. 
Bush was president, the Iraq War was inevitably described as “immoral” – and 
self-evidently so – by those who today fret about a precipitous American 
withdrawal from Afghanistan.




The power and resources of the United States 
to right every wrong in the world are limited.Even more limited is its 
ability to ensure that the tyrants it deposes will not be replaced by others no 
less vicious. But the criterion for determining whether the employment of 
American power is morally justified should not be whether the president is a 
Democrat or a Republican.BEN-GURION UNIVERSITY (BGU) recently provided 
another example of the application of diametrically opposed principles to reach 
desired political results. BGU is the home of Neve Gordon, a tenured professor 
of political science, who regularly denounces Israel and called last year for an 
international boycott of Israel in The Los Angeles Times. Recently BGU informed 
Professor Yerucham Leavitt, an emeritus professor teaching a class in medical 
ethics, that he would not be rehired, after he created a classroom stir by 
expressing his doubts about the ability of same-sex couples to raise healthy 
children.BGU could have argued that Gordon and Leavitt have nothing to 
do with one another: It could not fire Gordon, under Israeli law, even for 
seeking to undermine the university at which he teaches, but owed Leavitt no 
obligation to be rehired for another semester.But there is a problem 
with that distinction.Long before Gordon had tenure, he regularly 
denounced Israel as an apartheid state and illegally entered Yasser Arafat’s 
Ramallah compound to serve as a human shield. Even then BGU president Rivka 
Carmi defended him on free speech grounds and labeled his critics 
“Kahanists.”In the Leavitt case, however, university spokesperson Faye 
Bittker argued that academic freedom and freedom of expression or thought were 
irrelevant because the university “cannot tolerate sexist remarks made in the 
classroom.”Leavitt, she said, had “blatantly crossed the line,” and 
offended a number of students by saying that if he can control his attraction to 
pretty coeds, so can homosexuals.In Leavitt’s case, the governing 
principle was that students must not be offended; in the case of the pre-tenure 
Gordon, the governing principle was a university lecturer’s freedom of 
expression, no matter how many students were offended by Gordon’s political 
posturing in and out of the classroom. The two principles are irreconcilable: 
Freedom of speech includes the freedom to offend.As far as BGU is 
concerned, what emerges is the following rule: describing Israel as an 
“apartheid” state is legitimate; making comments that hurt the feelings of 
homosexuals or female students is not.THE ISRAELI Supreme Court has been 
even more egregious in creating different free speech rules for different folks. 
Two incitement cases decided nearly a decade ago by the same panel of the Court 
on the same day provide the most glaring example. In the first case, the court 
overturned the conviction of Arab journalist Mohammed Jabarin for writing that 
he only truly found his identity when throwing a Molotov cocktail. The court 
gave a wildly implausible reading of the anti-terrorism statute, limiting 
incitement to terrorism to support for specific terrorist organizations. That 
approach was, at least, consistent with traditional free speech jurisprudence, 
which favors the narrowest possible reading to statutes limiting 
speech.But the same day, the court took the rare step of overturning its 
own acquittal of Binyamin Kahane on charges of “arousing strife between 
communities,” for calling on the IDF – not individuals – to wipe out the 
“vipers’ nest in Umm el-Fahm.”The court neither offered a limiting 
reading of the statute nor found any chilling effect on free speech in the 
statute’s vagueness. Nor did the Supreme Court acknowledge the glaring tension 
between the two decisions, from which the only possible rule that could be 
extracted was: Jews can be convicted of incitement; Arabs 
can’t.CONSISTENT APPLICATION of principles is a necessary but not 
sufficient condition for clear thought and moral behavior. The principles 
themselves must be well-reasoned. In last week’s Torah reading, we read, 
“[B]ribery blinds the eyes of the wise and makes crooked the words of the 
righteous.”The commentators are puzzled by the double language: What 
does “making crooked the words of the righteous” add to “blinding the eyes of 
the wise?” One answer given is that the first phrase refers to the actual case 
in which the bribe is tendered. The second refers to subsequent cases decided by 
the same judge, even where no bribe was tendered. No one wants to admit that his 
judgment was purchased. Rather he will seek to convince himself that his 
original judgment was correct, and the bribe was nothing more than a reward for 
deciding correctly.But to preserve the illusion that he was unaffected 
by the bribe, every subsequent decision rendered by that judge will have to 
conform to the result in the original case. And thus every subsequent decision 
will be perverted by the original act of bribery.We are currently in the 
month of Elul, which is traditionally devoted to preparing ourselves for the 
judgment of Rosh Hashanah. Fundamental to that process is re-examining our first 
principles to make sure that they are free of any of those forces that can 
distort our judgment – whether it be that of political partisanship or of our 
baser desires.NOTE: Several weeks ago, I wrote that Advocate Mordechai 
Bass, a former director-general of the state comptroller's office, who was 
appointed by the Education Ministry to investigate the Bais Yaakov school in 
Emmanuel, is non-religious. That is incorrect. I regret the error and apologize 
to Mr. Bass.
The writer is the director of Jewish Media 
Resources.
He has written a regular column in The Jerusalem Post Magazine 
since 1997, and is the author of eight biographies of modern Jewish leaders.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Turning the tables on BDS</title>
<date>6/11/2010</date>
<content>
The North American Jewish community has taken an important step to counter the 
delegitimization campaigns targeting Israel. Directed by the Jewish Federations 
of North America (JFNA) in partnership with the Jewish Council of Public Affairs 
(JCPA), the Israel Action Network should be a vital resource to combat these 
assaults.To emerge victorious in this political war, the network must be 
armed with detailed information about the opposition, and implement an effective 
counterstrategy on this basis. This involves distributing information to college 
students and active community members, so they can name and shame the groups 
that lead and fund demonization. NGO Monitor and other groups can provide the 
Israel Action Network with this information without reinventing this particular 
wheel.




The challenge is formidable. In 2001 at the UN World Conference 
Against Racism in Durban, South Africa, more than 1,500 anti-Israel NGOs adopted 
a plan of action that highlights the boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) 
movement. In the decade that followed, these groups exploited human rights 
rhetoric and international legal claims to push this immoral 
objective.The Jewish community has been largely playing catch-up ever 
since. When the NGOs and BDSers invade campuses, Jewish students and local 
communities scramble to respond. Similarly, when the demonizers publicize calls 
for boycotts at local food co-ops, the community responds.While the need 
to refute their allegations is clear, students and community groups must also 
adopt a proactive strategy to undermine the credibility and influence of these 
groups. This strategy will marginalize many of the BDS movement’s central 
actors, and expose the lie that BDS is a grassroots protest against Israeli 
policy.WITH LIMITED resources, NGO Monitor has demonstrated that this 
approach can be very effective. Based on detailed research, the government of 
Canada cut funding ostensibly provided for human rights and development, but 
which was actually used for hatred and incitement. Similar discussions are under 
way in European governments regarding funding for some of the more poisonous 
NGOs involved in BDS.And in the Jewish communities, this information has 
allowed donors to make informed decisions, providing funds for groups that 
contribute to Israel in a positive way, as distinguished from demonizers and BDS 
proponents. The new JFNA initiative will provide much-needed resources to expand 
this process.For example, the organization known as Electronic Intifada 
is very active in BDS efforts, routinely abusing terms like “apartheid” and 
“ethnic cleansing.” Nigel Parry, a cofounder of EI, conflates victims of terror 
with terror leaders, and justifies Palestinian mortars fired into Israeli 
settlements by stating: “The dilemma in which the Palestinians find themselves 
is like that of a man who, falsely imprisoned for most of his life and demonized 
by society, finds himself in a dark room being raped by a highly decorated 
prison guard, when... he suddenly notices a rocket launcher lying within reach.” 
Parry also compared Israel’s targeted killing of Hamas head Ahmed Yassin to a 
“bus bombing.”EI’s other founder, Ali Abunimah, who appears on many 
campuses to promote BDS, calls for a one-state solution, meaning the elimination 
of Israel. Abunimah also compares Israel to Nazi Germany, referring to the 
Israeli press as “Der Sturmer.”Other BDS groups must be exposed for 
their overtly anti-Semitic language. Leaders of Sabeel, a Palestinian Christian 
group, employ “Palestinian liberation theology,” which identifies Palestinians 
with Jesus and revives the concept of Jewish deicide for political gains. In an 
Easter message, Sabeel founder Naim Ateek told followers: “It seems to many of 
us that Jesus is on the cross again with thousands of crucified Palestinians 
around him... The Israeli government crucifixion system is operating 
daily.”This rhetoric, fraught with deep-seated anti-Semitic imagery, is 
common at Sabeel events in churches throughout North America. This needs to be 
confronted systematically.In addition, an expanded framework for 
combating the BDS movement will allow for the distinction between hard-core 
anti-Israel campaigners and those who have been persuaded to lend their names to 
this cause. It is important to develop alliances with the latter group, 
including labor union members, Protestant churchgoers, students and university 
professors who will find the hatred that emanates from the demonizers repulsive. 
If we can convince these individuals to end their passive support for BDS, the 
NGOs that promote these campaigns will find themselves exposed as the fringe 
groups they really are.The committed and organized Jewish community will 
be a great asset in these efforts. With federations and community relations 
councils throughout the country, the infrastructure exists to implement this 
proactive strategy. We need to face our opponents strategically, rather than on 
an ad hoc reactive basis.Exposing their abuses and funding sources, and 
forcing their campaign leaders and participants to respond to us will change the 
dynamic in this battle.
Gerald Steinberg is professor of political 
studies at Bar-Ilan University and president of NGO Monitor, a Jerusalem-based 
research institution that promotes accountability and transparency among 
nongovernmental organizations that claim to protect human rights in the Middle 
East. Jason Edelstein is communications director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Uncomfortable connections</title>
<date>7/5/2010</date>
<content>
A group of European Jews, apparently working under the premise that Israel’s leaders lack reason, issued a Web-based petition last weekend entitled “European Jewish Call for Reason.” As of Thursday, the petition, dubbed JCall, had been signed by about 5,000 self-defined Jewish citizens of Europe – including respected intellectuals such as Bernard Henri-Lévy and Alain Finkielkraut – though the establishment European Jewish organizations have criticized the initiative. JCall denounces Israeli settlements as “morally and politically wrong” and beseeches the European Union and the US to “put pressure on both parties” to “achieve a reasonable and rapid solution to the Israeli-Palestine conflict.”




Its raison d’etre and very name are modeled after J Street, a Washington-based lobby group with widening grassroots support. But JCall is currently nothing more than an online petition. Its drafters, who include the chairman of Peace Now in France, David Chelma – a former IDF officer born in Tunisia who served in the Yom Kippur War before moving to France in 1977 – were careful, to their credit, to acknowledge that “the final decision [about a peace agreement with the Palestinians] belongs to the sovereign people of Israel.”Still, one cannot escape the sad irony inherent in the initiative: Here they are, the remnant of European Jewry, expressing their lacking faith in the political reason of their own brethren – the Jewish leaders of Israel – while choosing to placing their own destinies in the hands of Germany, France, Austria and other countries that failed miserably to protect their Jewish citizens during the Holocaust.Europe’s historical baggage did not escape the authors of the petition. Indeed, they noted that “history confers on Europe a particular responsibility in this region of the world.”It is not, however, the responsibility to respect the sovereign Jewish nation’s decisions as it seeks to protect its people more effectively than Europe did seven decades ago. Rather, JCall is imploring Europe to press a solution on Israel, and thus essentially declaring that it trusts EU nations to champion Israel’s existential interests more effectively than our democratically elected government. Most galling of all, these Diaspora Jews proceed in their advocacy knowing that the violent consequences of any failed initiative they would help impose would be paid not by themselves, far away in Europe, but by us – “unreasonable” Israelis who might be forced to live next to a hastily created, terrorist-sponsoring Palestinian state in the West Bank. Apparently unthinkable to JCall, and arrogant others like it, is the possibility that Israel has been unable to reach a viable peace with the Palestinians because of the other side’s intransigence, and that Israeli leaders’ caution today, even as they seek a two-state partnership, is warranted.JCALL RAISES a question about Diaspora Jews’ fascination, even obsession, with Israel. One might ask why many Diaspora Jews feel the need to maintain such close scrutiny of a country in which they have chosen not to live. Not all exiled peoples maintain such strong emotional ties to their mother countries.Obviously, part of the reason is the centrality of the Land of Israel in Jewish liturgy, theology, history and culture, whether as an idyllic symbol of redemption or as the spiritual and physical homeland of all Jews. But another part of the explanation is some Diaspora Jews’ discomfort with the way Zionism is being represented in Europe.“The word Zionist has become an insult in France,” Roger Cukierman, the former president of the French Jewish umbrella group CRIF and vice president of the World Jewish Congress, explained to the JTA recently. “In our streets we hear ‘Israel murderer, Israel apartheid.’ They set
fire to the flag of Israel, they boycott its products,” added
Cukierman, who said he was empathetic to the JCall initiative – though
he did not sign, out of concern that it would split European Jewry.True, visibly Jewish Europeans often pay a heavy price for anti-Israel
sentiments. Admittedly, it is difficult to constantly defend Israeli
policies against a flood of anti-Zionist criticism. Perhaps signing a
petition critical of Israel makes life easier. 
The sad truth is that there are no instant solutions to the
disproportionately negative bias heaped on Israel. But seeking to force
Israel into a potentially dangerous imposed deal with a Palestinian
people not yet prepared to live side-by-side with a Jewish state is no
solution for us here in Zion, and it is no answer to what some of
European Jewry regards as an uncomfortable Zionist connection.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>What apartheid state?</title>
<date>1/3/2010</date>
<content>
Today marks the beginning of the Sixth Annual Israel Apartheid Week taking place in more than 40 cities worldwide. Students will be marking this occasion with a strong call for the boycott, divestment and sanctions against the one Jewish state. The week is said to be from March 1 to 14. One can only imagine that the organizers’ definition of the “week” is as incorrect as their definition of “apartheid “when applied to the State of Israel.My first visit to South Africa was in 1987, when I was invited by WIZO South Africa to address various groups throughout the country. I will never forget the horror I felt when in Durban seeing large notices saying “black only beach,” “white only beach.” This was just the beginning of coming face-to-face with a regime that separated every aspect of life for its citizens. Separate transport, separate health clinics, separate schooling – it went on and on.




Today, I live in Herzliya Pituah, close to the marina. We often wander down to there to enjoy the wonderful view of boats as well as to enjoy all the facilities of a seaside resort. There is never an occasion when we do not see a cross section of what makes up Israel’s multifaceted population. Whether the haredi section of the community or the Muslim and Christian Arab sector – all are enjoying what this seashore city has to offer and doing so together. This is something of which we can be exceedingly proud.Last year my husband was admitted to Meir Hospital in Kfar Saba. The doctor who admitted him was an Arab, the nurse who attended him was a Muslim and the guy who was cleaning the floors sported a kippa. My husband’s hospitalization took place in August. The gardens of the hospital were full of both Jewish and Arab patients and their families sitting together on the lawns. Is this “apartheid”?Israel has given refuge to thousands of Africans – many of whom have made their way across the Egyptian border to find a home here. A number have escaped the horrors of Darfur to find both homes and jobs here – these were the lucky ones to have escaped being shot by the Egyptian border guards as they strove to find shelter in our little country.SADLY, OUR Jewish students on campus throughout the world will be facing a two-pronged attack in these coming weeks, for it is not only the Palestinian students who will be leading the campaign but also some of Israel’s own academics and politicians. In London, for example, as this newspaper has already reported, Adi Ophir, an associate professor at Tel Aviv University, will be opening “Israel Apartheid Week” at the School of Oriental and African Studies, the London School of Economics and University College London. At Oxford University, Israeli-born academics Ilan Pappe and Avi Shlaim together with Knesset member Jamal Zahalka, chairman of the Balad party, will be addressing students on “Israel’s apartheid regime.”If ever there was a contradiction in terms this has to be it – the freedom accorded current salaried members of an Israeli university together with a member of Israel’s parliament having the freedom to travel abroad in order to ask that the world boycott, divest and take out sanctions against the country that has both educated them and continues to provide many of them with a livelihood.Having come from the UK and as a former chair of the Hillel Foundation working closely with the Union of Jewish Students, I am particularly familiar with the challenges confronting our Jewish students on campus. What is especially disturbing is the increasing number of Jewish students who are taking on board the overwhelming anti-Israel rhetoric with which they are being confronted. They simply do not have the tools or the knowledge to cope with this situation. When the chair of the Israel Society at Cambridge University sees fit to cancel a visit of Israeli historian Benny Morris for fear of upsetting the Islamic Society, the time has come to recognize the seriousness of the challenge.It is the students at universities today that will provide the
leadership of tomorrow in their respective countries. Surely it is
beholden upon Jewish communities worldwide together with the State of
Israel to accord priority to ensuring the younger generation is given
the facts rather than the fiction to which they are being subjected on
a daily basis. Better still, let us bring many more here so that they
can see for themselves the reality that is Israel.
The writer is co-chair Europeans for Israel and Public Relations chair World WIZO.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>When pastors who threaten to burn books become celebrities</title>
<date>14/9/2010</date>
<content>
So, is that what it takes to become a celebrity these days? Threaten to burn 
someone else’s Bible, and declare his religion to be satanic, and you are 
instantly the center of the news? I wonder who is the bigger fool – Terry Jones, 
the Florida pastor who is an embarrassment to loving Christians everywhere with 
his original plans to burn Korans at his church on September 11, and who is the 
author of Islam Is of the Devil, or we, the public who gulp down his story as if 
it’s of interest.




There are times when I’m embarrassed to work in media. 
How did an attention-seeking nonentity with barely enough followers to fill a 
phone booth become an international personality and provoke a global furor? And 
who elevated this silly story to global news prominence? It has to do with just 
how inane the media has become. Jones is filler for a 24-hour news cycle which 
is all scandal all the time. And if you can’t find a scandal, invent one. There 
is nothing novel about the existence of religious bigots, and it’s certainly not 
newsworthy. But allow me to teach Pastor Jones a lesson from Jesus’s famous 
pronouncement in Matthew 7:16, “By their fruits you shall know them.”The 
holiness or devilishness of any religion comes down not to its articles of faith 
but to the deeds of its practitioners. The crusaders who slaughtered untold 
numbers of Jews in Europe as they marched to meet the Islamic infidel in the 
Holy Land were of the devil, even if Christianity is not. Likewise, the Spanish 
inquisitors who tortured nonbelievers and burned them at the stake were satanic, 
even as their faith, Catholicism, remains holy.IN THAT sense, the whole 
debate as to whether President Barack Obama is a Muslim is ridiculous. Yes, he 
isn’t, and has said time and again that he is a Christian. But what if he were a 
Muslim? I couldn’t care less. My problem with Obama is not his faith or lack 
thereof, but his policies.If Obama were an Islamic president of the 
United States who berated instead of coddled Arab dictators like King Abdullah 
of Saudi Arabia, he would have my vote. If he were a practicing Muslim who 
promoted democracy across the Middle East rather than Kissingerian realpolitik, 
I would endorse him. If he were a devout Muslim first magistrate of the United 
States who regularly spoke out against the abuses of women in the Islamic world 
and gave a prime-time address condemning Iran’s plans to stone a woman to death, 
I would deeply respect him. If he were a Muslim who prayed in the Oval Office 
five times a day, fasted all of Ramadan and then lectured Hamas and Hizbullah to 
stop putting all their money into rockets against Israel and instead into 
universities for their people, he would inspire me.The problem with 
Obama is that he does none of these things, rarely holding the Islamic world 
accountable for its absence of freedoms, refusing to personally condemn Iran for 
its plan to stone a woman to death, and putting the pressure on Binyamin 
Netanyahu to again freeze settlements rather than place the blame for the 
failure of progress squarely on the real culprits – the terrorist organizations 
of Hamas and Hizbullah, both Iranian proxies.I have devout Muslim 
friends who love Israel and wish Arab countries emulated its democratic 
institutions, just courts and freedom of worship and press. Likewise, I have 
God-fearing Islamic friends who love America, would fight and die to protect it 
and believe it is the light in an increasingly dark world.I would 
support anyone like this for president over, say, Jimmy Carter, a devout and 
self-declared evangelical Christian who goes against the stalwart evangelical 
Christian support for Israel and has the chutzpa to call Israel, a thriving 
democracy, an apartheid state. I would take a competent Muslim president who 
believes in lowering the burden of taxation, controlling runaway spending and 
vastly reducing the appalling federal deficit over a president like Carter who 
ran the country into the ground.As a Jew, I am trained to judge someone 
by their actions not their beliefs. I will choose an atheist president who loves 
and respects all of humanity and would put an end to the genocide in Sudan over 
a religious president who believes that we Americans have no such 
responsibilities to people beyond our border.If an American president 
believed in elves and the Easter bunny but fought Taliban misogynists who pour 
acid on women for attending university, I would follow him.And if an 
American president spoke Klingon in his private moments and worshiped Capt. 
James T. Kirk of the Starship Enterprise as a divinity, but set up an 
alternative to the United Nations, to be known as the United Democratic Nations, 
open only to governments that were of the people and by the people, I would 
support him, too.In short, I could not care less what a person believes; 
it’s what they do that matters.Therefore, I will reject any pastor who 
claims to be religious but is a narrow bigot. I love my Christian 
brothers and 
sisters, but not those who deny the essential biblical truth that every 
human 
being – Jew, Christian, Muslim, Buddhist, Hindu, agnostic or atheist – 
is 
equally God’s child and that we have a responsibility to encourage 
people of 
faith rather than condemn their religion.I trust that my evangelical 
Christian brothers and sisters, who love freedom and are 
disproportionately 
represented in the US military, fighting and dying for democracy in 
Islamic 
counties, will identify Pastor Jones as the bad fruit of which Jesus was
 
speaking.
The writer is the international 
best-selling author of 23 
books. He has just published Renewal: A Guide to the 
Values-Filled Life. Follow 
him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Whither Israel’s al-Jazeera</title>
<date>3/8/2010</date>
<content>
As one who has spent the last 12 years speaking for Israel to Jewish and non- Jewish audiences worldwide the question most frequently asked is “Why is Israel’s hasbara so poor?”One of the answers to this question is that from Israel’s inception, the powers that be have accorded little significance to advocacy for Israel. From the earliest days the thinking has been “What we do is important not what we say.”




The battle today is not only a military one. Today’s vitally important battle – that Israel is losing – is being played out daily in the media. The power of the picture is immense as we saw with the recent flotilla experience or as we remember in September 2000, the second day of the second intifada, a French journalist filmed Mohamed al-Dura (the Palestinian boy caught up in the Gaza crossfire) lying in the arms of his father having succumbed to a fatal shot “apparently” from an Israeli bullet. One minute’s footage distributed throughout the world became the emotive charge that fuelled the hatred of Israelis and became the emblem of martyrdom of the Palestinians. It matters little that some years on it appears that Israel could not have possibly been responsible for the death of Mohamed – it even being suggested that he is alive and well.What is crystal clear is the detrimental manner in which the Jewish state is projected throughout the global media. Demonstrations against Israel are becoming a regular viewing occurrence with none stranger than the sight of feminists demonstrating in Hyde Park, London during the second Lebanese war saying “We are all Hizbullah.” Today Israel is the victim of both verbal and pictorial terrorism.The BBC operates a world service – both on the radio and TV – that is without question biased. At best, the picture conveyed is distorted and, at worst, projects disinformation. If they invite someone to give the view from Israel, too often they will choose an individual who is known for his or her anti-Israel views. When this is coupled with the Palestinian representative the views expressed are basically the same anti-Israel rhetoric.THE ARAB and Muslim world have their “al-Jazeera” English language TV network operating 24 hours a day. The programs are geared to give their wealthy Arab financial backers the pictures they wish to project worldwide ensuring the way they are keen to be seen and supported internationally. It is a highly professional and effective advocacy vehicle.How is Israel confronting the battle of the media? Sadly we are not. The 25- minute IBA News in English is frequently dropped or – often unannounced – changed to another time when and if something “more important,” such as a football or basketball game, takes place.The IBA radio news in English (15 minutes three times a day) is available at the most unsociable hours both here and abroad with the constant threat of being eliminated because of financial constraints.With these pathetic limitations, it is impossible to convey a meaningful picture of Israel’s reality.Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and Minister of Information and the Diaspora (also in charge of the Israel Broadcasting Authority), Yuli Edelstein have both spoken about the need for an English language al- Jazeera for Israel. We are a country known for its technological and scientific expertise – we lead the world in R & D. We are recognized internationally as the supplier of the most sophisticated electronic equipment yet we fail to recognize the need to fight today’s battle with today’s tools. The TV picture is all powerful.Let us dream for a few moments – what could we show on our own al-Jazeera? Aside from presenting the news as we see it (how important this is) we would have the opportunity of taking our viewers into our hospitals, showing how in this “apartheid state” Palestinian patients from the Palestinian territories, as well as Hamas-controlled Gaza, are being given full medical treatment. Palestinian children are given bone marrow transplants to beat their cancer and sophisticated life-saving heart operations.We could meet many of the Arab doctors and nurses who hold senior positions in our hospitals. We might spend some time speaking with the plastic surgeons who have carried out numerous extensive operations on the Israeli victims of terror.We could take the viewer down to Sderot to meet the population there and find out the traumatic psychological and physical stresses which the men, women and children in the South have had to cope with and continue to experience. We could show the true picture of how Hamas utilizes its civilian population as human shields placing IDF soldiers in a no win predicament.On a more positive note we could show the many areas where Israeli Jews 
and Israeli Arabs work play and live together in harmony. We could 
introduce them to a number of organizations whose sole raison d’être is 
bringing together Jews and Arabs for a more meaningful understanding of 
each another. Perhaps they might like to visit the WIZO Day Care Center 
in Jaffa where Jewish, Muslim and Christian children learn about each 
others special Festivals as well as the meaning of their names or the 
WIZO Single Parent Club (also in Jaffa) where – irrespective of religion
 – the participants find support from the professional guidance as well 
as from each other.We are constantly being told by our enemies that we Jews are “running 
the world” Perhaps there is someone out there “running the world” who is
 prepared to invest in our al-Jazeera. At this moment when Israel and 
the Jewish people are feeling the cold wind of isolation surely we must 
give serious consideration to opening a window onto the real Israel. 
Birthright found Michael Steinhardt and Charles Bronfman. Israel is 
awaiting clones of these two outstanding philanthropists to do the same 
for Israel’s image to the outside world. The time has long past for just
 acknowledging the problem. The time for action has arrived. This is a 
battle Israel cannot afford to lose.
The writer is public relations chair 
World WIZO and co-chair Europeans for Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>WikaLikes: US ME policy recalibration, Dec. 2010</title>
<date>17/12/2010</date>
<content>
Friday, 10 December 2010, 15:25S E C R E T STATE 




NOFORN DECL: 11/18/2035 SUBJECT: (S) REORIENTATION OF POLICY PRIORITIES: ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT 1. (S/NF) SUMMARY: This cable sets out amended assessments, priorities for relevant interactions on Israeli-Palestinian Issues (paragraph 2-end) by Department personnel and other Country Team members.A. (S/NF) The directive results from a recent Washington-led review of progress and sets forth contextual priorities intended to guide participating USG agencies and personnel as they deal with Israeli-Palestinian Issues. The priorities may also help personnel in productive reporting and collection, including formulation of Mission Strategic Plans.B. (S/NF) Important information responsive to this directive is available to non-State members of the Country Team whose agencies participated in the review leading to its issuance. COMs, DCMs, and State reporting officers can assist by coordinating with other Country Team members to encourage relevant implementation through their own or State Department channels.2. (S/NF) Amended assessments, opportunities for progress on Israeli-Palestinian Issues - priority issues Settlement freeze A. (S/NF) USG focus on obtaining freeze in Israeli settlements in the West Bank for additional 90 days has been discontinued. Recognized that previous 10-month freeze was wasted by Palestinian Authority, which failed to enter direct talks in good faith. PM Netanyahu considered USG request for additional 90-day freeze, though concerned about domestic political fallout. Contacts with PA and Department assessment indicated that new freeze would achieve little: Israel reluctant to discuss border issues in isolation from other Final Status Issues including security, refugees, Jerusalem; Palestinians seeking Israeli border concessions, unwilling to engage on other issues.B. (S/NF) Status of Israeli settlements, regarded as illegitimate by USG, constitutes Final Status Issue. Previous focus complicated rather than smoothed diplomatic engagement; ignored demonstrable Israeli readiness to resolve issue (Gaza disengagement 2005, etc.). USG affirms previous Administration understandings with Israeli government (President George W. Bush to PM Sharon, 2004, “In light of new realities on the ground, including already existing major Israeli populations centers, it is unrealistic to expect that the outcome of final status negotiations will be a full and complete return to the armistice lines of 1949…),” regarding certain sympathy for expansion of sovereignty to encompass major West Bank settlement blocs in the context of land swaps to be demarcated in Final Status Agreements. USG expects Israeli government not to expand “footprint” of existing settlements, to avoid provocative construction beyond pre-1967 lines including East Jerusalem.Indirect talks, refugee issue, withdrawals, security forces C. (S/NF) USG now working indirectly via relevant personnel to broker initial framework accord, offering bridging proposals where appropriate. USG conscious of PA President Abbas’s failure to capitalize on former PM Olmert’s terms (2008). USG conscious of unhelpful PA inflation of scale of refugee problem, untenability of ongoing formal demand for right of return. USG sees Arab League Peace Initiative as useful starting point for resolution of refugee issue, emphasizes that resolution will involve only minor Israelisanctioned family reunification inflow to Israel, with main focus on USG-led international community offering financial compensation and, where appropriate, relocation opportunities.D. (S/NF) USG aware of danger of premature Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank given precedent of HAMAS violent takeover in Gaza (2007); replication in the West Bank would render entire Israeli territory vulnerable to rocket attack. USG appreciates progress in training PA security forces under USG oversight, appreciates forces’ maintenance of law and order during Israeli-Gaza conflict (2008-9); USG wary of forces’ potential abuse against Israel if negotiations fail, wary of unproven capacity in potential face-off against HAMAS.Other international players E. (S/NF) Previous USG emphasis on policy reconciliation with European partners deemed counterproductive. Certain EU government positions unhelpfully influenced by factors including Muslim demographics, media bias, misconceptions on Israeli room for maneuver, underestimation of ongoing regional hostility to Israel, ignorance (Israel a fraction of a percent of regional territory; state not established in place of previous state of “Palestine,” etc.), anti- Semitism (not to be overstated), trending to a climate placing unrealistic expectation on Israel. USG rejects counterproductive temptation among some EU governments to ascribe blame to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict for extremist stance and actions among minority of their own domestic Muslim communities.F. (S/NF) USG concerned by certain domestic misrepresentation of 
Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, and of USG efforts to resolve it. 
Unfortunate US media claims that USG is engaged in “assisting suicide” 
for Israel, indulging purported Israeli time-wasting, condemning Israel 
to apartheid/pariah status, etc., in turn embraced by minority of 
domestic legislators, echo more widespread European overestimation of 
Israel’s capacity to resolve conflict alone, underestimation of 
Palestinian rejectionism.G. (S/NF) USG, concerned at consequent 
international and potential domestic delegitimation of steadfast ally 
Israel, and potential erosion of Israeli QME, sees imperative to lead on
 realistic approach to Israeli-Palestinian issues, even at cost of 
consensus with other Quartet partners. USG thoroughly conscious of dangers for direct parties, the US interest, of failure to make urgent headway.3. (S/NF) Amended assessments, opportunities for progress on Israeli-Palestinian Issues - wider context Israeli government - stability and orientation A.
 USG personnel and agencies assess: PM Netanyahu, relatively stable in 
power, with potential support from opposition Kadima if possibility of 
negotiated breakthrough triggers departure of right-wing coalition 
partners. Unwilling to match Olmert, Barak terms. Rhetoric suggests 
shares USG assessment of untenability of status quo; however, 
negotiating stance and actions inconclusive, even unhelpful. In 
all contacts, reiterates justice of Israeli claims in West Bank; raises 
fundamental injustice of Palestinian demand for no Jewish presence in 
West Bank after withdrawal, contrasted with equality within Israel for 
substantial non-Jewish populace. Assertion that Israel has no 
desire to rule over the Palestinians seems genuine; apparently prepared 
for Israeli concessions in Jerusalem and regarding security arrangements
 in Jordan Valley. Concerned at security threat to Israel after any West
 Bank withdrawal; highlights the absence of viable solution for Gaza. Uncompromising in opposing right of return.B.
 PM Netanyahu has encouraged “economic peace” in West Bank, fueling 
economic growth there by easing freedom of movement, access, etc, 
bolstered by Quartet envoy Blair. Reluctant to give ground in 
substantive negotiations on Final Status Issues, because of domestic 
political constraints and own traditional ideology, but acutely 
conscious of importance of ties to USG, therefore susceptible to 
cautious risk-taking in context of improved faith in USG.Palestinian
 government - stability and orientation C. USG personnel and agencies 
assess: PA President Abbas heading unreformed Fatah movement, nearing 
end of political career, reluctant to take personal risk. Unwilling
 or unable to concertedly encourage policy of reconciliation with 
Israel, evidenced by ongoing incitement and delegitimation (see November
 PAendorsed study discounting Jewish connection to Western Wall); 
occasional comments, when abroad, in recognition of Jewish rights in 
region met with heavy criticism within Fatah and beyond.D. President Abbas formally committed to demand for right of return, although hints at opportunities for compromise. Inconsistent
 on possibility of West Bank land swaps to resolve settlement bloc 
issue. Unhelpfully encouraged by numerous international players to 
believe he can establish Palestinian state without confronting Final 
Status Issues. PM Fayyad, presiding over admirable progress toward 
institution-building in Palestinian West Bank territories with summer 
2011 statehood timetable, lacks public backing to promote compromise, 
debilitated by difficult relationship with Abbas.4. (S/NF) Amended assessments, opportunities for progress on Israeli-Palestinian Issues - recalibration pointers Israel A.
 Israeli mainstream commitment, interest in accommodation hitherto 
underestimated by this Administration. Israeli consensus recognizes 
geo-strategic, demographic disadvantages; sees imperative for normalized
 relations. This evidenced by Barak (2000) and Olmert (2008) terms, 
notably (Olmert) including willingness to relinquish sovereignty 
asserted post-1967 to paramount Jewish sites in “Holy Basin.” Netanyahu 
instinctively less forthcoming than PM predecessors; distressingly 
unforthcoming in aborted direct talks (September 2010), albeit in 
unpromising context. Israeli public prepared to oust PM seen missing 
opportunities for peace (1999 elections). Little such current readiness,
 given Israeli public sense of Palestinian rejectionism.Palestinians B.
 Palestinian commitment, interest in accommodation hitherto 
overestimated by this Administration. Palestinian leadership sees 
international community, EU included, supporting statehood without 
resolution of Final Status Issues, so lacks incentive for such 
resolution. Abbas intimidated by ongoing hostility to Israel from both 
Fatah and HAMAS.USG role C.
 Clinton (2000) parameters remain viable blueprint for permanent accord,
 provided USG can leverage substantive Palestinian engagement and build 
wider climate of regional reconciliation, in turn encouraging Israeli 
public opinion to return to moderate consensus (early-to-mid 1990s). 
Right-wing domestic Israeli opposition to territorial compromise genuine
 threat to major West Bank territorial withdrawal, dismantling of 
settlements, unless firm public opinion consensus in favor, in turn 
dependent on firm public sense that Final Status Agreements yield full 
regional normalization for Israel. USG leverage on regional partners crucial. USG credibility in this endeavor tested not in pressuring ally Israel but in face-off against Iran.D.
 (a), USG ultimately asking Israelis to relinquish territory to which 
they claim peerless attachment, from which they were attacked for first 
two decades of statehood; to enemy/partner that fostered recent 
terrorist onslaught that killed hundreds of their people, and some of 
whose institutions vow unceasing enmity against them; against track 
record of international failure to prevent violent, Iranian-backed 
Islamists (Hezbollah, HAMAS) filling vacuum left by previous US-backed 
Israeli withdrawals (Lebanon, Gaza); (b), USG can serve all interests by
 stringent oversight of process of Palestinian state-building, to 
promote reconciliation, minimize military, demographic threats to 
Israel.E. Time is not on the side of the Israelis, moderate 
Palestinians, relatively moderate regimes in region, or the American 
interest. State-championed (Iran) Islamic extremism feels itself 
ascendant, sees America hesitant, in retreat. Previous lukewarm allies 
such as Saudi Arabia concluding that Iran will prevail in nuclear 
face-off with USG, looking to safeguard own interests via altered 
alliances, domestic nuclear initiatives, etc. Warmer allies such as 
Jordan, concerned for fundamental interests, recalibrating relations 
with Iran.F. Imperative to re-establish USG credibility, damaged
 by underestimation of Iranian intransigence on nuclear issue, 
indulgence of Syrian hypocrisy. Imperative to emphasize robust USG 
commitment to Israel, support for negotiated path to Palestinian 
statehood, firm determination to prevent Iran obtaining nuclear weapons 
capability, with all options on table.G. USG, under successive 
administrations, underplayed ongoing terrorist activity, incitement, 
notably under former Palestinian leader Arafat, hopeful it would recede.
 Imperative to demolish illusions on either side of alternative to 
negotiated settlement involving farreaching compromise on both sides.5. (S/NF) Amended assessments, opportunities for progress on Israeli-Palestinian Issues - operative conclusions A.
 Participating USG agencies and personnel to emphasize in all contacts 
with PA unviability of unilateral path to statehood, advantage of rapid 
return to direct talks.B. Participating USG agencies and 
personnel to emphasize in all contacts with PA imperative to internalize
 Jewish sovereign rights alongside Palestinian state. Progress on this 
issue seen as single most important step toward creating climate for 
Final Status Agreements. Stress financial cost to PA of failure to 
negotiate in good faith, in terms of lost USG and wider aid. Stress political cost, in terms of lost USG and wider support.C.
 Participating USG agencies and personnel to emphasize in all contacts 
with Israeli government imperative for dialogue, confidence-building 
measures (further economic steps, minimized IDF incursions into PA 
territories, avoidance of settlement construction in areas Israel 
expects to relinquish under Final Status Agreements), sensitivity toward
 creation of climate of conciliation among Palestinians. Stress 
that effort at gradual reorientation of USG and other international 
parties’ stances is geared to produce climate for productive 
negotiations - to Palestinians’ and Israel’s crucial benefit. Hence
 Israeli imperative to assist in reorientation in close coordination 
with USG, minimize provocative actions, prepare domestic climate for 
far-reaching compromises, seize opportunity for negotiated settlement 
as/when it arises.D. Participating USG agencies and personnel to
 emphasize in all contacts with international parties imperative to 
thwart PA unilateralism and encourage compromise; overtly tie 
diplomatic, financial support to PA reforms aimed at promoting 
conciliation with Israel.E. Participating USG agencies and 
personnel to emphasize in all contacts with international parties 
imperative to cease indulgence of PA, wider Arab intransigence regarding
 Israel, incitement against it, to encourage PA conciliation amid wider 
struggle with Islamic extremism in the region. Previous cables from 
relevant USG agencies and personnel confirm first priority for moderate 
Middle Eastern regimes lies in thwarting Iranian nuclear weapons 
program; this goal not contingent on Israeli-Palestinian breakthrough. Israeli-Palestinian
 progress emphatically helpful, however, in securing supportive Middle 
Eastern public opinion, bolstering USG credibility, with positive 
ramifications for regional priority of tackling Iran.
CLINTON
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yalla Peace: 'Apartheid week’ or ‘weakness’?</title>
<date>10/3/2010</date>
<content>
There is one important fundamental about truth: Genuine truth gives one the power to tolerate even the most heinous criticism. Tolerance of criticism is a sign of confidence. Intolerance is a symptom that what you believe may not really be true. So throw the toughest, harshest argument against what I believe, because I have faith in my own truth. Do you?The Middle East is ripe with intolerant views that reflect the insecurity of people who refuse to see the truth. And the first truth assaulted is existence. By denying one’s existence, it becomes easy to respond to provocations with violence. It’s easy to kill something that doesn’t exist. Easy to deny something that doesn’t exist. And easy to explain to your own people when things don’t go your way that it’s their nonexistence that is the problem, rather than your own failure.




Palestinians and Israelis have been denying each others’ existence for years.The late prime minister Golda Meir declared: “There was no such thing as Palestinians.” Israelis still argue that Palestinians don’t exist.Arabs do the same, insisting Israel does not exist. They refer to it as “the Zionist entity.” Well, if Israel doesn’t exist, how can it be an entity? Why are so many people afraid of something that doesn’t exist? When denying existence doesn’t work, people turn to denying the celebrations of existence.EVERY YEAR, Palestinians and Israelis mark May 14 in different ways. For Israelis, who mark Israel’s creation using the Jewish calendar, it’s a celebration. For Palestinians, the date is one of mourning.Both sides take the reaction of the other as an offence rather than with understanding. Arabs see Israelis celebrating their victory in anger. Israelis watch as Palestinians commemorate their failure as a tragedy. So Jews are prohibited from celebrating Israel’s existence in Arab countries, and Israel is moving to adopt laws prohibiting Palestinians from celebrating the nakba. When banning the words that address existence doesn’t work, people turn to using words that hurt.One word that hurts Jews is apartheid. Many Jews refuse to even speak the word itself, referring to it as the A-word in much the same way that Americans revile the pejorative racist description of black people, as the N-word. The word apartheid has more power to hurt than its actual meaning, which is why Palestinians seem to have glommed on to it.What is the word apartheid and why are we fighting over it?The word apartheid surfaced in, of all years, 1948 as the name of a political party in South Africa that symbolized the official policy of segregating blacks from whites.In the 1950s, ’60s and ’70s, apartheid evoked a sinister meaning and became a bludgeon the world used to strike down South Africa’s separation of the races. South Africa’s racist white regime fell and the man it had imprisoned for 25 years, Nelson Mandela, became the new South Africa’s first black president.I can understand how Israelis fear the word. It invokes the issue of separation – a word Israelis have used to describe the wall. It plays to Arab claims that Israel is a racist country that discriminates against non-Jews.It’s first victim was Jimmy Carter, who while president ushered in the first peace accord between Israel and Egypt. He wrote a book that used the A-word in the title.I think Carter is one of the most reputable people in the world. The most caring, genuine human being who ever became a leader. But like many Arabs, Carter exaggerated the problem by using the word. Carter tried to explain he wasn’t talking about Israel, but about how Israel’s occupation of the West Bank evoked images of apartheid.Israelis and Jews around the world recoiled in anger and responded with punitive attacks against his character. Although Carter has backed down, the rejectionist Arabs have not.Rejectionist and extremist Palestinians and their Arab allies have launched “apartheid week” to attack Israel. Although they are a minority they have built up a mirage of public support by exploiting the unanswered anger of the majority in the Arab world.THE WORD apartheid does not really apply accurately to the Palestinian-Israel conflict. The word occupation does. But the rejectionists no longer like the word occupation. Apartheid symbolizes the creation of one state, while occupation fuels the movement to create two.In misusing the word apartheid, the rejectionists and their angry, blind followers are pushing toward reenacting the transformation of South Africa in Israel and Palestine.Palestinians who support “apartheid week” do so either out of sinister hatred of Jews, or out of blind, unreasoning anger that simmers because they can’t properly vent. The inability to release pent up anger empowers the rejectionist minority but stems from the failures of Palestinians and Arab leadership.When Arabs couldn’t defeat Israel, they turned toward demonization. And when demonization didn’t work enough, they simply exaggerated the truth. Exaggeration is a common trait among Arabs and Israelis, too.It’s not easy for Israelis to deal with. Israelis also come in two categories, those who hate Arabs and those who are angry with Arabs but don’t know how to deal with the issue of justice and compromise.Most Israelis simply denounce anyone who uses the word apartheid as anti-Semitic – another abused word used as a bludgeon for those who criticize Israel.The word anti-Semitic is to Palestinians what apartheid is to Israelis.I could ask Palestinians, won’t it make the creation of a Palestinian state that much harder to achieve if they put all their bets on the word apartheid? I could ask Israelis, doesn’t it show a weakness in your beliefs if you are so afraid of one simple word?Maybe the answer is that both Palestinians and Israelis live in the dark shadows of one real truth – that they have done terrible things to each other over the years.What frightens me more than the violence that has wracked the region over the past century is when people start attacking the use of words.Is it anti-Semitic to criticize Israel? No. Tolerance of criticism of Israel or Palestine is a sign of strength and hope.Is it “apartheid week?” Or is it really “apartheid weak”? Rather than
hold celebrations that fuel a hatred of Israel around an exaggerated
word like apartheid, Palestinians should instead organize rallies and
conferences that call for compromise based on peace and the creation of
two states.But Palestinians have to ask themselves the same question that Israelis
must face: Do we release our anger against each other, or do we control
it, and focus it on peace?Peace and compromise are words I feel very comfortable to live with, even in a backdrop of anger.
Named Best Ethnic Columnist in
America by New America Media, the writer is a Palestinian-American
columnist and peace activist. He can be reached at www.YallaPeace.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yasher Koah, Judge Goldstone</title>
<date>22/4/2010</date>
<content>
Judge Richard Goldstone, talking last October with a group of liberal North American rabbis, explained why he agreed to head the UN’s investigation of the war in Gaza.“I knew,” he said, “there would be strong and negative opposition to my doing it on the part of members of the Jewish community and particularly with the government of Israel and its supporters in Israel and the Diaspora. But I really felt that to live with myself and to live with my own conscience, I couldn’t justify having gotten involved in the investigations in many other countries and because I was Jewish refuse to use the same norms and the same principles in relation to Israel.”




I don’t think there is a single Israeli or Diaspora Jew in a high position of leadership today who understands what Goldstone was talking about. What he was talking about, plainly and simply, was moral courage.It’s not here. It’s not what Israel is about, not what Diaspora Jewry is about, certainly not the leadership, and not the followers, either, who want to stay inside the warmth of the consensus. To be a good, patriotic Zionist Jew today, you have to pour out your wrath on Goldstone. A “small man,” was how President Shimon Peres described him. An “evil” man, a “traitor,” was Alan Dershowitz’s description.As far as I’m concerned, neither Peres nor Dershowitz nor any of the legions of other proud, patriotic Zionist Jews who’ve ganged up on Goldstone are worthy of carrying his briefcase.He is the absolute best of the Jewish tradition. He stands up for justice, he stands up for the oppressed and he speaks truth to power – no matter who holds the power and no matter what it costs him. This is one of the great Jews of our time. Goldstone is the secular equivalent of a Jewish prophet, and by trying so hard to dishonor him, Israel and the Diaspora Jewish establishment have succeeded only in dishonoring themselves.LAST WEEK the Zionist and Orthodox Jewish establishment in South Africa stooped to forcing him to agree to stay away from his grandson’s upcoming bar mitzva in Johannesburg. (Goldstone now lives in Washington DC.) The South African Zionist Federation threatened to lead a protest outside the synagogue, so Goldstone, “in the interest of my grandson,” announced he wouldn’t be attending the ceremony.The machers of the South African Jewish community were pleased. Avrom Krengel, chairman of the Zionist Federation, said his organization had been duly “sensitive” to the bar mitzva boy and his family. Rabbi Moshe Kurtsag, head of the South African beit din, or religious court, pronounced the outcome “quite a sensible thing to avert all this unpleasantness.” No religious or communal leader of South African Jewry said a word against this abomination. Neither did any Jewish leader outside South Africa. Neither did anybody important in Israel.There were, however, some prominent, independent South African Jews who still knew the difference between right and wrong. “If it is correct that this has the blessing of the leadership of the Jewish community in South Africa, it reflects on them rather than on Justice Goldstone. They should hang their heads in shame,” said Judge Arthur Chaskalson, retired president of South Africa’s Constitutional Court.By the end of last week, the ostracism of Goldstone had backfired. The story ran in The New York Times, the British papers, all around the world. The leaders of organized South African Jewry had brought shame on the community, so this week they’re in damage control mode, suggesting that maybe it wasn’t such a good idea, after all, to destroy a kid’s bar mitzva to get at his grandfather.I’m sure that by the end of this week, the South African Jewish machers will have shoved the whole episode down the memory hole. They’re very good at this. So is Israel. Ever since apartheid ended, South African Jewish officialdom has tried to make everyone forget they ever went along the system, while Israeli officialdom has tried to make everyone forget the special relationship they had with the white regime.In his book Rivonia’s Children, Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter Glenn Frankel writes that as Afrikaners began to identify with Israel after the Six Day War, leading to the closest of military/diplomatic relations between the two nations, “South Africa’s Jews became increasingly identified with the government and less with its opposition in the liberation movement. All of this began to unravel with [Nelson] Mandela’s release, and ended upon his taking office. In denying their own culpability, many Jews pointed to the fact that their brethren were prominently involved in the anti-apartheid movement; indeed, some used this to suggest that the Jewish community as a whole had been committed to the liberation cause.”Israel, likewise, professes to have been against apartheid all along, preferring not to mention that from the mid-’70s, as Frankel writes, “the two sides began sharing nuclear technology... Israeli technicians, engineers and retired military officers increasingly took up places as consultants and planners of the new tribal homelands, the nominally independent puppet states that the Pretoria government created out of rural wastelands.”None of this is mentioned anymore in polite Jewish company in Johannesburg or Jerusalem. No, as everyone recalls, we all stood up against apartheid; as Jews, we had no choice.One day, if Israel ever ends its tyranny over the Palestinians, it will
be difficult to find a Jew in this country or the Diaspora who ever
supported Operation Cast Lead. It will be difficult to find a Jew in
this country or the Diaspora who ever said a bad word about Judge
Richard Goldstone.
If Israel ever ends its tyranny over the Palestinians, a whole lot of
proud, patriotic Zionist Jews are going to be loaded down, searching
frantically for the memory hole.
</content>
</article>
