<article>
<title>Activism and the Arab uprisings</title>
<date>27/2/2011</date>
<content>
As the world watches the Arab world, one gets the sense that we are again 
witnessing events which will change history. Everyone knows this is a very 
dangerous scenario for Israel. Here we are, the only democracy in the Middle 
East, hated by most of the Arab countries and watching from the sidelines, in 
fear of what might be.One thing everyone seems to agree on is that 
there’s still a long way to go until the region stabilizes.




There’s still 
plenty of anger in Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Bahrain and Jordan. Despite the dozens of 
articles penned by “experts,” no one knows when or how these uprisings will end. 
Even in the nations where there have been initial “victories” – Tunisia and 
Egypt – no real change has come, at least for the citizens. There are now 
renewed demands by protesters in both countries, and the armies in control are 
reluctant to give in.Right now, all eyes are on Libya. Anyone with a 
grasp of history knows that, for decades, Muammar Gaddafi was playing the role 
Iran is playing now – by calling for Israel to disappear, supporting terrorism, 
engineering attacks, manipulating his neighbors and wishing for weapons of mass 
destruction.He became a favorite of the West after he caved and 
renounced those aspirations. He was rewarded with a mass influx of foreign 
investment. Watching Gaddafi’s bloody reaction to his uprising, one can only 
conclude that the Cold War strategy of leaving dictators alone as long as they 
don’t bother the West must end.Make no mistake; this wave of protest is 
enabled by communication technology – Internet, clandestine websites, message 
boards, Facebook and cellphones. Gone are the days when the message is 
completely controlled by the governing party.When information is bounced 
off a satellite, it’s impossible to regulate.WHAT MAKES matters even 
more complex is the fact that the same technology used to organize the revolts 
and get pictures out to the world is what keeps many businesses running. As so 
much of global trade is done in cyberspace, shutting down the Internet means 
freezing commerce, and that’s something few nations, even dictatorships, can 
afford.The channels are open and many in the Arab world are watching for 
messages, but the questions are complicated – what kind of messages should be 
delivered, and who will be delivering them? For this, we should not be expecting 
governments to provide answers. Conventional diplomatic efforts are not what’s 
needed in these web revolutions.They’re fine for the official policies, 
but the process is too long and drawn out, not to mention the fact that the 
dissidents might have a hard time believing what other leaders say on the 
record.Now is the time for all the nonprofit organizations to rise to 
the challenge and support democratic change in the Middle East, especially in 
the harshest totalitarian regimes like Iran and Libya.If you are an 
activist for democracy, you should be throwing your support behind the 
aspirations of the people who want freedom of speech, freedom of religion, 
women’s rights, gay rights, children’s rights and human rights. We know that the 
record in the Arab world on all these is abominable. That suppression is now 
leading news broadcasts around the world, and topping the public agenda for the 
first time in history.You want change? Now’s the time to show it, and 
the Internet is the way to reach people. Show the protesters that there is hope 
they can “live like a human being,” as one Libyan dissident put it after facing 
fire from Gaddafi’s assassins.THERE’S ANOTHER aspect as well. It’s no 
news to anyone that one of the problems facing Israel is the fact that more and 
more groups from across the spectrum are successfully convincing people in the 
West that it is politically correct to condemn the Jewish state. They use lies 
to paint our country as an evil apartheid regime which constantly violates human 
rights. Many even call us an illegal state, with no right to exist. There have 
already been thousands of articles written exposing these fabrications, but now 
more than ever is the time to show the comparisons between Israel and the Arab 
world.When raising the issue of countries which are despotic and 
illegal, you just have to look at some of the nations where uprisings are taking 
place. Libya and Syria are two excellent examples of countries which were 
arbitrarily carved up by the British and French after World War I. They are run 
by brutal dictators who haven’t thought twice about quashing any semblance of 
human rights.If the same organizations don’t come out and support the 
Arab revolts with the same vigor they condemn Israel, they will have been proven 
to be hypocritical and morally bankrupt.
The writer is an independent 
media consultant, an adjunct lecturer at IDC Herzliya’s School of Communications 
and a former producer at the Fox News Channel in New York. 
Jeremy@jeremyruden.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An invitation to meet</title>
<date>10/7/2011</date>
<content>
The New Israel Fund is a powerful organization that has a wide influence on 
Israeli public life, in many different areas. The officials and board members of 
the NIF, which is based in the United States, control a budget of approximately 
$30 million, which is dispersed to a number of political and social groups, some 
of which are very controversial.Yet last week, as the NIF board held its 
annual meetings in Jerusalem, the Israeli public, whose lives are most 
influenced by the decisions made by the NIF, was entirely excluded from the 
secret proceedings.




This lack of transparency and accountability, which 
extends to many aspects of NIF’s operations, has not helped the organization 
deal with serious problems, particularly with respect to the political advocacy 
groups that it funds. Some of these groups are very active in promoting the 
demonization of Israel, including participation in the Goldstone process and in 
the BDS (boycotts, divestment and sanctions) movement.While NIF 
officials have been hiding, they are at least listening. Last year, following 
extensive debate and media criticism, the NIF board adopted guidelines that 
barred such funding for BDS. NIF pledged that it “will not fund global BDS 
activities against Israel nor support organizations that have global BDS 
programs.” NIF’s website also was changed in December 2010, declaring that NIF 
“opposes the global BDS movement, views the use of these tactics as ineffective 
and counterproductive and is concerned that segments of this movement seek to 
undermine the existence of the state of Israel.”But in practice, NIF’s 
funding of and cooperative relationships with these groups continued, perhaps 
without the knowledge of some of the Israel-based officials. Had the 
organization also practiced transparency and been open to informed criticism, 
they would not have been embarrassed by the revelations from one of its partners 
– the misnamed Coalition of Women for Peace, a leader in the BDS movement – 
declaring that it had continued to receive NIF funding until May 
2011.When NGO Monitor, the organization that I head, offered to discuss 
our research and guidelines, the NIF leadership refused to meet us. Instead, 
they responded with a flood of uncivil rhetoric, including the libel that “NGO 
Monitor knowingly published false information.”Perhaps the policy has 
changed, and in this spirit, I am renewing my invitation to the NIF board to 
meet with informed and responsible critics for an important, open, and civil 
dialogue. We share many values based on democracy – which both of our 
organizations hold in high regard – and an unshakable commitment to Zionism and 
the right to Jewish self-determination. Holding such a conversation is essential 
to effectively implementing NIF’s progressive, enlightened and liberal 
principles.We also agree that NIF plays an important role in Israeli 
society, and many grant recipients make positive and important contributions to 
advance social programs and minority rights. NGOs supported by this dimension of 
the NIF agenda run shelters for battered women and promote dialogue between 
different parts of Israeli society.However, up to one-fourth of NIF’s 
budget is directed to the group of radical NGOs that continue to demonize and 
delegitimize Israel, and, citing NIF’s approval, more funds are provided for the 
same NGOs through European governments. Funding for these highly politicized 
organizations – which are active in the BDS movement and call for the end of 
Israel as a Jewish state – directly contradicts NIF’s new guidelines, While NIF 
recently cut ties with CWP, the NGOs Adalah and Mada al-Carmel, both leaders in 
the delegitimization efforts, continue to receive NIF funding. Two members of 
Mada al-Carmel, spoke at the March 16, 2011 Israeli Apartheid Week event at Tel 
Aviv University, “Life and Struggle in Apartheid.” The NGO also co-authored the 
“Haifa Declaration” (2007) that calls for a “change in the definition of the 
State of Israel from a Jewish state” and accuses Israel of “exploiting” the 
Holocaust “at the expense of the Palestinian people.”Adalah officials, 
also involved in the Haifa Declaration, wrote and edited large portions of a May 
2009 pseudo-academic study that refers to Israel as “a colonial enterprise which 
implements a system of apartheid.” The report delegitimizes Israeli self-defense 
measures as “inhumane act[s] of apartheid...perpetrated in the context of an 
institutionalized regime of systematic oppression and domination by one racial 
group over another.” Adalah also drafted a “Democratic Constitution,” which 
calls for replacing the Jewish foundation of the state with a “democratic, 
bilingual and multicultural” framework.”A serious exchange between NIF 
and NGO Monitor could speed implementation of funding practices that are consistent with NIF’s own guidelines. Furthermore, it would be a chance to 
discuss NGO Monitor’s expanded “Ethical Guidelines for Political Advocacy NGOs,” 
which provide clear “red lines” regarding demonization of Israel. The guidelines 
also offer mechanisms to effectively monitor NGO activity and 
rhetoric.NIF’s objective is to promote a vibrant and justice-based 
society based on the twin pillars of Zionism and democracy. For its part, NGO 
Monitor analyzes hundreds of groups active in the political dimension, in order 
to advance the principles of Zionism and democracy. As two organizations with 
more commonality than is usually understood, a dialog would benefit Israel in 
many respects. In the spirit of common purpose and self- reflection, I look 
forward to this dialog with the NIF.
Prof. Gerald M. Steinberg is 
professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University and president of NGO 
Monitor, a Jerusalem-based research institution that tracks NGOs that claim to 
protect human rights, particularly in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An ominous reckoning</title>
<date>7/11/2011</date>
<content>
Seventy-three years ago, on November 9, 1938, the murderous Nazi onslaught 
against the German Jews began with a nation-wide pogrom that smashed the fabric 
of their existence. Known euphemistically as Kristallnacht (“Crystal Night”), 
this state-organized orgy of violence happened in peacetime. It involved the 
systematic burning of hundreds of synagogues, the destruction of approximately 
7,500 Jewish businesses, the murder of nearly 100 Jews, and the deportation of 
another 30,000 male Jews to German concentration camps.It was a crucial 
turning-point in Hitler’s “war against the Jews,” a major signpost on the road 
leading to World War II, which Nazi Germany would initiate less than a year 
later.




Nazi propaganda, already then, openly warned about the imminent 
annihilation of Jewry through “fire and sword,” though few in the West took 
these threats too seriously.Today, there is no immediate danger of a new 
Kristallnacht in the Western world, although levels of anti-Semitism (hiding 
under the more acceptable mask of hostility towards Israel) have reached levels 
unprecedented since 1945. But in the Middle East, the hatred of Jews burns much 
more fiercely – both in Iran and in the Arab world.Islamist 
anti-Semitism, in particular, is soaked in some of the most inflammatory motifs 
that made the Kristallnacht atrocities possible in Nazi Germany and only three 
years later provided the rationale for the mass murder of European 
Jewry.For example, there is the pervasive exploitation in Arabic of The 
Protocols of the Elders of Zion, with its insistence on the reality of the 
“Jewish conspiracy for world domination”; there is a revival of the medieval 
Christian blood-libel against Jews, transplanted from Europe to the contemporary 
Arab-Muslim Middle East; and the mass diffusion of stereotypes about the Jews as 
cruel, treacherous and bloodthirsty colonialists seeking to destroy the identity 
and beliefs of the Muslim peoples.To this, one must add the slanderous 
but widely popular identification of Zionism with Nazism and apartheid and the 
“ethnic cleansing” of Palestinians – a Goebbels-like propaganda lie that has 
also found a growing audience in the West.However contradictory it may 
appear to some, the Zionismis- Nazism fabrication co-exists in the Middle East 
today with Holocaust denial on a broad scale. Indeed, in Ahmadinejad’s Iran, 
Holocaust denial has become a state-sponsored weapon in the regime’s efforts to 
win over the Arab street and indoctrinate its own people with anti-Jewish 
toxins.THE INCREASINGLY entrenched anti-Semitism in the Arab world has 
not, unfortunately, been diminished by the “Arab Spring.” Earlier this year, 
Sheikh Yusuf al- Qaradawi, one of the most authoritative religious leaders of 
the Sunni Arab world (and especially esteemed by the Muslim Brotherhood), told a 
million Egyptians assembled in Tahrir Square that he hoped their mission would 
be to complete Hitler’s work. Al- Qaradawi, an immensely popular cleric, 
publicly insisted that the esteemed German Führer had been sent by Allah as a 
“divine punishment for the Jews.” Not long before, CBS’s foreign correspondent 
Lara Logan had been sexually assaulted and brutalized in the heart of Cairo by a 
mob of Egyptian men screaming “Jew, Jew, Jew.” Logan is not, in fact, Jewish. 
But this aspect of her ordeal was, typically enough, very much downplayed by 
both the American and European media.There has indeed been very little 
appetite in the West for reporting on the Jew-hatred that saturates the Arab 
world. Arab nations (not least, the Palestinians) are never held to the standard 
expected of the rest of the world when it comes to racism, sexism or 
Judeophobia.Hence, precious little reference is made to the genocidal 
anti-Semitism that runs through the “Sacred Covenant” of the Palestinian Hamas, 
any more than the West was unduly concerned with Haj Amin al-Husseini’s role in 
the Holocaust of European Jewry. Haj Amin, a Hitlerian anti-Semite if ever there 
was one, dominated the Palestinian Arab national movement for nearly forty 
years, leaving a legacy of hatred that would poison the Middle East for 
decades.The Arab demonization and delegitimization of the Jewish state 
has continued uninterruptedly since 1948. It has yet to be challenged by the 
Arab revolutions of 2011. The leader of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud 
Abbas, did nothing to improve the atmosphere by his recent denial at the UN that 
the Jews are a people with a profound historic connection to the land of Israel. 
His negation of Israel’s most basic rights and Jewish identity is of a piece 
with his brazenly racist insistence that the new Palestinian State should be 
“Jew-free.”Nothing that has happened thus far in Egypt, Libya, and 
Tunisia – where the Islamic movements have emerged greatly strengthened – leads 
me to believe that Arab anti- Semitism has been significantly weakened. The 
bogeyman of the “world Zionist conspiracy” is, unfortunately, still with us. 
Arab tyrants (as in Syria) continue to use it as an “opium for the masses,” but 
it also has powerful roots in popular Arab culture as well as in political 
Islam.Even more sobering is the fact that the sickening anti- Jewish 
racism in Iran and the Arab world is nourished by so many Arab theologians, 
intellectuals, journalists, artists, deans of university faculties and so-called 
academic “experts.” In other words, the raw, primitive, street-hatred of the 
Jews has cultural and intellectual legitimacy among the educated elites, as it 
once did in Nazi Germany.Over seven decades ago, Kristallnacht was an 
unmistakable warning to the rest of Europe as to where “eliminationist 
anti-Semitism” would lead. It went largely unheeded. Millions of non-Jews as 
well as twothirds of European Jewry would pay the ultimate price for this 
blindness. As Iran moves towards acquiring nuclear weapons and vows to 
annihilate Israel, will history repeat itself? Will the West remain silent? For 
Israel, the moment of reckoning comes closer by the day.
The writer is 
the director of the Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of 
Antisemitism (SICSA) at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and author of A 
Lethal Obsession: Antisemitism from Antiquity to the Global Jihad (Random House, 
2010).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An open letter to The Boss</title>
<date>27/11/2011</date>
<content>
Dear Bruce, The rumors have been running rampant ever since the biggest daily 
paper in Israel, Yediot Aharonot, earlier this month inaccurately published a 
headline – “Springsteen on the way to Israel.”




Of course, anyone who then 
read the story learned that, while indeed promoter Shuki Weiss had made an offer 
to you to perform here next summer, “it’s too early to announce any good news.” 
So much for burst expectations.On the other hand, the story didn’t 
appear out of thin air. That same week, your own website announced that you 
would be taking the E Street Band out on a European tour in the spring and 
summer, the first since your longtime sax man and sidekick Clarence Clemons 
passed away in June.Those two items – put together – are reason enough 
to fill the hearts of the many Springsteen fans in Israel with the prospect that 
there is indeed a chance that – 39 years after the release of your remarkable 
debut album that introduced you to the world as a once-in a- generation talent – 
you’ll finally be making your Israel debut.However, it’s certainly not a 
sure thing. Over the last 11 years since you brought the E Street Band back 
together, there have been numerous tours of Europe without an Israel date. Is it 
going to happen again?Confirmed dates are beginning to appear on your website – 
a few in Italy and some in England, solid and predictable destinations that you 
faithfully return to each time you reach this side of the world. In all 
likelihood, dates in Stockholm, Lisbon and Barcelona will soon be on the docket 
as well.It’s always a matter of scheduling, routing and logistics, and 
it’s clear to everyone – including yourself and your management – that deciding 
to perform in Israel includes considerably more baggage than doing a show in, 
say, Copenhagen. And it’s not only the equipment shipping, the distance, and 
whether the Israeli promoter can supply the right kind of bottled water you 
might require.If negotiations work out, and you do sign a contract to 
appear in Israel, you’re also signing on for something bigger than just showing 
up and performing one of your soul-stirring, uplifting shows.In short, 
it will be difficult for someone of your stature to come here without having to 
deal with the “Israeli-Palestinian issue.” Whether it will involve making some 
kind of grand gesture – like Leonard Cohen’s coexistence fund – or a more modest 
endeavor, like Paul McCartney’s visit to a Palestinian music school or Elton 
John’s defiant “nobody’s gonna stop me” speech from the stage – remains to be 
seen.And let’s not forget the headaches that await you with the “boycott 
Israel” campaign folks who will be jamming your website and management with 
pleas, threats and calls to avoid playing in “apartheid” Israel.But 
knowing how you’ve stood on your principles in the past – from dueling with US 
presidential candidate Ronald Reagan over his inverting your anti-war “Born in 
the USA” into a patriotic call to arms, to your boldly unflinching 
identification as an overtly heterosexual rocker with the victims of AIDS – it’s 
clear that you would find the honorable way to steer through the potential land 
mines of Middle East polemics.Your music and career have always been 
about grand gestures and small moments: the triumph of human spirit and battling 
against adversity, the celebration of life and freedom amid the realization of 
what the costs of such triumphs are.Those are the same qualities that 
Israel embodies – nobody knows about struggling with adversity and overcoming 
insurmountable obstacles better than we do, just as nobody has captured the 
concept of bittersweet joy as often as we have. That’s why Israel is the Bruce 
Springsteen of the Middle East – living every day to its fullest and always 
striving for a future that will bring salvation and tranquility.Bruce, 
you can be assured that the extra effort required to perform in Israel will be 
worthwhile – just ask Sir Paul, Madonna, Sir Elton or any number of world class 
artists who have had their eyes opened about the country and its 
people.I remember the last time I saw you in concert – in Boston in 
1978, as you introduced your then-new album, Darkness on the Edge of Town, about 
desperate people refusing to give up. You performed as if your life depended on 
it. At the end of show, before the encore, you thanked us and concluded by 
saying something like “Nobody wins unless everybody wins!” 
Those are words to 
bring back now – a Bruce Springsteen show in Israel in 2012 will be a win-win 
situation for everyone involved. Bruce, it’s time to finally see the promised 
land that you’ve been writing about all these years. Our door is wide open, but 
like you told us long ago, the ride ain’t free.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A Zionist advocacy timetable for the next five weeks</title>
<date>23/8/2011</date>
<content>
The writer is Professor of History at McGill University and a Shalom Hartman Research Fellow in Jerusalem.The author of Why I Am A Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the 
Challenges of Today, his next book will be The Big Red Lie: Daniel 
Patrick Moynihan, Zionism is Racism, and the Fall of the UN.As Palestinians prepare to try dodging compromise by unilaterally declaring independence, Zionist activists are prepping too. If the UN General Assembly votes, Israel will lose, and the UN’s anti-Israel bias will continue feeding Palestinian extremism.




But just as the UN’s 1975 declaration that Zionism=Racism backfired, harming the world body more than it hurt the Jewish state, we who support Israel’s survival can win this September. By using the calendar wisely, and remembering what we are for, not just what we are against, we can turn the UN’s “Palestine Season” into another empty victory for the Palestinians, trumping the votes of dictators and their dupes with the outrage of freedom- loving people.We should stop dreading this fall.The calendar is our friend. For each of the next five weeks, starting Sunday August 28, Zionist activists and educators should pick a theme or two – conceptualizing the conversation about Israel as a double helix linking education and advocacy, the purely positive and the necessarily defensive. We should affirm Zionism’s continuing relevance for Jews today, along with Israel’s continuing search for peace. The advocacy should link Palestinians’ destructive (and self-destructive) hatred of Israel with the Durban debacle, 9/11-style terrorism, al Qaida anti-Americanism, and the UN’s corruption.I would love just to celebrate Israel, welcoming college freshmen and 
others to the Zionist conversation solely with affirmations about Jewish
 nationhood’s idealistic potential. Unfortunately, the real world 
demands a more muscular approach. If we do not advocate for Israel 
passionately, our enemies – and they are enemies – will fill that void 
with subtle distortions and new Big Lies. Of course, if we only advocate
 for Israel without delighting in it too, we accept the Palestinian 
paradigm, which turns everything about Israel into a conversation about 
them, framing the Jewish state as the central headache of humanity.In the first week, August 28 to September 3, we should affirm Zionism and fight the racism lie.For too long, too many pro-Israel activists have avoided calling 
themselves “Zionists,” unconsciously internalizing the Arab-fueled 
campaign to delegitimize the Jewish homeland. On campus, in synagogues, 
on Facebook and beyond, we should reintroduce the term, championing 
Identity Zionism.Zionism acknowledges that Judaism is not just a religion, but has a 
national peoplehood component expressed through our traditional 
homeland. Simultaneously, with August 31 through September 8 marking 10 
years since the Durban fiasco, when an anti-racism conference in Durban,
 South Africa degenerated into an anti-Semitic hatefest, we should 
explain that the Israel-Palestinian conflict is national, not racial. 
Calling Zionism racism, or comparing Israel to the discredited South 
African apartheid regime is the Big Red Lie – a falsehood the Soviet 
Union peddled.Now, it has become the Big Red- Green Lie, uniting too many on the left blindly with Islamists.In the week spanning September 4 through 10, we should build up to 
9/11’s tenth anniversary by emphasizing common pain in an age of 
terrorism. We should remember the victims, telling the stories of the 
many Israelis and Westerners murdered for political reasons in the past 
decade. We should also think about what unites Israel and the US as 
sister democracies, focusing on the values that Islamists and dictators 
abhor.The next week should begin by concentrating on the US. September 11 is 
sacred to Americans. On that day, we should commemorate that tragedy. 
The rest of the week can explore the ugly nexus between anti- Zionism 
and anti-Americanism, which became so clear on September 12. The world 
was shocked by footage showing Palestinians in Gaza distributing candies
 to celebrate the Twin Towers’ fall – one of the few places where 9/11 
triggered open celebrations.Osama bin Laden, sensing that his mass murders were broadly unpopular, 
tried popularizing his anti-Americanism by converting suddenly to 
anti-Zionism. Before 9/11, al Qaida rarely mentioned Israel. 
Subsequently Bin Laden, like his dictator friends in Iran and elsewhere,
 conflated his hatred for America and Israel, implicitly recognizing 
Israel as a liberal democracy.September 18 through 24, the focus should be on the UN, with the General
 Assembly opening on September 13, PA President Mahmoud Abbas planning 
to speak on the twentieth, and the Durban III review of the original 
anti-racism conference beginning September 21.Hosting a Durban review in New York City, 10 days after 9/11, when the 
ugliness at Durban also helped bridge anti-Zionism with 
anti-Americanism, juxtaposes the UN’s call for Palestinian independence 
with the UN’s anti-Semitic bias. The Zionist Left should be heard here, 
challenging the Palestinians to negotiate rather than posture, while 
criticizing the UN for undermining the search for peace by trying to 
delegitimize Israel rather than seeking a two-state solution. Since 
1975, it has been impossible to write a history of the movement to 
delegitimize Israel without discussing the UN, but all too easy to write
 about attempts at peacemaking without mentioning the UN.Finally, we should end September by marking September 29 and 30 as 
Zionist Rosh Hashanah (New Year). Nations, like people, make mistakes 
and can seek redemption. Just as the true love of family involves 
accepting imperfections, we have to take Israel off probation, instead 
pushing it to improve where necessary while celebrating this exciting 
experiment in national redemption which enriches our lives as Jews and 
as lovers of freedom.
giltroy@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Between self-criticism and self-delegitimization</title>
<date>13/2/2011</date>
<content>
The ongoing discussion among Jewish leaders worldwide about the line between 
“legitimate criticism of Israel” and the assault against its legitimacy must 
also consider when self-criticism transforms into self-delegitimization 
.The intensifying, multipronged assault against Israel’s historical and 
legal legitimacy is cause for concern. Economic, academic and cultural boycotts 
and sanctions have been intensifying in Europe and on US campuses, while arrest 
warrants have been issued against Israeli government and military leaders in 
European courts at the request of Palestinian Authority leaders and networks of 
Islamic and Western groups.




The response to the current assault that 
charges Israel with being an apartheid, Nazi state raises an uncomfortable 
question. Has official Israel on occasion submitted to “war weariness” by 
adopting the language and narrative of some of its toughest adversaries? As an 
example, some senior officials have said on several occasions over the past two 
years – once in the presence of PA Prime Minister Salam Fayyad – that if Israel 
does not create a Palestinian state immediately, it will become either a 
binational or apartheid state.Aside from the profound inaccuracy of the 
comparison to formerly apartheid South Africa, this self-criminalization 
energizes opponents and encourages them to avoid compromising while it 
frustrates friends and allies who are leading the fight against the assault and 
in defense of its rights.It may not come as a surprise that several 
months ago, a Fayyad adviser told Al-Hayat al- Jadida that “Israel represents a 
policy of state terror which the Zionist apartheid state is carrying out against 
the Palestinians.”In political warfare, words are lethal weapons. It 
would behoove Israeli and Jewish leaders to avoid being the inadvertent “weapons 
suppliers” of the country’s adversaries.Adopting the language of the 
Palestinians is only part of the problem. The challenge also extends to 
passively accepting their narrative.Since 1993 and the Oslo exchange of 
letters between the PLO and the Rabin government, a desperate determination to 
achieve an elusive peace agreement has led Israel to make far-reaching and 
ongoing concessions.THE PALESTINIANS for their part have shied away from 
making concessions and instead have continued to insist on their rights and 
historical justice. This has created an asymmetry whereby Israel emphasizes 
peace while the Palestinians underscore rights.Paradoxically, the 
constant readiness to part with territories for peace and the adoption of a 
concession-based diplomacy mirrors the perception of some in the West, 
particularly in Europe, that the Jewish state is an international outlaw that is 
merely giving back lands over which it has no claim. This misperception of 
rightful ownership has extended to Jerusalem.Perhaps inadvertently, 
Israel has positioned itself as the only member of the international state 
system whose very legitimacy is perceived as being inextricably connected to its 
readiness to make additional territorial concessions to the PA. This “I give, 
therefore I am” kind of identity has robbed it of inherent legitimacy in many 
international circles. Furthermore, its concession-based diplomacy denies its 
rights-based narrative and ends up empowering Palestinian “rights-based” 
demands.IT WOULD be well served by reviving the traditional rights-based 
diplomacy that founders such as David Ben-Gurion and Abba Eban spoke of with 
unbridled passion.Eban told the UN on various occasions of “a devotion 
to the holy city that has been a constant theme of our people for 3,00 years.” 
Yitzhak Rabin too reminded the Knesset in October 1995 – one month before his 
assassination – that he would insist on a united Jerusalem under Israeli 
sovereignty in any future peace agreement.Today, despite mistaken 
assertions by many – including not a few presidents and prime ministers in the 
free world – that Israel’s right to sovereignty began following the Holocaust 
with the 1947 UN partition plan, it bears repeating that the Jewish national 
project began more than 3,000 years ago, when King David first established 
Jerusalem as his capital.The modern expression of this 3,000-year 
national project was affirmed twice last century.The League of Nations 
in 1922 noted, in the Mandate for Palestine, “the historical connection of the 
Jewish people with Palestine, and to the grounds for reconstituting their 
national home in that country.” This international recognition of the Jewish 
people’s preexisting national rights to sovereignty was subsequently preserved 
by article 80 of the United Nations Charter.In 1948, the establishment 
of the State of Israel marked the third time the Jewish people established its 
independent commonwealth in the land of Israel.It is this modern 
expression of Jewish selfdetermination that is under acute political assault 
primarily by Palestinian groups working in close coordination with Islamists and 
radical Western groups.The only way the Jewish world can effectively 
combat the growing political assault is by standing shoulder to shoulder and 
tightly embracing the Jewish people’s rights-based language and narrative. Only 
then will they be able to stand on firm ground, anchored in historical truth and 
international law to defeat the attempts by unrelenting adversaries to undermine 
the legitimate right of the Jewish people to self- determination.
The 
writer is secretary-general-designate of the World Jewish Congress.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Borderline Views: A plague on both their houses</title>
<date>28/3/2011</date>
<content>
One would have thought that any educational institution in a country like South 
Africa, which experienced some of the worst racial and ethnic discrimination of 
the past century, would have known better than to implement such policies 
itself. But that is precisely what the University of Johannesburg has done with 
the decision by its Senate not to renew a research agreement with Ben-Gurion 
University of the Negev.Ostensibly, UJ objects to the policies practiced 
by BGU in “aiding and abetting the occupation” but in reality it’s the first 
institutional boycott of an Israeli university.




This decision would have 
been laughable were it not for the fact that the agreement under discussion 
deals with water reclamation – an area that BGU actively explores with 
Palestinian and Jordanian partners. If the Israelis and Palestinians are able to 
work together, it is truly sad that a third party should 
protest.Moreover, during the past few years, BGU been subject to vicious 
attacks by another group of boycotters – the Jewish right wing, which has 
labelled it an “anti-Zionist” institution based on the views of a handful of 
researchers, and called upon its supporters to withhold donations. The UJ 
decision plays into the hands of these groups, strengthening their call for 
sanctions against those faculty who are critical of Israeli 
policies.Obviously, the university is doing something right if it is 
being attacked by both the Right and the Left. It probably reflects the very 
real freedom of expression on BGU’s campus, which includes people who hold a 
variety of political opinions.There is one critical difference, however, 
between South African universities during apartheid and Israeli universities 
during the long occupation. All South African universities acquiesced to their 
government’s policies, and openly practiced racial discrimination and 
segregation. Their faculty either remained silent or quit, ultimately condoning 
the South African system.This contrasts sharply to the political debates 
which typify Israeli universities. Their faculty are not afraid to criticize 
government polices, or to be at the forefront of political debate.And 
while this has led to much criticism, they are free to continue their research 
without fear of being punished, contrary to what the UJ would have us believe. 
Many of these faculty members are involved in Israeli-Palestinian dialogue and 
research collaboration which UJ would, ostensibly, like to promote.And 
while there is still much to improve on to reach greater equality, Israeli 
universities have Arab faculty and students availing themselves of higher 
education, regardless of the conflict. BGU practices outreach to the Beduin 
community, with many Beduin studying thanks to the benefit of earmarked 
scholarships.It is not yet enough, but it can in no way be compared to 
what happened in South Africa during apartheid. No doubt, South African 
universities such as UJ still feel a great deal of guilt for their lack of 
activity when it was required.THERE WILL be readers of this column who 
will object to my mentioning the two groups of boycotters – UJ delegitimizers 
and the Jewish right wing – in the same breath. But in many senses they are 
similar. They both choose to discriminate against scientific advancement on the 
basis of political views.UJ’s decision not to continue with its water 
research agreement will have a detrimental effect on tens of thousands of South 
Africans who are seeking better access to water in environmental conditions 
which are similar to those experienced by Israel, while donors who withdraw 
their support from academic programs at Israeli universities are equally guilty 
of blocking scientific advancement.Given the backlash to the UJ 
announcement, the university president has already come out with a statement to 
the effect that this is not an official boycott, and that the university has no 
problem with individual faculty members continuing joint research with 
BGU.This is the exact opposite of what has happened in the UK, where 
attempts by individual faculty – radicalized members of the trade union – to 
implement a boycott have been totally rejected by the institutions.UJ 
can’t have it both ways. Its decision was an official one, made by the 
university Senate, and it therefore represents the position of the institution, 
not of its individual faculty members. If, as a result of this decision, it is 
subject to donors withdrawing bequests, or the international funding agencies in 
the US and EU refusing to fund research at institutions which practice such 
discrimination – as is now very likely to happen – it has only itself to 
blame.
DURING THEIR recent fact-finding mission to BGU, senior members of 
UJ were offered the opportunity of facilitating further Israeli-Palestinian 
academic collaboration, with an important third-party role, in much the same way 
that many European and North American universities do. This proposal was 
completely missing from the report they produced when returning to South 
Africa.They could have made a truly positive contribution to the 
region’s problems, and would have assisted like-minded faculty on both sides who 
desire to cooperate for scientific and political reasons.Meanwhile 
Ben-Gurion University will continue to develop. Its 20,000 students and almost 
1,000 teaching and research faculty will continue to push the frontiers of 
science.Its politically aware faculty will continue to take part in the 
vibrant debate about the nature of Israeli society.The boycotters, 
whether they be anti-Israel activists such as UJ, or the anti-democracy 
activists of Im Tirtzu and the right-wing donors, will become forgotten 
footnotes of history, remembered only for their attempt to manipulate science 
for their own narrow aims.A plague on both of their discriminatory 
houses.
The writer is dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Social 
Sciences at Ben-Gurion University. The views in this article are his alone.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>By thy own hand</title>
<date>24/1/2011</date>
<content>
“Thy destroyers and thy demolishers shall emerge from within thee.” – Isaiah 
49:17 “When people criticize Zionists they mean Jews; you are talking 
anti-Semitism” – attributed to Martin Luther King Jr., Harvard, 1968 




Finally a 
belated realization is beginning to dawn on the nation. The pace is still far 
too slow, the scale far too small, and one can only hope that it will not turn 
out to be “too little too late.” But at least some semblance of awareness is 
beginning to emerge that decades of delegitimization as the nation-state of the 
Jews comprise the gravest strategic danger Israel faces.RELATED:The death of a frog The ‘Mandelaian’ model In his column 
“Yes to prosecuting subversion, no to McCarthyism” (January 13), Isi Leibler 
gave an commendably accurate diagnosis of the malaise and its roots: “We largely 
have ourselves to blame for enabling our adversaries to succeed in embedding 
their false narrative in the consciousness of the world.” Aptly, he added: “Our 
failure has been augmented by the small but influential far left post-Zionist 
factions which systematically promote the Arab narrative and distort our 
position in our own media and universities.” Perhaps the only defect in 
Leibler’s analysis it that he understates the numbers and diversity of the 
malefactors.For this perilous predicament has been precipitated not only 
by a small core of dedicated post/anti-Zionist zealots. It has been greatly 
facilitated by the complicity of a much larger allegedly pro-Zionist layer of 
Israeli society and pro-Israel Jewry – either passively through benign neglect, 
intellectual indolence and/or a lack of stomach for confrontation; or actively 
by providing the zealots with platforms, prestige and position to promulgate 
their poisonous – and arguably perfidious – political agendas.Indeed, 
without such tacit cooperation (or craven capitulation), this kernel of radicals 
would be severely curtailed in its capacity to propagate anti-Israel 
malevolence. This has at least two consequences: It provides a license for the 
abuse of academic freedom, essentially lending it a veil of legitimacy for the 
perversion – rather than the pursuit – of truth.And it fuels not only 
the growing drive for delegitimization of the Jewish state, but fans the hatred 
against the Jewish people. The howls of protest that inevitably arise at the 
mere mention of these effects are generally of two kinds. Both must be 
summarily dismissed as either invalid or irrelevant or both.The first 
kind of protest typically holds that any discussion of such things constitutes a 
dire danger to freedom of expression, and an intolerable infringement of the 
autonomy of intellectual inquiry, the sine qua non for vibrant 
democracy.In fact, in the context of Israeli academe, the contrary is 
true. It is the complacency/complicity/capitulation of the academic mainstream 
visà- vis the radical leftists that has constricted the freedom of expression 
and the scope of “permissible” opinions and/or research. This is undeniable in 
light of the almost total absence – certainly the gross underrepresentation – of 
pro-Zionist perspectives, and certainly of robustly hawkish ones, across the 
entire spectrum of the nation’s faculties of social sciences and humanities 
(including law).This wildly disproportionate dearth is even more 
remarkable – and revealing – given that over the past two decades, the dominant 
dovish paradigms have been refuted by reality – apparently demonstrating that 
such “intellectual inbreeding” has severely degraded the quality of academic 
output.The second such Pavlovian-like protest is that Israel is not – 
and should not be – immune to criticism, and such criticism cannot and should 
not be dismissed as anti-Semitism, nor should anti-Semitism be invoked as 
grounds for muffling it.While Israel is obviously not without blemish, 
and not every expression of disapproval can – or should – be construed as 
motivated by anti-Semitic impulses, this is only one aspect of a more complex 
truth. For it cannot be denied that the persistent and pervasive application of 
double standards to the conduct of the nation-state of the Jews, and the endemic 
distortion of realities in it – make anti-Semitism an increasingly plausible 
explanation for the unparalleled and unrelenting assault on nearly every 
position and action taken by Israel.NOR CAN it be ignored that a growing 
body of opinion holds an increasingly seamless nexus between anti-Israeli 
vilification and anti-Jewish bigotry. Indeed, a significant number of 
pundits have identified anti-Zionism as the new channel through which a major 
portion of today’s anti- Semitic sentiments are flowing. In effect, Israel has 
become a “lighting rod” that attracts hatred and enmity toward Jews, in a manner 
that provides these emotions with an aura of acceptability and political 
correctness that overt anti-Semitism could not.Thus anti-Zionism has 
become a convenient surrogate for anti-Semitism, with hatred for Jews as 
individuals (Jews as people) being replaced by hatred for Jews as a collective 
(Jews as a people).Accordingly, accounts of Israel and its actions, 
which cast unwarranted aspersions on the country and its policies, or present it 
in a one-sided, biased distorted, misleading, not to mention outright mendacious 
light, contribute considerably to fueling the flames of Judeo-phobic passions 
and validating Judeo-phobic prejudices.Clearly then, pronouncements made 
by Israeli and/or Jewish individuals or organizations have special value for the 
country’s detractors – frequently used to validate their anti-Zionist 
condemnations and “authoritatively” discrediting any rebuttals. Whether 
intentionally on not, such pronouncements reinforce the insidious invective and 
the demonic imagery used to portray Israel today.The problem extends far 
beyond the explicitly post/anti-Zionists who propose annulling the country’s 
status as a Jewish state and transforming it into a “state of all its citizens,” 
and/or openly condemn it as an ethnocratic apartheid regime, meriting not only 
international censure but sanction.Oren Yiftachel, for example, depicts 
Israel (on both sides of the Green Line) as a “colonialist ethnocracy,” and Neve 
Gordon has explicitly called for a boycott of the country because of its 
“apartheid policies.”It extends to purportedly pro-Zionists who 
allegedly endorse the existence of Israel as the nation-state of Jews, but 
provide – hopefully unwittingly – anti- Semites with material and opportunity to 
promote their Judeo-phobic agenda. This group includes figures such as 
Aeyal Gross, who has described Israel as “a society where shooting at children 
of the ‘other’ is the norm” and which “is in fact indifferent or worse to 
Israel’s widespread killing of Palestinian youth” and Fania Oz-Salzberger, who 
in the wake of the Gaza flotilla episode proclaimed in a Daily Beast article 
that she was “ashamed of my country”– presumably because young commandos were 
compelled to use lethal force to extricate themselves from the clutches of a 
brutal lynch mob – a mob who, shortly before the incident, had called for the 
Jews to “go back to Auschwitz.”PERHAPS MORE significantly, it includes 
the bodies that provide institutional support for the aforementioned 
individuals, and which facilitate the propagation of their condemnation – 
purposeful or otherwise – furnishing them with promotional platforms to 
mindfully endorse – or mindlessly enhance – the process of delegitimization. 
These include universities such as Ben-Gurion University, which promote 
individuals like Neve Gordon to department heads, whose duties presumably entail 
setting programs for seminars and conferences, contacts with other institutions 
of higher learning, influencing the choice of faculty and so on.It 
includes Jewish benefactors who set up Israel studies chairs/programs and 
ensconce in them figures who provide – at best – a distorted portrayal and – at 
worse – a demonized image.It also includes major Jewish organizations 
such as the American Jewish Committee, which invited Peter Beinart as key 
speaker at its 2011 Global Forum. For not only has Beinart expressed views (in 
his misleading 5,000- word piece in the New York Review of Books in 2010 which 
catapulted him to celebrity status) that totally negate AJC executive director 
David Harris’s eminently sensible defense of Israel’s democratic credentials, 
but has publicly suggested that US Jewry ought to apply the same value judgments 
to Israeli measures vis-à-vis the Palestinians as they do to events “in Bosnia, 
the former Soviet Union and Darfur.”The net result of all this is that 
such individuals, armed with the prestige of their formal positions, become the 
prisms through which the wider public comes to view Israel and to evaluate its 
essence and ethical foundations. Unless these developments are urgently 
addressed – and arrested – their tragic consequences are not difficult to 
predict. Perhaps the best way to initiate such a corrective process is to inform 
the public and foreign donors of the ongoing absurdity of these self-destructive 
phenomena, and urge them to consider if this is really the best way to use their 
tax shekels and dollar donations.
The writer lectured at Tel Aviv 
University in Political Science and Security Studies for the past twenty years. 
In 2009/2010 he was the visiting Israeli Schusterman Scholar at University of 
Southern Californian (USC) and the Hebrew Union College (Los Angeles). He served 
for seven years in the defense establishment and is currently engaged in the 
establishment of a new Policy Center in Israel. www.martinsherman.org 

Caroline Glick’s column will resume next week.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Obama administration maintains pressure</title>
<date>5/10/2011</date>
<content>
We must not underestimate the serious implications of the US administration’s 
fierce condemnation of a routine municipal approval for construction of 1100 
homes in the Jerusalem suburb of Gilo.Although our government must find 
a solution to avoid trumpeting bureaucratic announcements for long-term building 
projects in Jerusalem, it is crucial that the global community understand that 
Gilo is not a settlement outpost. For 40 years, nobody other than Arabs has 
challenged the fact that Gilo belongs to Jewish Jerusalem. It is a 100 percent 
Jewish-populated suburb of southwestern Jerusalem, located minutes from the 
heart of the city. During the second intifada it was under sniper fire from 
terrorists located in the neighboring Arab suburb of Beit Jala. Gilo is as much 
part of Jerusalem as the suburbs of Rehavia or Katamon. To deny that Gilo 
is part of Israel is akin to denying that Tel Aviv is part of Israel.




It 
is simply inconceivable to even hint that Obama’s 1967 borders formula means 
that we are obliged to “negotiate with the Palestinians” over Gilo. It would 
challenge the residential rights of 300,000 Jews in the entirely Jewish 
populated areas of Jerusalem over the Green Line such as Ramat Eshkol, Pisgat 
Zeev, Ramot and French Hill. These Jewish suburbs of Jerusalem, illegally 
occupied between 1948 and 1967 by the Jordanians who made the area Judenrein, 
would be up for grabs or “negotiable.” No mainstream Zionist political party 
would be willing to negotiate over these areas.This US condemnation is 
magnified by the fact that it took place in the immediate aftermath of the 
defamatory address at the UN General Assembly by the intransigent Palestinian 
Authority President, Mahmoud Abbas. He refused to compromise on anything, 
reiterated his determination never to recognize a Jewish state and even denied 
the historical association of the Jewish people with the Holy Land. He 
hypocritically accused Israel of “ethnic cleansing,” employing terms such as 
“racist” and “apartheid” despite his earlier proclamations that not a single Jew 
would be permitted to live in the new Palestinian state. He boasted that he 
would reunite with Hamas whose Charter remains committed to the destruction of 
Israel and explicitly calls on the faithful to murder all Jews. We are 
repeatedly warned that Abbas is the best peace partner we will ever get, but at 
times like this we should remind ourselves that his Moscow University Ph.D. 
thesis was a justification of Holocaust denial.The Gilo construction 
hysteria coincides with delicate diplomatic maneuvers at the UN Security Council 
arising from the Palestinian abrogation of the Oslo Accords. We need US support 
to ensure that the fallout from this does not inflict major damage on us. For 
example, some European countries will undoubtedly place us in the dock again 
when we refuse to accept the replacement of UN Resolution 242 by a formula in 
which the 1949 armistice lines (with swaps dependent on Palestinian 
acquiescence) become the new benchmark for negotiations. That would 
impose on us the indefensible 1967 borders with even significant sections of 
Jewish Jerusalem and the Temple Mount excluded from Israel.In addition, 
many European nations will not demand that the Palestinians recognize Israel as 
a Jewish state, which is linked with forgoing the Arab refugee right of return 
to Israel – an existential threat for us.It is to be expected that the 
US government may criticize or have occasional differences with us. But during 
such a sensitive period, the vicious public condemnation of Israel over 
construction of homes in its own capital is hardly how one would expect the US 
to behave towards an ally. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who as a senator 
had supported recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, even went so far 
as to accuse Israel of being “provocative.”Immediately following 
Netanyahu’s endorsement of the Quintet’s plan to renew peace talks, newly 
appointed US Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta made barbed comments that Israel 
was “isolating” itself and implied that it was to blame for the deterioration of 
relations with Turkey and Egypt.Not surprisingly, the Europeans 
interpret such remarks as encouragement to intensify their pressure against us. 
EU Foreign Policy Spokesperson Catherine Ashton demanded that Israel revoke the 
construction permits. The French Foreign Minister followed suit. Even German 
Chancellor Angela Merkel joined the pack, informing the media that she condemned 
Netanyahu and “raised doubts over the Israeli government’s readiness to begin 
serious negotiations with the Palestinians.”Despite his charm offensive 
toward President Obama, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu responded that the 
future of the Jewish suburbs of Jerusalem had never been influenced by outside 
parties and would not be subject to such in the future. He noted that 
substantial Arab construction plans had been simultaneously approved.The 
US administration’s passive stance as the Europeans continue pressurizing us is 
therefore highly detrimental. Especially as the Palestinians believe that in 
return for US opposition to their efforts at the UN, they can leverage the Obama 
administration to extract further unilateral concessions in their ongoing 
campaign to dismantle the Jewish state. Hopefully most Americans who have become 
increasingly enraged by the one-sided pressures against the Jewish state will 
not accept Obama’s UN speech as the last word on the matter.Indeed, on a 
bi-partisan level, Congress has now taken the first step in responding to 
Palestinian intransigence by blocking nearly $200 million of aid to the 
Palestinians. This move was in direct response to the PA breach of the Oslo 
Accords and dismissal of US demands to negotiate with Israel. The House and 
Senate Foreign Relations Committees have indicated that funding would remain 
suspended until the question of Palestinian statehood at the UN had been 
settled.In this environment it is crucial that American Jewish leaders 
and friends of Israel raise their voices against efforts to transform Jewish 
Jerusalem into a negotiating issue. To date, of the major Jewish organizations, 
only the Zionist Organization of America has publicly condemned the US 
administration on this issue.ADL’s Abe Foxman was one of the few Jewish 
leaders courageous enough to speak up and condemn Obama’s Israel-bashing at the 
early stages. In a recent letter to The Jerusalem Post he accused me of not 
praising Obama’s positive initiatives towards Israel despite my having done so 
on many occasions. The ADL, on the other hand, together with many other Jewish 
establishment bodies have been too quiet in the face of Obama’s biased 
diplomatic forays against Israel. One hopes that he, and other Jewish leaders, 
will again display the courage to publicly denounce the administration over its 
condemnation of housing construction in Jewish Jerusalem.If the Jewish 
response to this issue remains muted, it will serve to strengthen those in the 
US administration who are determined to maintain the ongoing policy of appeasing 
the Palestinians at Israel’s expense. More importantly, the pressure on the 
administration to follow up on Obama’s dazzling UN speech will evaporate, and 
the speech will be reduced to nothing other than an electoral ploy to attract 
Jewish and pro-Israeli Americans to the Democratic camp.
The writer’s new 
website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: On Israeli Racism and Bigotry</title>
<date>26/1/2011</date>
<content>
As Jews, we were brought up to reject all forms of hatred and religious 
prejudice, and this was reinforced by the Holocaust. Revulsion of racial 
prejudice and the oppression of minorities was seared into our 
consciousness.However, in Judaism as with all religions, there are 
components to our tradition which are open to interpretation. One is the 
biblical precept enjoining us to uproot the evil nation of Amalek. But 
throughout the ages, even when focusing on the malevolent aspects of a Haman or 
a genocidal Hitler, our sages avoided explicitly designating any nation or race 
with the term Amalek.




Anti-Semites have accused us of racism because of 
the traditional Jewish bar to intermarriage, and our reluctance to proselytize. 
But the reality is that this is utterly unrelated to racism.A convert to 
Judaism, irrespective of his racial origin, has always been held in the highest 
possible esteem, and we are enjoined by Halacha to treat him or her as an 
equal.We live in troubled times, when societal tensions are exacerbated 
by apprehension and fear. But it is lamentable that today we have become 
immersed in an internal debate over racism – largely motivated by crass 
political demagoguery – which is providing grist for the propaganda mills of our 
enemies.Our adversaries abroad have for a long time been trying to label 
us as racists or worse, as practitioners of “apartheid.” Among the most 
outrageous accusations is that the Law of Return – enabling any Jew to settle 
here – is a manifestation of racism.To refute such calumnies, one need 
only walk through the streets of our major cities and observe the 
extraordinarily colorful parade, ranging from those with the Slavic physiognomy 
through the entire racial kaleidoscope to black Ethiopian Jews. We truly 
represent a modern melting pot of diverse races.There are those who also 
accuse us of imposing apartheid on Arab citizens. Like the early Jewish 
migrants to the US (and to this day Afro-Americans and Latinos), Arabs are at 
the lower end of the socioeconomic ladder. Undoubtedly there is a need 
for greater efforts to raise their status, but they elect members to the 
Knesset, enjoy equal rights under the law, and fully benefit from the welfare 
state.Anyone doubting this should visit our hospitals, especially in 
Jerusalem, and witness the medical treatment and facilities provided to every 
Arab Israeli on absolutely the same level as Jewish Israelis.OTHER 
CRITICS point to a recent survey which found that many Israelis are prejudiced 
against Arabs. Well, what a surprise! We live in a country surrounded by Arab 
states that have repeatedly launched wars against us, dispatched suicide bombers 
against our civilians, and rained missiles on our territory. Their media and 
mosques unceasingly promote the vilest form of anti-Semitism, and relentlessly 
proclaim their determination to destroy us. In PA-administered areas no less 
than Hamastan, children are brainwashed from kindergarten into believing that 
the greatest religious sanctification for a Muslim is to become a martyr and 
kill Jews.In addition, even our “moderate” peace partner Mahmoud Abbas 
pledges that like our other Arab neighbors, not a single Jew will ever be 
permitted to live in a future Palestinian state. The PA has also instituted a 
law which makes the death sentence mandatory for any Palestinian committing 
“high treason” by selling land to a Jew.Yet our elected Arab MKs 
provocatively support those seeking our destruction. Most of the Arab political 
establishment commemorates Yom Ha’atzmaut as “Nakba,” a day of 
mourning.The head of the Northern Branch of the Islamic Movement, Sheikh 
Raed Salah, calls for the overthrow of the Jewish state, openly supports Hamas, 
incites hatred, and continuously issues treasonable proclamations.IN 
SUCH a poisonous climate, despite determined efforts by governments of all 
political orientations, and the judiciary, to diminish ethnic and religious 
tensions and confrontations, the emergence of prejudice is inevitable.It 
would make an interesting exercise to speculate how other countries would 
respond to an ethnic minority whose political representatives and many of its 
religious leaders publicly side with enemies committed to their annihilation. Or 
whether under such circumstances any other country would countenance having an 
Arab judge presiding over the trial of a former president charged with 
rape.It is also to our credit as a democracy that the government and 
mainstream media continue to condemn any manifestations of prejudice against 
Arabs, and that Arab citizens still enjoy the same rights as Jewish citizens. 
Besides, the majority still insist that they harbor no prejudice against Arabs, 
and would oppose any form of discrimination against them.Thus, when a 
number of unworldly rabbinical zealots made a deplorable call to Jews not to 
sell or rent apartments to Arabs on purportedly religious (not racist) grounds, 
the instantaneous condemnation by the government, media and other rabbis made it 
clear that such behavior runs counter to the will of the nation. On the other 
hand, it is preposterous to also describe as racist an admittedly crude call to 
young religious women not to indulge in interdenominational dating to avoid 
intermarriage.THEN THERE is the issue of the African refugees. Our 
experience in having the world deny Jews a haven from Nazi persecution makes us 
extremely sensitive to the needs of all refugees. But the decision to limit the 
entry of potentially millions of African refugees while enabling the country to 
become a refuge for those that no other country is willing to accept is 
motivated not by racism but by a determination to survive as a Jewish 
state.Besides, aside from having airlifted and absorbed an entire 
Ethiopian Jewish community many of whom were illiterate and living in the most 
primitive conditions, we have proportionately to our population unquestionably 
provided haven for more refugees than any other country in the 
world.After all, Israel was founded by refugees from the Shoa, from Arab 
countries and other communities undergoing persecution.Our deep-seated 
memory of the suffering of our forebears imposes on us an obligation to behave 
with greater compassion than any other nation.We must impress upon our 
children that Judaism teaches all human being were created equal, and that no 
people are inherently evil or inferior. They should understand that radical 
Muslims have poisoned the minds of Arabs in the same way that the Nazis 
transformed the Germans into monsters.They must be encouraged to extend 
a hand of friendship to Arab citizens who accept Israel as a Jewish state and 
seek to live in peace and tranquility among us.We must also condemn the 
obscene manner in which our foes and many hypocritical liberals are employing 
Holocaust inversion to besmirch us as racists and accuse us of practicing 
apartheid, while closing their eyes to the culture of death, violence and 
bigotry perpetrated by our neighbors.
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Searching for one Palestinian moderate</title>
<date>9/11/2011</date>
<content>
The Bible tells us that God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah despite Abraham’s 
intercession because there weren’t even 10 righteous people in these 
cities.Alas, I believe that if one were to review the entire spectrum of 
Palestinian political, religious and intellectual leadership, one would be 
unable to identify even a single righteous or moderate Palestinian leader who is 
committed to achieving a genuine peace.




We are repeatedly told that 
President Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority are our genuine peace 
partners and that we are unlikely to find more moderate Palestinians with whom 
to negotiate.Yet Abbas, who obtained his “doctorate” by justifying 
Holocaust denial: • Refuses to recognize Israel as a Jewish state, insists that 
the “occupation” dates back to 1948 and even denies any Jewish link to the Holy 
Land.• Sanctifies mass murderers of Israeli women and children by 
bestowing honor on the killers and granting state pensions to their 
families.• Rules over an Authority in which the controlled media, 
mosques and state educational system incite hatred against Jews and deny 
Israel’s right to exist.• Endorses the execution of any Palestinian who 
sells land to a Jew.• Assures his people that any future Palestinian 
state will be entirely cleansed of Jews.• Is committed to reuniting with 
the genocidal Islamic Hamas, whose charter calls for the murder of all Jews and 
the elimination of Israel.Even when he did negotiate with Israel, Abbas 
effectively rejected offers made by former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert to 
cede 95 percent of the territories conquered in response to Jordan’s offensive 
against Israel.INDEED, THE more Israelis concede, the more Abbas 
demands. Today he has escalated the issue of so-called “right” of return of 
refugees to Palestine as a non-negotiable demand, despite realizing that this 
would bring an end to Jewish sovereignty which no Israeli government could 
contemplate.On the surface, the PA appears moderate compared to Hamas. 
But their objectives are identical. Abbas speaks with a forked tongue and is 
vague about his long-term goals when he addresses non-Arab audiences, whereas 
Hamas is completely honest and boasts that it will never negotiate and will 
continue to fight until the Jewish state is destroyed.Some PA leaders 
are now becoming less inhibited. Only a few weeks ago, a prominent Fatah leader 
explicitly proclaimed that a Palestinian State would merely represent the first 
stepping stone towards the ultimate objective of eliminating the Jewish 
state.Unfortunately, all opinion polls demonstrate that the Palestinian 
masses have been brainwashed and endorse these views.Professor Sari 
Nusseibeh, the president of Bir Zeit University, was hailed by many naive 
Israelis as a Palestinian model of moderation. Dr. Yossi Beilin referred to him 
as a living testimony to the fact that Oslo was not a failure.Nearly 10 
years ago I challenged the bona fides of Nusseibeh, pointing out that he was 
appointed by, reported to and accepted instructions from Yasser Arafat.I 
observed that political dissidents under Arafat’s authority had extraordinarily 
limited lifespans and suggested that Nusseibeh’s role was to provide the PA with 
a moderate face to present to the Western world. His amiable and soothing 
approach was obviously designed to revive Israel’s fond memories of the 
“irreversible peace process” and Arafat’s cynical “peace of the 
brave.”Whereas Nusseibeh did in fact call for an end to violence and 
condemned boycotts, he was also recorded in a Palestinian television program 
expressing sympathy and praising a militant mother of a suicide bomber whom he 
referred to as “a soldier dying in battle.” He always took care not to pass 
judgment on suicide bombers, merely questioning the benefits of the strategy 
rather than its morality.He was often bracketed with Arafat’s Jerusalem 
representative, the late Faisal Husseini, who was also considered a “moderate” 
throughout most of his life. Yet following his death, Husseini was quoted in an 
Egyptian newspaper interview saying, “we must distinguish our strategies and 
long-term goals from the political phased goals which we are compelled to accept 
due to international pressures.”The “ultimate goal is the liberation of 
all historic Palestine...Oslo has to be viewed as a Trojan 
horse.”In a lengthy article recently published on the al-Jazeera 
website, Nusseibeh set aside his cloak of moderation and, like Faisal Hussein, 
demonstrated that despite the sophisticated chatter, he was no more moderate 
than any of his Palestinian counterparts.His article is a passionate 
opposition to recognizing Israel as a Jewish state. The arguments he employs, 
arguing that Jews should be the only people denied the right to statehood, 
testify to the fact that his moderation is a sham.He warns that were 
Israel to be recognized as a Jewish state, it would become an “apartheid” 
entity. Not only would Israel’s Arabs be stripped of their citizenship and other 
rights, but they would also be killed like the ancient Canaanites and Jebusites 
were by the Israelites according to the Bible.He conveniently ignores 
that Israel being a Jewish state was the rationale for its creation by the 
United Nations in 1947. He also overlooks the inconsistency that the new 
Palestinian entity would be governed by Shari’a law and cleansed of any Jews and 
that there is no Arab country which remotely extends similar rights to 
minorities comparable to Israel.Furthermore, he has the gall to condemn 
Jewish intolerance towards other faiths in Jerusalem, disregarding the fact that 
it was only when Jerusalem came under Jewish sovereignty in 1967 that freedom of 
religious association and worship were extended for the first time to all 
religions – in dramatic contrast to the manner in which the Jordanians ruled the 
city.Adopting the Abbas UN approach, Nusseibeh also reneged on his 
previous call to Palestinians to cease promoting the right of return for 
Palestinian refugees to Israel.He actually insisted that – hold your 
take a deep breath – 7 million diaspora Palestinians are entitled to 
repatriation or compensation.Nusseibeh’s turnaround reaffirms that there 
is not a single Palestinian leader of political, religious, or intellectual 
distinction who could be described as a moderate and who would be willing to 
support a negotiated settlement to achieve genuine peace deal with the Jewish 
state.But in this insane Alice in Wonderland global environment, we are 
being told to deal with these bigots as though they were genuine peace 
partners.The reality is that appeasing these hypocrites, far from 
bringing us closer to peace, merely emboldens the radicals who confront us with 
ever escalating demands which few of the original architects of Oslo – certainly 
not Yitzhak Rabin – would ever have conceded.To the world and those 
calling on us to continue providing unilateral concessions – which without 
exception have weakened our position and encouraged our adversaries – I make one 
challenge: Please identify one single Palestinian leader or intellectual who 
genuinely advocated moderation and was not assassinated.
The writer’s 
website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com. 

ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: The two faces of the New Israel Fund</title>
<date>14/9/2011</date>
<content>
It is a somber reflection on the naivety of well-intended Jewish philanthropists 
that they continue donating vast amounts of money to Israel’s largest NGO, the 
New Israel Fund (NIF). They do so despite repeated documented exposures 
demonstrating that this body is sponsoring anti-Zionist, pro-Palestinian and 
post- Zionist organizations, committed to undermining the Jewish state and 
promoting the narrative of the Palestinians as victims and Israelis as 
oppressors.Many of the donors are liberal Jews genuinely committed to 
Israel who blindly accept at face value statements from NIF officials who 
obfuscate the truth.




Recently, yet another bombshell discrediting this 
organization was revealed by Wikileaks. A confidential cable quoted a 
conversation between officials at the Tel Aviv US embassy and NIF associate 
director Hedva Radanovitz, who until last year controlled the NIF distribution 
of grants to 350 NGOs totaling $18 million per annum. She told embassy personnel 
that “she believed that in 100 years, Israel would be majority Arab and that the 
disappearance of the Jewish state would not be the tragedy that Israelis fear 
since it would become more democratic.”Radanovitz was in fact, 
rationalizing why the NIF has and continues to provide millions of dollars to 
groups supporting the destruction of Israel as a Jewish state.In 
response to media coverage of these bizarre remarks, NIF CEO Daniel Sokatch 
stated that Radanovitz was at the time “not optimistic about Israeli support for 
human rights and democracy” and that her views were not supported by his 
organization.He also stressed that she was now no longer employed by the 
NIF. However, Sokatch and other NIF leaders failed to explain why many other 
senior NIF officers share an ideological view of Israel as a Jewish state which 
most Israelis would bitterly oppose.When communicating to the public, 
NIF spokesmen stress that whilst being “a big tent organization” they 
unquestionably support Israel as a democratic Jewish state and promote freedom, 
justice and equality for all citizens. They purport to be opposed to 
anti-Israeli “lawfare” and BDS (boycotts, divestment and sanctions).They 
continuously dismiss critics as being “extreme right wing” and accuse them of 
McCarthyism.SINCE ITS inception in 1979, NIF has dispersed more than 
$200 million to more than 800 Israeli organizations.The majority of the 
recipients are indeed worthy institutions engaged in social welfare and 
developmental projects that all Israelis would endorse.When NIF 
spokesmen address the public, they speak exclusively of the bona fide social 
organizations they fund. They fail to disclose that they are also providing vast 
funds to organizations that by no stretch of the imagination could qualify for 
inclusion in that category. Even after their recent adamant assurance to the 
public and donors that organizations opposed to the existence of Israel as a 
Jewish state would no longer be sponsored, last year they still directed over a 
quarter of their funding ($4.3 million) to groups engaged in delegitimization 
and other forms of anti-Israeli activity.Here are a few examples of NIF 
allotments last year to organizations for political advocacy that are deeply 
engaged in anti-Israeli campaigns.Nearly $500,000 was provided to 
Adalah, a group which contributed to and campaigned for the Goldstone report, 
urged foreign governments to “reevaluate their relationship with Israel,” 
described Israel as “a colonial enterprise promoting apartheid,” called for 
implementing the Palestinian right of return to Israel, provided affidavits to 
Spanish courts in order to charge Israeli officials with war crimes, and 
defended Hizbullah spy Amir Makhoul as a “human rights defender.” It would 
surely be difficult to visualize any Zionist or remotely pro-Israeli body 
providing funds to an organization committed to such objectives.Mada 
al-Carmel, another recipient of NIF funds, engages in anti-Israeli agitation and 
openly repudiates the legitimacy of the Jewish state.NIF continued to 
fund the Coalition of Women for Peace (CWP), a leader of the campaign expressly 
promoting global “boycott, divestment and sanctions against Israel.” CWP also 
organizes events for Israel apartheid week.In 2010, NIF tripled the 
funding for “Breaking the Silence,” another organization which paved the way for 
the Goldstone report by making unsubstantiated claims of war crimes by the IDF. 
During the Goldstone committee inquiry “Breaking the Silence,” in conjunction 
with B’tselem and other NIF-funded NGOs, accused Israel of war crimes and 
provided “evidence” to the Goldstone Commission to substantiate their biased and 
defamatory report.The sordidness of these virulently anti-Israeli, 
NIF-funded NGOs is heightened by the fact that many are primarily funded by 
foreign foundations, in particular European governments, promoting campaigns 
against Israel and engaged in bolstering far Left Israeli fringe groups. Tens of 
millions of euros are allegedly provided to such groups by overseas governments 
suggesting that the are not indigenous to Israeli society. One could not 
visualize any European state tolerating such interference in its domestic 
affairs by foreign countries or organizations seeking to subvert the 
democratically elected government under the cloak of promoting human 
rights.INDEED, WITHOUT the perseverance and determined investigative 
analysis of Professor Gerald Steinberg of NGO Monitor, the public would be 
totally unaware that such vast sums are provided to anti-Israeli 
organizations.Steinberg has also been instrumental in promoting Knesset 
legislation which now requires NGOs to be transparent and disclose their sources 
of foreign funding, based on the model of the US Foreign Agent Registration ACT 
(FARA). This requirement will enable Israelis to appreciate the extent of 
foreign initiatives designed to fund anti-government “political 
activity.”NIF is a public charity and should thus be obliged to 
introduce greater transparency and implement accountability with checks and 
balances. Although we are told that Radanovitz is no longer employed by the NIF, 
we know nothing about her replacement, or whether the numerous organizations 
still promoting the dismemberment of Israel as a Jewish state last year have 
been excluded from 2011 grants. NIF should be obliged to publish this 
information immediately.Clearly, in these difficult times there is a 
need for drastic change in the personnel managing this organization and an end 
to the secrecy under which they operate in order to ensure that funds raised for 
the welfare of Israel are not diverted to organizations committed to undermining 
the Jewish state.
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: Why do we need a Jewish state anyway?</title>
<date>8/3/2011</date>
<content>
By all indications, Israel Apartheid Week, that intellectual and ideological 
abomination I call Anti-Israel Week, is a flop.Apartheid did not mean 
keeping peoples apart; it separated individuals by race. IAW’s 
institutional infrastructure is as shoddy as its intellectual 
foundations. Scattered, poorly-attended events by noname political hacks 
take on global pretensions because a website lists about 60 locations where 
these events take place in March. Just as you cannot transpose apartheid’s 
color-obsessed racism to the national conflict between Israelis and 
Palestinians, IAW represents marginal local events, not a mass 
movement.




Still, as Rahm Emanuel taught, never waste a crisis – or the 
appearance of one – especially because spreading big lies against Israel has 
become a global pasttime. But while mocking IAW’s failure, and condemning 
Palestinians’ political culture for not identifying this apartheid lie and 
delegitimization business as obstacles to peace, we need positive messages. 
Let’s ask the real question behind today’s Zionist questioning – why do we need 
a Jewish state, anyway? Newsflash: Theodor Herzl’s Europe is gone. Most Jews 
today live in welcoming, open, civil societies like the US and Canada. A modern 
Zionism reacting to anti-Semitism is old-fashioned. Today, even in France, Jew 
haters like designer John Galliano are disgraced and fired, not 
lionized.This good news feeds a growing split among Jews. For Israeli 
Jews, a Jewish state encourages the natural expression of the Jewish people’s 
right to self-determination. The French have France, Germans have 
Germany, the Dutch have the Netherlands, Jews have Israel. As Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan said, Zionism began “as nothing more than the assertion that the Jews 
were a people and had the same rights to nationhood that other such people were 
then asserting.”The Jewish state’s Jewishness is also 
normal. Once we understand that Judaism involves a national identity and 
not just a religious identity, a Jewish state can be democratic yet not 
theocratic. Such national-cultural expression is not unique to Israel. In most 
countries the majority culture enjoys the right to shape the public character, 
yet democratic countries nevertheless protect minorities’ full political and 
civic rights. The UK might have a cross on its flag and a national church at its 
collective heart, the US has “In God We Trust” on its currency and a national 
holiday on Christmas, yet atheists and non- Christians enjoy full civil rights 
in both.But why should happy American Jews, who have never visited 
Israel and will never live there, care about a Jewish state; what’s in it for 
them? TO ANSWER that question, we must define what Judaism is, noting the 
central assumption shaping the previous paragraphs – that Jews are a people. 
Judaism is not just a religion. Years ago, my teacher Dr. Steve Copeland 
compared Judaism to an Oreo cookie – just as the Oreo requires both cream and 
cookie parts, Judaism entails overlapping religious and national 
parts.Is Passover a holiday of religious redemption or national 
liberation? “Yes.” Is the Western Wall a holy religious site or a 
national historical site? Again, “yes.”Belonging to a people, not just a 
religion, fills our identity. It roots us in the sweep of history, binds us to a 
community, connects us to a rich values conversation, ties us to national 
moments, making us a part of something bigger than our selves. In a world 
where for most Westerners the physical basics – food, clothing, shelter – are 
covered, but where we often feel emotionally, ideologically, existentially 
starved, naked and exposed, we are lucky to have this peoplehood treasure 
trove.I am not arrogant enough to claim that Jewish stories, ethics, 
ideas or ideals are the best; nor am I foolish enough to renounce these 
wonderful frameworks that deepen my life and my family life – and belong to 
us.If you like peoplehood, you should love statehood. “The essence of 
the Zionist argument is that to express a national identity to its fullest, 
territory is basic,” Prof. Ruth Gavison teaches. “You need a majority culture, 
not just a minority culture where you are in constant conversation with the host 
culture.”Especially for nonreligious Jews, but then again, especially 
for religious Jews, having a national Jewish culture enhances, enriches, 
encourages and ennobles Jewish identity.Just this week, another study 
showed that camps offering 24/7 Judaism build Jewish identity. Having a Jewish 
state takes 24/7 Judaism to a higher, more natural level, living in Jewish 
space, not just Jewish time, with a full-time symphony of Jewish sounds, smells, 
tastes, events, memories, associations, connections, values and dreams. No state 
is perfect, but our core values can improve it. While Israelis define different 
forms of political Zionism, Diaspora Jews should cultivate identity Zionism 
based on four Bs – Being Jewish provides a sense of Belonging, which helps in 
Becoming a better, more idealistic, more fulfilled person through our home 
Base.Any homeland places an individual into a lifelong color movie 
rather than an occasional black-and-white snapshot; our homeland is consecrated 
by history. Just as in antiquing a 4,000-year-old jug is infinitely more 
precious than a four-day-old cup, just as in baseball a hitting streak becomes 
exponentially more significant with each new plateau, our relationship with 
Israel is magnified by its age, and by our many-layered connections to this 
place.Herzl was right. In what he called the altneuland, old-new land, 
we can enjoy the best of today and yesterday, creating a dynamic modern identity 
anchored in tradition. Such dynamism should be embraced and celebrated, 
which is why our holidays use memories to affirm values, and why we would never 
devote a week to denigrating others.
The writer is professor of history 
at McGill University in Montreal, a Shalom Hartman research fellow in Jerusalem 
and the author of Why I Am a Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the Challenges 
of Today and The Reagan Revolution: A Very Short Introduction. giltroy@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Israel’s indivisible legitimacy</title>
<date>18/3/2011</date>
<content>
Over the past several years, a growing number of patriotic Israelis have begun 
to despair. We can’t stand up to the whole world, they say. At the end of the 
day, we will have to give in and surrender most of the land or all of the land 
we took control over in the 1967 Six Day War. The world won’t accept anything 
less.These statements have grown more strident in the wake of the 
slaughter of the Fogel family last Friday night in Itamar. For example, on 
Thursday Ha’aretz columnist Ari Shavit called Israeli communities built beyond 
the 1949 armistice line the local equivalent of Japan’s nuclear reactors. Like 
the reactors, he wrote, they seemed like a good idea at the time. But they have 
become our undoing.




The international community’s response to the 
Palestinian atrocity in Itamar is pointed to as proof that Israel must 
surrender. Instead of considering what the savage murder of an Israeli family 
tells us about the nature of Palestinian society, the world media have turned 
the massacre of the Fogel family into a story about “settlements.”Take 
The Los Angeles Times for example. From the Times’ perspective, the Fogels were 
not Israeli civilians. They were “Jewish settlers.” They weren’t murdered in 
their home. They were killed in their “tightly guarded compound.”And, in 
the end, the Times effectively justified the murder of the Fogel children when 
it helpfully added, “Most of the international community... views 
Israel’s settlements as illegal.”The Times report was actually 
comparatively sympathetic. At least it mentioned the murders. Most 
European papers began their coverage with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s 
announcement that the government would permit Israelis to build 400 homes in 
Judea and Samaria.As for the governments of the world, most were far 
swifter and more aggressive in their condemnation of Netanyahu’s announcement of 
the building permits than they were in their condemnation of the 
murders.Then there is the US Jewish community.According to New 
York’s Jewish Week, there is a new consensus in the American Jewish community 
that imposing an economic boycott on Israeli communities outside the 1949 
armistice lines is a legitimate position. The paper interviewed Martin Raffel, 
the head of the new Israel Action Network, a multimillion-dollar effort by the 
Jewish Federations of North America and other major Jewish groups to counter the 
delegitimization of Israel.Raffel called the boycott movement misguided, 
rather than wrong. Then he justified it by arguing, “Being misguided in one’s 
policies doesn’t mean one necessarily has become part of the ranks of the 
delegitimizers.”If that wasn’t enough, Ron Kampeas, the Jewish 
Telegraphic Agency’s Washington bureau chief, wrote Tuesday that we shouldn’t 
rush to conclude that Palestinians carried out the attack.Kampeas wrote, 
“We do not yet know who committed the awful butchery in Itamar over the 
weekend.”WITH AMERICAN Jews taking a lead role in delegitimizing Israel; 
with the international media ignoring the massacre of the Fogel family and 
attacking Israel for its response to the event they didn’t cover; and with the 
US government united with the nations of the world in condemning the 
government’s decision to allow Israelis who are Jewish to build on land they 
own, the despair of a growing chorus of Israelis is understandable.But 
while understandable, the notion that Israel has no choice but to surrender 
Judea, Samaria and Jerusalem to the Palestinians is wrong and 
dangerous.Like his fellow defeatists, Shavit argues that Jewish 
communities in these areas are the cause of international moves to delegitimize 
Israel. If they were gone, so the argument goes, then neither the Palestinians 
nor the international community would have a problem with Israel.The 
first problem with this view is that it confuses the focus of Palestinian and 
international attacks on Israel with the rationale behind those attacks. This is 
a mistake Israelis have made repeatedly since the establishment of the Fatahled 
PA in 1994.Immediately after the PA was set up and IDF forces 
transferred security control over Palestinian cities and towns in Judea and 
Samaria to Yasser Arafat’s armies, Palestinian terrorists began attacking 
Israeli motorists driving through PA-controlled areas with rocks, pipe bombs and 
bullets.Then-prime minister and defense minister Yitzhak Rabin blamed 
the attacks on “friction.” If the Palestinians didn’t have contact with Israeli 
motorists, then they wouldn’t attack them. So Israel built the bypass roads 
around the Palestinian towns and cities to prevent friction.For its 
efforts, the Palestinians and the international community accused Israel of 
building “Jews-only, apartheid roads.” Moreover, Palestinian terrorists left 
their towns and cities and stoned, bombed and shot at Israeli motorists on the 
bypass roads.Then there was Gaza. When in 2001 Palestinians first began 
shelling the Israeli communities in Gaza and the Western Negev with mortars and 
rockets, we were told they were attacking because of Israel’s presence in Gaza. 
When the IDF took action to defend the country from mortar and rocket attacks, 
Israel was accused of committing war crimes.The likes of Shavit said 
then that if Israel left Gaza, the Palestinian attacks would stop. They said 
that if they didn’t stop and the IDF was forced to take action, the world would 
support Israel.Shavit himself engaged in shocking demonization of the 
Israelis living in Gaza. In May 2004 he wrote that they were undeserving of IDF 
protection and that no soldier should defend them because they weren’t real 
Israelis.But then the Palestinians and the international community threw 
Shavit and his friends yet another curveball. After Israel expelled every last 
so-called settler and removed every last soldier from Gaza in August 2005, 
Palestinian rocket attacks increased tenfold. The first Katyusha was fired at 
Ashkelon seven months after Israel withdrew. Hamas won the elections and 
Gaza became an Iranian proxy. Now it has missiles capable of reaching Tel 
Aviv.As for the international community, not only did it continue 
blaming Israel for Palestinian terrorism, it refused to accept that Israel had 
ended its so-called occupation of Gaza. It has condemned every step Israel has 
taken to defend itself from Palestinian aggression since the withdrawal as a war 
crime.The lesson of these experiences is that Israeli towns and villages 
in Judea and Samaria are not castigated as “illegitimate” because there is 
anything inherently illegitimate about them. Like the bypass roads and the 
Israeli presence in Gaza, they are singled out because those interested in 
attacking Israel militarily or politically think are an easy target.The 
Arabs, the UN, the Obama administration, the EU, anti-Israel American and 
Israeli Jews, university professors and the legions of self-proclaimed human 
rights organizations in Israel and throughout the world allege these Israeli 
communities are illegitimate because by doing so they weaken Israel as a 
whole.If Israel is convinced that it has no choice but to bow to these 
people’s demands, they will not be appeased. They will simply move on to the 
next easy target. Israeli Jewish communities in the Galilee and the Negev, Jaffa 
and Lod will be deemed illegitimate.In a bid to pretend that the 
communities in Judea and Samaria are somehow different from communities in the 
Galilee, proponents of surrender point to the non-binding 2004 International 
Court of Justice opinion that the communities in Judea and Samaria are 
illegal.But Israelis who accept the non-binding opinion as a binding 
ruling for Judea and Samaria ignore that the opinion also asserted that Israel 
has no right to self defense.The same people who think that so-called 
settlements are illegal also believe that opposition leader Tzipi Livni is a war 
criminal. The same people who think the so-called settlements are illegal would 
condemn as a war crime any attempt to enforce the law against irredentist 
Israeli Arabs.Israel’s bitter experience proves incontrovertibly that 
bowing to international pressure just invites more pressure.SO WHAT can 
Israel do? The first thing we must do is recognize that legitimacy is 
indivisible. In the eyes of Israel’s enemies there is no difference between 
Itamar and Ma’aleh Adumim on the one hand and Ramle and Tel Aviv on the other 
hand. And so we must make no distinction between them.Just as law 
abiding citizens are permitted to build homes in Ramle and Tel Aviv, so they 
must be permitted to build in Itamar and Ma’aleh Adumim. If Israel’s assertion 
of its sovereignty is legitimate in Tel Aviv, then it is legitimate in Judea and 
Samaria. We cannot accept that one has a different status from the 
other.Likewise, it is an act of economic warfare to boycott Israeli 
products, whether they are made in Haifa or Mishor Adumim. Anyone who says it is 
permissible to boycott Mishor Adumim is engaging in economic warfare against 
Haifa.Once we understand that Israel’s legitimacy is indivisible, we 
need to take actions that will put the Palestinians and their international 
supporters on the defensive. There are any number of moves Israel can make in 
this vein.For example, following the Palestinian massacre of the Fogel 
family, Netanyahu highlighted the fact that the PA routinely glorifies terrorist 
murderers and pays them and their families handsome pensions for their illegal 
acts of war. He also highlighted the genocidal anti-Jewish incitement 
endemic in Palestinian society.While all of this is useful, talk is 
cheap. It is time to make the Palestinians pay a price for their depravity and 
to put their international supporters on the defensive.Specifically, 
Netanyahu should ask the US to cut off all US economic and military assistance 
to the PA. Two PA intelligence officers were arrested as part of the Fogel 
murder investigation.The US is training and equipping the Palestinian 
intelligence services. This should stop.Two days after the massacre in 
Itamar, the PA dedicated a public square in El-Bireh to terror commander Dalal 
Mughrabi. Mughrabi commanded the 1978 bus attack on the coastal highway in which 
37 Israelis – including 12 children – were murdered. The PA previously named a 
street, a dormitory, a summer camp and a sports tournament after her. Several 
popular songs have been written to glorify her crimes.The US is 
underwriting the PA’s budget. This should stop.Were the government to go 
after international aid to the PA, not only would it begin a debate in the US 
and perhaps Europe about the nature of Fatah specifically and Palestinian 
society generally, it would force the Palestinians’ myriad supporters to justify 
their support for a society that is defined by its goal of annihilating 
Israel.It is hard to stand up to the massive pressure being brought to 
bear against Israel every day. But it is possible.And whether 
defying our foes is hard or easy, it is our only chance at survival. Either all 
of Israel is legitimate, or none of it is.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 4: Man of courage</title>
<date>4/12/2011</date>
<content>
Man of courage Sir, – Once again, our intrepid leader has bowed to intense international pressure (“Israel releases PA tax funds,” December 1). What about some intense national pressure to follow a policy that’s in our interests? Israelis voted in the last election for a right-wing government.




It seems the only right wing that’s still functioning is that headed by Israel Beiteinu leader Avigdor Lieberman.In the last election I voted for the Likud. Next time it will be for a party led by a man with the courage of his own convictions.STEPHEN COHEN Ma’aleh Adumim What legitimacy? Sir, – The sub-headline in Jonathan Rosen’s piece (“Back to unilateralism,” Inside Out, December 1) says “Dismantling outlying settlements would have few drawbacks, but would lead to one very big plus: international legitimacy.”History has clearly shown that dismantling any settlements has led to international legitimacy for one thing only: the dismantling of more settlements.SYDNEY L. KASTEN Jerusalem Matter of faith Sir, – Anthony Luder (“Take the leap!,” Letters, December 1) exposes two bits of foolishness.For reasons I cannot fathom, Shmuley Boteach (“Are Mormons any weirder than the rest of us?,” Comment & Features, November 29) frivolously allows a casual reader to equate Torah miracles with events in other religions, each of which relies on the testimony of human founders, while the Torah is exquisitely clear about the non-human origins of Judaism. No such comparisons should ever be made, especially by someone so widely read who projects a reputation.That piece of folly is Luder’s cue to fill his absolutist, atheistic conclusions with loaded words, such as “overwhelming biological, geological and genetic evidence.”Succinctly, species do evolve, which doesn’t explain their initial origins.For the Jew, in battle for survival on so many fronts, these issues are far too serious for uninformed summary judgments.PESACH GOODLEY Telz Stone The writer is a physician Sir, – Anthony Luder implicitly attacks all religions as weird, and then, by extension, argues that evolution is an indisputable fact.Has he ever considered that evolution itself is, at its core, a matter of faith as well? While I entirely support evolution, I find it impossible to believe that the first cell appeared spontaneously. How could mere biochemicals selfassemble to make a cell with all the characteristics of life, including reproduction, which is astonishingly complex? To accept that this incredible biochemical machine could arise spontaneously is as much a matter of pure faith as the existence of a God that created the world and is concerned with all human beings.Don’t delude yourself, doctor, you are also a believer! YISRAEL GUTTMAN Jerusalem Essential element Sir, – We welcome the news presented in “Dagan to head movement pushing for change in political system” (November 30).However, missing from Meir Dagan’s comments is the essential element for meaningful electoral reform: direct regional representation.Raising the threshold for political parties is admirable, but without at least a portion of the Knesset being elected by region, there is not much to keep this from being just another rehashed plan that only protects politicians without regard for the general public.By standing up for direct regional elections, there is no doubt that this movement would receive overwhelming public support. We did, when, armed with a petition and only modest resources, we collected enough signatures to convince MKs of the importance of this change, although ultimately with limited success.Hopefully this new movement, with greater resources, will be more successful, and we stand ready to participate.ELAINE LEVITT Migdal Tefen The writer is co-chairman of the Citizens Empowerment Public Action Campaign (CEPAC) Talibanland Sir, – The criminal intimidation involved in forcing Manny’s Bookstore to remove certain titles from its shelves (“Mea She’arim bookstore accedes to demands of extremist haredi vandalists,” November 30) is yet another sign of the ongoing effort to turn the capital of the Jewish people into Talibanland.Where, I wonder, is there any sign of political and religious leadership that dares confront the narrow-minded, insular and bigoted anti-Zionist forces that are increasingly powerful in Jerusalem? SHALOM FREEDMAN Jerusalem Amos shocker Sir, – Bravo to Gil Troy (“‘Zionism is Racism’ lie lives on, 20 years after UN repeal,” Center Field, November 30) for drawing our attention to Haaretz publisher Amos Schocken’s shocking description of Israel as an apartheid state.The adoption of patently false accusations put out by sworn opponents of Israel’s security concerns by the publisher of a leading Israeli newspaper calls for the type of advertising sanctions Troy recommends.ROBYN ROTBERG Kfar Saba Walls and directions Sir, – David Newman writes about two walls that divided two capital cities (“From East Berlin to east Jerusalem,” Comment & Features, November 29).The analysis seems lightweight, especially for a university professor.Newman writes: “Walls are built to exclude someone or something,” and explains that the Berlin wall was built to prevent “the migration of refugees seeking to escape the ‘socialist utopia.’” This explanation tells us that the wall was built to keep people in.He also tells us that the Berlin wall divided “a single people, speaking the same language, with the same customs and cultural norms.” In discussing Jerusalem, he admits that the wall separates Jews and Arabs, two different peoples with different languages and customs, and is designed to keep one side out.The two walls may be physically similar but their purposes are exact opposites.I expect a professor (and dean) to be aware of this difference and not try to make them sound similar.AHARON GOLDBERG Hatzor Haglilit Sir, – David Newman fails to mention why Jews were illegally and immorally cut off from the Western Wall and Mount of Olives cemetery between 1949 and 1967.He is extremely sympathetic to the plight and inconvenience that the security wall poses to the Palestinian population.Maybe he should ask why Palestinians are so willing to be suicide bombers.MATTIAS ROTENBERG Petah Tikva Sir, – The problem is not Israel’s defensive wall on Jerusalem’s 
periphery. It is far less obtrusive than the concrete and barbed wire 
barrier, dotted with military checkpoints, that ran through the heart of
 the city for 19 years – with hardly anyone’s objection.It is where and why the new barrier was built – not to keep Jews out, as
 Jordanian fortifications did, but to stop mass murderers and provide 
safe access for all.JOHN R. COHN 
Philadelphia Sir, – David Newman should have asked a more fundamental question: Why 
is there an artificial separation between the Palestinian populations on
 the two sides of the Jordan? Perhaps it makes too much sense to suggest
 that Jordan and the disputed territories should be joined to make a 
single Palestinian homeland.
EFRAIM A. COHEN 
Zichron Ya’acov
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Defending the declaration</title>
<date>8/5/2011</date>
<content>
“The Land of Israel was the birthplace of the Jewish people. Here their 
spiritual, religious and political identity was shaped. Here they first attained 
statehood… “The State of Israel will be open for Jewish immigration and for the 
Ingathering of the Exiles; it will foster the development of the country for the 
benefit of all its inhabitants; it will be based on freedom, justice and peace 
as envisaged by the prophets of Israel; it will ensure complete equality of 
social and political rights to all its inhabitants irrespective of religion, 
race or sex; it will guarantee freedom of religion, conscience, language, 
education and culture...”These are extracts from Israel’s Declaration of 
Independence, read out by David Ben-Gurion almost exactly 63 years ago, as the 
clouds of war gathered. The following day, the Arab world would unite in an 
attempt to strangle the Jewish State at birth. Israel won that war, and several 
since, but today, though physical threats to its security remain, there is 
another war to be fought; a war to defend the dreams of Israel’s founding 
fathers.ISRAEL HAS no written constitution; the Declaration of 
Independence is the closest thing we have to a mission statement.




Many 
messages can be derived from it, but the two central motifs are exemplified in 
the sections cited above.Namely: 1) That Israel is the realization of 
the legitimate right of the Jewish people to a sovereign state of their own 
within the boundaries of their historical, cultural and religious homeland; 2) 
That that state should fulfill the moral imperatives inherent in Judaism, 
expressed by the ancient prophets and consistent with the modern principles of 
democracy and human rights.These should remain the key principles for 
Israeli policymakers if we are to see the country live up to the vaunted 
aspirations of not only the drafters of the Declaration, but the godfathers of 
Zionism such as Herzl, whose novel Altneuland envisaged an enlightened Jewish 
state acting as a beacon of freedom; or Ahad Ha’am, for whom the Jewish 
character of the state, epitomized by an ethical core, was its raison 
d’être.The war for the defense of the Declaration of Independence has 
two battlefields: here in Israel and abroad.Living in the UK, I became 
aware of the routine demonization of Israel in public discourse; and of 
left-wingers setting aside their commitments to women’s rights, gay rights and 
religious and racial equality in order to scream anti-Zionist slogans alongside 
radical Islamists.I understood very quickly that this was indeed the new 
anti-Semitism; the ostracization of the Jewish state, the singling out of Israel 
– notable also in such august bodies as the UN Human Rights Council, which at 
each session has a permanent agenda item addressing only Israel’s alleged human 
rights abuses. The Council is routinely chaired by the likes of Gaddafi’s Libya 
and genocidal Sudan.Outside of Israel, fighting this demonization, 
delegitimization and double standard is to defend the Declaration: specifically, 
to defend the right of the Jewish people to a state of their own within the 
borders of their historic homeland.THIS WAS the battlefield I had been 
familiar with. Moving to Israel three years ago, I discovered that here, 
defining what it means to ‘defend the Declaration’ is perhaps less 
simple.Here, we must still protect Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish 
state – diplomatically and, of course, militarily – but there is also an 
increasingly urgent need to defend the principle of “equality of social and 
political rights to all its inhabitants.”Many of those who loudly 
proclaim their Zionism display ideological positions somewhat out of sync with 
the text of the Declaration. I’m thinking in particular of those pushing 
“loyalty” legislation clearly aimed at Arabs (they seem to have no problem with 
the clear disloyalty to the state of settlers building outposts illegally and 
then throwing stones at Israeli soldiers and police), or the religious Zionist 
rabbis issuing “halachic” judgments against non-Jews – actually in defiance of 
both religion (as defined by the numerous eminent halachists who have condemned 
them) and Zionism (as defined by the state’s founders in the 
Declaration).The Declaration was signed by representatives of all the 
Zionist factions – socialist, revisionist, religious et al. Too many of today’s 
heirs of the revisionist stream (primarily in the Likud) seem to have forgotten 
that their movement’s founding father, Ze’ev Jabotinsky, was a liberal 
nationalist committed to a fully democratic Jewish state. Meanwhile, religious 
Zionism has, since 1967, been hijacked in large part by the settler movement, 
which increasingly acts according to its rabbis’ dictates rather than the laws 
of the democratic state with its “gentile court” (to cite the outrageous term 
used by rabbis expressing their support for a convicted rapist, former president 
Moshe Katsav). The rabbis condemning those who rent apartments to Arabs seem 
ignorant of the entirely contrary ruling on this matter by past luminaries such 
as Rav Abraham Kook and the state’s first chief rabbi, Isaac Herzog. The latter 
even argued that the Declaration of Independence was a halachically binding 
document.Rav Kook is often regarded as the spiritual father of religious 
Zionism, but he never taught that settling the entire Land of Israel was the 
pre-eminent mitzva. That notion, promoted by his son, Rabbi Zvi Yehuda Kook, has 
caused the biggest threat to Israel’s status as a democracy.Israel’s 
control over the West Bank, with Jewish settlers enjoying the rights of 
citizenship while Palestinians do not, cannot be reconciled with the democratic 
Zionism of the Declaration. A failure to relinquish that control will ultimately 
lead to a ‘one-state solution’: either an Arab-majority Arab state or a 
Jewish-run apartheid-like state.WITH DEBATES aplenty about what Zionism 
should mean today, and what a Jewish and democratic state should look like, the 
Declaration of Independence, Israel’s founding document, provides the legitimate 
framework upon which to construct the answers to these questions. In Israel and 
outside, the fight is on to defend the principles of the 
Declaration.Outside Israel, this battle is principally concerned with 
defending Israel’s legitimacy as the nation-state of the Jewish people. Within 
the country, it is also about ensuring that Israel keeps the promise made by its 
founding fathers that all its citizens will be guaranteed equal rights and 
freedoms.Within today’s Knesset, it is clear that those Arab MKs who 
reject Israel’s Jewish national character, and those on the far Right who 
believe that Israel’s non-Jewish citizens should have second-class status, are 
equally in breach of the Declaration’s principles.These principles 
dictate that Israel act, with force if necessary, to thwart the plans of Hamas, 
Hezbollah and their sponsor Iran – all of whom seek Israel’s demise no less 
sincerely than did the Arab armies in 1948.They also require that 
greater efforts be made to safeguard the equality of Israel’s non-Jewish 
citizens, and prosecute those who incite racism.Finally, with large 
swathes of the international community poised to endorse Palestinian statehood 
in September, Israel must counter this move with a proposal of its own that will 
look to establish secure borders and end the occupation that will otherwise 
ultimately derail the Zionist project and destroy the dreams of our founding 
fathers.Their words, accepted then by religious and secular Zionists, 
leftists and rightists, remain valid for the State of Israel today. A state 
“based on freedom, justice and peace” where we can exercise “the natural right 
of the Jewish people to be masters of their own fate, like all other nations, in 
their own sovereign state.”
The writer worked in the Public Affairs 
department, and as the Ambassador’s speechwriter at the Israeli Embassy to the 
UK, and has been active in Israel advocacy organizations in the UK and Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Durban & 9/11 – ten years later</title>
<date>15/9/2011</date>
<content>
It was said in the immediate aftermath of 9/11 that “the whole world changed.” I 
don’t know if the world is any different, but it is clear that 9/11 had a 
transformative impact on our politics and psyche.But, if 9/11 was a 
transformative event, the same description applies to another event that ended 
on the eve of 9/11. I am referring to “The World Conference against Racism, 
Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance” in Durban, South 
Africa, which emerged as the tipping point for a new wave of anti-Semitism 
masquerading as anti-racism. Yet, the 10th anniversary of this event has gone 
largely unremarked.




As one of my colleagues put it at the time, if 9/11 
was the Kristallnacht of terror, Durban was the Mein Kampf. Those of us who 
personally witnessed the Durban festival of hate – with its hateful 
declarations, incantations, pamphlets and marches – have forever been 
transformed. For us, “Durban” is part of our everyday lexicon as a byword 
for racism and anti-Semitism, just as 9/11 is a byword for terrorist mass 
murder.When the World Conference Against Racism was first proposed, I 
was among those who greeted the news enthusiastically. This was to be the 
first world conference of its kind in the 21st Century. Anti-racism was 
finally going to be a priority on the international human rights agenda. The 
underrepresented human rights cases and causes, such as the Roma of Europe, 
would now have a platform and presence. The fact that Durban was chosen as host 
city was a commemoration of the dismantling of South African apartheid, itself a 
watershed event in the international struggle against racism.But what 
happened at Durban was truly Orwellian: A conference purportedly organized to 
fight racism was turned into a festival of racism against Israel and the Jewish 
people. A conference intended to commemorate the dismantling of South Africa as 
an apartheid state resonated with spurious calls for the dismantling of Israel’s 
as an apartheid state. A conference dedicated to the promotion of human rights 
as the new secular religion of our time increasingly singled out Israel as a 
sort of modern-day geopolitical anti-Christ. HOW DID this happen? The 
World Conference Against Racism was organized around four regional conferences – 
in Europe, Africa, Latin America and Asia. Each regional conference was to 
formulate a declaration against racism and a plan of action. Then the 
four regional declarations and plans of action were to be collated in Durban 
into a composite draft declaration against racism.The problem originated 
with the Asian regional conference, held in Teheran in February, 2001. Although 
Israel belonged to the Asian group, the conference organizers excluded Israel 
and Jewish non-governmental organizations from participation. Contrary to the 
United Nations’ own principles with respect to universality and equality, a 
member state was made a pariah. The Teheran conference also supported a 
country-specific indictment of Israel, yet another breach of international 
human-rights principles and the UN’s own procedures in this regard.The 
six-point indictment emanating from the Teheran regional conference, which 
became a dominant blueprint for Durban, has emerged as one of the more 
scurrilous documents relating to Israel and the Jewish people to appear since 
World War II.The first specific indictment of Israel spoke of the 
occupation of the West Bank and Gaza as a “crime against humanity, as a new form 
of apartheid, as a threat to international peace and security.” While UN 
Security Council Resolution 1373, adopted in the aftermath of 9/11, would 
characterize terrorism itself as a threat to international peace and security – 
which no cause or grievance could ever justify – Teheran and later Durban would 
characterize terrorist acts against Israel as “resistance” to occupation, and 
since delegates at Durban saw “resistance” against apartheid states as eminently 
praiseworthy, Durban served to validate terrorist acts against 
Israel.Second, Israel was accused of the “ethnic cleansing” of 
“Mandatory Arab Palestine” in 1947-48 – of being, in effect, an “original sin” 
in its very creation, though its international birth certificate was sanctioned 
by the UN Partition Resolution of 1947, which recommended the partition of then 
mandatory Palestine into two States – a Jewish State and an Arab State. The 
Jewish leadership accepted the Partition Resolution, while the Arab and 
Palestinian leadership rejected it, and launched, in their words, a “war of 
extermination” against the embryonic Israeli state.Third, Israel was 
cast as being responsible for all the evils in the world, the “poisoner of the 
international wells,” the contemporary analogue to the medieval anti-Semitic 
libel. In this regard, the delegates at Teheran and Durban were very much taking 
their cues from the larger UN itself, where, on the occasion of the Teheran 
conference, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights condemned Israel – and 
Israel alone – for war crimes and crimes against humanity.Fourth, the 
documents emanating from Durban introduced a new perspective on the notion of 
“holocausts,” intentionally written in the plural and in lower case. A large 
number of states even sought to minimize or exclude any references to the 
Holocaust, or to marginalize and ignore anti-Semitism, while holding up Israel’s 
treatment of the Palestinians as an example of a “real” holocaust. Zionism was 
characterized not only as “racism,” but as a violent expression of racist 
supremacy – indeed, as a form of anti-Semitism itself.AS IT happens, all 
of this hateful Durban- speak became a legitimizing instrument for a new wave of 
anti-Semitism in the immediate aftermath of 9/11, as evidenced by the following 
examples: 1. The Jews were blamed for 9/11 in a set of new “protocols” 
reflective of what some see as a new international Jewish conspiracy. For 
example, in many Arab and Muslim countries, teachers, religious leaders and the 
media propagated the theory about the 4,000 Jews who supposedly had been tipped 
off to stay away from work at the World Trade Center, and the Jewish film crew 
that supposedly had advance notice to be on the scene to film the planes plowing 
into the Towers. Upon the fifth anniversary of 9/11, polls showed that some 50 
percent of British Muslims believed 9/11 to have been an American-Israeli 
conspiracy.Now, on the 10th anniversary of this horrific tragedy, these 
myths have resurfaced with a vengeance, with social media now the medium of 
choice for blaming Israel and Jews for 9/11. Copious Facebook groups such as 
“Jews Behind 9/11,” and “9/11 was an inside (ZIONIST) job” provide a platform 
for incitement and the demonizing of the Jews on this solemn occasion of 
remembrance.2. In the anti-terrorism debate that took place at the UN in 
the immediate aftermath of 9/11, Arab states and their supporters opposed any 
attempt to classify “resistance” as terrorism, thereby appropriating the Durban 
rhetoric of the delegitimization of Israel, on the one hand, and the 
legitimization of terrorism as “resistance” against Israel, on the 
other.3. A global campaign against Israeli “apartheid” was launched in 
the form of post-Durban calls for Boycotts, Divestment and Sanctions. In an 
astonishing but revelatory development at a pro-divestment conference in 
Michigan, just weeks after Durban, a resolution calling for a two-state solution 
“if Israel were to transform itself and become a real democracy” was defeated, 
but a resolution calling for the dismantling of Israel as a racist apartheid 
state was adopted.4. The first UN Human Rights Commission meeting in the 
aftermath of Durban – not unlike the one on the road to Durban – sought to 
single out Israel for differential and discriminatory treatment, with 40% of all 
the resolutions passed at the meeting indicting Israel, while the major 
international human rights violators, such as Libya, Sudan, Syria or Iran, 
enjoyed exculpatory immunity. This Alice in Wonderland human-rights perversion 
continues to be replicated in the successor UN Human Rights Council.5. 
The convening, in December 2001, of the Contracting Parties to the 1949 Geneva 
Conventions on international humanitarian law was a particularly egregious 
discriminatory act. For 52 years, the contracting parties had never met – 
notwithstanding the genocide in the Balkans, the unspeakable and preventable 
genocide in Rwanda and the killing fields in Sierra Leone. The first and to date 
only time that the contracting parties have ever come together to put a country 
in the docket was in the immediate aftermath of Durban. That country, again, was 
Israel, an offensive singling-out that undermined the whole regime of 
international humanitarian law.IN SUM, Durban became the tipping point 
for the coalescence of a new, virulent, globalizing anti-Jewishness reminiscent 
of the atmospherics that pervaded Europe in the 1930s. In its “benign” form, it 
found expression in the singling out of Israel and the Jewish people for 
selective and discriminatory treatment; in its lethal form, this animus 
continues to find expression in the state-sanctioned genocidal anti-Semitism of 
Ahmadinejad’s Iran and its terrorist proxies, Hamas and Hizbullah.None 
of this is intended to suggest that Israel is somehow above the law, or that 
Israel is not accountable to the international community like any other state. 
On the contrary, neither Israel nor the Jewish people are entitled to any 
privilege or preference because of the horror of the Holocaust or the threat of 
anti-Semitism. The problem is not that anyone should seek to place Israel above 
the law, but that Israel is being systematically denied equality before the law; 
not that human rights standards are applied to Israel – which they must be, but 
that they are not being applied equally to everyone else; not that Israel must 
respect human rights – which she must – but that the rights of Israel deserve 
equal respect.On the tenth anniversary of 9/11 – a terrorist atrocity 
borne out of radicalism and hate – let us not overlook the racism and evil still 
prevalent today. Anti-Semitism – both old and new – is the canary in 
evil’s mine shaft. As history has taught us only too well, while it begins with 
Jews, it does not end with Jews. Combating racism, hate and anti- Semitism is 
everyone’s responsibility.
The writer is a Member of the Parliament and 
former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada. He was a member of 
the Canadian delegation to the Durban Conference, and is a Professor of Law 
(Emeritus) at McGill University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: I call it national suicide</title>
<date>29/8/2011</date>
<content>
It took the Palestinian national movement and its representative organization the PLO (formed in 1964) 24 years to formally accept the existence of Israel and the two-state solution. Twenty-three years later, we are approaching the time when the Palestinian national movement and the PLO will abandon the idea of creating a Palestinian state next to Israel in favor of demanding full political rights within Israel.Since 1937, when the Peel commission advocated the partition of Palestine-Eretz Yisrael into a Jewish state and an Arab/Palestinian state, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has been defined as territorial. A territorial conflict is resolvable because you can divide the territory in question and allow each national movement to have a territorial expression. The main issues concern the delineation of borders, how to manage possible shared areas, border management, allocation, use and preservation of shared natural resources and the preserving and protecting of the environment, economic relations, security arrangements and the post-conflict issues of reconciliation.




If partition is no longer possible or desirable, the territorial conflict is transformed into what I call an identity conflict. An identity conflict is when two or more separate groups fight to determine which will be dominant in determining the nature and character of the territory. Territorial conflicts are easily resolvable.Identity conflicts are not.The best example from modern times is what happened in the former 
Yugoslavia. When Yugoslavia broke up, those areas which had a clear 
territorial national identity could secede and form a nation-state – 
Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro, and Slovenia. Bosnia and Herzegovina, on 
the other hand, were territories with mixed populations of Serbs, Croats
 and Bosniac Muslims, and no territorial solution was available.Bosnia became the classic national-ethnic identity conflict. A 
national-ethnic identity conflict is almost impossible to resolve as 
long as national-ethnic identity remains how people define themselves. 
In this situation, violent conflict is almost unavoidable. In Bosnia it 
rapidly became a matter of everyone against everyone for everything. In 
four years, 150,000 were killed. It was a society that went insane. The 
end result was a ceasefire whereby essentially parallel states have been
 established over the territory. The situation remains extremely 
fragile, to the extent that people are almost afraid to talk about the 
conflict, knowing that even talk can easily lead to more violence.We are close to losing the opportunity to divide Israel-Palestine into 
two states. The Palestinian leadership says its decision to go to the UN
 is its last attempt to save this solution. They see increased 
settlement activity, construction of the separation barrier which takes 
away more of their land, the Jordan valley being systematically closed 
off to them, increasing voices from within the Israeli government which 
say that no solution is possible. All this plus the failure of 18 years 
of peace process are now withering away support within Palestine of what
 was a majority in favor of the two-state solution. A growing number of 
Palestinians are saying they no longer think it is possible to divide 
the land. This call has been made by Palestinian intellectuals and 
Palestinian leftist groups since at least the second intifada. Now you 
will hear more and more people all around the West Bank who no longer 
believe in this solution. They don’t clearly articulate what the 
alternative is, but people are speaking loudly about what they call “the
 one-state solution.”When I discuss the issue with them, I say there is no such thing as a 
one-state solution, if solution means the end of the conflict. The 
one-state option, I say, is a recipe for continuing the conflict for at 
least another generation. Neither Jews nor Palestinians are really 
interested in sharing the same state, and neither side is willing to 
compromise on its own identity.My perception is that Israeli decision makers are not particularly 
disturbed by this emerging reality. I think they believe we can perhaps 
withdraw from territories that the PA controls today – some 38% of the 
West Bank divided into pockets surrounded by Israeli settlements – and 
allow them to have the kind of autonomy they enjoy today, perhaps with 
voting rights in Jordan. Some perhaps believe they can even add some 
communities of Palestinian citizens of Israel to that Palestinian 
Autonomous zone (they can even call it PAZ in Hebrew to make it sound 
nice). These Israeli leaders actually believe that the Palestinians, the
 Arab world, Europe or even the US will accept this situation.But they will not. A situation in which Israel controls the entire 
territory between the Jordan River and the sea, and allows different 
sets of rights to exist based on national-ethnic identity, will be 
called under the best circumstances Israeli apartheid. Israel will lose 
it moral right to exist as a nation. Israel will lose the ability to 
claim it is a democracy. The Israeli and Palestinian people will suffer 
beyond imagination once the situation devolves into the next round of 
violence, when everyone is fighting everyone for everything. It will be 
national suicide.We are now living in an isolation which will only grow if we refuse to act in our own self-interest.Unlike Masada, agreeing with those around us means working with the 
international community and the Palestinian people to end our control 
over them and create a Palestinian state in the West Bank and eventually
 in Gaza. The Palestinians are providing the opportunity to achieve an 
agreed-on formula for implementing a territorial solution to the 
conflict through a UN Resolution that would be supported by the world. 
We should grasp that opportunity and work with the international 
community to draft the resolution and end the conflict. If we fail to 
utilize this opportunity, we are likely to strike a death blow to the 
two-state solution, and to our own right to live in a Jewish nation.
Gershon Baskin is founder and co-director of IPCRI, the Israel Palestine Center for Research and Information.

He hosts a weekly radio show in Hebrew on All for Peace radio, and is a voluntary columnist for The Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Expose NGOs - democratically</title>
<date>26/6/2011</date>
<content>
Some NGOs’ detrimental effect on Israel’s image in the world has recently 
sparked a flurry of legislative action, not all of which is in line with 
democratic values.At the beginning of the year, Foreign Minister Avigdor 
Lieberman proposed creating a Knesset “inquiry committee” that would single out 
and scrutinize the foreign funding of NGOs critical of Israel, particularly 
those that focus on supposed Israeli “war crimes.” Thankfully, that initiative, 
which would have blurred the lines between the executive, judicial and 
legislative arms of government, was voted down in the Knesset.




Now two 
additional legislative initiatives have been presented to the Ministerial 
Legislation Committee, for consideration next month, that are designed to 
curtail the work of NGOs deemed hostile to Israel.MK Ofir Akunis (Likud) 
has proposed to limit donations that a “political” NGO could receive from 
foreign entities to NIS 20,000 a year. (A political NGO is defined as one that 
attempts to “influence the internal political discourse and the character and 
policies of the State of Israel.”) Meanwhile, MK Faina Kirschenbaum (Israel 
Beiteinu) would revoke tax-free status on donations that political NGOs can 
receive from foreign entities, resulting in a 45 percent tax on donations. To 
protect pro-Israeli NGOs, Kirschenbaum suggests a litmus test: Non-profits that 
receive some of their funding from the Israeli government would not be hurt; 
those that don’t, would.We share the concern of lawmakers who have seen 
certain NGOs exploit their status as human rights’ watchdogs to advance a 
decidedly anti-Israel agenda. During Operation Cast Lead, for instance, some 
NGOs provided inaccurate figures on the ratio of combatant to noncombatant 
deaths, and/or claimed that the IDF purposely targeted Palestinian civilians in 
Gaza, an allegation later retracted by Richard Goldstone, author of the UN Human 
Rights Council on Operation Cast Lead that bears his name. Some NGOs use 
disparaging terms to describe Israel, referring to it, for instance, as an 
“apartheid state,” though no systematic comparison with the institutionalized 
racism and colonialism implemented in South Africa is, or could be, provided. 
And this is just a sampling.Nevertheless, it would be highly unwise and 
anti-democratic to pass legislation empowering the government to single out 
purportedly biased NGOs for censure. Using ideological criteria to determine 
which NGOs are eligible for donations or tax breaks and which are not curtails 
freedom of speech and is a slippery slope that could lead to an ideological 
witch hunt.THE BEST remedy is increased transparency. As US Supreme 
Court Justice Louis Brandeis famously put it in 1913, “Sunlight is said to be 
the best disinfectant.”Legislation sponsored by coalition chairman Ze’ev 
Elkin (Likud) and framed after the US’s Foreign Agents Registration Act was 
already approved back in February, making the Akunis and Kirschenbaum bills 
superfluous.Elkin’s legislation requires all NGOs, regardless of their 
political leaning, to issue quarterly reports on their foreign government 
funding. Those that refrain from disclosure will be subject to a fine of nearly 
NIS 30,000. If properly implemented, Elkin’s law will enable Israelis to 
formulate more educated and informed opinions regarding the activities of these 
NGOs. Elkin’s law might even inspire European countries to adopt similar 
legislation.
Prof. Gerald Steinberg, head of NGO Monitor, an Israelbased 
research group instrumental in promoting the Elkin law, has noted that in many 
European countries taxpayers are regularly denied detailed information on the 
way their hard-earned euros are put to use. The exact amount of public funds 
transferred to ideologically partial NGOs operating in Israel (and elsewhere) is 
often obscured by lumping them together under the vague and highly general 
category of “funding for international human rights activities.” Steinberg 
estimates that upwards of 100 million euros in public funds are transferred 
annually to NGOs operating in Israel.
Our lawmakers should be concerned 
by the fact that too many NGOs here are intent on presenting a hypercritical, 
distorted picture of Israel to the world, and receive large sums of money to 
help them do so. However, the answer to this challenge is not to curtail NGOs’ 
freedom of expression. Doing so plays into the hands of Israel’s many detractors 
in that it would constituted self-inflicted damage to one of our biggest assets 
– Israeli democracy. Israel’s vibrant democracy does not merely survive 
criticism, it thrives and is improved by it, especially when much of this 
“criticism” can be exposed for what it really is: disingenuous and ideologically 
motivated propaganda.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Finnish delusions</title>
<date>6/11/2011</date>
<content>
Finnish Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja has done it again. No sooner did this 
1960s radical ease himself back into the foreign minister’s seat after four 
years in the opposition than he unveiled again his anti- Israel 
prejudice.“No apartheid state is justified or sustainable,” he told a 
panel discussion in Helsinki last week. “If you are occupying areas inhabited 
by... Palestinians who do not have the same rights as the Israelis in Israel, 
that is apartheid.... I think that the majority in Israel has also realized 
this, but they have been unable to provide a leadership that [can] move forward 
on the two-state solution, on the Palestinian problem.”




As the 
longest-serving foreign minister in Finland’s history (2000-2007, 2011-present) 
one would have expected Tuomioja to show greater familiarity with the facts. For 
one thing, all Israeli prime ministers over the past two decades – from Yitzhak 
Rabin and Shimon Peres to Ariel Sharon and Binyamin Netanyahu – have 
unequivocally endorsed the two-state solution, whereas all Palestinian leaders 
have rejected this solution, refusing to allow a single Jew to live in a 
prospective Palestinian state. For another, Israel’s “occupation” of the 
populated areas in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip ended in the 
mid-1990s.THE DECLARATION of principles signed on the White House lawn 
in 1993 by the PLO and the Israeli government provided for Palestinian self-rule 
in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip for a transitional period, during which 
Israel and the Palestinians would negotiate a permanent peace settlement. By May 
1994, Israel had completed its withdrawal from Gaza (apart from a small stretch 
of territory containing settlements in the south of the Strip, which was vacated 
in 2005) and the Jericho area of the West Bank. On July 1, PLO chairman Yasser 
Arafat made his triumphant entry into Gaza.On September 28, 1995, 
despite Arafat’s abysmal failure to clamp down on terrorist activities in the 
territories now under his control, the two parties signed an interim agreement, 
and by the end of the year Israeli forces had been withdrawn from the West 
Bank’s populated areas, with the exception of Hebron (where redeployment was 
completed in early 1997). On January 20, 1996, elections to the Palestinian 
Legislative Council were held, and shortly afterward, both the Israeli civil 
administration and the military government were dissolved.The 
geographical scope of these withdrawals was relatively limited; the surrendered 
land amounted to some 30 percent of the West Bank’s overall territory. But its 
impact on the Palestinian population was nothing short of revolutionary. In one 
fell swoop, Israel relinquished control over virtually all of the West Bank’s 
1.4 million residents. Since that time, nearly 60% of them – in the Jericho area 
and in the seven main cities of Jenin, Nablus, Tulkarm, Kalkilya, Ramallah, 
Bethlehem and Hebron – have lived entirely under Palestinian jurisdiction. 
Another 40% live in towns, villages, refugee camps and hamlets where the 
Palestinian Authority exercises civil authority but where, in line with the Oslo 
accords, Israel has maintained “overriding responsibility for 
security.”In short, since the beginning of 1996, and certainly following 
the completion of the Hebron redeployment in January 1997, 99% of the 
Palestinian residents of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip have not lived under 
Israeli occupation; rather, they have been under the jurisdiction of the 
Arafat-led PA.BUT A person like Tuomioja wouldn’t be bothered with such 
facts as far as the Jewish state is concerned. Time and again, he has allowed 
his anti-Israel animosity to get the better of him. In an infamous 2001 
interview, he compared Israel’s attempts to protect its citizens from the savage 
terror war launched by Arafat’s PA in September 2000 to the Nazi persecution of 
European Jewry: “It is quite shocking that some implement the same kind of 
policy toward the Palestinians which they themselves were victims of in the 
1930s.”Ignoring criticism of this comparison, which subsequently became 
an integral component of the EU’s working definition of anti-Semitism, he told 
the same Finnish magazine four years later that he “could have avoided many 
unnecessary reactions with a different wording, but the matter itself has not 
changed in any way.”Nor, for that matter, does Tuomioja seem to believe 
that the Jewish state has any right to self-defense. In 2003, he used the 
apartheid metaphor to denounce the erection of the security fence, which has 
done more than any other single factor to slash the tidal wave of Palestinian 
terrorism, though Finland has long had a similar fence along its border with the 
Soviet Union/Russia. When Israel responded to years of Gaza rocket attacks on 
its towns and villages by unleashing Operation Cast Lead in December 2008, 
Tuomioja, now chairman of the Parliament Grand Committee, condemned this 
supposed disproportionate use of force. When IDF commandos killed eight Islamist 
militants in violent clashes on board a Turkish ship trying to break the naval 
blockade of Hamas-controlled Gaza in June 2009, he demanded that “trade and 
other ties with Israel should be linked to Israel’s regard for international law 
and commitment to the peace process.”One could have dismissed Tuomioja’s 
musings as a desperate ploy by an aging politician to regain his luster after 
the highly successful term of his predecessor – the charismatic Alexander Stubb, 
22 years his junior – had Finland not been aggressively campaigning for the 
rotating Security Council seat for the 2013-2014 term. Next time Abbas touts his 
Jew-free revanchist state to the council, he is likely to find an eager 
collaborator.
The writer is research professor of Middle East and 
Mediterranean studies at King’s College London, director of the Middle East 
Forum (Philadelphia) and author, most recently, of Palestine Betrayed.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Flash! Yale will study anti-Semitism</title>
<date>22/6/2011</date>
<content>
After abruptly cancelling the Yale Interdisciplinary Initiative for the Study of 
anti-Semitism – and subsequently enduring two weeks of criticism – Yale 
University is now launching the new Yale Program for the Study of anti-Semitism 
(YPSA). Ignoring the past two weeks’ absurdities – the hysterics who called Yale 
anti- Semitic because of its decision and ham-handed handling of the issue – the 
new center is most welcome. That one of the world’s leading universities 
recognizes anti-Semitism as worthy of scholarly study is significant. This 
center should study anti-Semitism past and present, in the United States and the 
world – acknowledging the characteristics that define what Robert Wistrich calls 
“The Longest Hatred” and its many variations.The Yale program’s mission 
is scholarship, not advocacy. YPSA should not be the ADL for PhDs. The program 
should not train the global Jewish orchestra’s violin section to play the 
haunting sounds of Jewish suffering in order to score points. It should not be 
the center for the Jewish entry in the great American victimology sweepstakes, 
with different groups quibbling over who suffered most. Nevertheless, scholars 
must study the issue boldly, no matter how politically incorrect their 
conclusions.




It is surprising how lonely this new program will be; there 
are few such centers in America. In an age of super sub-specializing, and 
despite campus hypersensitivity to all kinds of injustice, that five years ago 
there were no American centers studying anti-Semitism is scandalous. Dr. Charles 
Small deserves great credit for launching the first center in America, and for 
demonstrating how illuminating such centers can be.Small needed to be a 
pioneer because anti- Semitism in America is often obscured by a cloak of 
invisibility. The “Longest Hatred” is today a most overlooked, masked and 
rationalized hatred. The obscuring is partially because American Jewish history 
is an extraordinary love story, a tale of immigrants finding a welcoming home 
suited to their skills, values and ambitions. American anti- Semitism does not 
compare to European anti- Semitism. The whys and whats of these differences are 
fascinating and also invite study.The invisibility cloak works most 
effectively in hiding the “New anti-Semitism” – which singles out Israel and 
Zionism unfairly, disproportionately, obsessively. “Delegitimization” – an 
awkward term for an ugly phenomenon – is familiar to pro-Israel insiders, but 
means nothing to most others, many of whom simply explain all hostility by 
pointing to Palestinian suffering. This rationalist analysis ignores 
Israel-bashing’s irrational, often anti- Semitic, pedigree. The modern 
anti-Semite often claims, “I am not anti-Semitic, I am just anti-Israel or 
anti-Zionist.” And the discussion quickly becomes muddled, because there are 
valid criticisms to level against Israel and Zionism, as there are about all 
countries and nationalitisms.ON CAMPUS today, the burden of proof 
usually lies with bigots to demonstrate they are not biased. Except, somehow, 
the burden usually falls on Jews when we encounter bias. Treating Israel as what 
Canadian MP Professor Irwin Cotler calls “the Jew among nations” frequently is 
anti-Semitic. Especially on campuses, the discussion is distorted because much 
modern anti- Zionist anti-Semitism comes from the Red-Green alliance – that 
unlikely bond between some radical leftists and Islamists. They should be 
natural enemies, yet they unite in hating Israel and Zionism.Because so 
many professors and students are progressive, especially at elite universities, 
they frequently dismiss criticism of leftist anti-Semitism as McCarthyite or 
“neo-con.” But the anti-Israel hatred found on the Left has its own morphology 
and pathology. Good scholarship could explore its roots in the Stalinist 1930s 
and the anti-colonialist 1960s, could compare its European and American strains, 
while explaining what it says about the Left’s stance toward the Western world 
and the Third World.More broadly, there is an historical mystery 
involved in how Zionism was tagged with the modern world’s three great sins – 
racism, imperialism and colonialism – and why Israel is compared frequently to 
two of the 20th century's most evil regimes, apartheid South Africa and Nazi 
Germany.In abandoning the realm of the rational, these accusations also 
demand study. Consider that Israel’s struggle is national not racial, so how is 
Zionism one of the few forms of nationalism deemed racist? Knowing that 
colonialism means settling land to which settlers have no prior claim, why are 
Israel’s origins called colonial? And how does imperialism properly describe the 
world’s 96th largest country holding on to neighboring territories it acquired 
after a war fought in self-defense, given that there are security as well as 
historic-religious reasons, and given Israel’s willingness to return the Sinai 
to Egypt in 1979 in exchange for the mere promise of peace? With so many absurd 
accusations piling up, and frequently echoing with historic anti-Semitic tropes, 
scholars can provide clarity – without addressing the right or wrongs of the 
Israeli- Palestinian conflict.Scholars can also clarify the relationship 
between this genteel, often masked, “progressive” indictment and the cruder 
Islamist indictment – part of a systematic campaign to delegitimize Zionism, 
ostracize Israel, and characterize Jews as apes and pigs, monkeys and shylocks. 
How central is this rhetoric to the Islamist movement? What is the significance 
of the ugly caricatures and words emanating from the Arab world? It is not 
anti-Islamic or anti-intellectual to note and analyze the centrality of 
Jew-hatred in this anti-Western ideology.We need consciences, not 
scholarship, to condemn anti-Semitism, and we have institutes galore to track 
it.Scholars can help define boundaries, create categories, sharpen 
vocabulary, explain origins, compare phenomena and provide context – also giving 
a reality check and warning of pro-Israel overreactions 
too.Anti-Semitism has been around for too long, done too much damage, 
perverted too much contemporary diplomacy and campus politics, to be 
ignored.Yale University should be congratulated for relaunching this 
program. Others should follow.The writer is Professor of History at 
McGill University and a Shalom Hartman Research Fellow. The author of Why I Am a 
Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the Challenges of Today, his latest book is 
The Reagan Revolution: A Very Short Introduction.
giltroy@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Giving credit where credit is due</title>
<date>1/11/2011</date>
<content>
“While ‘apartheid’ can have broader meaning, its use is meant to evoke the 
situation in pre-1994 South Africa. It is an unfair and inaccurate slander 
against Israel, calculated to retard rather than advance peace 
negotiations.”These important words were published Tuesday in The New 
York Times by former South African judge Richard Goldstone, who was centrally 
involved in the transition from the real evil of apartheid in his native 
country. As a liberal Jew and active Zionist, he has also been a very harsh 
critic of some Israeli policies.




His carefully considered and strongly 
written condemnation of the political war against Israel is a significant blow 
to those who groups and individuals who seek to demonize Israel, and to deny the 
right of the Jewish nation to sovereign equality.The apartheid 
“slander,” to use Goldstone's term, is central to these campaigns. Essentially, 
it represents the Durban strategy adopted in 2001 by the NGO Forum of the UN 
Conference Against Racism. The absurd and immoral analogy is also a key 
component of the BDS (boycott, divestment, and sanctions) movement. The Durban 
conference and the BDS movement are not about human rights. Rather, they 
are aimed at the complete international isolation of Israel by falsely painting 
Israel as a “racist,” “genocidal,” and “criminal” state.What makes 
Goldstone’s statement particularly significant is the fact that this represents 
a major and wrenching about-face for him. In 2009, Goldstone presided over 
another UN-orchestrated anti- Israel assault, in the form of a pseudo fact 
finding mission on the Gaza war. The resulting report was a farce: Goldstone's 
committee did its job in pronouncing Israel guilty of deliberate killing of 
civilians and war crimes, while ignoring thousands of Palestinian rocket attacks - every one a war crime.As a result of this indictment, Goldstone was 
embraced by the leaders of the anti-Israel campaigns, including Ken Roth of 
Human Rights Watch and his counterparts in the NGO community. UN High 
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay, who was appointed by upstanding human 
rights stalwarts such as Ghaddafi's Libya, Assad's Syria, Cuba, Pakistan, and 
China, also touted the report. Dozens of smaller NGOs, including al-Haq, Adalah, 
and B’Tselem – many of which receive funding from the New Israel Fund (NIF) and 
European governments – promoted the report and have been spreading this false 
apartheid analogy.The most rabid anti-Israel ideologues, people like 
Naomi Klein and Ali Abunimah, exalted Goldstone as their patron saint, 
publishing a collection of essays praising the UN report as the ultimate “proof” 
of Israeli war crimes and apartheid. They are now exposed for their rhetoric 
that contributes to anti-Jewish hatred and stands in sharp contrast to the moral 
foundations of universal human rights.TO HIS credit, Goldstone gradually 
realized that the allegations that formed the bulk of his report were copied 
largely from NGO claims, including from Human Rights Watch, and were not 
credible or clearly invented, and that his name and seal of approval were being 
abused to wage a very dirty war against Israel. Beginning in September 2010, 
Goldstone’s campus presentations and other speeches began to reflect a cautious 
doubt and misgivings on these central issues. This led to his April 2011 op-ed 
in the Washington Post in which he admitted, “If I had known then what I know 
now, the Goldstone Report would have been a different document.”In some 
respects, Goldstone’s metamorphosis from a central participant in the political 
assault against Israel's legitimacy into a front-line defender is reminiscent of 
the about face made by Robert Bernstein, the founder of Human Rights 
Watch.Both are strongly committed to universal human rights, and both 
eventually realized that many of their former allies in promoting these goals 
had become chronically infected by an anti-Israel ideology that is entirely 
inconsistent with these principles. After many years of attempting to 
fight this disease from the inside, in 2009 Bernstein denounced HRW's role in 
the campaigns to turn Israel into a pariah on the pages of the New York Times. 
He then created a new group called Advancing Human Rights.The timing of 
Goldstone’s latest article is also significant, appearing just a few days before 
the scheduled opening of the so-called Russell Tribunal on Palestine in Cape 
Town, South Africa. There, with the participation of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, a 
kangaroo court will begin its inquisition designed to restart the flagging 
apartheid analogy that is repeated at every BDS and "Israel apartheid week" 
event.Goldstone has now confronted Tutu and his other former allies from 
the real anti-apartheid movement in South Africa who have become leading 
Israel-haters, denouncing their role in “pernicious and enduring canard,” which 
is “calculated to retard rather than advance peace negotiations.”For 
Goldstone, like anyone else caught in a similar understanding of having 
committed a major, if unwitting mistake on the world stage, this confrontation 
with former friends is very difficult.Some people will continue to 
criticize Judge Goldstone for the damage caused to the Israelis who were libeled 
in his UN report on the Gaza war, and for the damage that report caused to 
universal human rights. Some of this damage is irreversible, despite Goldstone's 
subsequent "reconsideration." But taken together with his denunciation of the 
Russell Tribunal farce, and linked with Bernstein's turn-about, as well as other 
exposés of the moral corruption among influential "human rights" frameworks, 
Goldstone should be congratulated and embraced for having done the right 
thing.
The writer is president of NGO Monitor, a Jerusalem-based research 
institution dedicated to promoting universal human rights and to encouraging 
civil discussion on the reports and activities of nongovernmental organizations, 
particularly in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Grapevine: Proud Jews and diplomats</title>
<date>15/2/2011</date>
<content>
ONE OF the panel discussions at the Conference of Presidents of Major American 
Jewish Organizations taking place this week in Jerusalem involved three 
ambassadors and a consul.The latter was Yury Rudakov, political consul 
at the Russian Embassy, who was standing in for his boss, Ambassador Pyotr 
Stegny. Rudakov did not indicate whether he or Stegny had any connection to 
Judaism.




However the three ambassadors took great pains to emphasize 
their Jewish connections. Colombian Ambassador Isaac Gilinski is a former 
national and regional president of B’nai B’rith. He was also “very active in the 
Jewish community” in his country and in all of Latin America. He said he was 
proud as a Jew and as an ambassador to represent his country here. As far as he 
was aware, Colombia has no plans to follow the example of some other Latin 
American countries, and will not give unilateral recognition to a Palestinian 
state.British Ambassador Matthew Gould said he had “enormous pride” in 
being the first Jew to serve as his country’s ambassador here. “I unashamedly 
want Israel to be safe, to be secure and to be respected throughout the world,” 
he said. Moreover, he represents a country that is friendly to Israel and “will 
not compromise on Israel’s security and legitimacy.” His primary duty, he said, 
was not to wag a finger and say what’s good for Israel. His primary duty was “to 
listen and try to understand why Israel feels so insecure and what we can do 
about it.”Romanian Ambassador Edward Iosiper, taking his cue from 
Gilinski, noted that he too was a member of B’nai B’rith, was proud that Romania 
had been the first country in that part of Europe to be visited by the 
Presidents Conference and had been the only Soviet bloc country that had not 
severed relations with Israel in 1967. This year will mark 63 years of 
uninterrupted diplomatic relations, he said. He also reminded his audience of 
Romania’s “historic contribution” to the visit by Egyptian president Anwar 
Sadat, and declared that Romania has a good track record for supporting peace in 
the Middle East.Not to be outdone, Rudakov corrected a general 
misconception about which state was the first to recognize Israel. It was the 
Soviet Union, which did so before the US, he said. He regretted that diplomatic 
relations had been broken in 1967, but noted that with the collapse of the 
Soviet Union, more than a million Russian-speaking Jews had come to Israel. 
Russia shares the country’s security concerns, he said, and Israel and Russia 
support each other at the UN. There are sometimes different approaches to 
problems, he acknowledged, saying that Russia is in favor of dialogue in every 
sphere. “It’s the only way to find common ground.”When asked why their 
countries do not recognize Jerusalem as the capital, there was consensus that 
when peace comes, they will. Rudakov quipped that it would do away with the 
traffic problems they frequently encountered when coming to Jerusalem from Tel 
Aviv ■ WHILE PRIME Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and Foreign Minister Avigdor 
Lieberman were bickering over who will represent us at the UN, former ambassador 
to the UN Gavriela Shalev was sharing some of her experiences with members of 
the Lions of Judah, a Jewish worldwide philanthropic sisterhood that works to 
empower women and girls here by supporting projects that provide tools for 
self-realization and leadership.Local members donate a minimum of NIS 
5,000 a year toward such projects. With some 140 participants from many parts of 
the country, the meeting was held at the residence of US Ambassador James 
Cunningham. Guests were warmly welcomed by his wife Leslie, who has a 
contagious feel-good attitude to life.It was not the first time that she 
had opened the residence to the Lions of Judah, but this time she had a special 
reason. The Cunninghams had twice been posted to the UN, so she knew exactly 
what challenges had confronted Shalev. “The role of an Israel ambassador to the 
UN is like none other,” said Cunningham.There had not been an 
announcement as to the identity of Shalev’s successor – Foreign Ministry veteran 
and current ambassador to the UK Ron Prosor – at the time of the gathering. 
Acting Ambassador Meron Reuben, Shalev said, is a very nice and pleasant man, 
but unable to be as effective as he would like because he had not presented 
credentials to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.Noting that heads of 
missions to the UN are not known as ambassadors but as permanent 
representatives, Shalev said that only Israel could create such an oxymoron as a 
temporary permanent representative. The meeting also coincided with the 
birthday of Lions of Judah chair Dale Ophir, who was pleasantly surprised when 
embassy staff brought out a cake replete with candles and sparklers.■ 
EVERYONE HAS their own way of talking to God. Efrat Chief Rabbi Shlomo Riskin 
always talks to Him in Yiddish. The reason: That’s what his maternal 
grandmother Chaya Beila did. Speaking at the Jerusalem Great Synagogue at the 
launch of his new book Listening to God, Riskin said his grandmother had been 
one of the most important influences in his life. He vividly remembered her 
standing in front of the Shabbat candles on Friday nights and for 25 minutes 
talking to God about every member of her family and telling Him in an intimate 
fashion about whatever came to her mind. “When I speak to God, I speak to him in 
Yiddish, because that’s how I heard God-talk from my grandmother,” he 
said.He is also convinced that God talks back, but that not everyone is 
prepared to hear Him. Stressing the need for communication between people of all 
creeds, Riskin noted that all people are created in the image of the divine. 
“God speaks first and foremost through people,” he said. “If we are only open to 
what people are saying, hear them, understand them and love them, we will hear 
God.”■ MINISTERS AND MKs travel all over the country to participate in 
conferences, seminars, project launches, concerts, theater performances, 
sporting events, family celebrations of prominent personalities and diplomatic 
receptions. But Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Development of 
the Negev and the Galilee Silvan Shalom never has to travel by car when invited 
to the residence of the Italian ambassador. He lives only a few doors away, 
within very easy walking distance. Over the years, he’s paid neighborly visits 
in his various ministerial capacities, and when he was foreign minister, he also 
delivered an address at an Italian National Day celebration.Tomorrow, 
however, he will be there as the guest of honor. Ambassador Luigi Mattiolo will 
present him with the order of the Grande Ufficiale on behalf of the president of 
the Republic of Italy.■ CHINESE AMBASSADOR Zhao Jun ushered in the Year 
of the Rabbit at a gala reception that he hosted last Thursday at his residence 
in Kfar Shmaryahu. The Year of the Rabbit, according to ancient Chinese 
tradition, is characterized by abundance, fertility and success. The affable 
ambassador has made many friends since presenting his credentials nearly four 
years ago, and there is always a large turnout of members of the diplomatic 
community, business people, cultural and entertainment personalities – and of 
course politicians. Also present was Ambassador to China Amos Nadai who 
specially flew in for the occasion which was also used to mark the 19th 
anniversary of diplomatic ties.Among the first of the guests to arrive 
was business tycoon Nochi Dankner, who has a huge business deal under way with 
China, which is negotiating to buy Makhteshim Agan Industries. Koor Industries 
owns around 47 percent of Makhteshim Agan and IDB Holding Corporation, of which 
Dankner is chairman, has the controlling interest in Koor. The deal is worth 
well in excess of $2 billion.A charming host, Zhao waxed lyrical on the 
significance of relations between the two countries and their cooperation on a 
number of projects. Nadai endorsed his remarks and spoke of the work being done 
by the embassy in Beijing to enhance the relationship.Zhao likes to 
create a balance at his events and arranges for performances by both Israeli and 
Chinese entertainers. Composer, conductor and pianist Gil Shohat delighted the 
guests with a sensitive Chopin recital. Acclaimed singer Ha Hui, whom Zhao has 
brought here on previous occasions, as always included in her repertoire her 
favorite Hebrew song, Naomi Shemer’s haunting “Eucalyptus Grove.” Shohat did the 
accompaniment. Ha Hui is one of her country’s key cultural ambassadors. As part 
of the ongoing Chinese New Year celebrations, the Chinese Shaolin Martial Arts 
Group will present performances in Tel Aviv, Beersheba, Karmiel and 
Jerusalem.■ INDIAN RESTAURATEUR and television personality Reena 
Pushkarna, who more or less introduced Indian cuisine to the country and is a 
walking advertisement for Indian fashion, may soon be turning her hand to baby 
food. No, she’s not going to start producing it under her brand name. But she is 
going to start preparing it in Singapore some time in May when she becomes a 
first time grandmother of twin girls – a slightly belated birthday present from 
her daughter and son-in-law Sarina and Raj Sundarson.Pushkarna, who 
celebrated her 52nd birthday last Thursday, is also a twin. Her twin sister, who 
lives in the US, is no less excited than she is about the coming additions to 
the family, and is already planning gifts for the babies. Pushkarna, who was in 
Singapore last month and teamed up with Michelin three-star chef Guy Savoy in 
creating unique French-Indian fusion food for some of the many celebrities who 
attended the Bollywood Zee Cine awards, anticipates that she’s going to be on a 
frequent Tel Aviv-Singapore commute both professionally and as a doting 
grandmother. Meanwhile, her daughter who has an important public relations job 
at the spectacular Marina Bay Sands complex that is owned by Sheldon Adelson, 
continues to work despite her radically protruding tummy.■ WHILE THERE 
are political movements on every university campus, it is rare for a university 
to team up with any one political party, although there are heads of academic 
institutions and senior figures within them who came with political baggage. 
Yuli Tamir, for instance, who heads the Shenkar Academy of Engineering and 
Design, was a Labor Party minister. Hebrew University president Menahem 
Ben-Sasson left academia to go into politics and served as a Kadima MK. When he 
failed to gain a seat in the 2009 elections, he returned to the 
university.Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya founder Uriel Reichman was 
a founder of Shinui and later joined Kadima, winning a Knesset seat in the 
November 2005 elections, but resigned a few months later when prime minister 
Ariel Sharon failed to give him the Education portfolio.He then returned 
to IDC, whose staff members include Amnon Rubinstein, who served in several 
ministerial posts before returning to academia.But Ben-Gurion University 
of the Negev president Rivka Carmi did not come from politics to academia, 
though she may very well follow the example of her predecessor, Avishay 
Braverman, who went from academia into politics and until recently was a Labor 
minister responsible for minorities. Carmi is teaming up with Kadima head Tzipi 
Livni for a February 20 conference at BGU on “Women at the Focal Point of the 
Decision-Making Process.” Livni will deliver both the opening and closing 
addresses, while Carmi will open the conference by welcoming participants 
including a few men, among them attorney Dov Weissglas who was Sharon’s bureau 
chief.■ FEBRUARY 11 is a very propitious date – not only because it 
marked the end of the Mubarak era in Egypt, hopefully paving the way for 
democracy. It was also the date on which Natan Sharansky, the most famous of all 
Jewish dissidents, was released from the Soviet gulag in 1986, heralding the 
eventual aliya of more than a million Jews from the former Soviet Union. It was 
also the date in 1990 on which Nelson Mandela was released from prison after 27 
years of incarceration, which set the ball rolling for the end of South Africa’s 
apartheid regime, and his election as president in 1994.Sharansky had 
celebrated his 38th birthday only three weeks prior to his release of which he 
had no real inkling.He knew something was going on because of the 
improvement in his conditions, but he didn’t know what, certainly not that 
freedom would be his birthday gift, something that he owed not only to a 
relentless campaign by his wife Avital, but also to US president Ronald Reagan, 
who applied extreme pressure on Russia to let him go within the framework of a 
prisoner exchange.Since then (not necessarily in chronological order), 
Sharansky became a father and grandfather, the leader of a political party, a 
speaker on the world stage, a bestselling author, an MK and minister, the head 
of an academic institute, the chairman of the board of a museum and chairman of 
the Jewish Agency. Last week, as a slightly belated birthday gift for his 63rd 
birthday, Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman named him in his short list choice 
for ambassador to the UN. Sharansky’s response was “thanks but no 
thanks.”■ AS FOR Dore Gold, who was on Prime Minister Binyamin 
Netanyahu’s short list of candidates for the UN position, even if he had been 
appointed to the post he held from 1997 to 1999, he would have been back in 
Jerusalem on June 6 because he has been selected as this year’s recipient of the 
Guardian of Zion Award presented annually by Bar-Ilan University’s Ingeborg 
Rennert Center for Jerusalem Studies. Gold has written extensively about 
Jerusalem and diplomacy, he talks about Jerusalem and he heads the Jerusalem 
Center for Public Affairs.■ RAMAT HASHARON has one, Rishon Lezion has 
one – and soon Jerusalem will have one? What is that special something? It’s 
called Cinema City. Last week entrepreneurs Moshe and Leon Edery, owners of the 
Lineo Cinemas, received a permit from the city council to build a 15-screen 
complex near the National Precinct, which is quite close to the western entrance 
to the city.Lineo Cinemas is also building a huge cinema plus theme park 
entertainment outlet in Haifa. Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat, who has been 
promoting increased cultural and entertainment activity in the capital, was very 
happy to sign the building permit. Lineo Cinemas expects to invest NIS 120 
million in the project. It will be just a matter of time before something 
similar happens in Beersheba.■ SINGER, ACTOR and current affairs 
commentator Yehoram Gaon, who spent 10 years as an unsalaried member of the 
Jerusalem city council, on his radio program last Friday referred to the number 
of mayors suspected of corruption, and said that it was not easy to be a mayor 
or a member of a city council because of all the wining and dining from everyone 
who wanted something from the municipality. Gaon was pleased to report that he 
had declined such invitations, and figured out that had he accepted them, he 
would weigh many times his current weight.He then a told a story of 
someone who was looking for the home of a certain mayor and each person he asked 
made some insulting remark about the man. Eventually when he caught up with the 
mayor at his home, he asked him how was business. The mayor replied that as far 
as income was concerned, he wasn’t doing so great, but the honor that he 
received was worth the inconvenience.Obviously he hadn’t encountered 
those of his constituents who had nothing good to say about him.
“Who in 
his right mind,” queried Gaon, “would want to be a public servant?”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Guest Columnist: Srulik, meet Handala</title>
<date>6/1/2011</date>
<content>
Driving east from Jerusalem on the winding Jordanian-built road that once led 
down from the Mount of Olives to the Dead Sea, one passes through a series of 
Arab villages and soon comes to a dead end in front of the grotesque West Bank 
barrier.Called geder hahafrada (separation fence) in Hebrew and jidar 
al-fasl al-unsuri (apartheid wall) in Arabic, the insurmountable (if still 
incomplete) barrier has no doubt contributed to a reduction in terror and car 
theft. However, my objection to it is more existential: Like some of those in 
West Berlin who spray-painted their protest for freedom on the Bundesrepublik 
side of die Mauer even as armed East German guards used deadly force to prevent 
anyone from approaching the Wall’s eastern side, I believe all walls must 
fall.




It is a metaphor that has repeated itself from Joshua’s encircling 
of Jericho, to the Berlin Wall and its remaining East Side gallery, to Garth 
Hewitt’s ballad, “They’ve Cancelled Christmas in Bethlehem,” about the 
stranglehold the wall has placed on both day-to-day life and religious 
pilgrimage in the place where Jesus was born 2,000 years ago.The world 
today is caught between two conflicting ideologies: the growing trend of some 
democratic countries to join in unions with open borders, joint legal systems 
and a common currency, of which the European Union – notwithstanding its 
problems – is a great success; and the trend of other countries – many 
repressive and undemocratic – to defend their borders with minefields and walls. 
Like John Lennon, I prefer the first vision – of a growing global union without 
barriers. Imagine that.THUS ARMED with the tools of the graffiti artist 
– an exacto knife, cardboard and spray paint – I recently made my way to Abu Dis 
with my friend Haj Ibrahim Abu el-Hawa, my daughter Bareket and fellow artist 
Eva Feld to make our mark. Reasoning that a picture is worth a thousand words, 
we chose a symbolic image whose meaning is unequivocal.The image we 
created depicts “Handala” raising hands with “Srulik.”The two iconic 
cartoon characters are respectively well known by Palestinians and Israelis, yet 
each is equally unknown by the other. It is a symmetry of ignorance of the 
other’s narrative that will have to be overcome before true peace can be 
achieved.Allow me to explain the mirror meanings of the twin 
caricatures.Handala – an omnipresent image on T-shirts and key chains in 
the aswak (plural of shouk) of Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza Strip – was 
created by Naji al-Ali in 1969. As a 10-year-old in 1948, he was driven from his 
Galilee village of ash-Shajara (14 km. from Tiberias) to the Ein al- Hilweh 
refugee camp in Lebanon and went on to become the leading political cartoonist 
in the Arab world.Before being assassinated in London in 1987, he 
produced more than 40,000 bitingly sarcastic cartoons lampooning Arab leaders 
and lamenting the stateless status of his people. His autobiographical image of 
Handala – a barefoot, faceless, refugee youth – remains a potent symbol of the 
struggle of the Palestinian people for justice and 
self-determination.Ali wrote: “Handala is my signature. I gave birth to 
this child in the [Persian] Gulf. He was born 10 years old, and he will always 
be 10. At that age, I left my homeland, and when he returns, Handala will still 
be 10, and then he will start growing up.The laws of nature do not apply 
to him. He is unique. Things will become normal again when the homeland 
returns.”IMPISH SRULIK – a diminutive of Yisrael – carries an equally 
rich symbolism in depicting nascent Israel and, in particular, its native-born 
sabras. The character was first drawn in 1956 by the cartoonist Kariel Gardosh, 
better known by his nom de plume Dosh. The Hungarian-born Holocaust survivor 
drew Srulik for decades in the pages of Ma’ariv until his death in 
2000.Dosh generally depicted Srulik as a young man wearing a kova tembel 
hat, biblical sandals and khaki shorts. He drew him as a pioneering Zionist and 
lover of the Land of Israel, a dedicated farmer who in time of need dons an IDF 
uniform and goes out to defend the state – equipped with an Uzi. In contrast to 
the anti-Semitic stereotype of the weak or cunning Jew, which appeared in the 
Nazi weekly Der Stürmer and other European and Arab newspapers and journals, 
Dosh’s Srulik was a proud, strong and sympathetic Jewish 
character.Shalom Rosenfeld, editor of Ma’ariv from 1974 to 1980, wrote: 
“Srulik became not only a mark of recognition of [Dosh’s] amazing daily 
cartoons, but an entity standing on its own, as a symbol of the Land of Israel – 
beautiful, lively, innocent...and having a little chutzpah, and 
naturally also of the new Jew.”INTRODUCING SRULIK to Palestinians and 
Handala to Israelis is not a bad way to begin to redress each side’s ignorance 
of the other’s narrative. The ways in which they epitomize the historical and 
cultural narrative of their own people imbue these cartoons with an impact 
stronger than words.When a peace treaty is ultimately implemented 
between Israel and Palestine (as I’m sure it must), perhaps the image of Handala 
and Srulik holding hands could be adopted as a neutral symbol of coexistence. 
Their creators Naji al-’Ali and Kariel Gardosh both knew firsthand of 
persecution and exile; the iconic figures they bequeathed us share the hope of 
living in freedom and peace.When peace finally arrives, new and 
emotionally satisfying images and symbols will need to be created to bridge the 
chasm between Jews and Arabs in our broken Promised Land.
The writer is a 
journalist and tour guide in Jerusalem.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Holding participatory Zionist criticism to account</title>
<date>26/7/2011</date>
<content>
In general it is better to struggle with ideas than with people and events. 
Ideas are everlasting, people and events are transitory. But some people’s views 
are so deplorable that the person himself must be called to account.Such 
is the case of Shlomo Gazit, who recently wrote a column in Haaretz in which he 
claimed: “I enlisted in the Palmach, the elite strike force of the Haganah... 
afterwards I fought in the War of Independence and spent another 32 years in the 
Israel Defense Forces as a career soldier. Today I consider the continuation of 
our occupation rule in Judea and Samaria an existential danger. As I see it, 
this situation is threatening the main achievement to which I contributed 70 
years ago, the establishment of a sovereign and democratic Jewish 
state.”




He explains that he became a board member of Yesh Din (Volunteers 
for Human Rights) because “I saw it as my duty to contribute to upholding the 
law in the occupied under our control.” Furthermore, there is an “apartheid 
regime” in the West Bank.What Mr. Gazit does not relate is that he 
himself was head of the committee tasked with running the Occupied Palestinian 
Territories between 1967 and 1974. Furthermore, in 1979, when he went to Harvard 
to study, he was quoted in the Harvard Crimson as saying Israel should continue 
its occupation: “Why can’t there be a Jewish presence in the West Bank?... The 
West Bank is much more the historical Israel than the major parts of Israel 
today.”Gazit comes from what should be called the School of 
Participatory Zionist Criticism: those critics of Israel who were also active in 
the IDF or governing echelons in the period between the British Mandate and the 
1967 War. Voices like Gazit’s are distinguishable from the Israeli Arab critics 
of the country, and the younger generation of Jewish Israeli critics, by the 
fact that they were integral to carrying out actions that they themselves oppose 
today. They also tend to romanticize their own biographies without any criticism 
of their own roles in creating the present situation, reserving their critique 
for modern Israeli society.Besides Gazit, members of this group include 
the late general Matti Peled, former soldier Uri Avnery, and Prof. and commander 
Ze’ev Sternhell. They were fighters in either 1948 or 1967, and between those 
two momentous wars they were, through their silence at least, complicit in the 
military administration under which the country’s Arabs lived.THE 
MESSAGE of men and women like Gazit is that they are the real Zionists who 
merely fought for Jewish self-determination. But their’s is a standpoint of 
hypocrisy. For instance, Avnery, in his book 1948: A Soldier’s Tale, includes 
photos of an Arab woman that were looted from an Arab house. Presumably Avnery 
would consider it unacceptable for the IDF to loot from Palestinian homes today, 
but in 1948 it was so acceptable that he included the stolen photos in his 
book.In the same vein, Gazit tells us how important it is to have Yesh 
Din to keep track of the IDF’s conduct in the West Bank. But why, during the 
seven years that Gazit helped run the West Bank, did he not require that a 
similar organization report on his own behavior? When the IDF bulldozed the 
villages of Beit Nuba, Imwas and Yalu in the Latrun corridor right after the 
1967 war, presumably Gazit was privy to this act of destruction, and yet he 
didn’t seem to mind then. Amos Kenan related in 1970 that as a soldier, he had 
been ordered to shoot over the heads of the villagers to get them out of the 
village. This is the very type of conduct that Yesh Din is at the forefront of 
confronting today.Where were Yesh Din and Yesh Gvul, ICAHD, Hamoked and 
Machsom Watch all those years ago to probe the actions of Gazit’s generation? 
This is the problem of the Participatory Zionist Critics: There is no 
acknowledgement that they took part in acts that were less than wholesome. Mr. 
Gazit will not say that what he oversaw in the West Bank from 1967 to 1974 was 
wrong and that, having learned from his own wrongdoing, he believes Israel 
should change its ways. Instead he clings to the purity-of-arms view, that when 
he was in the IDF it was noble and that only now must its officers and grunts be 
held to account.If Yesh Din had existed in 1967, there is reason to 
believe that Gazit and the entire command structure of the IDF would have been 
brought to court just for the actions that occurred around Latrun. After 
all, in the aftermath of Operation Cast Lead in Gaza, soldiers were brought to 
trial for much lesser infractions than bulldozing entire villages. If Yesh Din’s 
volunteers had been around in 1948, they might have asked questions about how 
photos of an Arab family ended up in Avnery’s book, much as Yesh Din today uses 
footage from Israeli soldiers’ cellphone cameras to bring complaints against the 
IDF for abuse of Palestinian prisoners.THERE IS a notion that what was 
acceptable “in the old days” is objectionable today, primarily because different 
people (i.e., the national religious, Russians, Sephardim, Ethiopians or Druse) 
are doing it (Gazit once said the national religious kippa reminded him of Nazi 
insignia). The reality should be more Manichean: Either home demolitions were 
acceptable in 1967 and they are today, or they were never acceptable; either 
some minor looting of Arab homes was always a forgivable transgression, or it 
never was. We cannot draw a line across history, and we should not grant a 
self-righteousness stage to those who do.
The writer has a PhD from 
Hebrew University, and is a fellow at the Jerusalem Institute for Market 
Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>How much anti-Semitism is too much?</title>
<date>15/1/2011</date>
<content>
Recent WikiLeaks cables reveal that diplomats at the UN are haunted by a thorny 
question: How much UN-driven anti-Semitism is too much? The original UN was 
built on the ashes of the Jewish people and owes its human rights foundations to 
the victims of the Holocaust. At today’s UN, we have now learned, 
diplomats hunker down near the General Assembly hall “listening outside with 
headphones on” trying to figure out the extent of the hate-speech that those on 
the inside should endure before walking out.The particular subject of 
the WikiLeaks cable from US officials in Stockholm was a September 2009 assembly 
speech by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Sweden held the EU’s rotating 
presidency, and it fell upon Swedish diplomats to decide when Ahmadinejad had 
crossed pre-arranged “red lines.” As it turned out, some EU members walked out 
of the speech, while Sweden stayed put. According to the cable, the Swedes were 
upset by the “embarrassing lack of EU coordination” – not by the bigotry 
broadcast over the UN global megaphone.




What had the Europeans confused 
would seem to be Jewish conspiracy theory 101. Ahmadinejad had used his UN 
platform to describe Jews as “a small minority [who] dominate the politics, 
economy and culture of major parts of the world by its complicated networks, and 
establish a new form of slavery... to attain its racist ambitions.” Yet this 
roused a mere 11 of the UN’s 192 members from their seats, including the 
US. Israel had chosen not to attend.Five months earlier in April 
2009, Ahmadinejad had mounted another UN-provided stage in Geneva and began by 
denying the Holocaust, claiming that the “Zionist regime” had been created 
“under the pretext of Jewish sufferings.” At this “antiracism” gathering (dubbed 
“Durban 2”) he continued: “The word Zionism personifies racism that falsely 
resorts to religion and abuses religious sentiments to hide their hatred and 
ugly faces.” This time UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay and UN 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon remained glued to their chairs. Nine states, 
including the US and Israel, had decided to boycott beforehand, while the 
remaining EU states and a few others belatedly got up and left.In 
September 2010 Ahmadinejad used his UN invitation to New York to suggest that 
9/11 was an inside job – “segments within the US government orchestrated the 
attack” for the sake of “the Zionist regime.” On this occasion seven countries, 
including the US, headed for the doors. Israel had previously figured out it was 
not worth going.PLAYING MUSICAL chairs is not the only response to 
UN-based anti- Semitism. The vast majority listen attentively and many 
applaud. Sometimes no one moves at all. On June 8, 2010, the Syrian 
representative lectured the UN Human Rights Council: “Israel... is a state that 
is built on hatred... Let me quote a song that a group of children on a school 
bus in Israel sing merrily as they go to school and I quote ‘With my teeth I 
will rip your flesh. With my mouth I will suck your blood.’” The Obama 
administration, which chose to join this council, had a representative present, 
and neither he nor any other council member budged. UN officials, who routinely 
interrupt anything they deem insulting to Muslim states, said 
nothing.Years of UN-driven anti-Semitism have clearly deadened the nerve 
endings of democracies. On November 29 and 30, 2010 the UN General Assembly 
sponsored its annual UN Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People followed 
by the usual anti- Israel agenda items.From center stage in New York via 
Libya and Syria came the following: “Zionism, in reality, is the worst form of 
racism”; “The cancerous settlement in all the Palestinian territories”; “Israel 
shows and rears its ugly face”; “The word Israel has become synonymous with 
words such as aggression, killing, racism, terrorism.”Numerous states 
voiced their opposition to “Judaization” – UN vocabulary for the crime of any 
Jew on any Arab territory. They bellowed about Israeli “butchering,” 
“apartheid,” “ethnic cleansing,” “genocide,” “racism,” “brutality,” “crimes 
against humanity,” “torture,” “killing in cold blood” and “barbarism.” Guilt 
started “over 60 years ago” – that is, with Israel’s creation.It would 
not have been difficult for listeners to discern that the fabrication of a 
cancerous Jewish state with its bloodthirsty ugly Jewish occupants was 
anti-Semitism. But not a single country moved. No UN gavel interrupted the 
speakers. Just the diplomatic niceties of thanking and bowing before Mr. 
President and Mr. Ambassador, and excellencies and distinguished 
delegates.By the end of a year of double-standards, discrimination and 
hate-mongering 80 percent of all 2010 General Assembly resolutions criticizing 
specific countries for human rights violations were directed at the Jewish 
state. Only six of the remaining 191 UN member states faced human rights 
criticism at all, one of which was the US. And now half of the country-specific 
condemnatory resolutions and decisions ever adopted by the UN Human Rights 
Council target Israel.THIS YEAR will be worse, as UN headquarters 
prepares to host the first summit of “heads of state and government” on racism 
in September. “Durban 3,” named after its notorious 2001 namesake that 
took place in Durban, South Africa, is aimed at “mobilizing political 
will...for the full and effective implementation of the Durban 
Declaration.” This declaration charges Israel with racism and names no 
other state.In contrast to Durban 1 and 2 which were attended by very 
few world leaders, Durban 3 is intended to be the golden ticket for Ahmadinejad 
and company to promote Zionism is racism. From a New York podium, a few days 
after the 10th anniversary of 9/11, they will also instruct Americans about 
tolerance. Though Canada’s Prime Minister Stephen Harper has refused to 
attend, Obama is still undecided.In June 1979 Pope John Paul II made a 
nine-day pilgrimage to Poland, documented in a moving recent film Nine Days that 
Changed the World. With the power of faith and moral conviction he appealed to 
millions for change, turning the Soviet empire inside out. What a contrast to 
the European Union representatives of today hiding in UN halls with their 
earphones, and the Obama administration confounded about whether to come or 
go.Where are the world leaders of our time who are prepared to challenge 
and repudiate with the power of faith and moral conviction a UN empire that is a 
shell of Eleanor Roosevelt’s vision and inimical to our dearest values? 
The 
writer is the director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust 
and a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>How Palestinians will use the GA to advance statehood</title>
<date>24/3/2011</date>
<content>
Early in the Korean War, frustrated that the Soviet Union’s repeated use of its 
UN Security Council veto was thwarting council action to protect South Korea, 
the United States initiated what became known as the UN General Assembly’s 
“Uniting for Peace” resolution.Adopted in November 1950, UNGA Resolution 
377 provides that, should the five permanent members of the Security Council 
find themselves at odds, rendering the council incapable of exercising its 
“primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and 
security,” the General Assembly can step into the breach. If the Security 
Council’s permanent members cannot reach unanimity, it elaborates, and “there 
appears to be a threat to the peace, breach of the peace, or act of aggression,” 
the General Assembly can fill the vacuum by issuing its own “appropriate 
recommendations” for “collective measures” to be taken by individual states – 
right up to and including “the use of armed force when necessary, to maintain or 
restore international peace and security.”




The “Uniting for Peace” 
Resolution is no dead letter. It was employed, most notably, in 1981, to 
outflank the Security Council and recommend both sanctions against South Africa 
for preventing Namibian independence, and assistance, including military 
assistance, for those seeking Namibian independence.It should be 
stressed: The GA’s authority under the resolution is not binding, but it can 
certainly press supportive countries to take action, and in 1981 it did just 
that. It called upon member states “to render increased and sustained support 
and material, financial, military and other assistance to the South West Africa 
People’s Organization to enable it to intensify its struggle for the liberation 
of Namibia.” And it urged member states to immediately cease “all dealings with 
South Africa in order totally to isolate it politically, economically, 
militarily and culturally.”The passage of that resolution, says Richard 
Schifter, a former US assistant secretary of state for human rights who spent 
years representing the US in various UN forums, “was a significant step in the 
process of imposing sanctions on apartheid South Africa and delegitimizing the 
country.”Which is where, as you’ve doubtless figured out by now, Israel 
and the Palestinians come in.AS ISRAEL’S most recent ambassador to the 
United Nations, Gabriela Shalev, explained to me this week, the existence of 
UNGA Resolution 377, and the precedents for its use, mean that “those who 
believe that the UN General Assembly’s deliberations are of a solely declarative 
importance are mistaken.”The GA, under “Uniting for Peace,” has 
teeth.Furthermore, Shalev acknowledged, Israel only “just found out 
about this” – thanks, she said, to research done by Jennifer Laszlo Mizrahi’s 
The Israel Project.But the Palestinians have plainly been reading the 
UN’s small print rather better for rather longer. Palestinian negotiator Saeb 
Erekat even referred to the possible use of the “Uniting for Peace” resolution 
in comments to the Ma’an news agency late last year.In Shalev’s 
estimation, and in that of several other experts with whom I spoke this week, 
including veteran American diplomat Schifter, the Palestinian leadership is 
moving serenely toward invoking precisely this resolution in 
September.The Palestinian leadership, that is, anticipating that the US 
will veto its unilateral bid for statehood at the Security Council, will take 
the matter to the General Assembly. There it will push for the necessary 
two-thirds GA support for recognizing “Palestine,” presumably along the pre-1967 
lines and with a “right of return” for refugees, under a “Uniting for Peace” 
resolution to ensure global action.And in the unanimous assessment of 
those with whom I spoke, the consequences for Israel should this approach 
succeed – international pressure to accept the GA resolution, backed by 
potential sanctions and boycott action, and who knows what else – could be 
profoundly damaging.MAHMOUD ABBAS’S Palestinian Authority has made no 
secret of its intention to secure UN support for the establishment of Palestine 
by September.Veteran negotiator Erekat reiterated only this week – in 
comments that were noticed and circulated to all Israeli legations by the 
Foreign Ministry on Tuesday – that “the Palestinian leadership institutions (the 
PLO and Fatah) have decided to submit a request to the UN for recognition of a 
Palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with its capital in East Jerusalem.” 
The matter was now in the hands of Abbas, Erekat said, but added that 
“Palestine” needed to submit its request for full membership to the Security 
Council “as soon as possible.” Then the council, in turn, would “ask the member 
states of the UN General Assembly to recognize the State of 
Palestine.”Such recognition, according to Erekat, would mean that 
“Palestine” would no longer be a matter of “disputed lands,” but rather a state 
under occupation. Since “Palestine” had “a permanent population, defined 
territory (even if that does not involve permanent borders), an effective 
government and the ability to establish international relations,” in Erekat’s 
assessment, it would meet the standards defined for a state under the terms of 
the Montevideo Convention of 1933 on the rights and duties of 
states.“The current peace process as it has been conducted so far is 
over,” the PA’s Foreign Minister Riad Malki elaborated candidly on Tuesday, in a 
talk at Tel Aviv University sponsored by the Peres Center for Peace. And Malki 
proceeded to set out a strategy that all but specified Resolution 377.If 
the kind of state the Palestinians seek were not attained through negotiation by 
September, he stated, “then the international community will take this issue to 
the United Nations… What I’m trying to say is, it won’t be us, it will be the 
international community that will say it is overdue that we come to recognize a 
Palestinian state.”THE PALESTINIANS’ unilateral push for statehood is 
set to begin with a resolution at the Security Council – possibly toward the 
fall, possibly much earlier.Israel was anticipating that the resolution 
would fail there, that a similar resolution would gain widespread but 
non-binding support at the GA in September, that Israel’s international 
legitimacy would be knocked down another notch or two, but that the unilateral 
approach would then reach a dead end, with the US and the rest of the key 
international players pressing the sides to come back to the negotiating table 
to resolve their differences. The possibility of the “Uniting for Peace” 
resolution providing practical backing for UNGA recognition of Palestine is now, 
extremely belatedly, starting to shock some of the relevant players in Israel, 
though not all, out of their complacency.Prof. Shalev, now back at Ono 
Academic College, where she is president of the Higher Academic Council, told me 
she has no ongoing connection with her former employers at the Foreign Ministry. 
But she assured me they were now well aware of the diplomatic danger, and was 
confident that incoming UN ambassador Ron Prosor – “a wonderful appointment,” 
she sensibly observed – would move to grapple with the challenge.Other 
insiders with whom I spoke this week were rather less confident that Jerusalem 
had got the message, with one of them anonymously urging Israel to “get its head 
out of the sand,” and another suggesting dryly that, for all the traditional 
derision, “I’d be happy if Israel started to engage in the ‘Umm Shmum’ 
aspect.”Some Israeli diplomatic sources with whom I spoke this week 
asserted, indeed, that it was “debatable” whether the Palestinians would even go 
the GA route, since “their gains might be far less significant than the problems 
it would cause them… because it would free us [to take unilateral 
action].”ALL IS far from lost, but it could be if Israel does not muster 
an effective response to the Palestinian strategy. And the first key forum is 
the Security Council.Would-be nations gain their membership in the 
General Assembly on the recommendation of the Security Council, pointed out 
Schifter, who now chairs the board of directors of the American Jewish 
International Relations Institute. And it is a safe bet that the Palestinian 
strategists, in drafting their resolution calling for the Security Council to 
recognize Palestine, will do their linguistic best to make it hard for the 15 
Security Council members to say no.It is assumed they will invoke 
relevant UN resolutions. They will employ comments and statements made by world 
leaders in support of Palestine. Says Shalev: “They’ll use words that [US 
Ambassador to the UN Susan] Rice, [Secretary of State Hillary] Clinton, [German 
Chancellor Angela] Merkel and others have used in support of the 
Palestinians.”The Palestinians will have taken great pleasure in 
witnessing the difficulty the United States had in bringing itself to use its 
veto to block last month’s anti-settlement resolution – which was essentially a 
trial run for the statehood bid.And they will feel that they are heading 
toward a win-win situation. Either the necessary nine or more of the 15 Security 
Council members will vote for “Palestine,” in which case their diplomatic 
operation will have been a spectacular success. Or the US will be forced to 
utilize its veto, and they will then move on to the General Assembly, with that 
“Uniting for Peace” resolution in their armory.The best way for Israel 
to prevent any of that happening would be to achieve what is currently viewed as 
almost a mission impossible: to persuade at least seven of the 15 Security 
Council members to vote no, to abstain, or to absent themselves. That way, the 
statehood resolution would fail, the US would not have to employ its veto, and 
there would be no possibility for the Palestinians to claim Security Council 
deadlock and thus invoke “Uniting for Peace” in the General Assembly.Why 
almost mission impossible? Because Israel has very few solid friends in the 
international diplomatic community these days, and even fewer among the 15 current Security Council nations.Most 
Israelis may well believe that the failure to make progress in negotiations with 
the Palestinians stems from the other side’s refusal to take positions that 
would guarantee Israel’s physical and demographic security alongside the 
proposed Palestine. Most Israelis may well believe that the Palestinian 
leadership has neither encouraged its people to accept the Jewish right to 
statehood, nor accepted this right itself, and has maintained an environment in 
which terrorists who target Israelis are regarded as role models.But the 
sad fact is that most of the international diplomatic community simply doesn’t 
accept this narrative, and tends increasingly to blame strong, sovereign Israel 
for failing to grant independence to the weak, stateless 
Palestinians. Rocket attacks from Gaza, bombings at bus stops in 
Jerusalem, even horrific murders of fathers, mothers, children and babies in 
their homes, are evaluated in that context.So there is certainly no 
automatic, or even readily attainable, blocking vote in the Security Council for 
the Palestinians’ demand for statehood, even if the establishment of that 
“state” is being sought while the core issues of dispute with neighboring Israel 
remain unresolved.ISRAEL MAY be troubled by aspects of our relationship 
with the Obama administration, but as far as I can ascertain, of the 15 
countries that will be asked to vote on the issue of “Palestine” sometime in the 
very near future, the only country that Jerusalem is confident will take our 
side is America. Says Shalev frankly, “We’ve never stopped trying, but I’m not 
sure we can get the votes we need to oppose a Security Council resolution on 
Palestinian statehood.” Without wishing to be quoted, current Israeli 
diplomatic sources sound still more pessimistic.Who else might, 
nonetheless, deprive the Palestinians of the nine “yes” votes they need? Based 
on voting records and other impressions, China, Brazil, India, Lebanon and South 
Africa are evidently considered beyond all hope.Colombia is deemed a 
possible ally. But the vital countries with the capacity to sway others, say 
Schifter and others, are Germany, France and the UK. Might Germany be 
prepared to say “no” to unilateral UN establishment of Palestine? Maybe, say 
some, if Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu can persuade Merkel that he is truly 
prepared to put flesh on his skeletal talk of a two-state solution.If 
Germany joins the US, say several people with whom I spoke, the UK and France 
might reasonably do the same. Bosnia might then conceivably follow. 
Schifter speculates that if the French really want to help, they might bring 
over Gabon. Then there’s Portugal, which has privately been sounding noncommittal but 
might be wooable, or, just perhaps, the Russians. Either of those two, and the 
job would be done. The final member of the 15, Nigeria, some suggest, may not be 
beyond reach either.Lots of ifs.One key to the success of this 
diplomatic battle, chorus all those with whom I’ve talked, is how hard the US 
works to bring others on board. It has several interests in doing so. Foremost 
among them, its own longstanding, oft-stated conviction that the path to 
Palestine runs via bilateral Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, not international 
diplomatic dictate. And second, its deep reluctance to have to resort to a veto 
again; last month marked the first time in four years that a veto had been used 
at the Security Council, and the Obama administration plainly loathed finding 
itself in a 1-14 mismatch. In fact, I’ve been told that Washington came “very, 
very close” to not vetoing the anti-settlement resolution.A minority of 
those with whom I spoke speculated that the US might not now veto a 
Palestine-statehood resolution. Shalev, for one, said “We might lose in 
the Security Council. I’m not sure the US will use its veto.”But most 
insiders were adamant that Washington certainly would use its veto if 
necessary. Equally, though, Washington would much rather not have to 
veto, and that means depriving the Palestinians of the nine “yes” votes they 
need.Often, in recent months, administration sources have complained to 
me that Israel underestimates the amount of work it does away from the headlines 
to prevent Israel getting more heavily trashed in diplomatic forums. Those 
activities were relevant, for instance, in keeping the Goldstone Commission 
report away from the Security Council, although central, too, in this regard, 
was the work of members of a House Task Force on Israel at the UN.Is the 
administration working hard today? One source, who has been in frequent recent 
contact with the State Department, was adamant that the answer is 
no. American diplomats, according to this source, can be heard 
complaining that Israel is relying too heavily on them to do the background 
work, and suggesting, instead, that Israel should be making its own energetic 
case to the Western Europeans, the Russians, the Chinese.Another source, 
however, referred to all kinds of contacts between various prominent senators 
and congressmen and the leaders of some of the countries whose positions will 
determine the Security Council vote. “Countries can be swayed,” this source 
said, “and the US Congress will certainly be making an effort.”But 
Israel needs to do a lot more itself, too, this source added, “and that starts 
with Netanyahu trying hard to win over Merkel.”A third source added that 
if the Americans went to work on this, there was a chance of stopping the push 
for unilateral statehood in the Security Council. The US administration 
is crucial, this source said. Broadly speaking, the source added, if the US 
pulls back, others move to fill the vacuum. If the US is persuaded of the 
imperative to step forward, other countries may well take their cue from 
Washington.HOWEVER, IF Israel, with whatever US support, fails to muster 
seven “no” votes, abstentions or absences, and the US is forced to veto a UN 
Security Council resolution on Palestinian statehood, the battle will shift to 
the General Assembly.There, too, a two-thirds majority is needed for a 
resolution to pass. But unlike the Security Council, it’s a case of a two-thirds 
majority not among the entire 192-strong membership, but among those of the 192 
members that are “present and voting.” So there, too, Israel is in deep 
trouble.According to The Israel Project’s Senior Research Director Alan 
Elsner, pro-Palestinian resolutions routinely muster the support of more than 
110 member nations. Getting a two-thirds majority among members who are present 
will thus likely be well within the Palestinians’ reach. Shalev shares the 
assessment. And she warns that if the Palestinians can gain General Assembly 
recognition for statehood under a “Uniting for Peace” resolution, “it would be a 
real obstacle… not just a public relations setback. This would seek to impose on 
us some kind of Palestinian state.”The degree of momentum would depend, 
however, at least to some extent, on just how many General Assembly votes the 
Palestinians get for statehood. “If a resolution passes, as it likely would,” 
says Schifter, “there is a difference in the impact between one adopted by 150 
votes, which is the goal the Palestinians have set themselves, or, say, 
110.”Scope there, too, therefore, for energetic Israeli 
diplomacy.Some of the sources with whom I spoke predicted a post- 
UNGA-vote rush by many countries to open embassies in “Palestine.” They 
predicted a significant upsurge in boycott and sanctions efforts. “I don’t want 
to sound apocalyptic,” said one, “but there could be demands on Israel to 
withdraw to the pre-1967 lines, backed up by all kinds of attempts to pressure 
Israel to advance those demands, even though none of the core issues had been 
resolved.”Elsner said he, too, envisaged heightened sanctions and 
boycotts. He thought the Palestinian strategy was designed to ratchet up 
economic pressure on Israel, “demonstrate Israel’s isolation, and get Israel 
back to the negotiating table on better terms for the Palestinians. Their aim is 
for a deal based on the 1949 armistice lines, including the ‘right of return,’ 
and preventing [Israeli demands such as] the ongoing deployment of Israeli 
forces on the Jordan River.”Laszlo Mizrahi said that Abbas’s current bid 
to achieve a semblance of unity with Hamas was designed to offset objections 
from countries which might argue that the Palestinians could hardly be granted 
statehood when they were led by two conflicting governments. The “push 
for unity,” she said, “is all connected with the GA in September.”So, 
too, said Elsner, the successful PA effort to win endorsement of Palestinian 
statehood from Latin America and the ongoing effort to do the same in Europe. 
“They worked below the radar for six months on Latin America without the Israeli 
Foreign Ministry picking up on the degree of inroads made; then they reeled off 
country after country.”The Palestinians have a strong delegation at the 
UN, Elsner added. “They are very wellversed in its intricacies.”And 
Israel? Well, Israel hasn’t had a permanent ambassador to the UN for the six 
months since Shalev stepped down last fall, as she had announced long ahead that 
she would be doing. Prosor is still on ambassadorial duty in the UK – a 
highly important post which he can hardly up and leave overnight – and is not 
set to take over for another two months or so.SOME IN Israel, it is 
plain, are acutely aware of the danger. Indeed, several sources suggested 
to me, one of the motivations for the purportedly imminent new Netanyahu 
diplomatic initiative is to take the wind out of the Palestinian sails – to 
underline Israeli willingness to make real progress, and thus undercut 
Palestinian claims that they have no option, given ostensible Israeli 
intransigence and given ongoing Israeli settlement building, but to take the 
unilateral route.The idea is to win over both international players, and 
the Palestinians themselves – to convince them that the bilateral route is the 
better route.Noting that over 110 nations have already announced their 
support for a Palestinian state, Defense Minister Ehud Barak last week told the 
Institute for National Security Studies that Israel was facing “a diplomatic 
tsunami that the majority of the public is unaware of.”He urged 
Netanyahu to “put the core issues on the table. Israel must say it is 
willing to discuss security borders, refugees and Jerusalem.” As things stood, 
he warned, Israel was being pushed “into a corner from which the old South 
Africa’s deterioration began.”Added Barak: “Israel’s delegitimization is 
in sight.”Presumably, he has internalized the finer details of the 
Palestinians’ UN strategy.“The way things are now,” Schifter summed up, 
“I have no doubt that a resolution will be brought to the GA in September, 
bypassing the Security Council, using the 1950 ‘Uniting for Peace’ resolution to 
recommend a state of Palestine within the 1949 armistice lines and presumably 
upholding UNGA Resolution 194 on the ‘right of return’ for refugees.”
Let 
no one say we’ve not been warned.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Is academic freedom still honored in British universities?</title>
<date>23/3/2011</date>
<content>
Jewish students in Britain have been bracing themselves for the annual Israel Apartheid Week assault. This time, though, there was a difference. Twenty-four Israeli students have come to British campuses to mount a counter-campaign called Israel Awareness Week. Their presence has been good for Israel, good for British Jewish students and good for universities that once were places where we put prejudice aside and pursue truth.Truth has been the first casualty in the vicious campaign against Israel. The charge of apartheid, which began with the notorious United Nations 1975 resolution identifying Zionism with racism, and continued with the equally notorious Conference against [sic] Racism in Durban a week before 9/11, is both outrageous and untrue. Given all the pressures Israel has been subjected to since its birth, its record in the field of ethnic and religious tolerance has been commendable.




You have only to visit an Israeli hospital to see how people of all faiths and ethnicities are treated alike. All have the vote. All can attend universities. All can be elected to the Knesset. A Druse Arab, Majallie Whbee, briefly served as president after Moshe Katsav’s resignation while acting head of state Dalia Itzik was out of the country. A Christian Arab, George Karra, headed the panel of judges that found Katsav guilty. Are any of these conceivable in an apartheid state? Israel is one of the most religiously diverse societies in the world. Only under Israeli rule have all three Abrahamic religions enjoyed unrestricted access to their holy sites in Jerusalem. It is the only place where an Arab Muslim can freely criticize the government on national television. Israel is not perfect, but its ethnic and religious minorities have greater rights – vigilantly defended in the courts – than anywhere else in the Middle East.Meanwhile, in December 2010 Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas declared: “We have frankly said, and always will say: If there is an independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital, we won’t agree to the presence of one Israeli in it.”If this vision of a judenrein Palestine is not apartheid, what is? As soon as the anti-apartheid campaigners start working against Palestinian racism, the intimidation and murder of Christians throughout the Middle East, and the brutal denial of human rights that is leading to civil protests in Egypt, Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and Syria, then they will have earned the right to be taken seriously. Until then, they should be seen for what they are – political pawns in a very dangerous game.THE ANTI-ISRAEL campaign has added further weight to the accumulating evidence that British campuses have become centers of anti-Western radicalism. Often it is moderate Muslims who have raised the alarm, saying university authorities are not doing enough to counter the extremists.In 2007 Ed Husain, an ex-member of Hizb ut Tahrir and now a fighter against extremism, published a book called The Islamist. The first 70 pages are among the most terrifying I have ever read. They tell of how a tiny handful of radical students instituted a regime of intimidation across an entire campus, and show how easy it is to scare the academic authorities into silence and inaction.That intimidation seems to have worked. With some shining exceptions – 
Manchester is one – university authorities have not acted when radical, 
hate-inciting, anti-Israel speakers are invited to address students, nor
 when pro-Israel speakers are abused or banned. Challenged on the first,
 they tend to invoke freedom of speech. Challenged on the second, they 
tend to invoke security concerns. So freedom of speech exists for some, 
but not for others.It is not Jewish students alone who are concerned at the failure of 
university heads to take action. So is the government. Fifteen 
individuals implicated in terrorist plots and attacks have had some link
 to British universities. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, charged with 
attempting to blow up a passenger plane in the US, was president of the 
Islamic Society at University College London.University vice chancellors, in their recent review of the situation, 
concluded that universities should “engage, not marginalize” extreme 
political views. Lord Carlile, the government’s independent reviewer of 
terror laws, said the report represented “a total failure to deal with 
how to identify and handle individuals who might be suspected of 
radicalizing or being radicalized while within the university.”MY OWN grave concerns come from a sense of history. In 1927 a 
French-Jewish academic, Julian Benda, published a book whose title 
became famous: Le Trahison des clercs, “The treason of the 
intellectuals.”In it he says that academics had historically been guardians of the 
truth, but had been drawn into politics with potentially devastating 
consequences. The academy had become the arena for “the intellectual 
organization of political hatreds.”That phrase has resonated in my mind for close to a decade now, as 
university lecturers have sought to boycott their Israeli counterparts 
while failing to protest some of the most antidemocratic, anti-free 
society, anti-Israel and anti-Jewish speakers ever to speak on British 
campuses.This is not academic freedom. Academic freedom means the freedom to hold
 and express views without fear, even when they run against the 
consensus, even when they are the views of a minority. It means the 
willingness to let all sides of an argument be respectfully heard.Like all freedom, academic freedom requires restraint, so that the freedom of one group is not won at the cost of another’s.When restraint is not self-imposed, it must be ensured by the university authorities.Which is why it is important that this week Israeli students have 
visited British universities to present the other side of the case. 
Whether they are respectfully heard will be the best test as to whether 
academic freedom is still honored in British universities.
The writer is chief rabbi of the United Kingdom.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel is a vibrant democracy</title>
<date>15/12/2011</date>
<content>
A visit to Israel is always an experience in cognitive dissonance. The Israel you 
personally see and hear is so completely different from the Israel you read and 
hear about in the media.The Israel that I saw over the past several 
weeks was a vibrant democracy. I heard intense arguments about everything, 
ranging from the existential to the trivial, from the sublime to the truly 
ridiculous: What to do about the Iranian nuclear threat; how to bring the 
Palestinians to the negotiating table; whether to change the manner of 
appointing Supreme Court justices; whether to limit foreign government 
contributions to Israeli NGOs; what to do about a dilapidated and hazardous 
wooden bridge to the Temple Mount; how the army should treat Orthodox soldiers 
who refuse to listen to the singing of fellow women soldiers; whether buses that 
travel through certain haredi neighborhoods should be allowed to segregate 
passengers by gender.




Everyone in Israel seems to have an opinion on 
every issue, and they don’t hold back on expressing their views, often in rather 
extreme, even apocalyptic terms. Newspaper headlines scream, “The 
dictatorship cometh, Israeli democracy is at risk.”Columnists 
promiscuously throw around the epitaph “fascist,” without any sensitivity to the 
deep traumatic memories invoked by that horrible word.Israel is a nation 
of extremes and extremists, on both the right and the left. Harry Golden may 
have been describing Israeli Jews rather than American Jews when he famously 
said, “Jews are just like everyone else, only more so!” Nuance, subtly and 
balance are not characteristic of the domestic Israeli media conversation, even 
concerning issues about which reasonable people do and should 
disagree.Each of the issues mentioned above – Iran, negotiations, 
selection of judges, restrictions on foreign contributions, the bridge, singing 
women soldiers, even gender segregated buses – is complex. I have strong views 
on all of them but I acknowledge the plausibility of opposing views on most of 
them and welcome a good argument on the merits and demerits of alternative 
positions. Even were my strong views not to prevail in the marketplace of ideas, 
I do not believe Israel would become a fascist dictatorship and lose its 
democratic character.Recently, a “human rights” group gave Israel the 
lowest ranking – along with Afghanistan and other repressive theocracies – on 
its religious freedom index. This is because the complaints by secular Jews 
about the excessive influence of Orthodox rabbis on Israeli politics has been so 
loud. In reality of course there is almost total freedom of religion in 
Israel, in the sense that no one is forced to be religious. Israel can do better 
but it is isn’t comparable to Afghanistan – or for that matter Iran. In some 
respects, it is freer than the United States: In Israel an atheist can be 
elected to high office; not in the US.The Israeli character, 
contentious, confrontational, opinionated, argumentative, direct and 
uncompromising – is what makes Israel quintessentially democratic. As the 
great American judge Learned Hand once observed, liberty lives and dies in the 
hearts and souls of human beings more than in the parchment preaching of courts 
and legislatures.Laws are important precisely because in a democracy 
they reflect the attitudes and aspirations of those they govern. The laws 
of Norway may afford more legal protection to freedom of speech than the laws of 
Israel, but there is far more actual dissent, criticism of government and 
diversity of viewpoints in Israel than in that boringly homogeneous nation to 
which fascism came so easily as soon as Vidkun Quisling was placed in 
power.The fact that Israel will always remain a vibrant democracy 
doesn’t mean that Israelis should not take seriously the recent legislative 
efforts to change the manner by which Supreme Court justices are nominated, the 
degree to which Israeli NGOS are funded by foreign governments and the rules 
governing defamation lawsuits.My civil libertarian views on these issues 
are well known, but they are serious and important concerns worthy of debate. 
The debate, however, should honestly reflect the actual stakes involved in 
various outcomes, rather than overblown claims that the democratic character of 
Israel is at risk.Israelis need to continue debating but they need to 
cool the rhetoric and stop accusing each other of terrible things such as 
fascism, apartheid and lack of democracy. These terrible and false accusations 
become weapons in the hands of those who would delegitimize Israel. The sad 
reality is that there are no purely domestic issues in Israel.Issues 
that would be dealt with by municipalities in other countries – such as how to 
deal with a dangerous bridge or how to resolve conflicts between religious and 
secular bus riders – become major international issues when they occur in 
Israel.Consider for example Israel’s treatment of gay and lesbian 
citizens. Everybody acknowledges that Israel’s record on this issue is among the 
best in the world, but a really dumb op-ed in The New York Times recently 
claimed that the only reason Israel has a good policy toward its gay and lesbian 
citizens is to whitewash what it is doing to the Palestinians.The 
virulently anti-Israel author of the article even came up with a term for this 
cover-up: “Pink washing.”Everybody has something to say when it comes to 
Israel.Now even Iceland, a country with fewer people than Boston, has 
put in its much deflated two cents. It has decided to become the first European 
country to recognize Palestine as a state on the 1967 “borders.”Thus 
according to the wise men and women of Iceland, every Jew who prays at the 
Western Wall is trespassing on Palestinian territory. Every Israeli student who 
makes his or her way to the Hebrew University on Mount Scopus is an unlawful 
occupier. And every Israeli who lives in the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem must be 
moved out of his home, despite the reality that Jews have lived in the Jewish 
Quarter for more than 2,000 years. There is no shortage of stupidity when it 
comes to international expression of opinion about Israel.
So let 
Israelis continue to debate vigorously every issue under the sun, but let them 
realize that every insult they hurl at each other is heard through a megaphone 
around the world and becomes part of the international effort to delegitimize 
the Jewish state. So cool it, please. Israel has much to be proud of, as anyone 
spending a few weeks there can see with his own eyes.

The writer is a 
Harvard law professor and political commentator.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel’s problem isn’t Thomas Friedman</title>
<date>19/12/2011</date>
<content>
There is a common thread linking The Jerusalem Post’s attack on Thomas Friedman 
last week, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s refusal to write an opinion 
column for The New York Times and an attack on my views by Haifa resident Ella 
Berkovitz on the Post letters page last Thursday. In all three instances, the 
individuals in question showed they prefer to take the easy road of 
crowd-pleasingly attacking the New York Times and one of its senior columnists, 
without addressing the fact that similar views are held by the United States 
government and most Western democracies.To begin with, Berkovitz’s 
honorable and intelligent letter drew a comparison between Palestinian Israelis 
and Jewish residents of the West Bank. She is certainly correct that\Israeli 
Arabs live on a nearly equal footing with Jews in Israel, and that the Israel we 
love and are so proud is an admirable and egalitarian democracy. So if Arabs can 
live as citizens in Israel, goes the argument, why can’t Jews live in Palestine? 





But the comparison is fallacious because the Palestinians had lived throughout 
Palestine as 98 percent of the population for many centuries before 1948. In 
contrast, Israel has only recently settled the West Bank, outside her 
internationally recognized boundaries.Some will argue that the 
colonization of Judea and Samaria was the logical continuation of the Zionist 
project. After all, Jewish immigrants flooded the country from Europe decades 
before there was a Jewish state here. Why should the West Bank settlements be 
seen in a different light? At first glance, that is a persuasive argument, but 
there is one, decisive difference: the mass immigration from 1880-1948 was an 
internationally legitimate and indeed moral movement. Jews had to escape the 
burning anti-Semitism of Europe and Russia, and the drive for the rebirth of 
Jewish self-empowerment and statehood was laudable.In contrast, the 
post-1967 settlement drive occured at a time when we already had a country to 
call home, and Jews around the world had a safe haven to run to in case of 
persecution. The Zionist dream had indeed been met. Israel had no choice but to 
fight the Six Day War, but there was no need to plant civilian communities 
around the newly conquered territories in the aftermath of that 
victory.SECOND, “NORTHEASTERN Jewish liberals” are attacked for having a 
“guru” (Friedman). But the claim that Tom Friedman “doesn’t understand” Israel 
because he doesn’t live there is preposterous, especially in light of the fact 
that Friedman DID live in Israel and the region for many years. Furthermore, we 
Americans get our understanding from thousands of liberal Israelis, including 
journalists, all of whom do live in Israel. The Jerusalem Post is one of the 
prime sources of the perennial complaint that most of the “liberal” Israeli 
press basically agrees with Friedman.Third, senior Netanyahu adviser Ron 
Dermer, in his letter explaining the prime minister’s refusal to write for the 
Times, repeats the orthodox line that the Palestinian refugee crisis arose 
because the Palestinians rejected partition and attacked, and he says denial of 
this “should not have made it past the most rudimentary 
fact-checking.”This is transparent propaganda that both ignores the fact 
that most modern Israeli historians disagree, and also the question why the 
Palestinians should have accepted a plan in 1947 that called for a sudden, 
massive influx of Jewish refugees, the partition of Palestine and the eviction 
of three-quarters of the people from the land they had lived on for 
centuries.Most modern Israeli historians conclude that the yishuv – the 
pre-state Jewish community in Palestine – knew full well that as a tiny minority, 
it needed to “cleanse” the area in order to create a Jewish majority and to make 
the new state viable. Jewish leaders at the time said as much, and 
carried through. Those are the historical facts and are well known around the 
world. That is also the (obvious) reason why Palestinians, even women and 
children, were not then allowed to come back home. In this light, it is Dermer’s 
view, not Friedman’s, that could not survive elementary fact 
checking.Fourth, the Post editorial repeats that fallacy there was a 
conflict even before the the settlements began and so that the settlements are 
irrelevant. Yes, there was already a conflict – for the obvious reasons 
just stated – but the fallacy here is a simple one; time moves on. In contrast 
to Khartoum’s “three nos,” the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative has been on the table 
for a decade, but Israel has resolutely ignored in order to keep its 
settlements.Finally, the accusation that Friedman is mistaken about 
“proportion” is accurate and significant. “Only” one mosque has been burned, 
“only” one IDF base was attacked by settlers. These do not represent all of 
Israel.But again – the fallacy here is that the half-million settlers 
who currently live in the tiny fraction of Palestine left for their future state 
are in fact proportionally representative of the Israel that wants to keep these 
territories.Unfortunately for the Post, and for Ron Dermer, and for Ella 
Berkovitz, the democratic world just isn’t buying the transparent fallacies put 
forth by current Israeli hasbara (public diplomacy). It’s not just Tom Friedman, 
The New York Times or their “liberal Northeastern Jewish” readers. Israel is 
unfortunately on a path to over-extend itself demographically and to force upon 
itself either a one-state solution or an unjust apartheid state. That 
will lead violent uprisings and a worldwide South Africa-style BDS movement, and 
eventually to national suicide.In that way, Jerusalem is imitating a 
pattern that has been repeated so many times since the dawning origin of history 
– successful nation-states that have made all manner of fallacious, sophistic, 
unjust and ironically ultimately self-destructive excuses for taking over the 
lands of other peoples.
The writer is a Cataloger in World Religions in 
the Harvard University Library, and an alumnus of the Harvard Divinity School.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 21: Lose the hyperbole</title>
<date>20/1/2011</date>
<content>
Lose the hyperbole Sir, – I’m a bit fed up with the intemperate use of hyperbole 
these days.




Between Alon Pinkas’s rant how Israelis despise each other 
(“Our love of hate,” January 19) and Gershon Baskin’s piece stating that we’re a 
repressive society (“To be suspect,” Encountering Peace, January 18), along with 
a few letters objecting to Ashley Perry’s “Best decision I ever made” (“Put down 
those glasses,” January 18), it seems we’ve lost a bit of 
perspective.Forget about a cup that is half-full – Israel’s cup is, by 
any objective measure, practically brimming over, at least for those with eyes 
to see and hearts to feel.Of course, we have improvements to make in our 
security approach and services, and we have our divisions and enmity, but 
really, a bit of moderation in the discourse, please.There’s nothing 
unreasonable about mainstream Israelis who desire to know who’s funding NGOs 
that call into question Israel’s very legitimacy as a Jewish state and demonize 
its leaders and the IDF. The parliamentary committee in question, reflecting a 
public demand for transparency by NGOs, neither attempts to nor can stifle 
legitimate debate in Israeli society, and is not a symbol of a new “illiberal” 
trend.Attempts to portray it as such are not only demagoguery – they 
smack of defensive propaganda.What’s truly illiberal is the attempt by 
NGOs to deny or distract attention from these sources while adopting the 
antagonistic language and agenda of their sponsors, from labeling Israel an 
“apartheid” state to advocating BDS tactics.As for Pinkas’s related 
reflections on supposed animosity within Israeli society, methinks he’s spent 
too many years abroad. Perhaps his diplomatic talents should remain focused on 
his (excellent) work with foreign governments, as his observations on Israeli 
society don’t reflect the reality on the ground upon which I and most of us live 
every day: where Sephardi/Ashkenazi/Left/Ri ght/Center/religious/traditional/ 
less-observant Jews and Arabs work together, socialize, communicate and enjoy a 
standard of living and freedom of speech, religion, expression and the like that 
is unparalleled not only in the region, but in the world.ARYEH GREEN

Beit Shemesh Different system Sir, – I don’t know where Jeff Barak has been 
living since he left his job at The Jerusalem Post. But his piece on January 17 
calling for the dismissal of Avigdor Lieberman (“Enough is enough,” Reality 
Check) sounds as if he’s been in the US and has forgotten anything he might have 
known about Israeli politics.Unlike in the US, ministers here do not 
serve at the pleasure of the president and cannot be dismissed without 
endangering the continuity of the government. In Israel we have a coalition 
government.Lieberman’s party represents a large segment of Israel’s 
population and its point of view deserves and needs to be expressed, even if it 
appears to contradict Netanyahu’s “soft” policy toward the 
Palestinians.Barak appears to want to silence all those who differ with 
his own soft attitude.GENE SUCOV 
Jerusalem Focus on terrorists Sir, – 
Regarding “Turkel panel delays flotilla findings” (January 17), the findings 
will be incomplete unless they highlight the profiles of the 50-odd terrorists 
among the large number of pacifists demonstrating against the blockade on 
Gaza.The terrorists embarked at a separate location, were not subjected 
to passport control, and fervently expressed hope that they would be able to 
attack any boarding party and in the process be killed as martyrs and proceed 
immediately to paradise.The full backgrounds of the terrorists, 
especially the nine who were killed, should be given full coverage to remove all 
doubts that there was any connection between them and the 
protesters.
DAVID GOSHEN 
Kiryat Ono
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>July 1: Seething Dutchman</title>
<date>30/6/2011</date>
<content>
Seething Dutchman Sir, – Regarding “Dutch anti-ritual slaughter bill passes 
preliminary vote” (June 29), I am an 11thgeneration Dutch Jew. My earliest Dutch 
forefather reached the northern Netherlands in 1630 and was among the first to 
repopulate the low countries with Jews after they were ousted and wiped out 
there twice before – only to live under a system of apartheid until full civil 
rights were finally obtained centuries later under Napoleon.




In the 
Second World War more than a staggering 80 percent of the Netherlands’s Jews 
were murdered, including my four good grandparents, often with full 
participation by Dutch civil servants. While Germans as a people have greatly 
and palpably repented for their role in the Holocaust, so far the Dutch have 
done so only sparsely and in piecemeal fashion.For over a decade now, as 
a recognizable Orthodox Jew I cannot walk many Dutch streets, including in 
Amsterdam. Though the Dutch will rally for the protection of anything and 
anybody, a movement of Dutch gentiles sticking up for their Jews has yet to be 
formed. Apparently, old traditions of Jew-hatred and indifference die 
hard.Most of the 30,000 Dutch Jews who live in Israel have dual 
citizenship. If the First Chamber of the Dutch parliament has the chutzpah to 
ratify this deeply embarrassing law, let us, my Jewish landsmen in Zion, go en 
masse to the Netherlands Embassy in Tel Aviv to return our Dutch 
nationality.Enough is enough.MOSHE-MORDECHAI VAN ZUIDEN 
Jerusalem Outside looking in Sir, – What an erudite and incisive diagnosis by 
Aaron Menenberg (“Perpetual self-sabotage,” Comment & Features, June 29). How 
is it that we Israelis are so inward-looking and influenced by fear and arrogant 
posturing? It takes an outsider to state the truth.Our prime minister 
has to constantly bolster his image internally by insulting those with whom we 
need to find common ground. He does it mostly because he is surrounded by 
inexperienced, narrow minded cohorts.The people here deserve better, but 
so far the only alternative on the horizon is worse than what we 
have.ZELDA HARRIS Tel Aviv Sir, – I disagree with Aaron Menenberg when 
he contends that “blind anger... obstinacy and petulance” distinguished Israel’s 
reaction to US President Barack Obama’s call for an Israeli return to the 1949 
armistice lines with agreed swaps.While Israel’s approach to public 
relations needs drastic improvement, altering our key positions to placate 
others shouldn’t be a part of the strategy. The truth is that Obama’s formula is 
dangerous for Israel. It effectively grants the Palestinians a veto power over 
Israel retaining anything, even Jerusalem’s Jewish neighborhoods and the Temple 
Mount. Israel was obliged to oppose it quickly and clearly.MICHAEL 
GOLDBLATT New York The writer is chairman of the national board of the Zionist 
Organization of America A Korean War vet Sir, – Relating to the item on Seoul’s 
envoy honoring local Korean War vets (“Do svidaniya,” Grapevine, June 22), in 
addition to the late Rabbi Jerome Pomerantz I wish to add the name of my 
distinguished brother-in- law, the late Rabbi Oscar Michael Lifshutz, the first 
Jewish chaplain to serve in Korea.Chaplain Lifshutz was assigned to the 
Eighth Army and traveled west with the troops under battlefield conditions. 
Constantly on the move, they had to keep up with the ever-changing front, and 
their weapons were under their seats as he led them in Shabbat and holiday 
services.He left Korea with a Bronze Star and was cited for meritorious 
service in hazardous combat conditions.
SHOSHANA DOLGIN-BE’ER
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Kangaroos in South Africa</title>
<date>9/11/2011</date>
<content>
As an ex-South African and now a citizen of Israel, I am compelled to speak up. 
The State of Israel has been put on trial this week in Cape Town for supposed 
Apartheid crimes against the Palestinians by the “judicial” (and I use that term 
loosely) farce known as the Russell Tribunal on Palestine.The Russell 
Tribunal forms part of the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation, which was 
originally formed to investigate violations of international law and human 
rights. But for the past three days the sounds of kangaroos hopping their way to 
the courthouse has drowned out all sounds of reason. The jury selection for this 
has been full of them (with sincere apologies to the cute marsupials from 
Australia!), from former special rapporteur for the UN on Palestine, John 
Dugard, who is almost as heinous as his successor in that role, Richard 
Falk.




And let’s not forget “red” Ronnie Kasrils, the famous communist who 
served as minister of intelligence and has devoted his energies since leaving 
government to anti-Israel campaigns. Or Archbishop Desmond Tutu, or Winnie 
Mandela (though, to be fair, Winnie did withdraw from the panel. Perhaps her own 
scurrilous human rights record should face its own tribunal). And,lest I forget, 
the star witness is Leila Khaled, the infamous first female airplane 
hijacker.These are the people who presume to judge Israel for human 
rights abuses? It would be laughable if it weren’t for the fact that the 
tribunal is taking place in South Africa, the former home of apartheid, or if 
the jurists weren’t famed anti-Apartheid activists and the venue for this 
theater of the absurd wasn’t the District Six Museum. It is all very symbolic. 
This is enough to have any anti-Israeli turning cartwheels and thinking all 
their birthdays have arrived at once.AS SOMEONE who grew up during the 
emergency state years in South Africa, I bore witness to the crime that was 
apartheid. As an Israeli, I live the reality of what Israel is like every single 
day. Is there racism in this country? Yes, just as there is in any other. Israel 
is no utopia, but neither is any other country – including South 
Africa.We tend to forget what the word apartheid really means. The term 
comes from the Afrikaans word meaning ‘separation’ and was the racial, social 
policy introduced by the National Party government of South Africa in 
1948.Today it is often used to describe Israel. It’s a very sexy 
catchword, after all; it is emotive, evocative and provocative. Perfect if you 
want to package and market hatred. But the very use of it to describe Israel is 
not only odious, but it also makes a mockery and cheapens the tremendous 
suffering endured by South Africa’s black citizens during that period of 
time.Growing up in apartheid South Africa, I bore witness on a daily 
basis to the inhumane suffering of my fellow citizens. Only they were not 
regarded as such.Denied the right to vote or have political 
representation, they had no voice in government. Unlike MK Haneen Zoabi, an Arab 
member of the Knesset and another “star” tribunal witness.South Africans 
who were not perfect white specimens were denied the right to a decent 
education, receiving a “bantu education,” which was inferior to the schooling I 
received. The apartheid laws in South Africa denied black citizens the freedom 
of movement.I remember witnessing the humiliation of black men who were 
out past their curfew as police checked their pass books and in some 
circumstances whipped them with a sjambok (whip). Just because they 
could.As a child I once asked my mother why it was that nannies 
(domestic workers) always sat on the grass in the park. Was it that they did not 
like the chairs? Imagine my mother’s discomfort explaining to me that nannies 
were not allowed to sit on benches because they were for “whites only.” An idea 
that was unimaginable to my naïve childish mind. I also wondered where the black 
children were because they did not attend my school or my ballet class or swim 
in the same swimming pool as I did. If my father gave our “nanny” a lift 
anywhere, she had to sit in the back of the car for fear of breaking any racial 
laws.We as Jews understand only too well the implications of racial 
laws. I could go on and on about the injustices suffered by black South Africans 
and it is extremely painful to write this piece as I also must acknowledge how 
I, as a white child, benefitted.So what about Israel? I am proud to be 
an Israeli citizen.It is the realization of a lifelong dream. Yes, this 
country is defined along ethnic lines – as was legally voted on by the United 
Nations and in a manner no different from the countries, and there are many, who 
define themselves according to their Islamic identity.I live the day to 
day reality and it pains me to hear my country so erroneously compared to South 
Africa.Visit any Israeli hospital where Arab doctors treat Jewish 
patients and vice versa. Take the public transport and revel in the fact that 
there are no seats marked “Jews only.” Attend any of our universities, which are 
fully integrated. Visit the beach. Enjoy your lunch or coffee in any of our 
restaurants and coffee shops. Find your way around our country in Hebrew or 
Arabic (and yes, sometimes even English) as they are our official languages. 
Vote for the Arab parties if you so wish. Have your case heard before Arab 
Supreme Court judge, Justice Joubron. Serve in our army or foreign service. Rest 
assured these are not positions reserved for Jews only. I am proud of our 
imperfect yet pluralistic democracy.I am proud to call myself a Zionist 
Israeli. I challenge the jury of buffoons who dare sit in judgement to truly 
look at Israel with open eyes. The Russell Tribunal would not have been out of 
place in Salem circa the witch trials, because a witch hunt it is exactly what 
it is.Jurists of the tribunal, under the laws of balanced, democratic 
jurisprudence, I find you guilty of racism.
The writer is a member of the 
Media Team-Israel, an arm of the South African Zionist Federation, and deals 
with bias in the media. She is regularly interviewed on Israel and Middle East 
issues on South African radio.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Limmud and ‘tikkun olam’ – a winning combination</title>
<date>29/8/2011</date>
<content>
I have used this column in the past to extol the virtues of one of the 
most successful educational experiments in the Jewish world in the past 
20 years – the Limmud conferences held every winter vacation on a 
British UK campus, and which are attended by some 3,000 participants. A
 week-long festival of Jewish learning for young and old, religious and 
secular, who come together for no other purpose than the age-old desire 
to “study for the sake of it” (limmud lishma).


And now I have experienced the international expansion of Limmud as it 
has moved beyond the British Isles, to almost every place where there is
 an organized Jewish community. This past week in Johannesburg, Durban 
and Cape Town, I witnessed the coming together of 1,000 members of the 
South African Jewish community to taste the diverse learning 
opportunities which local and international presenters have offered. The
 lecture halls have been full from early morning until late at night, 
with discussion spaces for secular, traditional and orthodox to share 
and debate their ideas, and the enthusiasm displayed by teachers and 
students alike is something that all professional teachers, lecturers 
and rabbis can only dream of.


Each limmud program is tailored to the needs of particular communities. 
Given the fact that no limmud outside Britain lasts for an entire week, 
the diversity of topics on offer at the South African weekend – shabbat 
programs – are by nature more limited. But it still offers enough 
opportunities for wide-ranging discussions on Judaism – in all its forms
 and textual variations – Israeli politics and Zionism, global 
experiences, anti-Semitism and Jewish history – to name but a few major 
themes – for everyone to find something of interest.

Beyond the conference itself, by far the most impressive encounter of 
the week was the visit to the Africa tikkun program, where members of 
the Jewish community have become deeply involved in programs aimed at 
African youth in the townships, promoting day care and extramural 
education for those not yet of school age, or who have been unable to 
gain access to basic education. Originally put together by the former 
chief rabbi of South Africa, Cyril Harris, community activist and limmud
 organizer Viv Anstey and the Jewish businessmancum- philanthhropist 
Bertie Lubner, this program demonstrates the very best of Jewish values 
in helping those in need (tzedaka), as they attempt to make their own 
little corner of the world a better place through a practical commitment
 to the basic Jewish value of tikkun olam.



A visit to a smaller project, Ikhayalami (an NGO which assists Africans 
who remain stuck in the squalor of the township shacks, (it is estimated
 that some 15-20 million out of the 45 million residents of South Africa
 are still in the townships), also throws up the commitment to tikkun 
olam. The head of the project, Andy Bolnick, explains to visitors that 
it is her traditional Jewish upbringing with its focus on assisting 
others, which has brought her to devote her life to this project.



The role of Israel in tikkun olam and humanitarian aid is highlighted by
 one of the Israeli participants in the Limmud conference, Jerusalemite 
Micha Odenheimer, whose own NGO Tevel Betzedek brings Jewish students 
from Israel and the Diaspora together to work on social improvement and 
construction projects in Nepal and Haiti, and is also seeking to branch 
out into Africa. While Israel is the recipient of much foreign aid and, 
in times of need, charity from elsewhere, it is always incumbent upon 
the Jewish state to give aid to those who are in even greater need, 
leading to a mutual understanding that we share the same planet.



The Jewish community of South Africa has moved beyond the apartheid era.



While the community as such was somewhat reticent about making a public 
display of its opposition to apartheid, the numbers of Jews involved in 
the antiapartheid campaigns were disproportional, similar to the number 
of Jews involved in the civil rights campaigns in the US during the 
1960s. This has not always been remembered by the African communities, 
especially as they have adopted stances highly critical of Israel, but 
it is something that the Jewish communities can be rightfully proud of. 
One of the great civil rights heroes of the twentieth century, South 
African Jewish politician Helen Zussman, is now recognized as one of the
 more important Jewish figures of that period, even if she was shunned 
by the Jewish establishment during the apartheid period.



It is not, and never has been, an easy juggling act for Jewish 
communities to be critical of the country within which they live while 
desiring to be accepted.



Much of the community left for less politically sensitive pastures 
during the past 30 years, reducing the size of the community from 
120,000 to approximately 65,000 – but those who remained are still part 
of a strongly cohesive group.



The recent debate in South Africa concerning the attempted boycott of 
Ben- Gurion University by the University of Johannesburg has raised many
 of these fears, but the community has demonstrated a resolve to fight 
back and reject all comparisons with South African apartheid.



A community which can display these dual concepts of limmud (lishmah) 
and tikkun olam (not only toward fellow Jews but also toward the less 
fortunate “other”) is, by definition, a strong community, regardless of 
its physical numbers. And while we would prefer it if the South African 
Jewish community were to immigrate, en masse, to Israel, the pride they 
take in their outreach to others is a model which Jewish communities 
throughout the world would do well to copy.

The writer is Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences at Ben-Gurion University.

The comments expressed are his alone.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 13: Collateral damage</title>
<date>13/3/2011</date>
<content>
Collateral damage Sir, – In striking for higher wages, social workers are 
victimizing the people who need their services most (“Social workers’ strike 
goes on as latest wage talks stall,” March 10). These people do not pay, and 
cannot influence, the amount of said wages, but they do suffer the effects of 
the strike.




Where is the logic? Where is the justice? The right of social 
workers not to be slaves is clear. But surely, their target should not be the 
innocent third party that does not even have the right or ability to 
sue.Surely there is a better way.JULIAN ISRAEL Haifa Safety over 
PC Sir, – I applaud the well-reasoned editorial “Keep our airport safe” (March 
10).The High Court of Justice faces a dilemma regarding airport security 
in which the alternatives are the continuation of alleged profiling policies, 
which have effectively maintained security in Israeli air travel; cumbersome and 
time-consuming security checks for all passengers; or a less rigorous system for 
all, aimed at eliminating the stricter security check for travelers who sense 
inconvenience and discrimination.The latter two alternatives would 
result in either a significant increase in time and inconvenience of airport 
security measures for all travelers, or lower the current standard of effective 
security measures. In this issue, it is imperative that the High Court pay heed 
to the vital safety of the majority of its citizens who use its airport 
facilities, and maintain the present policy. A successful reduction in terrorism 
takes precedence over adherence to political correctness.

DEBORAH 
LIEBERMAN 
Herzliya Bring the huppa! Sir, – The news story “Internet jobs will 
create 8.5% of GDP by 2015” by Nadav Shemer (March 10) suggests a promising new 
avenue to encourage and promote employment among Israel’s haredi community. 
Indeed, the article specifically identifies the haredim as a potential untapped 
employment sector.In order for Israel to grow its Internet economy at 
the current pace, it will need trained, intelligent workers who have the 
capacity to learn and be creative – and haredim represent a vast, available and 
concentrated reservoir of exactly this kind of talent.To date, the 
haredi community has been mired in poverty. It is underappreciated and 
underemployed because of cultural barriers that keep haredim 
separate.One of the greatest workplace deterrents to the haredi 
individual is the workplace itself, with its melting pot atmosphere and secular 
influences; haredim appear hesitant to cross that line, even as some wish very 
much to work.But the Internet sector does not, and need not, require an 
employee to leave his or her neighborhood to get to work.The Internet 
industry can build much of the network it needs through small workplace 
environments (perfectly matched to the haredi neighborhood and lifestyle), 
and/or though homebased work stations.Through the influence and 
leadership of specific religious leaders in the haredi world, and with work 
rules that are sensitive to haredi culture, a virtual army of talented haredi 
workers can be identified, recruited and trained.Tapping the haredi 
sector serves Israel in three ways: First, it can provide the intelligencerich 
talent the Internet industry will desperately need. Second, it can bring needed 
income to families. And third, it can reduce Israel’s welfare rolls.What 
a perfect shidduch! 

TUVIA BRODIE 
Ma’aleh Adumim 

Hourglass for two Sir, – In your 
editorial “Peace in a volatile region” (March 9) you quote one of Israel’s 
friends (German Chancellor Angela Merkel), who repeats the mantra that “time is 
not on [our] side.” But it is not on the Palestinian side, either.By the 
assertions of the PA and its supporters, settlements are in monthly growth, 
which makes their evacuation less and less likely.Energy-wise, Israel is 
becoming more self-reliant, and by its developing a missile shield, more 
defensible.True, in time Iran may become nuclear and Israel’s hostile 
neighbors may reach over-overkill capacity in terms of rockets. But is an 
all-out war or a nuclear confrontation a Palestinian interest? One needs only to 
look at a map to know the answer.I wish that as often as our friends 
tell us that time is not on our side, the Palestinians’ friends would tell them 
the same.

BINYAMIN ENGLMAN 
Jerusalem The bright side Sir, – The message 
in “Why do we need a Jewish state anyway?” by Gil Troy (Center Field, March 9) 
was very inspiring and gets to the point of what it means to have a Jewish 
state, for both Israelis and Jews in the Diaspora.Troy is right. By 
accentuating the positive aspects of Zionism rather than denigrating the anti- 
Israel critics and outright racists in the world, we make a better case for this 
country.

HYLA BERKOWITZ 
Jerusalem 

Roger, over and out Sir, – So a former 
member of Pink Floyd became the high profile person to kickstart Palestine 
Hypocrisy Week that demonizes Israel as an “apartheid state” (“Roger Waters 
declares support for BDS campaign,” March 7).His support for the BDS 
Movement goes back to 2006 when he scrawled “Tear down the wall” on our security 
barrier.I am aware that Pink Floyd’s “The Wall” made Waters a 
millionaire rock star, but his obsession has clouded his judgment.As 
co-founder of the Netanya Terror Victims Organization, I hope he will forgive me 
for saying the wall keeps me alive.I invite Waters to come to Netanya 
and hear the tragic tales of people who barely survived the onslaught of 
Palestinian terror before the wall went up. I will be happy to take him to the 
barrier, where he will receive a different perspective.To paraphrase his 
famous song: We don’t need no education/ Hey, Waters! Leave the Jews alone/ All 
in all you’re just another brick in the wall! BARRY SHAW 
Netanya Sir, – What is 
the importance and relevance of this story that it warrants a bold-type headline 
and so much column space? Roger Waters is a 67-year-old has-been and is now 
attempting to influence his colleagues and other musicians to join the 
boycott.Such is his antagonism toward Israel.Why attach to him 
such prominence? Surely there are far-more important articles that are of real 
interest to your readers.URI MILUNSKY 
Netanya Ask your accountant Sir, – 
I read “Protecting your UK Pension” by Leon Harris (Your Taxes, March 2) with 
some alarm, and must commend Harris for his lucid explanation of a complex 
subject.However, having spent most of my career in financial services, I 
have some understanding of this subject, yet it was not clear if for me the 
reciprocal double taxation agreement would still be in place, as my pensions are 
not remitted from the UK.As usual, accountants, like many other 
professionals, use unexplained terms, in this case QROPS, which means 
“Qualifying Recognized Overseas Pensions Scheme,” and Harris fails to mention 
that this only applies to either private or company pension schemes, and not to 
any state pension. Also, this option can only be exercised before taking an 
annuity. There are no cash options or open market options with a state 
pension.
His advice, to consult a qualified accountant, is most 
sensible.

HAROLD MARGOLIS 
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 22: Why we (don't) fight</title>
<date>21/3/2011</date>
<content>
Why we (don’t) fight Sir, – When Ehud Barak was prime minister, the Palestinians 
waged an unending terrorist war against us, and Barak sent our air force to bomb 
empty buildings.




After the Park Hotel massacre, then-prime minister Ariel 
Sharon sent the army into the West Bank and the war being waged against us from 
there came to an end.Now, almost 10 years later, the Gazans continue to 
terrorize the Israeli population living within missile range. Since Operation 
Cast Lead (a war left unfinished), our response to periodic attacks from Gaza 
has again been to bomb empty buildings or tunnels.So, with Ehud Barak 
again in a position of great influence, this time as defense minister, we 
continue to tolerate unrelenting attacks on our people (“Israel vows to avenge 
Gaza mortar barrage, March 20).I’m not quite sure why we have an army or 
even a country to defend the Jewish people.Those living in Sderot and 
the surrounding communities are just as important as those who live in Tel Aviv 
– those like like Barak.RACHEL AND BARRY LYNN 
Efrat Sir, – I, as an 
Israeli, have had it with being abused by a majority of the media and a majority 
of the world. No matter what happens, Israel is portrayed as the bad 
one.Recently, a mother, father and three of their children – the 
youngest being a baby – were stabbed and had their throats cut because they were 
what the world calls “settlers.” They themselves were blamed because they lived 
on “stolen land,” and people around the world were more upset over Israel’s 
decision to build more homes on this “stolen land” than they were over an 
Israeli family being murdered.I did not read or hear in the foreign 
media about the recent rocket attacks on the western Negev, but I can bet you 
that a majority of the headlines read “Israel attacks Palestinians,” and only 
somewhere near the end you could read why.DON SALIMAN 
Kibbutz Nahal Oz Do the dirty work...Sir, – How ironic that the nations surrounding 
Israel, some of them oil-rich and armed to the teeth, cannot attack Libya’s 
ruler on their own, but instead must rely upon their lackey dhimmis, the 
oil-dependent countries of the Christian West (“Five nations launch attack on 
Libya,” March 20).Never mind that the Arab League did not bat an eye 
when Christians were persecuted, as happened to Lebanon’s Maronites, Egypt’s 
Copts and the South Sudanese – apparently, when Christians kill Muslims the 
world is in uproar, but when Muslims kill Christian the nations of Islam simply 
shrug their shoulders.And when Muslim despots kill their own, the Arab 
League resorts to getting the West to “do the dirty work” lest it soil its 
hands. In a classic example of the emperor’s new clothes, not only does the 
oil-reliant West fight the wars of the Arabs, but even when the Arab League 
encourages a no-fly zone and affirmatively votes, as United Nations 
participatories, a resounding “yes” to the “use of all necessary force,” they 
still will not clean house when one of their own despots goes mad, kills his own 
populace and threatens to murder survivors who “hide in their 
closets.”Wherefore the need for all the sophisticated weaponry purchased 
by the Saudis, to take but one example? It is a Purimesque absurdity that is 
laughable.DAVID C. SAIDOFF 
Jerusalem ...but why just Libya? Sir, – 
Regarding the the West’s attacks against Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, other 
countries such as Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen did not warrant any action from the 
multinationals, and as Israel is again bombarded by Grad missiles it does not 
receive much international attention. “Oil” is the word! There are so many 
autocratic regimes responsible for human rights abuse in the world, so why do 
these nations select only Libya in order to “protect the people.” Double 
standards or what? SALLY SHAW 
Kfar Saba Sir, – Of course it is about 
oil. Did we miss the Security Council resolution authorizing the use of 
military force against President Gbagbo of the Ivory Coast, who, having stolen 
an election, is using his army to attack civilian opponents? I think 
not.STANLEY LAWSON 
Jerusalem By any other name Sir, – Kudos to The 
Jerusalem Post for the article about the US Homeland Security Department’s fence 
along the Mexican border to stop the smuggling of people and drugs (“Some angry 
Texans are stuck south of the border,” Comment & Features, March 
20).When we do this to save lives, the world calls it an “apartheid 
wall.” I wonder what they call it in Texas? 

NACHUM CHERNOFSKY 
Bnei Brak Careful 
reading due Sir, – Bravo to Norman Cantor for his excellent piece (“My day of 
rage,” Comment & Features, March 20). The views presented should be 
acceptable to Israelis from both sides of the political spectrum, with the 
probable exception of extreme religious idealists.Bravo, too, to the 
Post for highlighting the whole article in blue.I commend careful 
reading of the article, with personal soul searching to maintain one’s feelings 
for true democracy and goodwill to all.MONTY M. ZION 
Tel Mond Keep 
miracle going Sir, – I would like to thank Liat Collins for her wonderful and 
most moving “Perpetually Purim” (My Word, March 20).Although her column 
has little to do with the holiday, it brings back the stark reality that every 
day we are fighting for our lives not just here in Israel, but in the 
international arena as well. In particular, the description of the London-based 
War Museum exhibit with a 30-minute movie on ethnic minorities, which indicates 
that we, too, could be counted among these unimportant groups. What a chilling 
thought! Let’s hope that the Purim miracle continues to accompany us here in 
Israel.JOYCE KAHN 
Petah Tikva Why not every day? Sir, – When you spend 
Purim in Tel Aviv’s Florentine quarter in a realistic, full-body gorilla suit, 
you make friends fast. A group of young Sephardim raised their hands at me to 
slap five: “Ach sheli (my brother)!” Beautiful women saw me and initiated a 
dance. A black American man hollered at me “Monkey mannnnnn! You have to come 
over here!” Throughout the night I posed for at least 10 pictures, in embrace, 
with people I had never met and never will again. We exchanged elaborate, 
gangstastyle handshakes, banged chests, grunted animal sounds – standard 
inter-species conciliation.Were I a “human,” we would not have 
acknowledged one another’s existence. I would be pegged with the role of the 
lame, conceited Ashkenazi man, and would probably succumb to pegging everyone 
else as whatever socially-determined stereotype their external facade 
represented.But disguised in my holiday costume – a holiday that, 
appropriately for the scenario, revels at the discrepancy between the world’s 
superficial arbitrariness and deep-rooted deliberateness – I hugged strangers, 
was invited to play with people’s children, and entered into the midst of groups 
typically outside my social circle.Being an animal, like a puppy, 
invoked automatic smiles and made me an automatic friend.Come early 
morning, I went home and unmasked, contemplating what everyday life would be 
without our everyday costumes.
RON ARAZI 
Haifa
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 24: Katsav’s punishment</title>
<date>23/3/2011</date>
<content>
Katsav’s punishment Sir, – Regarding “Katsav sentenced to 7 years in prison for rape, sexual harassment” (March 23), our former president was convicted of raping “Aleph.”




Eight other women stated that he had sexually harassed them.He was a serial sex offender and lied repeatedly to the world. He would daven and rape. He preyed upon women.He was elected president, defeating Shimon Peres, although Katsav’s reputation was already in doubt. It speaks a great deal about the integrity of the Knesset that to this day its members prefer party over country.I would have given him 14 years.L.E. EZER Jerusalem Sir, – The long awaited sentencing of Moshe Katsav has finally been rendered. One has to analyze certain factors that may not have been taken into account by the judges: In the business and political sectors, sexual enticement often exists.Women are hired on the basis of their appearance. If they are unattractive and overweight they are not considered, no matter how superior their skills. They come to work wearing well-fitted, revealing clothing without guidance as to how to dress. The women involved were not forced to stay at work, were they? They were not sex slaves. And Katsav became a victim of blackmail, which never became a point of focus.“Aleph” has been awarded a hefty sum, which worked out well, and no doubt she is pleased.Leaders throughout history have exhibited a lack of morals but were not sentenced to a prison term. It is my opinion that the legal system here has not lived up to its best, including the judges.I think Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Peres should grant Katsav clemency, and the judges should be reprimanded for handing down a grossly miscarried decision.TOVA WALD Jerusalem Sir, – Though I was not one of his biggest fans, I was impressed by a radio interview with the late MK and former journalist Tommy Lapid in the early days of the Katsav affair. When asked his opinion, Lapid’s reply went something like this: “Make a deal. The Israeli people neither need nor want to see their president sitting in jail.”Perhaps there are exceptions, and there are those who have delighted in the former president’s downfall and the ensuing media circus. I am not among them. Questions remain in my mind regarding the case, but apparently the old adage “where there is smoke there is fire” applies to Katsav.That said, I believe he erred by not heeding the advice of Tommy Lapid. It could have spared his wife and family some measure of agony and prevented the rest of us from witnessing not only the public disgrace of a former president of Israel, but his incarceration to boot.LINDA WOLFF Sha’are Tikva Sir, – He doesn’t get it. Even now, after the sentencing and with a prison term looming ahead, Moshe Katsav simply does not get it.He thinks that what he did was perfectly normal – after all, he had been doing it and getting away with it for so many years that he got used to it. He got used to the idea that all the women working for him were his prey, were his “right to have.”No one complained publicly for so many years that he thought it was standard behavior and continued all the way into the presidential mansion.For Katsav it was a natural way of life, so what does have to apologize for? He possibly thought that all these naïve young girls really fancied him and were happy to acquiesce to his revolting demands.He will spend the next few years in prison and protest his innocence the whole time. He will never get it, so we should stop expecting apologies. He will never understand that what he did was wrong, and we will never understand how such a disgusting person got to be our eighth president.JEANETTE AMID Jerusalem Sir, – Kudos on your March 23 editorial, “Covering Moshe Katsav.”As the writer states, too much has been made of the attitude of the press in this case. Those who remember Katsav’s tirade against the media a couple of years ago – on TV, yet! – will remember that he was almost foaming at the mouth. For him to complain about his treatment by the press is really chutzpa! This man seems to be a real piece. He tried as hard as he could to shut up all the women who complained about him, and then turned on the press when he found the women wouldn’t budge.In my opinion, this man needs to be shut away for a long while.Seven years seems about right. I sincerely hope the Supreme Court won’t cut the sentence.LEONARD ZURAKOV Netanya Sir, – Now that the former president has been sentenced, let the shame game begin. There is plenty to go around.Shame on Moshe Katsav for disgracing himself, his office and his country.Shame on Menachem Mazuz, whose conduct as attorney-general in publicly 
judging a defendant before indicting him and constantly leaking tidbits 
to the press, makes a mockery of the words “fairness,” “justice” and 
“ethics.”Shame on a system that took as long as it did to do justice for the victims while slowly roasting the defendant.Shame on the media, whose bloodlust was akin to a feeding frenzy, 
devouring every salacious detail thrown toward it and acting without the
 slightest restraint or circumspection – which a case of this nature not
 only deserved but demanded.Sadly, your editorial suggesting that “prominently documenting the 
case... performed a necessary service” shows that the media remain as 
unrepentant of their actions as the former president is of his.GERALD FLANZBAUM 
Givat Olga Sir, – We all know the world is topsy-turvy. Katsav: 7 years; Demjanjuk:
 6 years (“Prosecutors call for 6 years imprisonment for Demjanjuk,” 
March 23).BARBARA PFEFFER 
Rehovot Sir, – Our “apartheid” critics who claim that Israel treats its Arabs 
unfairly should consider the fact that Israel’s former No. 1 citizen, 
Moshe Katsav, was found guilty and sentenced by a panel of judges led by
 George Karra – an Arab.AVIGDOR BONCHEK 
Jerusalem You can keep her Sir, – I feel comfortable speaking for the majority of Americans – Sarah
 Palin does not represent us in any way (“Palin promises to come back 
for a week, March 22). She is merely a half-term governor who has become
 a disliked celebrity. Her approval ratings are hideous, as are her 
views.MARSHA ORITT 
Las Vegas Clothing makes the....Sir, – Ron Arazi writes somewhat poignantly about his playful and joyful
 reception when dressed in a gorilla suit on Purim (“Why not every 
day?,” Letters, March 22). Indeed, the old saying that “fine feathers 
make fine birds” would be applicable.But we ought to remember the first occasion on which mankind wore 
clothes in the Garden of Eden, and the true significance of the Hebrew 
word for an item of clothing – beged – and the root’s other meaning, as 
in dissembler or even betrayer, since we choose our clothes to represent
 that which we wish to portray to the outside world.STANLEY COHEN 
Jerusalem Write it 1,000 times Sir, – Please note my emphatic protest at your misuse of the English 
language. Your March 22 front page headline should read “Syrian security
 forces lie low.”RUTH RIGBI 
Jerusalem 
The writer is a former head of the English as a Foreign Language Department at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 3: Avert this Disaster</title>
<date>2/3/2011</date>
<content>
Avert this disaster Sir, – What a wonderful success for the documentary 
Strangers No More (“Film about South Tel Aviv school wins Oscar, but 120 
students still face deportation,” March 1).




What a wonderful tribute to 
principal Keren Tal, her dedicated staff and the 831 students, all providing 
living examples of tolerance, love and how to live together with mutual respect 
and dignity. And what a huge boost for Israel in displaying its heart and soul – 
and utterly destroying any basis for the hatred and bias of those attempting to 
persuade the world that Israel is an apartheid country.What a disaster 
it will be if the minister of the interior doesn’t immediately back down from 
his heartless (and totally un-Jewish) policy of deporting not only the 120 
migrant children at the school, but the rest of the 400 youngsters under threat 
of expulsion.All credit goes to those who have been fighting this order 
(including Sara Netanyahu), but everybody should now be encouraged to shout from 
every corner of the country: No! Absolutely not! Israel cannot be a party to 
such a cruel, mean-spirited and utterly stupid policy! HARRY BRODIE Herzliya 
Dense statement Sir, – In “How can an intelligent people like the Israelis only 
see the short term?” (Comment & Features, March 1), Jean Asselborn, 
Luxembourg’s foreign minister, tries to blame Israel for the Palestinians’ 
problems by stating that 1.5 million people live in Gaza in an area “seven times 
smaller than Luxembourg,” causing “very difficult conditions.”The 
population density of Gaza comes to about 4,200 people per square kilometer. 
Petah Tikva has a population density of 5,800; Tel Aviv has 7,600; New York City 
has 10,600. No one claims that living conditions in these places is especially 
difficult.ABE BROT Petah Tikva Waste of newsprint Sir, – To take up 
close to half of Page 4 of the March 1 Post reporting the purported sexually 
ambivalent tendencies of the monster Adolf Eichmann is tantamount to discussing 
whether he suffered from ingrown toenails or chronic heartburn. To say that we 
neither know nor care would be a gross understatement.In the future, 
please find something more newsworthy and palatable to include in your 
paper.STANLEY COHEN Jerusalem Laudable editorial Sir, – I wish to thank 
The Jerusalem Post for praising J Street as a “laudable endeavor to present a 
viable left-wing, pro- Zionist alternative to American Jews” (“J Street’s 
fragile alternative,” Editorial,, February 28).I hope that instead of 
emphasizing only the relatively minor issues on which it might disagree with J 
Street, the Post will fully cover the crucial central issues on which the two 
agree – Israel’s legitimacy, defensibility and security, and the need for a 
peaceful resolution to the conflict that will ensure her existence forever as a 
sovereign, strong and safe Jewish democratic state.JAMES ADLER
Cambridge, Massachusetts Sir, – At the recent J Street conference in Washington, 
DC, I saw an energized and committed group of people – almost all of them Jews – 
who care deeply about Israel and the Jewish people, and who are very concerned 
that the policies of the current Israeli government and religious leadership are 
doing a great deal of harm. I believe that acting and speaking out on these 
concerns are the highest form of patriotism and Jewish responsibility.I 
did not hear a single comment from anyone who didn’t care deeply about Israel’s 
future as a Jewish state. As with all healthy organizations, I heard a lot of 
introspection and selfcriticism.I am saddened that so many of my Jewish 
friends have resorted to the Fox News-like tactics of lies, partial truths and 
distortions in an effort to demonize J Street and smear its donors and 
professionals.Virtually every viral email I have received was written 
and/or forwarded by people who were not at the conference and who have had no 
first-hand contact with anyone from J Street.What we have now in the 
Jewish and pro-Israel movement is a healthy alternative. For Jews who believe 
our top priority is to protect and defend the State of Israel, then AIPAC 
provides a great way to leverage that feeling.(I support AIPAC 
financially and have served on its local board.) For those who believe our top 
priority is to live out our Jewish values and are focused on the commandments to 
work for peace, to improve the world, and to love the stranger, then J Street 
provides a vehicle to leverage that approach.As a serious Jew who cares 
deeply about both Israel and Jewish values, I am thrilled that both 
organizations are part of our political and Jewish landscape.LARRY 
GELLMAN Tucson, Arizona ...and one less laudable Sir, – It is regrettable that 
“Balancing NGOs democratically” (Editorial, February 25) sees fit to base its 
main thesis on a false attack on B’Tselem.The editorial, to borrow your 
own language, does little more than a “near-copy-and-paste job.” It repeats a 
deliberate miscalculation of B’Tselem’s Cast Lead casualty statistics by NGO 
Monitor, rehashing claims that a public statement by Hamas’s Fathi Hamad about 
losses incurred by Hamas somehow casts doubt over B’Tselem’s 
research.Any suggested “discrepancy” stems not from shortcomings in 
B’Tselem’s rigorous methodology or legal analysis, but from The Jerusalem Post’s 
insistence in following NGO Monitor’s bogus arithmetic.Hamad, the recent 
unlikely darling of Israeli government propagandists, lists not only casualties 
of Hamas’s military wing, but of police officers and members of other security 
forces. The Post intentionally and unethically misrepresents B’Tselem’s casualty 
statistics by excluding our list of 248 police officers. When following Hamad’s 
math and adding the figures of combatants and police officers, it is found that 
his ballpark figures match B’Tselem’s data to the same extent that they 
correspond with official Israeli figures.Additionally, real commitment 
to transparency and even a modicum of intellectual integrity mean not 
withholding from the Post’s readers the simple fact that the funding provided by 
Western governments to self-critical Israeli human rights NGOs is a drop in the 
ocean compared to European government support to every facet of Israel’s economy 
and society. It is also dwarfed by the torrents of money provided by foreign 
business magnates and evangelical Christians to promote the expansion and 
entrenchment of the settlement project.
As part of our commitment to 
transparency and accountability, B’Tselem already holds itself to higher 
standards than those demanded by law. Israel must remain a strong, vibrant 
democracy, and this requires that someone holds up a critical mirror on our 
government’s activities in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. We shall continue to do 
so with pride in spite of the attempts to discredit us.SARIT MICHAELI
Jerusalem The writer is spokesperson for B’Tselem The Editor notes: Among the 
points our editorial sought to make was that B’Tselem uses highly controversial 
criteria for defining who constitutes a “combatant” – criteria that do not 
recognize the realities of battle with terrorist organizations like Hamas. 
B’Tselem, for instance, does not classify as combatants any of 248 Gaza police 
officers killed at police stations in Operation Cast Lead; according to the 
Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, a “decisive” majority of them “were members 
of the military wings of the Palestinian terror organizations and fighters who 
had undergone military training.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 31: BGU under fire</title>
<date>30/5/2011</date>
<content>
BGU under fire Sir, – Rivka Carmi (“Universities are in the footnotes,” Comment 
& Features, May 29) is certainly too intelligent to be accused of naivete, 
and likely too decent to be accused of mendacity. So perhaps it is the economic 
interests of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev that impel her to obfuscate the 
clear and present danger of the many anti- Israel faculty members on her payroll 
and in a position to brainwash or browbeat students into anti- Zionist 
conformity.




That only 10 professors are openly abetting the Boycott, 
Divestment and Sanction movement is entirely beside the point. These 10 are 
merely the tip of an iceberg that has many more adherents who do not yet have 
the courage to call outright for BDS against Israel.Surely, Carmi is 
aware that the odds of a non-leftist being hired by BGU’s social sciences 
faculty hovers at around zero. As for tenure, that would be out of the question. 
In liberal arts the statistics are hardly better.The sages of the Talmud 
may have engaged in boisterous, even rancorous debate, but there was a line one 
never crossed – that of outright heresy and apostasy. To site the Talmud as 
support for BGU’s “do nothing” approach to the virus of self-hatred is 
inappropriate, and to tolerate even one BDS-spewing professor is to tolerate one 
too many.Hopefully, the overseas board members and donors now on their 
annual pilgrimage to Beersheba will not be fooled by their president’s 
deflections.J.J. GROSS Jerusalem Sir, – There are a few truths and some 
good ideas in Rivka Carmi’s defense of BGU’s handling of its problematic 
professors, but for the most part she chooses to ignore the reality that has 
invaded the ivory tower.It is certainly true that 10 or so professors 
out of 5,000 is a very small number. And it’s a good idea for the ethics 
committee to ask professors to draw a clear line between their academics and 
their politics. But the reality of life on campus tells another story. (Our son 
is a student at BGU, and this letter was written in consultation with him and a 
number of fellow students.) While it is reasonable to ask a chemistry professor 
to keep his politics to himself while lecturing about polar bonding, it begs 
reason when you ask the same of a political science professor. And the 
problematic professors are concentrated in the political science department led 
by Prof. Neve Gordon.According to several students we spoke with, nine 
out of the 11 political science professors routinely present anti-Zionist ideas 
in the classroom, and belittle and embarrass students who present the Zionist 
narrative. For instance, a student who referred to the “liberation” of Jerusalem 
in an exam found his paper corrected with the word “occupation.” This certainly 
violates the recommendation of the ethics committee.These professors are 
doing anything but encouraging the “critical thinking and alternative 
perspectives” that Carmi rightly aspires to.Moreover, they are roaming 
the world and using the mantle of “Israeli political science professor” to talk 
as “experts” about Israel’s past and present sins.The students did not 
cause Gordon to write an op-ed in The Los Angeles Times in August 2009 calling 
Israel an apartheid state and calling for support of the BDS movement. Carmi has 
the story backwards. The students are reacting to this noxious 
behavior.JOAN and ROBERT GOLDSTEIN Jerusalem Scottish book 
ban...Sir, – I read with concern that a Scottish municipality has banned 
Israeli authors’ books from its library shelves (“Scottish council bans Israeli 
books,” May 29). However, it turns out that the ban will not be retroactive, so 
I hope that the writings of the prophets of Israel as published in the Hebrew 
Bible will not suffer the fate of banishment.Also, since the ban applies 
to books actually published in Israel, I assume that the town’s library goers 
will still have access to those writings by the Author of the Bible’s five books 
of Moses, which He published at Mount Sinai as He led the children of Israel to 
the promised land.YONATAN SILVER Jerusalem Sir, – What a dark and 
dangerous action to take. Mind you, the Scottish church has tried to ban all 
sorts of “things Jewish” for centuries.Nevertheless, I am shocked at 
this move by the Dunbartenshire Council. I wonder if the Bible is included in 
the list of banned books? ANTOINETTE HASLETON Moshav Sde Nitzan ...and Scottish 
spelling Sir, – On May 29, in your Business & Finance section, a headline 
read: “Status in a bottle, whiskey takes off in China.” The article uses the 
spelling “whiskey” throughout, except when it mentions the Scottish Whisky 
Association.To quote the editor of the Oxford English Dictionary 
regarding “whisky” versus “whiskey”: “This isn’t a case where a small group of 
fanatics are insisting on some highly personal interpretation of an issue that 
is not adhered to by anyone outside their cult. It’s almost universally the case 
that the word is spelled “whisky” in Scotland and Canada, and “whiskey' 
elsewhere.”So that settles it. Scottish whisky exists, but Scottish 
whiskey does not. I can accept discussion regarding Bibi, ’Bama and border 
disputes, but, please, leave my wee dram o’ whisky alone! RICHARD RINBERGRa’anana Bibi was great Sir, – I commend Isi Leibler (“Mr.Prime 
Minister, you make us proud,” Candidly Speaking, May 26) for his wise counsel: 
“...Domestic unity is crucial....”I find it remarkable how so many 
people from both the Left and the Right in this country have had the audacity to 
criticize Prime Minister Netanyahu for his actions in Washington. I would love 
to know: Would they have been able to do a better job? At a time when Israel is 
facing a massive delegitimization campaign, finally someone stood up and 
proclaimed the Jewish nation’s right to live in its historic homeland in freedom 
and security.Right now we need all the support we can get, and with so 
many standing ovations, for once all Jews everywhere had a chance to feel proud. 
As friends of mine in the US said, “Bibi spoke unbelievably well – with so many 
standing ovations it was awesome.” It is a pity so few senior political 
officials here congratulated him likewise, especially, as Leibler points out, in 
this “period of crisis.”GINA-DEVRA SHAFFER JerusalemWho are these 
people? Sir, – It has been very disappointing that The Jerusalem Post has not 
had any follow-up stories on “Egypt FM meets with ‘Israeli Initiative’ leaders” 
(May 20).Is it lawful for the “Israeli Initiative” group to be involved 
in Israeli foreign affairs? What is the source of funding for this group? Israel 
is still suffering from the Oslo process, where a group of non-elected citizens 
representing a minority of Israeli voters engaged in foreign affairs. Can’t we 
learn from history? 

ARNOLD SULLUM 
Jerusalem 
CORRECTION 

A May 26 letter from Lily 
Sherwood referring to the article “French nationals living in Israel to get 
their own representative in the National Assembly” (May 23) should have ended as 
follows: “It failed, in particular, to mention the non-partisan deputy mayor of 
the Paris suburb Neuilly sur Seine, Philippe Karsenty, whose almost 
single-handed and unrelenting fight to expose the truth about the Mohamed 
al-Dura hoax deserves Israel’s and the Jewish community’s gratitude.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Money before morals</title>
<date>14/3/2011</date>
<content>
We are currently in the midst of “Israel Apartheid Week,” the 7th consecutive 
year that universities throughout the world are promoting the false concept that 
Israel is an apartheid state. Anyone who has experienced apartheid in South 
Africa knows only too well that there is absolutely no comparison with the way 
minorities are treated in this country – which boasts 14 Arab MKs, an Arab 
Supreme Court justice, Arab doctors and professors – and apartheid South 
Africa.What remains clear is that facts have no place on the campuses 
where “Israel Apartheid Week” – now extending to two weeks – is marked. The 
question to ask is why the climate of boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) 
has succeeded in penetrating the academic world, thus making life for Jewish 
students increasingly intolerable? Could it be that money is replacing truth and 
morality? 




The London School of Economics has recently come under fire, with 
revelations that Libya’s Saif al-Islam Gaddafi – son of Muammar Gaddafi – 
received a PhD in 2009 and then gave the university a grant of £1.5 million. 
Only last week LSE’s Center for Middle East Studies received £9 million from the 
United Arab Emirates. The majority of its board was found to be pushing for a 
boycott of Israel. Sir Howard Davies, director of LSE, resigned from the 
governing council when further Gaddafi funding was disclosed. He was also the 
British government’s economic envoy to Libya.Trade and commercial 
interests played a vital role in the so-called compassionate release in 2009 of 
the Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, responsible for the murder of 270 
people. According to a report in The Economist, former prime minister Gordon 
Brown claimed it was the Scottish administration’s decision to release Megrahi. 
It appears, however, that Brown’s government had an “underlying desire” to set 
him free, and advised the Libyans as to how to press the case for his release on 
the grounds that he had only months to live – he remains alive and 
well.Libya is not alone in funding universities worldwide.Saudi 
Arabia’s Prince Alwaleed has given considerable donations to American 
universities, including $20 million each to Harvard and 
Georgetown.Across the US universities have accepted funds from Saudi 
Arabia and the Gulf states for Middle East studies chairs. Between 1995 and 
2008, the UK’s Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, University College London, LSE, 
Exeter, Dundee and City universities received more than £233.5 million from 
Muslim rulers and those close to them.THE DELEGITIMIZATION campaign 
against Israel, with which our students have to contend, was initiated in 2001 
at the Durban I “UN Conference against Racism.”As one who led the WIZO 
delegation to this Israeland Jew-bashing event, I question the morality of 
holding a Durban III this September to coincide with the 10th anniversary of 
9/11, when some 3,000 people were murdered. Of the 19 terrorists who hijacked 
the planes that crashed into the Twin Towers and the Pentagon, 15 came from 
Saudi Arabia.This is the country whose dominant faith is Wahhabism – an 
austere and extreme form of Islam that looks at worshipers of other religions as 
heathens and mortal enemies; a country devoid of churches and synagogues. 
Wahhabism’s explosive growth began in the 1970s, with the Saudi founding of 
Wahhabi schools – known as madrassas – from Islamabad to California. It is at 
such madrassas that the Taliban receive their education.Looking at these 
facts, we should not be surprised at the success of the BDS campaign, especially 
at universities receiving generous funding by those who believe Israel has no 
right to exist. But the ultimate victim will be the democratic Western countries 
whose oil and trade interests encourage them to turn a blind eye to the gross 
racism, human rights abuses – especially against women – and apartheid existing 
in the Arab and Muslim world.
The writer is cochair of Europeans for 
Israel, and chairperson of the public relations department of World WIZO.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My problems with hasbara</title>
<date>28/8/2011</date>
<content>
Iwas more than frustrated after a group I was guiding during the summer 
participated in a hasbara (advocacy) workshop. Even though the workshop 
facilitator was adept, and engaged the audience well, my issues with what 
transpired were numerous.I had spent the entire summer trying to develop 
independent, analytical and critical thinking among my hanihim (group 
participants), without regard for accepted orthodoxies. And then they 
participated in a workshop which attempted to do the exact opposite. It 
was clear that the workshop was seeking to give simplistic answers. The 
facilitator commented afterward that he had never before come across such 
resistance. I thought it was only those chanichim who refused to accept 
his statements as absolute truths who he should want as hasbara activists. The 
conflation of hasbara with Israel Education does not produce educated people or 
great hasbara activists.




THE WORKSHOP lacked nuance. For example, instead 
of explaining that any statement linking Israel to apartheid is “anti-Israel” or 
“anti-Zionist,” I would have liked to see an actual analysis of claims against 
Israel. Hanihim need to be exposed to the argument that there are similarities 
between the apartheid regime and Israeli rule in the West Bank, which include 
distinct law enforcement and judicial systems for residents based on ethnicity. 
To ignore this, or to obfuscate reality by claiming that the entire 
Israel/apartheid analogy is false because Israeli Palestinians have full rights 
as Israeli citizens does not educate hanihim nor prepare them to be hasbara 
activists.I do not think all hanihim need to be trained in 
hasbara. Advocacy, or lobbying, is a very specialized field. I 
imagine that almost all my hanihim oppose smoking – some even vehemently – but I 
also imagine that only a small fraction of them will ever become antismoking 
lobbyists. With this in mind, my arguments are not against small-scale, 
selective programs such as Write on for Israel, but rather against “hasbara for 
the masses” workshops, which are often held because “they’ll be in college soon, 
will come across this sort of stuff, and therefore we have to do 
something.”Many Jewish organizations tend to argue that almost all 
students will be exposed to anti-Israel activity on campus, and therefore almost 
all students should participate in hasbara training. I am unconvinced that 
almost all Jewish students are exposed to anti-Israel hasbara (and I 
deliberately use the term “hasbara”) on campus, notwithstanding some truly 
nefarious lobbying by anti-Israel activists. Moreover, an environment is created 
in which Jewish students believe that any lobbying by pro-Palestinian or anti- 
Israel activists is, by definition, illegitimate. One former student told me – 
in horror, mind you – of students on one college campus who had set up a fake 
IDF checkpoint.I responded by saying that it is legitimate political 
activity, even if it is not nuanced, as it ignores the fact that while some 
checkpoints function for political reasons, many others certainly do function 
for security reasons.I suggested that students engaging in pro-Israel 
hasbara on that campus approach the checkpoint as fake suicide bombers. This 
would also represent a nonnuanced approach, as it would suggest that the only 
reason checkpoints exist is to protect against suicide bombers, and would ignore 
the fact that suicide bombers never routinely access Israel via the 
checkpoints.Nevertheless, it would certainly be appropriate in the 
context. I am not proposing that hasbara activists engage anti-Israel protesters 
in nuanced debate; blackand- white hasbara responses to black-and-white anti- 
Israel campaigns can certainly be suitable, as long as the activists involved 
understand the grey of the issues. I also think that a focus on hasbara 
diminishes the importance of other campus-centered, Jewish-related activity. 
Including a hasbara workshop as an integral part of an Israel program, and 
thereby reinforcing the notion that hasbara is the central component of Jewish 
college activities, minimizes the role played by Jewish activists who organize 
Shabbatonim and shiurim, social events, sporting activities or tikkun olam 
projects. Not everybody needs to – or should – be a hasbara activist. There are 
many other ways for Jewish students to be involved in Jewish campus 
life.Finally, as somebody who has chosen to make Israel his home, I 
don’t think putting Diaspora Jews in the position of having to defend the 
policies of a foreign government is a productive way of inculcating Zionist – or 
patriotic American – values. I am not arguing against the activities of AIPAC 
and J-Street, but rather advocating for a more scaled-back, nuanced, considered 
and educational approach to hasbara, when dealing with students.
The 
writer is director of Teaching Israel. www.teachingisrael.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Justice for all...</title>
<date>8/1/2011</date>
<content>
If ever you need more proof that the “Israel is an apartheid state” theory is no 
more legitimate than systematic discrimination itself, look no further. It has 
never been so publicly refuted as in the Moshe Katsav case.The 
conviction of the former head of state on charges ranging from rape to 
harassment gave very few reasons for pride, but one of them is the composition 
of the three-judge panel who tried Katsav and found him guilty: Judges George 
Karra, Miriam Sokolow and Judith Shevah. Since Israel does not have a jury 
system, the identities and role of the judges is particularly 
pertinent.




I challenge you to name any other country in the region in 
which a member of a minority community and two women would be in a position to 
hand down a verdict on the president. Karra, in fact, is a minority within a 
minority: a Christian Arab. He wouldn’t stand a chance in most of the Muslim 
world. Female judges are also not the norm there in such cases, and in some 
countries, including “moderate” Saudi Arabia, a woman who is raped can be 
flogged and imprisoned for finding herself in that situation.Accepting 
the claims of the witnesses in full , the three judges ruled that Katsav was 
guilty on all counts, except for one of the two charges of harassing a 
witness.“So, do you still believe he’s innocent?” a colleague e-mailed 
me as the verdict was being handed down on December 30.I have never 
claimed Katsav was innocent. I have written, and continue to believe, that the 
media acted as policeman, judge and executioner before the case even came to 
court. Katsav received a fair trial in one place where it counts – in the 
courtroom – but not in the press, where it is no less important. Too many of 
those condemning him were acting on hearsay and no one, other than the women and 
Katsav himself, knew for sure what went on behind closed doors.I was 
concerned that the principle of a person being considered innocent until proven 
guilty was too readily thrown aside by those who should know better.IN 
THE way of modern journalism, I followed the verdict simultaneously on TV, radio 
and via the Web. It was not pleasant.This was not the open-mouthed 
stupidity of Bill (“I never had sex with that woman”) Clinton, nor what the 
French accept as so natural that president François Mitterrand’s mistress and 
illegitimate child were offered a place of honor at his funeral.The 
international press also had a field day as the “sexy story” became ever more 
sordid and Katsav changed from being the country’s No. 1 representative into a 
serial rapist.The sight of women’s groups beating on drums and chanting 
outside the court as Katsav’s defense was ripped to pieces by the judges did not 
seem to me a celebration of justice. It brought to mind the images of the old 
hags gathered around the guillotine during the French 
Revolution.Gloating at his downfall does nothing to benefit the victims, 
either. Arguably, the media attention is one of the greatest deterrents to 
victims of sex crimes weighing up whether to report an incident.A case 
like this might not have any winners, but it does mark a turning point. It was 
an unequivocal message that, in the words of the judges, “When a woman says no, 
she means no.”Even if the man is in a position of power. Even if he is 
literally No. 1.It was a reinforcement of the signal sent out in 2007, 
when the court pronounced a guilty verdict against former justice minister Haim 
Ramon on charges of indecent assault, and before that against former defense 
minister Yitzhak Mordechai, also for indecent behavior.For Katsav, the 
conviction seemed to act as an almost physical blow. He entered the courtroom 
proud and erect and left looking like a dirty old man. The witnesses (known only 
by their initials) were obviously not the only ones able to resist his charms; 
the judges also didn’t accept his version of events.Judge Karra, summing 
up, told Katsav he had made “a grave mistake” when he decided that instead of 
facing trial for lesser charges as part of a plea bargain, he would, in Katsav’s 
words, “fight until the truth comes out.”The truth turned out to be more 
disturbing than the stories sparked by his former assistant, known as “Aleph of 
the President’s Residence,” whose possible blackmail attempt of Katsav marked 
the start of the public stage of the saga.While women’s groups took to 
carrying placards proclaiming “We are all Aleph,” I still feel they had no right 
to speak for me. After all, Aleph did not rush to the police to complain that 
the president had attacked her to save her coworkers from a similar 
fate.That would have been the courageous thing to do.Instead, 
according to the tapes since broadcast on Channel 2, she apparently phoned the 
president and demanded huge sums of money to buy her silence.I have 
noted before that as a journalist I can appreciate the value of leaks, but as a 
citizen I find it worrying that a private discussion between the head of state 
and its top legal adviser found its way directly to the country’s eager press. 
It does not bode well in the long term, regardless of the 
outcome.Another signal was sent from the Tel Aviv courthouse, however: 
Nobody is above the law.This, too, is a positive sign of change in the 
way the country is ruled – particularly at a time when the list of lawmakers 
turned lawbreakers includes former finance minister Avraham Hirchson, serving a 
jail sentence for embezzlement, and former health minister Shlomo Benizri, doing 
time for corruption, and when even ex-prime minister Ehud Olmert is mired in 
various financial scandals.Katsav will inevitably appeal, in the legal 
sense, but the verdict itself is significant for the Knesset (which elected 
him), the presidency, the media, and even the feminist 
movement.Curiously, former justice minister Yossi Beilin – from the 
other side of the political and social map to Katsav – suggested this week on 
Channel 1’s Politika show that President Shimon Peres should commute Katsav’s 
sentence as soon as it is handed down because “it would not be right for 
Israelis to see a former president in prison.” He added that Katsav’s real 
punishment would be having to face his wife, children and neighbors.The 
trial had been traumatic for the country, Beilin said, but added: “For Israeli 
democracy, this was a type of test that it passed. Something happened that 
happens almost nowhere in the world, and we need to be proud of our 
system.”Although the boost to pride was welcome, Beilin’s suggestion did 
not receive popular support.Indeed, no sooner had the verdict been 
handed down than calls were heard for the removal of Katsav’s sculpture from its 
place among the bronze busts of all former incumbents at the President’s 
Residence in Jerusalem.Again, I found myself at odds with the public 
sentiment. You cannot – or should not – rewrite history. Nothing can change the 
fact that Katsav served almost a full term as head of state. Rather than remove 
the bust, a line should be added to the plaque giving the dates he held the 
post, and recording forever the reason he so dishonorably lost the position. It 
might serve as a humbling reminder to future presidents that everyone is equal 
in the eyes of the law. That does the country justice.
The writer is 
editor of The International Jerusalem Post.

liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Not-so-easy riders</title>
<date>19/11/2011</date>
<content>
‘Wow! They have stolen our idea, ”declared my favorite 10-year-old as he watched 
the news reports of the tent protests in New York. But, of course, there were 
obvious differences. For a start, only in Israel did the protests include 
top-name performances, whose venue and details were announced by the public 
broadcasting service while the state-owned transport companies provided extra 
buses to take the concert goers-cum-demonstrators safely to the site.The 
other obvious difference was the name: If Israel had dared to include the word 
“occupy” in the title of any protest, the United Nations would probably still be 
too busy debating our perceived belligerency to discuss the ongoing massacre in 
Syria or what lies behind Iran’s nuclear program.




If the devil lies in 
the details, it is details like that which drive me mad. Talk of tougher 
sanctions on the Islamic Republic sounds positive, but what will it take for the 
UN to actually rescind Iran’s membership? What kind of irreplaceable 
contribution do Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Bashar Assad have to make to UNESCO, 
alongside the would-be Palestinian state, for example? The answer, my friend, 
lies blowing in an ill wind.When Gaddafi’s Libya was finally removed 
from the UN’s Human Rights Committee, my first response was not “What took them 
so long?” but “What was it doing there in the first place?” Still, Iran might 
have a role to play in the onceaugust world body. According to a Reuters report 
from October 1, Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei rejected the 
Palestinians’ UN statehood bid, saying any deal that accepted the existence of 
Israel would leave a “cancerous tumor” forever threatening the security of the 
Middle East.It’s strange how things like that work.ONE OF THE 
most curious stories last week was the “peace bus,” in which six Palestinian 
activists tried to revive memories of the American “freedom riders” of the 
1960s’ civil rights movement (aided, of course, by those indispensable 
accessories of the world in 2011: live footage on YouTube and Facebook 
petitions.) I’m sure some goodhearted (even bleeding-hearted) souls were taken 
for a ride with the latest protest. The six demonstrators were followed by a 
crowd of some 50 journalists, so that even if they had a bad trip, they can say 
they achieved their publicity-seeking goals.Shouting unimaginative 
slogans about apartheid, the protesters pointed out that they cannot travel 
freely from Ramallah to Jerusalem without the correct permits, or an 
Israeli-identity card.Jews, of course – no matter what papers they are 
carrying – cannot travel on a Palestinian-owned bus to Nablus, or Shechem as 
it’s been known in Hebrew ever since the Bible put it on the map.That, 
apparently, is not considered discrimination.Strangely, it was my 
frequent bus journeys as a student at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem that 
led me to learn Arabic. When I travelled North to spend Shabbat with my family, 
I often discovered that by the time I approached my hometown in Galilee I was 
the only Jew on the bus. I found it uncomfortable not understanding the 
conversations going on around me and determined to learn at least enough to get 
the gist of what was being said.A couple of basic courses in spoken 
Arabic were enough to help me discover what I probably should have realized all 
along: that most of my fellow travelers were having ordinary conversations about 
ordinary topics – wages, kids and the bus service itself – the same sorts of 
concerns that fuelled the social justice protests this summer, come to think of 
it.My basic Arabic has helped me in all sorts of situations.I 
have chatted in Arabic to the woman who shared a hospital room with me (and 
greeted doctors who treated me, too); I have conversed with other visitors (and 
staff) at museums and the zoo; and just a week ago, I used it to help an 
Arabic-speaking toddler who had become separated from her family in a shopping 
mall. Apartheid was never this good.Bus passengers face all sorts of 
problems in Israel – not least of them the need of heightened awareness of 
security. Passengers – Jews and Arabs alike – automatically scan the seats for 
suspicious objects.The bus bombings that accompanied the peace process 
did not discriminate in their victims.The “Israel is an apartheid state” 
slogans annoy me more than long lines at security checks at the entrance to 
malls, hospitals, cinemas and bus and train stations – all places that have been 
targeted by those seeking anything but peace.Last week, we received 
another reminder of how blithely the accusations are thrown around, regardless 
of the facts on the ground. Israel cannot be proud of having a president found 
guilty of the worst type of sexual assault, but it helps prove the principle 
that all men (and women) are equal before the law.And the judges who 
found Moshe Katsav guilty should be able to throw charges of apartheid-policy 
out of court with ease: The three-judge panel who initially tried Katsav and 
found him guilty and the panel of three Supreme Court justices who rejected his 
appeal, in both incidences, comprised a Christian-Arab man and two Jewish women. 
In what other country in the region would a member of a minority community and 
two women be in a position to hand down a verdict on the president, and a 
similar panel be able to maintain it? And yet Israel is constantly being 
charged, and found guilty, of apartheid.We are an “occupying” force 
overwhelmingly occupied with how to defend ourselves against suicide bombings 
and rocket fire.No other country would be expected to quietly accept 
missile attacks on one million of its citizens in times of war, let alone what 
passes for peace. Where else would hospitals, schools and kindergartens be 
fighting for budgets for missile-proof shelters? No wonder people are confused 
about the driving force behind the so-called peace protests. The “flotilla,” the 
“flightilla” and now the “bus-illa” – one wonders where it will end.It’s 
doubtful that they are putting us on the road to peace and justice.
The 
writer is editor of The International Jerusalem Post. 
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My word: What friends are for....</title>
<date>24/9/2011</date>
<content>
This is hard to admit, let alone put in print, but you don’t want me as your 
friend. I am loyal, capable of sympathy in tough times and willing to celebrate 
the good moments. But I am, I fear, the type of person who does not necessarily 
support the winner. In fact, on a global scale, I would say I’m not so much on 
the losing side as completely off the map.Recently, for instance, I have 
given a great deal of thought to the issue of the United Nations and statehood 
and come to the conclusion that I am firmly in favor.




I believe the time 
has come for Taiwan, celebrating its centennial next month, to become a member. 
It was a member until 1971, when the Republic of China was kicked out of the 
international community to be replaced by the bastion of human rights and 
enlightenment, the People’s Republic of China. The People’s Republic is, of 
course, bigger and richer and – as any Grade 1 schoolkid can tell you – that’s a 
good way to win friends.If you want a lesson in the transient nature of 
political alliances, look at the Taiwanese example, and weep.Taiwan has 
defined borders, a booming economy and is a vibrant, thriving 
democracy.What’s missing is international recognition (no wonder as an 
Israeli I feel a certain empathy, another mark of friendship).The United 
Nations refugee agency last month launched a campaign to highlight the plight of 
up to 12 million stateless people worldwide.I’d put in a good word for 
the Roma, but I’m not sure it would help them – I’m friends with all the right 
people in all the wrong places.Still, when it comes to discussions on 
statehood, I believe the so-called Gypsies should be prime 
candidates.They have their own language, customs, history and traditions 
and have been persecuted for centuries as they wandered stateless across Europe 
and elsewhere. All they lack is a charismatic leader who can create a homeland 
for them.He – or she – would have to be very charismatic 
indeed.Like the Jewish people, the Roma do not have any natural 
alliances based on a common language, culture or religion.Somehow I 
don’t see European countries willingly giving up parts of their own territory in 
order to provide a state for what is very clearly a separate and distinct nation 
unless they feel they can get something in return.I DO FORESEE more and 
more pressure on Israel to create a Palestinian state. Or two.Israel 
could eventually come to a modus vivendi with Fatah in the West Bank. It’s 
unlikely that either Fatah or Israel will be able to live in peace with Hamas in 
Gaza, which is already a state in all but name.It’s hard to live in 
peace with a people whose leaders are dedicated to your extermination and are 
willing to use missile power faster than you can say “infidel.”The 
Palestinians have the Arab world on their side – although I suspect that the 
support stems largely from the fact that none of the Arab countries really wants 
them, certainly not Egypt, which ruled Gaza until 1967 and did not jump at the 
chance of taking it back after the now-strained peace treaty of 1979.I’ve 
also had interesting conversations with residents of the Gulf states about the 
Palestinians – none of them flattering, but perhaps they spoke differently 
before the Palestinians in Kuwait threw in their lot with Saddam Hussein in the 
1990 Gulf War.The international community is anxious for “the 
Palestinian problem” to be solved.And, at the risk of torpedoing their 
chances of statehood forever, I should say that so am I.I’d rather have 
the Palestinians living next door as friends than as enemies. But, unlike their 
supporters around the world, I have to live with the consequences of Palestinian 
statehood.In the UN last week, even President Barack Obama pointed out 
that peace will not come from a unilateral declaration of Palestinian statehood. 
There are no shortcuts: Without sorting out the issues of borders, security and 
refugees there will be no peace. Without negotiations, there will be no 
solutions.If the Palestinians cannot accept Israel as the one Jewish 
homeland, there’s not much to talk about. It’s a blood-red line.In 
recent years, whenever the Palestinian track of negotiations failed, foreign 
diplomats and politicians automatically raised the question of the Syrian 
option. Even Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan in his neo-Ottoman quest offered his 
services as a mediator in 2008. Friendly, we now know, he is not. At least not 
to us.I trust this time, with the nature of Bashar Assad’s regime so 
painfully apparent, the world will realize that withdrawing to the pre-’67 
borders on the Golan Heights is not going to bring global peace but death and 
destruction on citizens of the Jewish state.As a top Israeli official 
recently pointed out, it is sobering to realize that there are three non-Arab 
countries in the region: Israel, Turkey and Iran. Two of them, the Muslim ones, 
are competing to pick up the spoils of the turmoil in the Arab world.For 
Israel, this seems to be a good time to create stronger alliances – the 
political equivalent of friendship – with Greece and the Balkans. For the US and 
Europe, as their leaders seem to realize, they could do worse than making sure 
the strategic alliance with Israel is not harmed as the “Arab Spring” turns into 
the “Arab Winter.”Extraordinarily, if there was one country put on the 
map by the Palestinian statehood bid in the UN it was Gabon.The African 
republic became the talk of Israel as the prime minister openly wooed its 
support in the UN Security Council.The Palestinian statehood bid has 
shown up several interesting anomalies.For example, while the Durban III 
conference continued to promote the “Israel is an apartheid state” myth, MK 
Ahmed Tibi, who serves as a deputy Speaker of the Knesset, was in New York, 
having traveled with the Abbas entourage to express his support of the 
Palestinian state – not that he is likely to give up either his Israeli pension 
rights or his residency in the Israeli-Arab town of Taiba if a state were 
declared tomorrow or next year.Tibi definitely makes me feel sorry for 
Israel’s Arab citizens.Surely they deserve better – a Knesset member who 
truly represents their needs and interests.My friendly advice? The adage 
of British writer Samuel Johnson (1709-1784): “True happiness consists not in 
the multitude of friends, but in their worth and choice.”The writer is 
editor of The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Needed: A law against Judeophobia</title>
<date>14/11/2011</date>
<content>
Last week a neo-Nazi was convicted in Israel. This is good – and 
inadequate.This month a Tel Aviv court condemned Dmitri Bogotich, 24, to 
almost six years in prison. He was the ringleader of a gang calling itself 
“Patrol 36,” which assaulted several people in Petah Tikva under Nazi 
slogans.




Bogotich was flown back to Israel after fleeing to Kyrgistan, 
while the other youths involved were jailed after their arrest in 2007. The 
prosecution considered their bigotry, their violence and their “racist” 
motivation, but was unable to indict the group under the terms of a formal law 
against Judeophobia – because such a law still doesn’t exist.In some 
countries Judeophobia is lumped together with racism and xenophobia as an 
aggravating circumstance for hate crime. But Judeophobia is a different type of 
hatred that deserves a more precise legal definition. Judeophobia stands out 
because Jews are neither foreigners nor a separate race, and mainly because, 
rather than a breed of discrimination, Judeophobia’s essence is the demonization 
of an entire group.Judeophobia is a unique hatred for several reasons. 
Firstly, Jews don’t need to be present for Judeophobia to exist. Even in 
countries where there have been no Jews for generations, Jews are still accused 
of being the lords of the world, Christ-killers or a virus.So wild and 
vast is the Judeophobic mythology that it can always nourish excuses for 
cruelty. It is indeed the longest-lasting, most relentless, obsessive and 
universal of all hatreds. The fact that it is very convenient to resort to it 
lures demagogues to use it at any time and keeps it alive almost 
everywhere.In its current incarnation, Judeophobia focuses less on the 
religion of the Jew or on his individual rights, but rather on Israel, making 
the Jewish state the Jew of nations.While the National Socialists 
certainly used racist terminology to provide their brutality with an aura of 
rationality, in truth the Nazis weren’t real racists.Despite their 
rhetoric about Aryan superiority, they also joined forces with supposedly 
inferior races like Italians and Japanese for their fight against the 
Scandinavians and British. Nazi “ideology” considered both of these latter 
groups “superior.”Furthermore, “wer Jude ist, bestimme ich” ruled 
Goering when his aid Erhard Milch happened to disclose Jewish 
ancestors.“I decide who is a Jew.”To label Nazism as “racist” is 
to misunderstand the object of their frantic cruelty.Since it is the 
most convenient channel for hatred, Judeophobia can utilize both racism and 
religious fanaticism, but that isn’t where the roots of the phenomenon 
are.TO COMBAT this singular and lethal malady, we must promote specific 
legislation to chastise Judeophobia in all its forms, from Christian and 
Islamist vilification to neo-Nazism and the Nakba narrative.No other 
body is better suited than the state of the Jews to pass such 
legislation.A global law against Judeophobia (LAJ) would enable the 
State of Israel to penalize the enemies of the Jews with disinvestment, fines 
and the denial of citizenship.The law would put into legal terms the 
self-defense of the Jewish state, and it might eventually become one more of its 
Jewish traits, like the observance of the Hebrew calendar, the Law of Return, 
the Hebrew language, the Maccabi Games, the network of yeshivot, the menorah and 
other symbols of the state.The LAJ has an advantage over the March 2011 
law that would withhold subsidies from organizations that brand the formation of 
the State of Israel a tragedy, the so-called “Nakba law.”The LAJ would 
be broader in scope, encompassing the Nakba together with Holocaust denial, 
blood libels and other types of vilification. Once Israel enacts such a law, 
other countries might well follow to provide their legal systems with adequate 
tools to counter Judeophobia.Opponents of the “Nakba Law” questioned it 
because they said it limits freedom of expression. The LAJ’s aim will be to 
prevent the phenomenon of Jew-hatred, with the Nakba narrative included as only 
one of its clauses.The only Nakba that befell the Arabs in 1948 was 
their leaders’ refusal to live in peace with the Jewish state. This Nakba 
persists today together with several other Nakbas that Arab peoples suffer: 
tyranny, tendency to violence, misogyny and a proclivity to destroy their 
neighbor instead of building themselves.The Nakba narrative is oblivious 
of all the real Nakbas, disasters that have kept the Arabs in stagnation and 
violence, and its obsessive claim that the source of Palestinian suffering is 
the Jewish state echoes classical prejudices against the Jews.The Jewish 
state is the only country whose birthday is mourned every year, by Palestinian 
groups as well as by several UN Agencies which mark the date with hypocritical 
and hateful ceremonies. “Die Juden sind unser Unglück,” the Jews are our 
misfortune, became “The Jewish state is our Nakba.”Judeophobic mythology 
is preserved almost intact: yesterday we drank the blood of Christian children, 
today we spill the blood of Palestinian children; yesterday the Jewish religion 
was vengeful, thus is the Jewish state today. The slanders never fade: Zionism 
is imperialism without an empire, Israel is an apartheid state without races, 
the IDF is too aggressive every time it defends its citizens.The Nakba 
narrative and its ceremonies started around 20 years ago and succeeded in 
spreading the false anti-Zionist account of the Middle East, according to which 
we are evil and the Palestinian people existed before the 20th 
century.This distortion serves to justify every condemnation of our 
country, such as the recent Russell Tribunal in South Africa in which racists 
from different countries come together to condemn Israeli “racism.”The 
time is ripe to declare them illegal and to defend ourselves from 
Judeophobia.A law is needed that will delegitimize haters and Nakbas in 
their various disguises.
The writer is author of Judeophobia and is 
trying to re-introduce that term as an alternative to the ambiguous phrase 
“anti- Semitism.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>New Israel Fund sparks furor Down Under</title>
<date>1/12/2011</date>
<content>
In June 2010, amidst considerable controversy, an Australian branch of the New 
Israel Fund was launched by its president, former MK Naomi Chazan, who a few 
months earlier had been disinvited from an Australian Zionist speaking 
engagement because of controversies associated with the NIF.In September 
last year, I wrote a critical review of the NIF, observing that whilst the 
majority of the organizations who were beneficiaries of over $200 million of 
funds dispersed by the NIF were engaged in worthy welfare and developmental 
projects, vast funds were also being provided to groups engaged in campaigns to 
delegitimize Israel.




Foremost amongst these groups, I referred to Adala 
which, in addition to promoting the Goldstone Report, urged foreign governments 
“to reevaluate their relationship with Israel” and described Israel as “a 
colonial enterprise promoting apartheid.”The group also called for 
implementing the Palestinian right of return to Israel, provided affidavits to 
Spanish courts to charge Israeli officials with war crimes and defended a 
Hezbollah spy as a “human rights defender.”I also related to 
NIF-sponsored “Breaking the Silence” (BTS), another organization which had paved 
the way for the Goldstone Report.Presumably in order to improve their 
image, Australian NIF invited a prominent Israeli to promote their case to the 
Jewish community and Australian media.They made the disastrous blunder 
of selecting David Landau, a talented and articulate writer who has published a 
number of influential books, including a recent biography of David Ben-Gurion 
based on interviews with President Shimon Peres.The NIF also highlighted 
the fact that he was an Orthodox Jew and a former yeshiva student.BUT 
LANDAU, a former editor of Haaretz, is also renowned for promoting far-Left 
views that a majority of Israelis would consider contemptible. Many Israelis 
still recall that in September 2007 in the course of an intimate gathering at 
the American Embassy in Tel Aviv, he told then-secretary of state Condoleezza 
Rice that Israel was a politically “failed state” and urged the US impose a 
solution on Israel.“I implore you to intervene,” he said, adding that 
the government of Israel “wished to be raped.” His remarks appeared in the media 
and created a considerable furor.Last year, in the course of condemning 
the Knesset for its controversial NGO legislation, Landau stated: “I call on 
parliaments throughout the democratic world and inter-parliamentary associations 
to boycott Israel's parliament, once the pride of the Jewish people, until it 
buries the bill and recovers its democratic heritage.”Australian Jews, a 
largely post-Holocaust community, are passionately Zionist and strongly 
committed to pro Israel advocacy. Over the decades, they have succeeded in 
cultivating a climate of political bipartisanship and friendship towards Israel 
which is probably unique in the Western world. Their leaders have also 
maintained a tradition of avoiding public criticism of security policies adopted 
by the democratically elected government of Israel.Many Jewish leaders 
were apprehensive that Landau would articulate his anti-government views to the 
Australian media. Danny Lamm, president of the Executive Council of Australian 
Jewry, refused to meet or endorse him and subsequently bitterly criticized some 
of his remarks to the media.However, president of NIF Australia, Robin 
Margo, seemed unconcerned that linking his organization with a person espousing 
such views would be counterproductive.In fact when the West Australian 
Jewish community’s director of Public Affairs, Steve Lieblich, circulated my 
article on the NIF and background information about Landau to his colleagues on 
the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, Margo declined to refute the 
information and instead sought to intimidate him by threatening that he could be 
subject to legal action for “distributing grossly defamatory 
material.”“I suggest you take legal advice,” he told him.In such 
an environment, one might have expected Landau to be cautious about expressing 
his more radical views. But in fact, he told the media that McCarthyism in 
Israel was rife and that “the poison of the occupation is seeping back and 
corroding our democracy... local Jews needed to speak out instead of blindly 
toeing the government line.”He castigated settlers, alleging that they 
“resort to subterfuge to make life difficult for the Palestinians.”As an 
example, he claimed that “little settler boys” scattered drawing pins on the 
carpets of mosques.In a subsequent ABC interview he conceded that his 
grandchildren lived over the Green Line, claiming that they were being 
brainwashed to discriminate against Arabs.He also stated that 
Goldstein’s murderous rampage in Hebron in February 1994 was not the act of a 
man who had lost his senses but a calculated operation to “derail the Oslo Peace 
Process.”At a breakfast meeting in Sydney, prefacing remarks endorsing 
the actions of the NIF-sponsored BTS, Landau recounted how 25 years ago whilst 
on reserve duty in Hebron, he had witnessed a fellow IDF soldier committing an 
unspecified act of “bestiality” which tortured him to this day and which he had 
not yet confided to anyone, including his wife.One could, of course, ask 
him to explain why after witnessing “bestial” acts committed by a fellow IDF 
soldier, he failed to immediately report the incident to his commanding officer. 
And why he should raise this issue now in such a vague and tortuous manner, in 
Australia of all places? In fact, this vague charge of IDF “bestiality” was a 
prelude to Landau lauding the NIF-sponsored organization.BTS, created in 
2004, paved the way for the Goldstone Report by releasing unsubstantiated 
anonymous “testimony” from former Israeli soldiers accusing the IDF of war 
crimes which were plastered on the front pages of the global media. When 
subsequently proven to be without substance the damage was irreversible and 
Israel became imbedded in many countries as a criminal state.When the 
Goldstone commission compiled the despicable report – from which Goldstone has 
now distanced himself, BTS provided them with “evidence” of alleged Israeli war 
crimes.In March this year, BTS hosted an exhibit in Sweden introducing 
it with the statement: “We are the oppressors, we are the ones that are 
violating human rights on a daily basis. We are basically creating terror 
against us.”This is the organization whose budget the NIF tripled last 
year and whose spokesman told the Australian media and Jews that it represents 
the “conscience of our people.”The NIF is entitled to sponsor enemies of 
Israel and the Jewish people. But it should do so transparently so that naive 
charitable donors are not duped into believing that their contributions are 
being utilized to transform Israel into a better society.It is surely 
also unconscionable for the local affiliate of the NIF to host an Israeli 
emissary, who undermines the long-standing efforts of Australian community 
leaders to maintain strong bipartisan support for 
Israel.
ileibler@netvision.net.il 

The writer’s website can be viewed at 
www.wordfromjerusalem.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 27: Getting to the core</title>
<date>26/11/2011</date>
<content>
Sir, – Finally, an article that gets to the core of the 
problem with Jewish God-think (“Judaism: The art of bold ideas,” Comment & 
Features, November 24).Today, every rabbi seems obsessed with cloning 
himself, attempting to alter the very DNA of his students so that they mimic his 
view of God and the world.




Nathan Lopes Cardozo seems to understand that 
the continuity of a vibrant, energizing Judaism lies in its fluidity, in its 
ability to develop multiple answers to individual questions and perhaps redefine 
itself (albeit slowly and carefully) within Halacha.I doubt that 
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were of one mind about God, although they worshipped 
the one God continuously and intensely. They followed God, traveled alongside 
God and walked before God, alternately questioning, arguing and analyzing – but 
always believing. Why should we strive for anything less? YAACOV PETERSEIL 
Jerusalem Sir, – “...Jewish education today is mostly about producing a 
generation of religious Jews who know more and more about Jewish observance but 
think less and less about what they know,” Nathan Lopes Cardozo writes. “This is 
even truer of their teachers.”Why do we not have the Abraham Joshua 
Heschels, the Samson Raphael Hirsches, the Samuel David Luzzatos? According to 
the writer, “We encourage the narrowest specialization rather than push for 
daring ideas.” And why can’t our yeshiva boys think for themselves and explore 
creative ideas? I believe it is because they are discouraged from using the 
university studies the Rambam advocated.I hope in the second part of his 
essay, Cardozo will give some innovative solutions within Halacha to many of the 
important questions he has raised.JENNY WEIL Jerusalem Not limitless 
Sir, – Michael Freund slams Attorney-General Yehuda Weinstein for ordering an 
investigation of Safed’s chief rabbi, Shmuel Eliyahu, for possible incitement to 
racism (“Israel’s thought police,” Fundamentally Freund, November 24). In doing 
so he lectures us about freedom of speech, of which he appears to have scant 
understanding.He is right, of course, that freedom of speech is one of 
the pillars of democracy, although it is not absolute or limitless. Many 
democracies have laws that limit freedom of speech regarding, inter alia, libel, 
treason and hate-speech.In Germany, for example, denying the Holocaust is 
a criminal offense. So does Freund argue that denial of the Holocaust should be 
allowed there in the interest of free speech? In Australia, where I come from, 
the policy of multiculturalism governs the limits of free speech when it aims to 
offend or harm citizens from different backgrounds.There, Eliyahu, paid 
by taxpayer’s money, would have long been fired and probably indicted.I 
commend Weinstein for this initiative, not just because it aims to truly defend 
Israel’s democracy, in which all must be equal before the law and the rights of 
all citizens must be guaranteed, but because we live with the growing global 
accusation of Israel being an apartheid state.This is ridiculous, of 
course, but we don’t need the likes of Eliyahu to pour oil on that 
fire.URI THEMAL Kiryat Tivon Sense of place Sir, – I was particularly 
pleased to learn that the Lithuanian ambassador to Israel has “expressed support 
for the Sunflower Project,” especially on the restoration of Jewish cemeteries 
there (“Israel has a friend in Lithuania,” Comment & Features, November 
24).Under the auspices of this program and with the aid of historian 
David Gelfand, the gravestones of two of my great-greatgrandfathers, Aaron 
Singer and Moshe Odes, have been recovered.Such concrete historical 
information is important not only for the general understanding of Lithuanian 
Jewish heritage, but because it provides such a personal take on the historical 
landscape where my family came from, giving me a profound sense of my own little 
place in the long chain of being.LILY POLLIACK 
Jerusalem Zip the lip 
Sir, – Regarding “Frattini’s advice to Israel: Talk less about settlements” 
(November 23), the former Italian foreign minister is absolutely right. We have 
no need to discuss or make excuses to anyone for building homes in the Jewish 
land.Let’s just get on with the job of building our land for the Jewish 
people.EDITH OGNALL 
Netanya Sir, – Why does it take Franco Frattini to 
think of this? Why can’t our own politicians? By the same token, we need to 
speak less of the fighter planes we develop, the missiles we manufacture, etc., 
etc. The enemy doesn’t have to know all that is going on in our country, 
including settlement building.It’s about time we talked less and acted 
more.HANNAH SONDHELM 
Jerusalem Access to the trough Sir, – Your 
editorial “Rabbis and the state” (November 23) says that “the practice of 
keeping rabbis on the state payroll must end...,” particularly “considering the 
fact that city and neighborhood rabbis are elected to office in a highly 
undemocratic way.”If that’s to be the criterion for who may and may not 
feed at the state’s trough, then the no-less undemocratic way in which membership 
on Israel’s High Court is determined ought to put the eminent justices at the 
head of the line for pink slips.BILL MEHLMAN 
Efrat Sir, – The rabbi 
mentioned in “Rabbis and the state” is not inciting people, nor is he guilty of 
racism. He is telling it like it is.The biggest problem the world faces 
today is fear. America, Europe and Israel are afraid to deal with the Islamists, 
who are slowly planning to take over the world. If you don’t name it, you can’t 
claim it.Your editorial said that rabbis should not receive state 
money.What about the Arab members of our Knesset who go and speak to our 
enemies about us? Nothing is done about that.If you call right wrong, 
you will never right the wrong. At least some among us are not afraid to speak 
out.SYLVIA WEISSMANN 
Jerusalem Start them young Sir, – Regarding both 
Judy Montagu’s column (“Your food – is it friend or foe?,” In My Own Write, 
November 23) and “MKs present legislation to halt the display of ‘sugar bombs’ 
at check-out counters” (November 22), I am reminded of the many years I spent as 
an inner-city public school teacher in New Jersey.At the beginning of 
the school year I often took my class to a large fruit and vegetable market and 
invited parents to join us. I encouraged the students to bring salads and fruit 
to class and allowed them to snack whenever they wanted to.Candy and 
other junk foods were not allowed and were confiscated, but my students began to 
enjoy this new idea. We had fruit and vegetable birthday parties and celebrated 
the holidays that way as well. I received special grants from the local board of 
education and often used those funds for fruit treats that I regularly brought 
to class.To this day when I visit, former students I see around town, 
now adults, will ask me if I still eat “those foods.” They warmly remember those 
experiences.With Israel regularly displaying God’s bounty of beautiful 
and colorful fruit and vegetables in all its markets, such a program would be 
easy to accomplish in order to start training students to make these choices at 
a young age.
LEAH WASSERMAN 
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 28: Differing reads...</title>
<date>27/11/2011</date>
<content>
Differing reads...Sir, – Thank goodness Hirsh Goodman is back. My faith 
in mankind is restored! “One man’s storm is another’s island” (Postscript, 
November 25) exemplifies Goodman’s erudite, incisive and reader-friendly style. 
I suggest his column be sent to our prime minister, who has announced that 
moments of regional upheaval are not a time to rush diplomatic 
progress.




Goodman has my vote for defense minister in a government of the 
people by the people and for the people. Do not silence him.ZELDA HARRIS 

Tel AvivSir, – Hirsh Goodman writes: “Hamas has repeatedly offered Israel a 
10-year hudna, or cease fire. We should take it. If during that period the 
cease-fire is broken, there will be a war.”Goodman should know better on 
two counts: 1. Hamas has clearly said it will never recognize Israel, which 
means the war will continue after 10 years (after much more sophisticated 
ammunition is smuggled into Gaza.) This will allow Hamas time to prepare for a 
better war.2. Israel will not start a war if the cease-fire is broken. 
Yitzhak Rabin said the Oslo Accords would be repealed if the Arabs returned to 
terror. Were they? Of course not. Ariel Sharon said that if rockets came from 
Gaza after the pullout, there would be war. Was there? Of course 
not.AVIGDOR BONCHEK 
Jerusalem ...and differing takesSir, – In your 
issue of November 25, a whole Comment & Features page is devoted to two 
articles from South Africa. In one (“Apartheid lies and the war of words,” Sinai 
Today), that country’s chief rabbi, Warren Goldstein, makes a plea for the 
Israeli government to harness its strategic, financial and human resources to 
fight the battle for Israel’s reputation.This admirable suggestion 
contrasts strikingly with the sentiment presented in the second article, by the 
vice-chairwoman of the South African Zionist Federation (“Could ‘ubuntu’ help 
the Israeli-Palestine conflict?”).In it, Reeva Forman implies that blame 
for the failure to reach a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians 
rests equally on the shoulders of right-wing extremists on both 
sides.Forman’s claim to observe an analogy between the situation that 
ended apartheid in South Africa and the philosophy of kinship omits the fact 
that there, both parties reached agreement after free discussion. Here, 
Palestinian leaders have either declined to accept generous offers by several 
Israeli prime ministers or, as now, are refusing to enter into negotiations 
unless Israel accepts pre-conditions.Forman’s failure to appreciate this 
is disappointing.

MONTY M. ZION 
Tel MondSir, – Reeva Forman talks about 
her proud ubuntu. She tries to apply what she learned to the situation in 
Israel.I also grew up in South Africa, but with a proud Yiddish 
heritage.Ret nit kein narishkeit (don’t talk nonsense) – one cannot and 
should not compare the two situations.On the same page, South African 
Chief Rabbi Warren Goldstein writes that Israel must “move away from the 
philosophy of David Ben-Gurion” to promote the cause of truth. I humbly suggest 
that he starts with his excellent contacts and contributions from the South 
African Jewish community to make the South African government more even-handed 
in its policies toward Israel and the Palestinians.BENNY GLUCH 
Beit 
Shemesh Sir, – Reeva Forman is entitled to her opinions. But equating Israelis 
who lay “claim to the biblical definition of Israel which includes Judea and 
Samaria” with the Palestinian right-wing fringe, “which calls for the total 
destruction of the Jewish State of Israel” (and praises and rewards those who 
cold-bloodedly murder innocent civilians, including babies, to achieve this 
aim), is offensive if not obscene.One would expect both her and the 
South African Zionist Federation to know that only recognized states have 
embassies and governments. To obsequiously “give credit to both the Israel and 
Palestinian embassies in South Africa and their respective governments in 
Jerusalem and Ramallah who facilitated our visits to both regions” is no less 
offensive.If this is the message of the SAZF, then I, as a former South 
African, suggest it henceforth be known as the SAF, for it no longer represents 
the country’s Zionist community.BERYL RATZER 
Netanya Latter-day axisSir, – Regarding “Hamas, Fatah agree to work as partners” (November 25), in 
their day Hitler and Mussolini also met and agreed to work as 
partners.There is no essential difference.The Hamas-Fatah 
partnership is a latter-day axis and Israel has no option but to treat this 
partnership in whole and in part as an enemy.The Palestinian Authority 
has outlived its usefulness. It is defunct. Withholding tax funds from the PA is 
the least we can do now.YONATAN SILVERMAN 
Tel Aviv Manipulation? Sir, – 
Lithuanian Jewish Holocaust survivors (and historians) have seen a lot of 
manipulation of Lithuanian-Jewish issues by Lithuanian government operatives in 
recent years, but “Israel has a friend in Lithuania” (Comment & Features, 
November 24), by two self-styled representatives of Lithuanian Jewry, beats 
everything.I never thought I’d live to see this line coming from a 
Western or Jewish pen (unless snuck in by far-right Baltic revisionist, 
anti-Semitic historians who know how to court very useful Jews in the West): 
“The first [issue] is the way [Lithuania] has celebrated its early freedom from 
the Soviets – the first time – in 1941. That freedom came at the hands of Nazi 
control – and consequently at the peril of the Jewish community.”No. It 
was not “at the peril” of the Jewish community. It was the onset of the actual 
Lithuanian Holocaust launched by barbaric murderers associated with the 
Lithuanian Activist Front (LAF) and other fascist organizations who are now 
honored by Lithuania’s government, even as expensive, extensive and lavish 
efforts are made to cover it all up with sunflowers, sesame seeds and 
seasoning.

DOVID KATZ 
Vilnius
The writer is editor of 
  DefendingHistory.com What he meant Sir, – Regarding readers’ reactions (“Not 
‘far-fetched,” Letters, November 23) to my own letter (“Serious charges,” 
November 21), Jerusalem bombings are, of course, not farfetched.But 
accusing journalist-accompanied, King-quoting, peaceful demonstrators of wanting 
it simply is.My letter, as originally submitted, requested mutual 
understanding only as “part of our own expectation that the other side try a lot 
harder to understand our own case.” But if another writer’s understanding of her 
neighbors’ indelible humanity and political case is reduced to “just” the 
violence of a few – and I realize the inconceivable horror of those quotation 
marks – then our loved ones, forever, will be getting “scraped off,” and theirs 
forever will be, too.As I said, let’s get serious. Both sides have 
cases.Many settlers could return home to Israel to allow a twostate 
solution and prevent demographic suicide, and so give us permanent security and 
peace.
JAMES ADLER 
Cambridge, Massachusetts
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Objectionable behavior, questionable leadership</title>
<date>16/2/2011</date>
<content>
The Jewish Chronicle of London this week highlighted what it alleged was Tzipi 
Livni’s endorsement of controversial remarks made last November by Mick Davis, 
chairman of Anglo Jewry’s United Jewish Israel Appeal and head of its 
unaccountable Jewish Leadership Council.The story occupied the entire 
front page, and was followed by a lengthy article by Davis based on his address 
at the recent Herzliya conference and crafted to justify his earlier remarks. 
The Jewish Chronicle also carried an editorial lavishly praising Davis’s right 
to “become Anglo Jewry’s spokesman for the view that the current Israeli 
government is on the wrong trajectory,” and hailing Livni’s “admirable words” 
endorsing “our right” to hold “a big conversation, of which we can all be 
proud.”




The editorial also condemned as “bizarre” unspecified calls “to 
demand that our communal leaders adopt a vow of silence on matters of specific 
Jewish concern.”RELATED:
Candidly Speaking: Egypt, democracy, fundamentalism 
Candidly Speaking: Where are the voices of moderate Islam? Many will regard it as a sad reflection of the state of 
Anglo-Jewry that at this time, when British media hostility toward the Jewish 
state has reached an all-time high, its flagship communal newspaper would adopt 
such a negative approach, endorsing calls encouraging Jews to criticize the 
Israeli government.The Jewish Chronicle quoted Livni a saying that 
Diaspora leaders have a “duty” to speak out when Israel “does something wrong,” 
and that “as leaders, we in Israel must take into account the concerns of 
Diaspora Jewry.”In the course of a subsequent address this week to the 
Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, she made 
similar remarks, calling for dialogue between Israel and world Jewry and 
“placing everything on the table.”It is unclear whether Livni was even 
aware of the earlier Davis remarks. Were she to endorse such criticism from a 
Diaspora leader, she would undoubtedly infuriate most Israelis, who would not 
take kindly to a British Jewish mining magnate exploiting his communal role to 
intrude on matters that could affect the lives of children and grandchildren 
serving in the IDF.However, The Jewish Chronicle’s spin on Livni’s 
remarks was clearly designed to bolster its editorial line, which endorses the 
critical statements Davis had previously expressed.NO SERIOUS person has 
ever denied the right of Diaspora Jews to criticize Israel or condemn moral 
lapses by Israelis in public life – whether with respect to corruption, 
religious extremism, discrimination or restrictions on freedom of 
expression.Indeed, such criticism has always been an important component 
of the Israel-Diaspora relationship.However, there was always the caveat 
that it would be unconscionable for Jews living in the Diaspora to exert 
pressure in relation to security policies which could have a lifeand- death 
impact on Israeli citizens.In his initial outburst, Davis made the 
provocative statement that “I think the government of Israel has to recognize 
that their actions directly affect me as a Jew living in London, UK. When they 
do good things, it is good for me, when they do bad things, it is bad for me. 
And the impact on me is as significant as it is on Jews living in Israel... I 
want them to recognize that.”In relation to the peace process, he also 
challenged the morality and “courage” of Israeli leaders.It was not a 
proud day for Anglo-Jewry when an Israeli ambassador felt obliged to publicly 
reprimand a Jewish communal leader for behaving in such an “unwarranted” manner, 
deploring his use of language based on “the narrative of Israel’s 
enemies.”Ambassador Ron Prosor complained that remarks by Davis that 
Israel is “losing its moral compass” or would be “characterized de facto as an 
apartheid state” came “straight from our opponents’ lexicon.”Davis even 
went beyond these comments.In lieu of calling on Jews to rally in 
defense of the embattled Jewish state, he encouraged them to join him in 
publicly criticizing the policies of its democratically elected government. No 
other Jewish community, including that in the US (and American Jews are 
considered far more liberal than their British counterparts), would tolerate 
such behavior from a purportedly mainstream leader. Davis is, after all, head of 
the UJIA, not a spokesman for J Street.It is especially problematic, and 
even offensive to say the least, for the leader of a Jewish community to make 
such remarks in the toxic atmosphere of the UK, where demonization and 
delegitimization of Israel as well as outright anti-Semitism have reached record 
levels. Davis would do well to read the chilling analysis of anti- Semitism and 
hatred of Israel in the UK contained in a recent Jerusalem Post article by Prof. 
Robert Wistrich, a former British Jew living here, and recognized as a world 
expert on anti-Semitism.In an effort to justify his former remarks, 
Davis disingenuously suggests he was being criticized for supporting a two-state 
solution (which the government of Israel supports), when in fact what he 
actually implied was that it is the government rather than the Palestinians 
which represents the obstacles to peace.This approach was replicated in 
the current editorial of The Jewish Chronicle, which also expressed its “grave 
reservations about the current government’s genuine commitment to seeking a 
two-state solution,” despite Binyamin Netanyahu’s unprecedented initiative in 
freezing settlement activity, which still failed to persuade the Palestinians to 
even participate in negotiations.Davis also falsely asserts that “in 
Israel’s formative years, there was real dialogue with the Diaspora. This is no 
longer the case.”In reality, Labor Zionist (Mapai) leaders from David 
Ben-Gurion through to Yitzhak Rabin reacted far more harshly to criticism from 
Diaspora Jews than their current counterparts do. In contrast to the restraint 
employed by Netanyahu, they wouldn’t have hesitated to publicly vent their 
outrage if a tycoon of the likes of Davis had made such provocative 
statements.Although the Anglo-Jewish establishment has failed to condemn 
the Davis outbursts, there was a substantial grassroots protest, and it is 
noteworthy that delegates to the Board of Deputies of British Jews took the 
unusual step of expressing their displeasure by overruling the decision of their 
executive to send a mission to meet with the PA and Mahmoud 
Abbas.British Jews today are in desperate need of leaders who will 
encourage Jews to stand up and fight instead of remaining on the sidelines or 
identifying with the anti-Zionist chic.Davis dismissed my previous 
criticism of his outburst as coming “from that mad Australian who attacks 
everyone.”I was privileged to head a major Jewish Diaspora community 
which continues to take pride in standing up and defending Israel and a 
multitude of international Jewish causes. Thus, as the frenzied campaign to 
demonize and delegitimize Israel in the UK gathers force, I would urge Davis to 
consider the consequences of his intemperate behavior. If he has any sense of 
responsibility, instead of calling on Jews to criticize Israel, he should 
concentrate on promoting its case in a country which has displayed little 
understanding for an embattled democracy surrounded by unstable regimes and 
Islamic fanatics united in their determination to deny Jewish 
sovereignty.
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 4: A gauntlet thrown</title>
<date>3/10/2011</date>
<content>
A gauntlet thrown Sir, – Building in Gilo at this time (“Gilo construction could derail Quartet’s peace initiative, say US, EU diplomats,” October 2) is an absurdity.




Despite being considered a Jewish neighborhood, it is in east Jerusalem and therefore automatically subject to controversy.But doing so before the UN Security Council votes on the Palestinian bid for statehood is like throwing down a gauntlet. It is the very same mistake that was made during the visit of US Vice President Joe Biden.A government that displays an inability to learn from its mistakes is a government that creates doubts among both its friends and its foes, whether at home or abroad.RICHARD JACOBS Haifa Sir, – If the planned Gilo construction “raised doubts whether the Israeli government was interested in the resumption of serious negotiations,” as German Chancellor Angela Merkel is quoted as saying, perhaps it can be asked whether the Quartet is really interested in a just solution.While Netanyahu gives in to pressure and doesn’t build, the Arabs are building a new city, Rawabi, in the West Bank. Not only is there no controversy, it enjoys the support of the Quartet, perhaps because it satisfies what the world really wants: to push out the Jews and get the Arabs in.SIMCHA RUDMAN Jerusalem Sir, – It was quite certain that the announcement of 1,100 new housing units in Gilo would provoke strong reactions from our friends as well as our enemies.My question is why such bombastic announcements always come at sensitive moments? My suggestion is quite simple.As actor Eli Wallach said in a famous Western: If you have to shoot, shoot, don’t talk. So if you have to build, then build, don’t talk.HENRY WEIL Jerusalem Sir, – I read with great interest the op-ed piece by Nicholas D. Kristof (“On top of famine, unspeakable violence,” Comment & Features, October 2) about the heart-breaking stories of the refugees from Somalia streaming into Kenya.I searched the article a number of times for mention of UN sanctions or condemnations, or any statements from the EU or other such august bodies. No mention was made of any of these organizations’ involvement in condemning the rape, murder and mutilation of these poor souls.Yet as soon as Israel announces that a building is being built in Gilo, the aforementioned organizations trip over each other to condemn such announcements as being contrary to actions for peace.Maybe the UN, the EU and others should read Kristof’s article.It might actually enable them to discuss something other than an Israeli building project.ZE’EV M SHANDALOV Ma’aleh Adumim A train too far Sir, – Your October 2 editorial “Taking passengers hostage” mandates a dramatic reaction by the government. The passengers were indeed hostages, as were those stuck at Ben-Gurion Airport for the Rosh Hashana “toast.”If a terrorist group (even without weapons) had seized a train or blocked a train line or stopped international air traffic, our government’s reaction would have been extreme. It should be in these cases as well.If we are a civilized and developed nation, the perpetrators of acts such as these need to be punished severely. Throw the book at them. We know who the train crew members were. Are they still employed by Israel Railways? Were they even punished? STEPHEN J. KOHN Ra’anana Sir, – The story of the railway workers taking passengers hostage filled me with horror.That such blatant cruelty could be applied to passengers to further the claims of the workers’ union would be horrific enough if occurring in non-democratic countries. But for it to happen in Israel is shameful and disgusting.I have no legal expertise, but I am sure the workers can be convicted of a criminal offense. Failing this, the passengers on that train should get together and sue the railway workers for causing unnecessary and possibly dangerous suffering.MONTY M. ZION Tel Mond Got off light Sir, – It was pleasant to read about Jason Pearlman’s convivial exchanges about Israel (“Ideology at the checkout,” Comment & Features, October 2). But they took place in tolerant northwest London, where the Jewish presence has reached what might be termed a “significant proportion” (i.e., something well under 20 percent of the population) in what is increasingly a multi-ethnic population.What Pearlman happily failed to encounter is the widespread anti- Israel sentiment that has become the accepted norm in left-wing circles. Across a broad swath of British opinion-formers – from national media like The Guardian, The Independent and, sadly, the BBC, to the trade union movement and leading figures in academia – there is a total absence of empathy for Israel or its cause.Pro-Palestinian sentiment is so strong that it is commonplace to see Israel compared to apartheid South Africa, and consequently to find a consistent effort by activists to isolate Israel by supporting the boycott of Israeli academics and exports.The lack of logic in making common cause with anti-democratic Arab regimes and Islamist entities like Hamas, which oppose all causes dear to British left-wing hearts (like equal rights for women and tolerance for gays), rather than with the flourishing democracy that is Israel seems totally lost in the current anti-Israel – and, one fears, anti- Jewish – sentiment that grips this area of British life.NEVILLE TELLER Beit Shemesh Don’t hold your breath Sir, – For this consumer, “Thar’s oil in them thar Israeli rocks” (Business & Finance, October 2) sounds too good to be true. The whole escapade balances on optimistic estimates for the future and a theory that the state might want to pass gasoline discounts on to the consumer.What theory? Not in the three million years it takes nature to turn sea creatures into oil will our government pass up an opportunity to tax us through the nose for anything and everything.DANIEL ABELMAN Jerusalem It is a threat Sir,
 – In “A prayer for 5772” (Column One, September 28), Caroline B. Glick 
cites research linking American Jewry’s loyalty to the Democratic Party 
with a tendency to “wildly exaggerate Evangelical anti-Semitism.” She 
implies that the American Jewish community is out of touch with reality,
 and rather than combat “relatively benign anti-Semitism” should place 
its priorities on “the escalating dangers of Muslim anti-Semitism.”I
 believe Glick might have misread the American Jewish public’s concern. 
Its perception of Evangelicals may have little to do with partisan 
politics or the issue of anti-Semitism. Perhaps American Jews are 
concerned about spiritual self-preservation and the danger of 
assimilation.Evangelizing Christians, who are increasingly 
identifying themselves as “messianic Jews,” pose a very real threat to 
Jewish identity. In addition, American Jews are living at a time and in a
 place where mega-churches thrive and Jesus sits on Capitol Hill. 
Israelis, on the other hand, live with an up-close and personal 
day-to-day threat from adherents of radical Islam.The reality 
and priorities for Jews is relative, depending on which side of the 
world one lives. Perhaps we should pray that this year American Jews and
 Israelis will understand each other and give equal consideration to the
 existential, physical and spiritual threats facing the Jewish people.
ELLEN HOROWITZ Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On Salam Fayyad, South Africa and prospects for peace</title>
<date>25/1/2011</date>
<content>
Iam an American and son of German Holocaust survivors. For most of my life, the 
narrative of Israel was that of a beleaguered nation seeking acceptance by 
hostile neighbors. The Six Day War did nothing to change this. Israel held the 
moral high ground, in spite of the widespread displacement of Arabs. There was 
speculation that it would trade land for peace.Jordan’s relinquishing of 
the West Bank was a watershed event, and focused attention on the lack of 
suitable Palestinian governance that would enable Israel to forge a lasting 
peace. That it sought accommodation with Yasser Arafat in spite of his 
less-than-enlightened leadership is testament to its deep desire for peace. 
Frustration over a seeming lack of progress in the wake of negotiations and 
territorial withdrawal is understandable.




But Palestinian institutions 
have changed, and now display much greater levels of security and prosperity 
than in the past. Resistance to Israel is more peaceful, and this has yielded 
dividends in international legitimacy.MUCH OF this change is the result 
of new Palestinian leadership. I have known Palestinian Authority Prime Minister 
Salam Fayyad for many years. We met as graduate students in Austin, Texas in 
1980.Fayyad showed sensitivity to the Jewish experience, including the 
Holocaust. He looked forward to the day Israelis and Palestinians could prosper 
together, but also recognized the need to develop Palestinian 
governance.At that time, the economics department of the University of 
Texas was known for its emphasis on institutions and their importance for 
political and economic development. These ideas had been falling out of favor 
after the Reagan revolution, with its more hard-nosed embrace of markets and 
individual responsibility. Unimpressive Israeli and American economic 
performance was a backdrop to that time, and Fayyad was drawn to the more 
market- oriented approaches to economic policy. He went on to work for the 
relatively conservative International Monetary Fund in Washington before 
returning to the Middle East.Some institutional economists in Austin in 
the 1980s were at pains to emphasize the importance of fairness. Social, 
political and economic progress is jeopardized if fundamental tenets of fairness 
are not evident. The old institutional school had its roots in the American 
progressive movement and its many efforts to improve welfare for lower- and 
working-class Americans. Social justice is not always easy to define, and may be 
especially problematic to establish when two parties in conflict – such as Jews 
and Palestinians – have been victimized. It helps if both sides have a 
vision for social justice.The Palestinian Authority accepts a two-state 
solution. This helps ensure the long-term survival of Israel with a 
Jewish character as long as there is a limited right of return. The PA has also 
shown some flexibility on final borders. But there is no clear idea of what 
Israel proposes as a fair dispensation, and patience on this matter is 
dissipating in the international community. Some fear the 43-year occupation 
will be extended indefinitely.Former president Jimmy Carter and others 
have compared Israel and its occupation of Palestinian territory to apartheid. 
It is not. I lived and taught in Johannesburg in the mid-1980s, and there are 
important differences. South Africa was never about two peoples and one land, as 
with Israelis and Palestinians.It was about one national identity, South 
African, with an unjust social dispensation. It is unfortunate that many critics 
of Israel fail to see this fundamental difference.South African whites 
realized that apartheid was untenable in the long run. They also knew it was 
unethical. But many whites were convinced the alternative was worse. Real 
democracy, it was thought, would bring one man, one vote. So far the transition 
away from apartheid has been relatively benign, and many fears have not 
materialized, although Zimbabwe is another story.IN SPITE of important 
differences between Israel and South Africa, there is a parallel in the 
reluctance to make that leap of faith to a new order. Israelis are asked to 
trade threats they know for ones that are more uncertain. Some say Israel is 
more committed to settlements than peace, but this is not clear. Borders and 
Jerusalem are real issues, and not to be minimized. But the most important 
stumbling blocks on the road to peace may now be the Israeli political structure 
and social psychology, instead of Palestinian institutions or the lack thereof. 
Israel has been unable to show leadership in the drive toward peace. It is not 
obvious what will break the logjam, but for now my attention has turned from 
Palestinian to Israeli institutions and policies.
The writer is Joseph M. 
Long Chair in Health Care Management and professor of economics at the Eberhardt 
School of Business and Thomas J. Long School of Pharmacy and Health Sciences at 
the University of the Pacific in California.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Competing visions of ‘Never Again’</title>
<date>2/5/2011</date>
<content>
In the end, the Holocaust raged until the Allied powers won the war. It didn’t 
have to be that way. If the Jews had been permitted to leave Europe, the 
Holocaust could have been averted. But the only place that wanted us wasn’t 
allowed to take us. The nations of the world closed their gates. Only the Jews 
in the Land of Israel wanted the Jews of Europe. But the British barred their 
arrival.Britain was required by the League of Nations Mandate for 
Palestine to facilitate Jewish immigration to the Jewish national homeland in 
order to advance the cause of Jewish sovereignty. But legal obligations couldn’t 
compete with Britain’s belief that its national interests lay with the Arabs. So 
from 1939 on, the British closed the doors of the Land of Israel to the Jewish 
people. In so doing, they effectively sealed the fate of six million 
Jews.




Both the US and Britain were aware of what the Nazis were up to 
almost from the beginning, but refused to take any effective action to save the 
Jews. They refused to bomb the railroad tracks leading to Auschwitz, or the 
crematoria at the death camp. They refused to bomb Auschwitz even though Allied 
pilots were sent on bombing missions five miles away. Likewise, they refused to 
bomb any of the scores of death camps dotting the landscape of Nazi-occupied 
Europe.There were two main reasons that the Allies behaved as they did. 
First, they were none too fond of Jews. It is not that the Americans or British 
supported their annihilation, but they weren’t bothered by it sufficiently to do 
anything to stop it.Anti-Semitism is not the main reason the Allies did 
nothing. The main reason was because, love us or hate us, the allies couldn’t 
figure out why they should care. Dead or alive, Jews weren’t a part of their war 
plans.For Britain, the goal of the war was to survive.For the 
Americans it was to defend the cause of freedom and pave the way for America’s 
emergence as leader of the free world. Jewish survival was not considered 
relevant to achieving these goals, so the Allies stood by as the ghettos were 
liquidated and the gas chambers began operating at full capacity.AFTER 
THE war, world Jewry adopted “Never Again,” as our rallying cry. But “Never 
Again,” is just a slogan. It fell to the leaders of the Jewish people to 
conceive the means to prevent a recurrence of the Holocaust.These 
leaders came up with two very different strategies for protecting Jews from 
genocide, and their followers formed separate camps. Whereas in the early years, 
the separate positions appeared to complement each other, since the 1970s the 
gulf between them has grown ever wider. Indeed, many of the divisions in world 
Jewry today originate in this post-Holocaust policy divide.The first 
strategy was based on international law and human rights. Its champions argued 
that the reason the Allies didn’t save the Jews was because the laws enjoining 
the Allies to rescue us on the one hand, and prohibiting the Nazis from killing 
us on the other were insufficiently strong. If they could promulgate a new 
global regime of international humanitarian law, they believed they could force 
governments to rise above their hatreds and the shackles of their narrow-minded 
national interests to save innocents from slaughter. Not only would their vision 
protect the Jews, it would protect everyone.The Jews who subscribed to 
the human-rights strategy for preventing another Holocaust were the architects of 
the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1949 Geneva 
Conventions and the Genocide Convention. They were the founders of the 
international human rights regime that now dominates so much of Western 
discourse on war and peace.Unfortunately, the institutions these 
idealistic Jews designed have been corrupted by political forces they had hoped 
to defeat.Consequently, the international human-rights regime they 
created has failed completely to accomplish what they hoped it would accomplish. 
Instead, the regime they created to protect the Jews is now a key weapon in the 
political war being waged against them.Jews are not the only casualty of 
the human-rights policy paradigm’s failure.Cambodians, Rwandans, 
Darfuris and others can also attest to its collapse.There are two 
reasons that the human-rights paradigm has broken down. The first is because it 
failed to recognize the adaptability of Jew hatred. Anti-Semitism is one of the 
hardest hatreds to pin down because it is constantly updating itself to suit the 
political and social trends of the day. Since Nazi-style anti- Semitism went out 
of fashion with the defeat of Germany, the human-rights visionaries believed 
that people would be embarrassed into putting the hatred aside.Instead, 
guided by the Soviets, Jew-haters worldwide simply updated their 
language.They stopped talking about Jewish control over world affairs 
and began talking about Zionist control over world affairs.Unlike the 
Europeans, Arab Jew-haters feel no social obligation to hide their antipathy for 
the Jews from their own societies. But recognizing where the West stands on the 
issue, they have added the post-war, socially acceptable form of anti-Semitism – 
anti-Zionism – to their repertoire. For instance, alongside its allegations 
about Jewish and Freemason conspiracies to take over the world, and its 
citations of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, the Hamas charter also 
includes a paragraph devoted to Zionist apartheid, genocide, imperialism, and 
human-rights abuses.When the Palestinians’ Western sympathizers in the 
media, foreign service, academia, etc. report on Palestinian accusations against 
Israel, they eagerly credit as fact demonstrably false allegations by 
Palestinian spokesmen of Israeli human-rights abuses, genocide and apartheid. 
Tellingly though, those Westerners are silent when the same Palestinian 
officials they treat as respectable for alleging Zionist criminal conspiracies 
also engage in politically incorrect anti-Semitic attacks.Their claims 
that Israelis poison their wells and infect their children with AIDS are left 
unremarked.This Western cherry picking of Jewish conspiracy theories by 
politically savvy Western Jew-haters demonstrates the absurdity of the claim 
that anti-Zionism is not anti-Semitism.Like old-fashioned Jew-hatred, 
anti-Zionism inverts the reality of Jewish vulnerability and victimization in 
order to justify irrational hatred of Jews and deny basic rights of self-defense 
to Jewish victims.The anti-Semites’ corruption of the human-rights 
paradigm in the service of their Jew-hating agendas is certainly a major reason 
the human rights model for genocide prevention has failed. But it is not the 
only cause of the failure. The other reason the model has failed is because it 
is premised on a naïve and incorrect understanding of 
statecraft.Champions of human rights and humanitarian law believed that 
if laws were placed on the books, if international conventions were ratified by 
democracies, then the world would abide by them. But this is not the 
case.Just as the British ignored their international legal obligations 
to facilitate Jewish settlement of the Land of Israel when they felt it served 
their interests to favor the Arabs, so today governments routinely ignore their 
international legal obligations if abiding by them runs contrary to their 
perception of their interests.This truth was laid bare last December, 
with the Nixon Library’s release of a taped March 1973 conversation between 
then-president Richard Nixon and then-secretary of state Henry Kissinger 
regarding the prospect of a Soviet genocide of Soviet Jews.Kissinger 
opined: “If they put Jews into gas chambers in the Soviet Union, it is not an 
American concern. Maybe a humanitarian concern.” Nixon responded, “I know. We 
can’t blow up the world because of it.”Their views were not merely 
testament to the two men’s indifference toward the fate of Soviet Jews. They are 
instructive because they show how leaders prioritize their 
policies.Nixon and Kissinger probably opposed the genocide of Soviet 
Jewry, but it was more important to avoid a policy that could “blow up the 
world.”By the same token, the US opted to do nothing in the face of the 
genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda and Darfur, among others.US and European 
treatment of Jews specifically, and of the incidents of genocide generally since 
the Holocaust make clear that the twin presumptions of the human-rights paradigm 
were wrong.Anti-Semitism is not a curable disease.Israel is the 
target of an anti-Semitic, genocidal political campaign that employs the 
language of human rights to justify itself . And otherwise moral men and women 
simply ignore evil when they believe their interests are best served by not 
standing up to it.A secondary casualty of the failure of the human 
rights paradigm has been intra- Jewish relations. Faced with their preferred 
paradigm’s failure and corruption at the hands of anti-Semites, many Jewish 
human-rights activists have opted to abandon their fellow Jews and Israel in 
order to maintain their allegiance to the corrupt, anti-Semitic human-rights 
model.PARTICULARLY ANNOYING to these human-rights followers is the 
stunning success of the other post-Holocaust Jewish strategy for giving meaning 
to the slogan “Never Again.”That policy is Zionism.Zionism 
doesn’t concern itself with how people ought to behave, but with what they are 
capable of doing. Zionists understand that people are an amalgamation of 
passions and interests. The Holocaust was able to occur because the only people 
with a permanent passion and interest in defending the Jews are the Jews. And 
when the Nazis rose to power, the Jews were homeless and powerless.Jews 
who embrace the human-rights approach criticize Zionism’s vision as lonely and 
militaristic. What they fail to recognize is that every successful nation 
depends on itself, and lives by the sword.Only those who deter 
aggressors are capable of attracting allies. No one will stand with a nation 
that will not stand up for itself.Holocaust Remembrance Day, which we 
marked on Monday, is nestled between Pessah and Independence Day for a reason. 
In both ancient and modern times, the only way for Jews – or anyone else – to 
protect their freedom and their lives is by being capable of defending them, in 
their own land.The pseudo human-rights campaign against Israel being 
carried out in the name of fashionable anti-Zionist anti-Semitism represents a 
complete vindication of the Zionist model. Zionism is the only way to ensure 
Jewish survival. It is the only way to ensure that in the face of growing 
threats, “Never Again” will mean never again.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Obama’s devastatingly mixed signals</title>
<date>21/2/2011</date>
<content>
For better or worse, each passing day the Middle East is becoming more unstable. 
Regimes that have clung to power for decades are now being overthrown and 
threatened. Others are preemptively cracking down on their opponents or seeking 
to appease them.While no one can say with certainty what the future will 
bring to the radically altered Middle Eastern landscape, it is becoming 
increasingly apparent that US influence over events here will be dramatically 
diminished.




This assessment is based on the widespread view that the 
Obama administration has failed to articulate a coherent policy for contending 
with the rising populist tides.Last Friday’s UN Security Council vote 
was a case in point. On the one hand, the US vetoed a Lebanese-sponsored 
resolution that criminalized Israel’s policy of permitting Jews to exercise 
their property rights in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria. On the other, after 
vetoing the resolution, US Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice and Secretary of 
State Hillary Clinton condemned their own actions and explained why what they 
did was wrong.As Rice put it in her explanation of the vote: “We reject 
in the strongest terms the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlement activity. 
For more than four decades, Israeli settlement activity in territories occupied 
in 1967 has undermined Israel’s security and corroded hopes for peace and 
stability in the region. Continued settlement activity violates Israel’s 
international commitments, devastates trust between the parties, and threatens 
the prospects for peace….“While we agree with our fellow Council members 
– and indeed, with the wider world – about the folly and illegitimacy of 
continued Israeli settlement activity, we think it unwise for this Council to 
attempt to resolve the core issues that divide Israelis and Palestinians. We 
therefore regrettably have opposed this draft resolution.”It is 
important at the outset to point out that Rice’s claims are either wrong or 
debatable. Israel has not committed itself to barring Jews from exercising 
property rights in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria. Permitting Jewish construction 
in these areas does not violate Israel’s international 
commitments.Moreover, there is no firm international legal basis for 
declaring Jewish neighborhoods and villages in these areas illegal.It is 
far from clear that Jewish neighborhoods, cities and villages in these areas 
harm prospects for peace or undermine trust between Israelis and Arabs. Jews 
built far more homes back when Israel was signing agreements with the 
Palestinians.Finally, it is far easier to form a coherent argument 
explaining how these communities strengthen Israel’s security than an argument 
that they endanger it.BUT BEYOND the basic falseness of Rice’s 
statement, her condemnation of her own vote to veto the resolution, and 
Clinton’s similar statements, serve to send a series of messages to the states 
in the region that are devastating to US regional posture.Friday’s 
Security Council vote marked a new peak in the Fatah-controlled, US-sponsored 
Palestinian Authority’s political war against Israel. The war’s aim is to 
delegitimize the Jewish state in order to foment its collapse on the model of 
apartheid South Africa.To advance this aim, the Palestinians seek to 
isolate Israel internationally by criminalizing it in international arenas. The 
Palestinians have made intense use of all UN bodies to achieve their goal. With 
automatic majorities in nearly every UN body, the most obvious impediment to the 
Palestinians’ bid to criminalize Israel and thus bring about its international 
isolation is the US’s Security Council veto.Since the Palestinians first 
began using the UN to criminalize Israel in the 1970s, it has been the 
consistent policy of all US administrations to use the Security Council veto to 
either vote down anti-Israel initiatives or remove them from the agenda by 
threatening to veto them.But then came US President Barack Obama with 
his expressed interest in reconciling the US with the anti- American and 
anti-Israel majorities in all UN bodies. To this end, Obama has refused to 
commit himself to using the veto to prevent the criminalization of 
Israel.Capitalizing on Obama’s position, the Palestinians tried to make 
it as hard and politically costly as possible for Obama to support 
Israel.Friday’s vote was months in the making and it was clearly 
inspired by the Obama administration’s own policies.Since entering 
office, the president has been outspoken in his view that Jews must be denied 
their property rights in Jerusalem neighborhoods outside the 1949 armistice 
lines, and in Judea and Samaria. Obama has repeatedly plunged US-Israel 
relations into crisis with his unprecedented demand that the Netanyahu 
government adopt his discriminatory policies and deny Jews the right to their 
property in these areas.Obama’s obsession with barring Jewish property 
rights provided the Palestinians with the opening to undermine US support for 
Israel at the Security Council. By putting forward a resolution condemning 
Israel for upholding Jewish property rights, the Palestinians forced Obama to 
choose between his principles and the US alliance with Israel.As the 
Palestinians rightly saw things, the resolution put them in a win-win situation. 
Had he allowed the resolution to pass, Obama would have given the Palestinians a 
strategic victory. If he vetoed the resolution, he would be decried as a 
hypocrite and thus provide the Palestinians with new justification for refusing 
to participate in US-mediated negotiations with Israel. Since their goal is to 
delegitimize Israel, the Palestinians have no interest in negotiating a peace 
deal with its government.IN THE weeks leading up to Friday’s vote, both 
houses of the US Congress made it absolutely clear to Obama that abandoning 
Israel would be unacceptable. Obama and Clinton received letter after letter 
signed by hundreds of congressmen and scores of senators demanding that he stand 
with Israel. Recognizing the legislators were simply reflecting the overwhelming 
support Israel enjoys from the American public, Obama was forced to veto the 
resolution.Had he been interested in preventing Friday’s vote, he 
certainly had ample means to do so. He could have told Palestinian Authority 
President Mahmoud Abbas months ago that the administration would veto any 
anti-Israel resolution brought before the Security Council. Even if Abbas had 
insisted on pushing forward with the resolution, a strong, consistent message 
from the administration would have minimized the significance of the 
event.Obama could also have used the Security Council’s deliberations on 
the resolution as a means of advancing US regional influence. The resolution was 
sponsored by Lebanon, today controlled by Hezbollah – an illegal terrorist 
organization.Obama could have capitalized on this fact not only to 
justify his veto, but to force the subject of Hezbollah control over Lebanon 
onto the UN agenda. Such a move would have advanced US interests twice. It would 
have insulated Obama from Palestinian rebuke and it would have demonstrated that 
the US has not accepted Iranian colonization of Lebanon through its Hezbollah 
proxy.BUT INSTEAD, the administration adopted a policy it openly hated 
and then condemned its own behavior. In so doing, it sent four deeply 
problematic messages to the region.First, it signaled that it is deeply 
unserious.Second, it signaled to the Palestinians that, while blocked by 
popular US support for Israel from joining them, the administration supports the 
PA’s political war against Israel. That is, Obama told the Palestinians to 
continue this war against Israel.Third, the administration told Israel – 
and all its other allies – that in the era of Obama, the US is not a credible 
ally. Not only does this message weaken America’s allies, it emboldens the likes 
of Iran and Syria and the Muslim Brotherhood who are increasingly convinced that 
the US will not stand by its allies in a pinch.Finally, by standing by 
as Abbas pushed forward with the resolution despite Obama’s repeatedly stated 
opposition, the president showed all actors in the region that there is no price 
to be paid for defying the US. Obama did not announce that he is ending US 
financial support for Fatah. He did not state that the US is ending its training 
of the Fatah forces. Instead, he sent Rice before the cameras to tell the world 
that he agrees with the Palestinians, who just slapped him in the 
face.The question is why is the administration behaving this way? The 
obvious answer is that it really does side with the Arabs against Israel. 
Pushing this view is the fact that since taking office, Obama has been 
consistently hostile to Israel and its strategic interests.There is 
another possible explanation, however: That the administration is simply too 
incompetent to understand the significance of its actions. This explanation 
appears increasingly credible in light of the US’s ham-fisted handling of the 
revolutions raging throughout the Arab world.In Egypt, the 
administration did not simply show America’s closest ally in the Arab world the 
door. By legitimizing the Muslim Brotherhood, Obama has paved the way for the 
next Egyptian crisis.At the latest, this crisis will occur in September 
with the scheduled elections. At that point, three scenarios will 
arise.1. The ruling military junta may cancel the elections and foment 
another rebellion.2. If the military permits free and fair elections, 
the Muslim Brotherhood will become the most potent force in Egypt due to its 
unmatched organizational capacity.After the elections the Muslim 
Brotherhood may adopt the model of Turkey’s Islamist AKP party and move Egypt 
into the Iranian camp while pretending it is still a US ally.3. After 
the elections, the Muslim Brotherhood may adopt the Khomeinist model and foment 
an Islamic revolution in Egypt.IN ALL these scenarios, America’s 
strategic interests will be placed in jeopardy. But presently, it is far from 
clear that the Obama administration recognizes that these are the consequences 
of the policies it adopted.Then there is Saudi Arabia. By supporting the 
anti- Mubarak forces in Egypt and the Iranian-backed demonstrators in Bahrain 
and Yemen, the administration has destroyed the US alliance with the 
Saudis.This may or may not be a positive development.Saudi 
Arabia has been one of the most radicalizing forces in the Middle East at the 
same time that it has been the steady engine behind the world’s oil 
economy.Nevertheless, it’s unlikely that the current US government 
recognizes either that it has taken place, or that it has taken place in large 
measure as a consequence of its behavior.From an Israeli perspective, 
whether motivated by an animus towards Israel or extraordinary incompetence, the 
Obama administration’s Middle East policies offer one message: We can only rely 
on ourselves and so we’d better strengthen ourselves as much as possible as 
quickly as possible in every possible way.
caroline@carolineglick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>PostScript: Prepare for the next Goldstone</title>
<date>10/11/2011</date>
<content>
It is right of Richard Goldstone to have published a clarification of his views 
and enlightened the world that Israel is not an apartheid state, something I 
never assumed he believed.Being a South African who had the task of 
leading his country through post-apartheid conciliation, Justice Goldstone knows 
better than most what apartheid was, and as someone who is intimately familiar 
with Israel and Jewish values, both in which he has a stake, he knows Israel is 
not an apartheid state. It has racists, ultra-nationalists, prejudice and 
discrimination, but not more than most countries in today’s Western Europe. At 
least you can build a mosque here.




It is not in the apartheid context 
that we remember Goldstone, but rather as the head of a hangman’s committee put 
together by the Human Rights Council of the United Nations in the form of the UN 
Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, and its subsequent report issued in 
September 2009. The report was highly critical of Israel, including charges of 
deliberately targeting civilians and other “war crimes.”Not 
surprisingly, it was less so of Hamas.Despite a retraction of most of 
its findings by Goldstone himself in in an op-ed piece for The Washington Post 
in April this year, the damage was done way back in September 2009, when its 
publication gave massive impetus to the campaign to de-legitimize Israel, and is 
still a point of reference for many who remain critical of Israel, no matter 
what the truth actually is.It took the findings of a later UN panel, 
this time an independent one headed by former New York Judge Mary Gowan Davis, 
and with which Israel cooperated, to get Goldstone to write his 
retraction.Goldstone claims in his article that had he and his committee 
enjoyed the same level of cooperation in the first place, the entire report 
would have been decidedly different.Think what you may of Goldstone and 
his motives, and those of the Human Rights Council that sent him, he has a 
point. In retrospect, and this is the lesson to be learned from the entire 
unhappy affair, Israel should have cooperated with the Goldstone Committee. It 
had nothing to hide. It had evidence as to the true nature of every target 
bombed, other than those destroyed in the heat of battle, and even here every 
action and decision down to the lowest operational levels is carefully 
recorded.Israel’s explanation for not cooperating with the Goldstone 
Committee, was that it did not want to give it legitimacy. Unfortunately the 
decision, if anything, accelerated the campaign to de-legitimize 
Israel.Damage, once done, is hard to repair. We should have cooperated 
with Goldstone.Israel had every right to be outraged by the equivalency 
the committee seemed to give Israel, a sovereign state and member of the UN, and 
Hamas, a terrorist organization, and to be suspicious of the committee’s 
motives, but it should have swallowed all that and realized the implications of 
ignoring its presence.The intelligence community, always quick to say 
“no” when asked to part with materials, should have been prodded into releasing 
the pictures and evidence it had as to why specific targets had been attacked. A 
battery of lawyers from within the army should have been sorting and sifting 
materials that could have been helpful to Israel of which there were many. 
Mistakes were made during the war, but no attempt was made to cover them 
up.On the contrary, Goldstone now commends the IDF for conducting over 
400 investigations into cases of alleged operational misconduct during the Gaza 
war, something that is very much part of the IDF’s internal ethos and considered 
standard operating procedure.Judging from the odd missile here and 
helicopter attack there, another full-scale military operation in Gaza is not an 
impossibility. Again, it will be against an enemy deeply entrenched in civilian 
infrastructure one of the most densely populated parts of the planet. Another 
Goldstone report would be almost inevitable and that time round Israel would do 
well to prepare for it, no matter how infuriated by the terms of reference and 
intentions behind such an investigation.Now that Goldstone has told the 
world we are not an apartheid state, and has disclaimed many of his own key 
findings against Israel in the 2008-2009 Gaza conflict, one could expect some 
respite from those who continue to question Israel’s legitimacy. This will not 
happen. Those determined to blacken Israel’s name are impervious to logic, facts 
or fairness. Israel, however, does not have to supply them with 
ammunition.Silence, when accused, is often assumed to be a sign of 
guilt. Not accepting an international committee’s terms of reference, seems like 
an evasion, an excuse.Israel needs to be neither silent nor evasive; it 
does need excuses. It needs answers to legitimate questions that arise from the 
reality of asymmetric warfare against a ruthless enemy who has turned Gaza’s 
towns and cities into battlefields, its hospitals into military headquarters, 
and the homes of innocent civilians into secret caches for highly explosive 
weapons.Israel has the intelligence and information on all this, and 
next time it goes to war it would do well to pre-sanitize whatever intelligence 
it can to help explain to the world the reasons for its actions in real time, 
and not wait for months and months for Richard Goldstone to find his conscience. 
Given the evidence the world will understand. It is time for Israel to stop 
being its own worst enemy in this regard.There are those who have 
received Goldstone’s observation that this is not an apartheid state with glee, 
as if Israel was being vindicated of some real and meaningful charge against it. 
That Goldstone even had to write such an article is 
questionable.Ostensibly he was responding to some obscure gathering in 
Cape Town that met to perpetuate this calumny, but in fact gave the minor event 
more publicity than the organizers could possibly have dreamed 
of.Calling Israel an apartheid state is ludicrous, as any half-educated 
person knows.Being charged with war crimes by an official commission of 
the UN, however, is something else. Israel can do nothing to convince those with 
closed minds that this is not apartheid South Africa, regardless of what 
Goldstone writes. Israel is master of its own destiny, however, when it comes to 
explaining its actions on the battlefield, and would do well to prepare for the 
eventuality well in advance. In this regard, at least, Goldstone’s advice is 
invaluable.
The writer is a senior research associate at the Institute 
for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University. His most recent book, The 
Anatomy of Israel’s Survival, was published in September 2011.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: Israel and dictators, besides Mubarak</title>
<date>9/2/2011</date>
<content>
It’s not that we’re against democracy, goes the Israeli line on Egypt, it’s that 
we’re afraid of the Islamists and radical Arab nationalists taking 
over. We’re afraid to lose the peace. We’re right on Egypt’s border – the 
front line. We love democracy, we want democracy for everyone, certainly for our 
Arab neighbors, and we hate dictatorship, of course – we’re just very worried 
about our security, and we have a right to be.That’s Israel’s message to 
the world these days, and half of it is true – we do have legitimate worries for 
our security with what‘s going on in Egypt. The part that isn’t true is that 
Israel stands for democracy and against dictatorship in the world. Within the 
Green Line, yes, but anywhere beyond – not only in the Middle East, but 
throughout black Africa, Asia and Latin America – democracy has been absolutely 
irrelevant for Israeli foreign policy since the 1970s, and so has dictatorship. 
Throughout the Third World, for 40 years, the only question our political and 
military leadership – together with our private arms dealers and “security 
advisers” – have asked is this: In terms of political and economic profit, 
what’s in it for us? The proof of this is that Israel has had “special 
relationships” with dictators much, much more infamous than Hosni Mubarak, in 
countries far from the Middle East, which knew nothing of Islamic 
fundamentalism.




What’s more, we’ve taken sides against popular revolts 
that could hardly have cared less about the Israeli-Arab conflict, and that were 
thoroughly democratic. We armed and trained troops that protected 
Philippine dictator and kleptocrat Ferdinand Marcos against the original “people 
power” movement – the one led by Corazon Aquino, widow of one of Marcos’s 
victims, that brought democracy to the country in 1986.The most recent – 
and glaring – example of Israel’s indifference to democracy abroad, its complete 
readiness to forge the closest political, military and economic relations with 
tyrants, was in apartheid South Africa. When the whole world, even the US, 
turned against the white regime, Israel hung on. Over two decades, we sold 
billions of dollars in military goods and services to apartheid South Africa – 
even after we supposedly went along with the international sanctions campaign 
for fear of losing American foreign aid, wrote Foreign Affairs senior editor 
Sasha Polakow- Suransky, author of last year’s The Unspoken Alliance – Israel’s 
Secret Relationship with Apartheid South Africa.Besides Marcos, besides 
the apartheid rulers, Israel carried on close, lucrative 
political/military/economic relationships with out-and-out monsters such as 
Zaire’s Mobutu Sese Seko, Haiti’s Papa Doc and Baby Doc Duvalier, Uganda’s Idi 
Amin (briefly, before he threw us over for Muammar Gaddafi), Chile’s Augusto 
Pinochet, Nicaragua’s Anastasio Somoza and a host of other dirty warriors and 
death squad leaders.In many if not most cases, we weren’t just one on a 
long list of countries grabbing the spoils of war and repression. Instead, we 
typically played Robin to America’s Batman in the fight against communism – and 
if the rebels weren’t communists, if they were socialists or liberals or 
peasants or just the run of poor people fed up with tyranny and poverty, we and 
our American patrons called them communists (just like we’re tarring the 
Egyptian masses now as radicals and jihadists.) And when, in the late 1970s, 
Jimmy Carter began cutting off American military aid to tyrants (including the 
shah of Iran, another Israeli favorite), and in the 1980s, when Congress 
continued imposing these sanctions against Ronald Reagan’s will, Israel was 
there to step into the breach.“The Israelis do not let this human 
rights thing stand in the way of business," a prominent right-wing Guatemalan 
politician said in a recent interview. "You pay, they deliver. No questions 
asked, unlike the gringos,” wrote University of Haifa Prof. Benjamin Beit- 
Hallahmi, quoting from Reuters in his 1987 book, The Israeli Connection – Who 
Israel Arms and Why.There are times when Israel will support the forces 
of democracy against dictators – such as the Iranian reformers against Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad and the mullahs and, previously, the Iraqi Kurds against Saddam 
Hussein, the 1989 uprising against Soviet communism and, in the 1960s, the 
Southern Sudanese rebels against Sudan. There are probably other cases I don’t 
know of. But in the ones I do, the dictators being challenged had something in 
common: They were all enemies of Israel. We have no problem supporting dictators 
or opposing democrats, all that matters (except for the money, especially for 
our private mercenaries) is that you be our enemy’s enemy. If you are, whoever 
you are, we will be your friend. This has been the guiding principle of 
Israeli policy in the Third World since the 1970s, and it is our guiding 
principle today in Egypt. Democracy is for speeches.SINCE THE fall of 
the Soviet Union, the map of the Third World has changed and it isn’t so easy 
for Israel to choose sides. Argentina, Chile and other once-friendly military 
dictatorships in Latin America have gone democratic. (If they’re now recognizing 
Palestine one after another, maybe it’s partly because they remember Israel’s 
role in their oppression.) As for Latin American drug lords, I don’t know if 
Israeli mercenaries are still helping them out, but if they’re not, that would 
mark a change.Regarding Africa today, Open University 
Prof. Benyamin Neuberger wrote in “Israel’s Relations with the Third 
World (1948-2008),” an October 2009 research paper: “As it now stands, most of 
the relations between Israel and Africa involve ‘practical’ concerns in the 
field of private enterprise. Israel’s business people – many of them ex-army 
officers interested in arms deals – are active in countries such as Kenya, 
Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria, Liberia, Rwanda and Sierra 
Leone.”Makes sense. Israelis have become go-getter capitalists, they 
like to travel, to take risks, and while communism is gone, war isn’t, and with 
its hi-tech prowess, this country’s status among the major powers of the 
international arms trade is only going up.Some of you reading this, I’m 
sure, find it to be a very bleak story. There is one ray of light, though, a 
time of lost innocence – in the 1950s and early 1960s, when Israel was known in 
black Africa not as a cynical gunrunner but as a model of a post-colonial, 
egalitarian nation. We had military trainers there, too, but our best-known 
people in Africa were kibbutz agronomists.Beit-Hallahmi wrote that 
nearly 15,000 Third World citizens, half of them black Africans, came here to 
study at the Foreign Ministry’s International Institute for 
Development. Wrote Neuberger: “The African nationalist elites of the 
1950s and 1960s truly admired Israel... [They] firmly believed that the enemies 
of the Jews were also the enemies of the blacks.”Hurts, doesn’t it? This 
solidarity began to fray in the mid-’60s from the effects of Nasserism and the 
advent of the PLO, but the outgrowths of the Six Day War – the occupation and, 
finally, the Yom Kippur War – are what killed it. Israel, for its part, eagerly 
came under the generous patronage of the US; it found a perfect meeting of the 
minds with Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger and we became America’s brash 
little alter ego to the friendly fascists of the Third World.We had the 
military know-how, they had the money and we all had a joint enemy – the 
have-nots, the weak, the masses and those who led them. Within the Green Line, 
we remained a democracy, but now we were an American-aligned tyrant in the West 
Bank and Gaza, so we became the natural allies of American- aligned tyrants 
everywhere.THIS IS by no means the whole story of why Israel is siding 
with Hosni Mubarak today – again, we have legitimate security worries – but it 
is a part of the story. Could things have been different? If we’d walked 
out of the West Bank and Gaza after the Six Day War, if we’d chosen not to 
become a dictator over the Palestinians and not to throw in so enthusiastically 
with dictators abroad, would we be watching the uprising in Egypt today through 
less fearful eyes? I don’t know. For sure, we would not be having a beautiful 
friendship with the Arabs; even without the occupation, there would still be 
Palestinian refugees from 1948, still be Arab radicalism and Islamic 
fundamentalism; Israel would still be among the haves and the Arabs among the 
have-nots. The settlements can be blamed for a lot, but there are other problems 
in the Middle East too.Still, by becoming the Palestinians’ masters, we 
had to deaden ourselves. We were doing to other people what we’d always hated 
other people doing to us, so we had to look away. We made excuses – just like we 
did in South Africa, Zaire, Chile, Argentina and so on. We looked out for number 
one to the exclusion of everyone else in the world. We recited over and over the 
first part of Hillel’s dictum, ”If I am not for myself, who will be for me?” and 
completely erased the second part: “And if I am only for myself, what am I?” Who 
are we? What do we stand for in the world? Since the day after the Six Day War, 
the day we became tyrants, we stand for nothing but ourselves.
And while 
we have the right to our worries, while that’s part of the story of why the 
incredibly brave people in Egypt inspire just about everyone in the world except 
us, our deadened conscience is also part of the story – a bigger part than we 
want to admit.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Reform! The end is at hand!</title>
<date>11/7/2011</date>
<content>
There is a well-documented phenomenon in societies as they reach the final 
stages of a deeply rooted, bloody conflict. I call it “digging in the heels 
against the current.” During this final phase, some societies show their ugliest 
face. I am talking about the stronger side, the one required to make truly hard 
concessions on real assets such as land. Such societies face a growing sense 
that the world fails to see the justice on their side. Indeed, the world usually 
supports the side perceived as the “underdog,” even when that side uses 
terrorism to support its cause. The world sympathizes with its weakness and 
often discounts its shortcomings.The stronger sides often loses any 
sense of its own strength and adopts an attitude of weakness. By portraying its 
weakness internally, it ends up justifying behaviors which it would normally 
have condemned.




Israel is not the first nation in this 
situation.There are many examples of societies that failed to accept the 
inevitable and, instead of acting with intelligence and dignity, sacrificed 
their own humanity in defense of their ‘right’ to defy what almost everyone else 
sees as their wrong. The final two years of South African apartheid were among 
the most repressive and aggressive of its too-long existence. The final period 
of British rule in India witnessed atrocities committed by the most civilized 
army on Earth at the time. The last years in Sudan provide another example of 
horrendous brutality, misery and death.When Israel resorts to calling 
pro-Palestinian activists trying to enter the country legally through its 
international front door “hooligans,” “terrorists,” and “Hamas lovers,” and 
needs 600 policemen to prevent their entry, something is happening here that 
needs introspection.When Israeli society feels a deep sense of threat 
because a few hundred pro-Palestinian sailors aboard a group of 10 barely 
seaworthy boats try to break the siege of Gaza, then something is happening 
beneath the surface that should not be ignored or explained away as 
anti-Semitism or de-legitimization campaigns.There was no real threat 
from the recent flotilla. Yet the perceived danger was expressed with 
existential urgency.When Israel feels threatened by Palestinian 
villagers who organize a march from their village to their spring every Friday 
for the past two years (in Nebi Saleh), and has to resort to shooting hundreds 
of teargas grenades at 50 protestors armed only with flags and songs, and the 
public justifies this state-sponsored violence by calling the villagers 
terrorists, then we have entered that final stage of the conflict described 
above.THE LEGISLATIVE agenda of this Knesset, sponsored by this 
government and promoted by hate and fear mongers, is further evidence that 
Israel is digging its heels in against a current whose strength is increasing. 
The ‘Nakba Law,’ the allegiance oath, the Anti-political NGO laws, the 
Anti-boycott Law – all these are symptoms of a society which has lost control of 
its own sense of legitimacy, and therefore uses a temporary coalition majority 
to impose limits on its own democracy in order to create a façade of strength 
and determination.Israel is in a race against time, and if it doesn’t 
change course, it’s going to lose.Israel’s speedometer and compass are 
currently focused on September or shortly beyond, but even if the current 
government manages to convince enough countries not to support the Palestinian 
bid in the UN, the end of Israel’s control over the Palestinian people cannot be 
stopped.Israel wants and needs security. It wants and needs recognition 
of its legitimacy.Israel wants and needs to resolve the Palestinian 
refugee issue within the Palestinian state. It wants and needs recognized and 
secure borders. Israel wants and needs the entire world to recognize Jerusalem 
as its capital. None of these can be attained without first meeting similar 
needs and desires of the Palestinian people.But instead of declaring its 
readiness to recognize a Palestinian state, Israel is busily working to prevent 
its emergence.All declarations of support for a two-state solution are 
irrelevant in the face of the hard reality that the Israeli prime minister, 
foreign minister and all its diplomatic service are actively trying to prevent 
the Palestinian people from achieving liberty. This is how most of the world 
perceives it; this is how every Palestinian sees it.THE OPPORTUNITY is 
at hand to turn the page on this conflict and to begin a new era. Israel can 
change the way that almost every Palestinian views it. Israeli recognition of a 
Palestinian state on the basis of the Obama principles – ’67 borders with agreed 
territorial swaps, real security arrangements, a non-militarized Palestinian 
state, Israel as the homeland of the Jewish people and Palestine the homeland of 
the Palestinian people, and a willingness to open sincere, honest and time-bound 
direct negotiations – would be like a magic wand. Both sides would be compelled 
to enter negotiations, and both would then have to make hard decisions and 
painful compromises.Instead, Israel is digging in its heels.It 
will use its strength, sometimes with sophistication and cunning – as it did 
with the flotilla and the airlift of pro- Palestinian activists – and sometimes 
with mere force, as it does every Friday all around the West Bank. But none of 
this will buy security, legitimacy, or the end of conflict with the 
Palestinians.This conflict will not simply go away.The 
Palestinian people will not bury their yearning for freedom and 
independence.The majority of nations around the world will not forever, 
and not even for a long time, bow to Israel’s refusal to remove its control over 
the Palestinian people.The end of this conflict is inevitable. It has 
been long; it has been painful and bloody. It has created deep-rooted hatred, 
anger and despair. It generates fear, and fear feeds the sense that it is 
impossible to arrive at peace. There are ways to make that route a lot less 
dangerous. In the end, Israel and Palestine will live in peace and we all know, 
more or less, what a peace agreement must look like.Why do we still 
refuse to see the inevitable? 
The writer is founder and co-director of IPCRI, 
the Israel Palestine Center for Research and Information, he hosts a weekly 
radio show in Hebrew on All for Peace radio (107.4 FM in Israel), and is a 
voluntary columnist for The Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Remembering the ‘Altalena’</title>
<date>20/6/2011</date>
<content>
Israel is confronting increasingly virulent worldwide challenges to its legitimacy.An expanding chorus of politicians, journalists and academics relentlessly denounces the Jewish state as a racist, apartheid abomination. The resemblance between their shrill diatribes and the rhetoric of anti-Semitism during the past 2,000 years is not coincidental.




Few people remember that the Jewish state was born amid its own domestic legitimacy crisis. Its echoes still reverberate through the country, and may yet determine its future. In June 1948, six weeks after declaring independence, Israel confronted internal conflict that raised the specter of civil war. Surrounded by invading Arab armies, the fledgling Jewish state seemed on the verge of reenacting the first-century tragedy of fratricide that terminated Jewish national sovereignty for nearly two millennia.To prime minister David Ben-Gurion, the arrival of the Altalena – a ship that sailed from France with desperately needed munitions and fighters – was the spearhead of a right-wing putsch to overthrow the government. Alleging a menacing challenge to the state and to his own authority, Ben-Gurion seized the opportunity to quash his detested right-wing political opposition, led by Menachem Begin.His order to destroy the ship ignited a two-day battle in which 19 Jews were killed by their Jewish “brothers.”The Altalena remains a sorrowful reminder that groundless hatred – 
condemned in Judaism ever since the destruction of the Second Temple in 
70 CE – tormented the Jewish people even at their wondrous moment of 
national rebirth.In recent years, that doomed pariah ship has occasionally resurfaced from buried memory to roil Israeli politics.On the Left, Israelis still claim that Begin’s Irgun got what it 
deserved for daring to challenge the authority of the state. For those 
on the Right, however, Ben-Gurion acted with ruthless determination to 
delegitimize, if not destroy, his despised political opposition.Israel's internal legitimacy problem focuses on Jewish settlers in the 
West Bank, biblical Judea and Samaria. Some rabbinical authorities have 
justified military disobedience in response to settlement evacuation 
orders from the government – citing the precedent of conscience-stricken
 soldiers who disobeyed orders to fire on Altalena fighters.Some religious soldiers have been discharged or jailed even for 
expressing opposition to settler expulsion. Others (following the 
precedent set by thousands of secular Israelis who refused military 
service during the first Lebanon war) have indicated their unwillingness
 to participate. It seems inconceivable that Israeli soldiers would – 
ever again – shoot fellow Jews. But the Altalena precedent hovers over 
the Jewish state as a perennial reminder of the tragic possibility of 
internecine violence.The current crusade to delegitimize Israel as a racist, apartheid state 
occupying someone else’s land has become an international obsession. 
Pressure from the United Nations (and the Obama administration) to offer
 “land for peace” is unlikely to relent. Even Prime Minister Binyamin 
Netanyahu, during his recent Washington visit, indicated his willingness
 to relinquish settlements (and remove settlers) outside the larger 
“blocs” closest to Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.Should that happen, Israelis may confront yet again the wrenching 
choices of 1948: When must political decisions and military orders be 
obeyed? When is disobedience justified? Who decides? Secular and 
religious Israelis have been unable to agree upon terms of Zionist unity
 that will finally resolve their enduring struggle over internal 
legitimacy. Any attempt by their government to expel tens of thousands 
of Jews from their homes, effectively undermining religious Zionism by 
eradicating its geographical base, could be catastrophic.
It might even provoke a confrontation that would make the battle over 
the Altalena, which erupted 63 years ago on June 21, seem like a minor 
historical blip. In Israel, once again, Jews could become brothers at 
war.

The writer is the author of Brothers at War: Israel and the Tragedy of the Altalena, published in May by Quid Pro Books.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Repentance and atonement at the New Israel Fund</title>
<date>24/9/2011</date>
<content>
For years, the leaders of the politically powerful New Israel Fund (NIF) have 
compounded their problems by ignoring their own errors and shifting the focus to 
whistle- blowers and research watchdogs, as scandal follows scandal.In 
responding to more evidence of support for anti-Zionist causes, Rabbi Brian 
Lurie, who is taking over from Naomi Chazan as NIF president, again ignored 
these major problems.




He instead called for others to undertake cheshbon 
nefesh – soul searching (“The new leader of the New Israel Fund,” September 19, 
2011) in the spirit of the Days of Awe. But in the Jewish tradition, this 
process starts at home, as each individual is responsible for accounting for his 
or her own activities.The NIF’s problems begin with its highly secretive 
funding process for political and social groups in Israel, contributing to the 
lack of accountability and numerous blatantly false claims. In the past, 
officials declared that they had ended funding for the Coalition of Women for 
Peace, which, despite its name, is a leader in the BDS movement.As NGO 
Monitor showed, NIF funding continued secretly for at least two additional 
years.Instead of an angry attack on watchdogs such as NGO Monitor, Lurie 
could and should have apologized for false statements.Now, Lurie has 
asserted that NIF has “repeatedly reported” that it no longer funds an 
Israeli-Arab political advocacy organization named Mada al- Carmel, a group that 
calls the “global spread of political discourse of two states for two people... 
regrettable.” In fact, this is the first such public statement by an NIF 
official – a potentially important, although belated, move by NIF to implement 
its own guidelines.However, since the most recent financial report on 
NIF’s website is from 2010, and it lists a $100,000 donation to Mada al-Carmel, 
Lurie’s claim is impossible to independently verify. Israeli citizens, whose 
lives are greatly influenced by the decisions made by the distant NIF officials, 
are right to demand independent verification, rather than accepting statements 
on faith.Lurie, who lives in San Francisco, also repeats the mantra 
that: “all organizations funded by or through NIF must meet our funding 
guidelines.” However, as NGO Monitor has repeatedly demonstrated in 
fully-sourced research, NIF supports a number of NGOs that violate the ban on 
support for groups that deny “the right of the Jewish people to sovereign 
self-determination within Israel.” NIF funds groups that engage, to varying 
degrees, in delegitimization campaigns, including anti-Israel lawfare and BDS, 
as well as denying Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state.Lurie heaps 
praise on Adalah – a recipient of $500,000 of NIF funding in 2010 and a leader 
in international anti-Israel campaigns, including at the UN.Adalah runs 
PR efforts calling for EU sanctions against Israel; supports legal cases against 
Israeli officials (lawfare); and wrote and edited large portions of a 
pseudo-academic study that called for another International Court of Justice 
advisory opinion to declare that Israel is an “apartheid” state.Adalah’s 
denial of the right of the Jewish people to sovereign self-determination is 
explicit.Its 2007 “Democratic Constitution” and similar documents that 
call for a fundamental redefinition of Israel were recognized by NIF CEO Daniel 
Sokatch as violating NIF guidelines on Jewish sovereignty rights. Yet, earlier 
this month, Adalah’s Hassan Jabareen authored an op-ed entitled “Why 
Palestinians can’t recognize a ‘Jewish state,’” in which he pointed to the 
“Democratic Constitution” as a supposed expression of Jewish rights.In 
defending huge budgets for groups such as Adalah, Lurie writes that “every 
organization funded by the New Israel Fund is a legal Israeli amuta (non-profit 
organization).”This is both irrelevant and false.Shatil is a 
major recipient of NIF grants, but has no legal status in Israel. NIF’s 2010 
grants also include private companies which are subject to different accounting 
and reporting requirements. For example, $587,000 went to a private company 
named “Agenda.”(The fact that NIF-Israel executive director Rachel Liel 
is a shareholder in this company may represent an improper conflict of 
interest.) Lurie’s sins of commission include his criticism of NGO Monitor, 
which began years ago as a project of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, 
but has been independent since 2007. Lurie mistakenly refers to this 
organization as the “Jerusalem Council,” and awkwardly implies that NGO 
Monitor’s analyses should be ignored due to this link. Lurie could have avoided 
many mistakes with basic fact-checking: a quick visit to the NGO Monitor website 
will produce a list of our donors, contrary to his claims.With so many 
errors, Rabbi Lurie’s call for repentance is appropriate, particularly for his 
own organization. The first step of repentance is identifying the sin. This is 
not a legalistic, mechanical exercise, but requires the individual to strip away 
the habit of denial that prevents accepting that he or she has sinned – that 
there is a problem.As Rosh Hashana approaches and Lurie assumes a new 
leadership role, perhaps he will stop repeating the false claims supplied by 
NIF’s haphazard PR machine, recognize the problems, and open up the NIF to the 
accountability, transparency and honesty that they demand from 
others.
Prof. Gerald Steinberg is president of NGO Monitor, a 
Jerusalem-based research institution dedicated to promoting universal human 
rights and to encouraging civil discussion on the reports and activities of 
nongovernmental organizations, particularly in the Middle East. Naftali Balanson 
is managing editor
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Israel - ‘Yes’</title>
<date>15/9/2011</date>
<content>
On November 29, 1947, the people of the future Israel were glued to the radio, listening to the United Nations vote on the partition of Palestine into a Jewish state and an Arab state. We can still hear in our collective memory the speaker announce – “Soviet Union – Yes, United States – Yes” and then the majority affirmative vote.The Jewish state, Israel, was on the brink of being reborn. The Arab states were on the brink of committing one of their gravest historical mistakes – by rejecting the resolution they in fact rejected the creation of an Arab state in Palestine, and opted for war and catastrophe. They managed to turn the Western world against them.




On September 23, 2011, another vote will take place on the partition of historical Palestine, this time between Israel and a new independent Palestinian state, the result of years of stalemate in the political peace process. The world will again vote a resounding “Yes,” with the exception of some of Israel’s best friends – the United States, Germany, perhaps the United Kingdom.It is taken for granted that Israel will vote “No,” but, while direct 
negotiations are greatly preferable, I am fully in favor of an Israeli 
September surprise, for Israel to vote “Yes.” The prime minister can 
thereafter make a speech outlining reservations regarding borders, 
security, Jerusalem etc., but to the principle of a Palestinian state we
 can, indeed we must, vote “Yes.” Otherwise, history may repeat itself. 
Only this time, we will be the rejectionists, confronted by a world 
turned against us and an American president frustrated into isolation by
 us, all for a resolution which is declarative in nature.Come September 23, Palestinians will be glued to their TV sets, rejoice,
 and then discover that nothing much has changed on the ground. Their 
frustration may turn into an uprising, probably a non-violent one. For 
once, we should use some diplomatic creativity, so rare in the age of 
Bibi-Lieberman, and turn this resolution into a resolution of principle –
 “Yes” or “No” to a Palestinian state – and an opening to direct 
negotiations on all core permanent status issues. With this we will turn
 the world, led by the United States, in our favor.Above all, “Yes” would be an honest vote, as the creation of a 
Palestinian state is very much an Israeli interest, for several reasons:
 If there is no Palestine, there will not be a democratic Israel with a 
Jewish majority. Between the sea and the Jordan River, there will be an 
Arab majority.This would turn the land into a binational state, probably without equal
 rights to Arabs. An apartheid state could never be a Jewish state.A Palestinian state would be demilitarized, as they have agreed, so that from a security point of view, this is also in our favor.In the aftermath of the Arab Spring, Arab public opinion has gained importance – specifically that of the young generation. Leaders will look to them before making decisions and this public cares deeply about the fate of the Palestinians living under occupation. If we want to promote regional security, including our relations with Egypt, we have a great self-interest in being seen as desiring a peaceful settlement with a Palestinian state.Perhaps the most important consideration in favor of a Palestinian state, however, is the moral one.Israel’s strength is not just that of its army, it is primarily a function of its values, whether universal or Jewish.We have gained our place under the sun for having developed a western, vibrant democracy, with a fundamental respect for diversity and human rights, as stated in our Declaration of Independence.Yet these values have been challenged since our great military victory in 1967. While we survived an Arab assault on our very existence, the dramatic military blitz of the Six Day War left us enamored with physical force and turned us overnight into an occupying power over a vast Palestinian population. Whatever the justifications for the 1967 war were, we have trapped ourselves, as figures such as David Ben-Gurion and Yeshayahu Leibowitz had warned, in an occupation that dangerously erodes our moral values.You cannot control the destiny and daily lives of another people without damaging severely the respect for human and civil rights, first vis-à-vis the Palestinians and subsequently also domestically. We have become the victims of our triumph. Only an independent neighbor at our side can resolve this predicament.From a socioeconomic perspective, we also have an interest in peace with a Palestinian neighbor state – the social rebellion of the young generation of Rothschild Boulevard that brought nearly half a million people to the streets demanding social justice, has an inherent correlation to the issue of peace. Without peace with a Palestinian state, the cost of the settlements and their security, and the magnitude of the general defense budget, will not allow the desired reforms.In addition, Israel is a small country which has thrived due not only to its formidable achievements but also thanks to tremendous international support. In recent years this support has been deeply eroded chiefly because the western world does not accept the ongoing occupation.We are increasingly isolated in the West, in danger of being delegitimized even in European countries.This is dangerous to our national security but redeemable, by way of a real peace process, sharing the land between two nation states.All of this does not mean that the Palestinians are a fault-free or easy partner. They have committed their share of mistakes. It also does not mean that in a peace process we do not have legitimate demands on which we must insist, such as security arrangements, west Jerusalem as our capital and the prevention of the Palestinian right of return to the State of Israel. It does however mean that we have to make courageous decisions – the first one being to support at the UN the creation in principle of a Palestinian state – to vote “Yes” on a resolution, while insisting that such a resolution lead to immediate direct negotiations, most probably on borders based on the 1967 lines.Returning by and large to these lines will, under conditions of peace, only strengthen Israel politically, militarily, socially, economically and morally. Therefore, on September 23, we must vote “Yes.”
The writer is the president of the Peres Center for Peace and served as Israel’s chief negotiator of the Oslo Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 21: Having it both ways</title>
<date>20/9/2011</date>
<content>
Having it both waysSir, – Rabbi Brian Lurie (“The new leader of the New Israel Fund,” Comment & 
Features, September 19) is disingenuous. He alleges that in its 
guidelines the NIF refuses to fund any organization that “works to deny the 
right of the Jewish people to sovereign self-determination within Israel” yet 
reaffirms it is continuing to fund Adalah and many groups with similar 
agendas.




In my column on his organization (“The two faces of the New 
Israel Fund,” Candidly Speaking, September 15), I pointed out that Adalah 
campaigned for the Goldstone report, urged foreign governments to “reevaluate 
their relationship with Israel,” described Israel as “a colonial enterprise 
promoting apartheid,” called for implementing the Palestinian right of return to 
Israel, provided affidavits to Spanish courts in order to charge Israeli 
officials with war crimes, and defended Hezbollah spy Amir Makhoul as a “human 
rights defender.”These are all documented in detail by NGO Monitor, a 
respected research organization, despite NIF’s baseless attacks, unfortunately 
repeated in Lurie’s response.Perhaps Lurie would care to explain how any 
Zionist or remotely pro-Israel body could justify providing funds to 
organizations engaged in such activities.ISI LEIBLER Jerusalem Sour 
notes Sir, – Your editorial “Overcoming gender” (September 19) is right in 
stating: “Integration of both women and religious men into the IDF’s most 
prestigious units need not lead to strife and confrontation. In most cases both 
the religious sensibilities of devout soldiers and the aspirations of women for 
professional advancement can be accommodated, provided there is good will, 
mutual respect and the restraining of religious fanaticism.”However, 
there is one desideratum that has unfortunately been omitted: the restraining of 
feminist fanaticism, in this case the insistence that male soldiers listen to 
female singing. There is no military need for this, so those who object should 
not be compelled to do so. Even if “several respected spiritual leaders 
argued... that soldiers had the option of quietly reciting Psalms or distracting 
themselves in some other way,” this is not the opinion of all rabbis, and many 
hold that a man is obliged to absent himself under such 
circumstances.Obviously, the soldiers concerned adhere to the latter 
view.Deciding on their behalf as to what is the correct religious 
behavior is no less coercive than forcing women to remove themselves from the 
front seats of a bus to accommodate male religious sensibilities.MARTIN 
D. STERN Salford, UK Sir, – The difference between mainstream religion and 
fanatic religion (in any religion) is that the latter do not have the word 
“compromise” in their vocabulary.A haredi rabbi once praised a member of 
his community for being both Orthodox and a professor.The professor, 
somewhat uncomfortable with what he considered undue praise, responded: “But 
rabbi, you must know I have to make compromises.” Whereupon the wise rabbi 
answered: “Professor, we all have to make compromises – the important thing is 
to know where to draw the line.”Knowing where to draw the line requires 
learning and sincerity and may not always be readily discernible.But the 
pragmatism of Judaism certainly includes this word in its deliberations of the 
issue discussed in your editorial.GEORGE MOSCHYTZ Jerusalem With a 
capital H Sir, – Alan Baker and Dan Diker (“The Palestinian gambit and UN 
hypocrisy,” Comment & Features, September 19) eloquently explain the truth 
and facts about how the UN always seems ready to bend its own principles and 
policies when the Palestinians are involved. Unfortunately, I could only feel 
after reading the entire article that they are basically preaching to the 
converted, since I am sure that the various nations and officials at the UN are 
well versed in the rules and regulations of the organization.I am sure 
that if the formation of a Palestinian state faced opposition from any other 
nations, including Arab countries, the UN would indeed stick to its rules like 
never before and bury the entire idea in rules, regulations and 
committees.GERSHON HARRIS Hatzor Haglilit Two-way street Sir, – Thank 
you Barry Rubin for finally pointing the finger in the right direction (“The 
failed policies of the West,” The Region, September 19). These democracies 
conveniently forget they are guarantors of the Oslo Accords, yet they have never 
criticized or threatened the PA for not implementing its first responsibility, 
namely to stop incitement and terror.Add to that the Quartet, which 
forced Israel to accept its so-called road map yet abysmally failed to ensure 
compliance by the PA. Just to remind your readers about a few lines from the 
road map’s introduction: “The following is a performance based and goal driven 
road map with clear phases, time lines, target dates and benchmarks aiming at 
progress through reciprocal steps by the two parties....”Then there is 
the heading for Phase 1: “Ending Terror and Violence....”Can anyone 
claim that even this has been adhered to by the PA? No world leaders have 
publicly reprimanded it or instituted some form of boycott because of its 
non-compliance to a signed agreement, although they have felt free to 
continuously find fault with us. So why should we trust them anymore? They seem 
eager to reward hypocrisy and deny truth and facts.Let us hope the new 
year will be blessed and bring with it some common sense, humility and an 
acknowledgement of the truth.We can but hope, but none of us should hold 
our breath! EMANUEL FISCHER Jerusalem Doesn’t get it Sir, – Readers’ letters are 
much shorter than Jeff Barak’s column (“Playing a dangerous game,” Reality 
Check, September 19), so there is no way to counter all the distortions, 
untruths and nonsequiturs he packed into almost every sentence.I really 
don’t know what the Left wants. Prime Minister Netanyahu announced a 10- month 
unilateral freeze on building in Judea and Samaria, and the Palestinians refused 
to talk for 9.5 months, cynically agreeing to a photo-op at the end. Yet it is 
Netanyahu who is accused of cynicism.We all know the Arabs could return 
to the table any time they want, so why is Israel to blame? I just don't get 
it.ANTHONY LUDER Rosh Pina Let us sleep! Sir, – “Jerusalem business 
owners charge that new zoning laws are discriminatory” (September 16) gives a 
broad stage to the business owners and others claiming it’s all those big bad 
haredim trying to curtail our freedoms, and completely ignores the possibility 
that this has nothing to do with religion and everything to do with people 
wanting to sleep at night.Sadly, more and more businesses operate in an 
inconsiderate way, completely ignoring the people living around them by causing 
noise until late at night. I have lost count of the people from various 
neighborhoods I have heard complaining that they have given up hope that the 
police or city council will enforce the law and alleviate their 
suffering.A residential area is just that – for residents and not for 
latenight partying. To say it’s all a haredi ploy is like Assad saying the 
unrest in his country is a Zionist plot.E.S. ROSENBERG Jerusalem 
CORRECTION Unlike what was reported in “Goodbye Ankara, hello Accra” (September 
15), Ghana does indeed have an embassy in Israel, at 12A Abba Hillel Street in 
Ramat Gan.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September 26: Poor suggestion</title>
<date>25/9/2011</date>
<content>
Poor suggestion Sir, – Israel is fortunate that no present or future government 
would follow the suggestion of Caroline B. Glick to annex the whole of Judea and 
Samaria (“Israel’s path to victory,” Column One, September 23).




Glick 
claims that this would not preclude a future peace settlement.She loses 
sight of the fact that by such annexation, all Palestinians would automatically 
be entitled to full citizenship.Failure to allow this would, indeed, 
convert Israel to a true apartheid state, which nobody in the rest of the world 
would accept.Wise Palestinians would accept all the benefits of Israeli 
citizenship, and thereafter, in the foreseeable future, their numbers would 
enable them to reach a majority in Israel. This would soon be followed by a 
tragedy for the Jews.MONTY M. ZION Tel Mond Diplomatic malpractice Sir, 
– Uri Savir’s rationale for supporting the creation of a Palestinian state gives 
the reader a feeling of having fallen into a time warp (“October opportunity or 
autumn tsunami?,” Savir’s Corner, September 23).The exact same reasons 
were given for supporting the 1993 Oslo agreement, which resulted in an ongoing 
reign of terror that has cost lives and maimed thousands of Jews and Arabs, and 
in increasing uncertainty regarding Israel’s diplomatic 
position.Publicizing his thoughts on how Israel should conduct relations 
with its neighbors is equivalent to a health column written by a quack whose 
patients have died under his care.JAY SHAPIRO Karnei Shomron Change is 
good Sir, – While not all of us are happy that change is on the horizon, change 
will eventually come.There is no difference between what happened in 
1948 at the UN to what is happening now at the UN with the bid for a Palestinian 
state. When will we all open our eyes and accept that change is good? We must 
not stop progress.Why hinder this state? Let it grow, let it blossom, 
just like the State of Israel did in 1948.I travel every year to Israel 
and have accepted it. Eventually, all Israelis will accept Palestine. Let it be 
now.SULTAN SARSOUR Winston-Salem, North Carolina Election year love Sir, 
– Former US congressman Robert Wexler’s apologia for President Barack Obama 
(“Defending Obama’s pro-Israel credentials, Comment & Features, September 
22) is full of half-truths, but the height of its deception relies on Obama’s 
recent role in the rescue of our six embassy personnel in Cairo.Yes, we 
are truly grateful that they were not killed. However, let’s not forget that it 
was Obama who threw Hosni Mubarak under the bus and championed the Arab Spring, 
which is now rapidly turning into an Islamic Winter in which the West loses 
Egypt.Had Obama not risen to the challenge during the sacking of our 
embassy, his stark failures in the Middle East would have been all the more 
focused. As the economy in America slides ever more quickly into a second 
recession, he needs some small measure of success to trumpet to his fading 
Jewish donors.While we may for the moment be coincidental political 
bedfellows, let’s not lose sight of the fact that most of Obama’s prior actions 
suggest he would toss us in the same direction he did the former Egyptian 
president.CHAIM A. ABRAMOWITZ Jerusalem Sir, – History works in unusual 
ways and there is often a direct link between events that seem 
unrelated.Even the most prescient pundit could not have foreseen the 
connection between the prurient behavior of an obscure American congressman and 
the unusually pro-Israel speech made by President Barack Obama last week at the 
United Nations (“Obama at UN declares ‘no shortcuts’ to peace,” September 
22).Democratic congressman Anthony Weiner of New York’s ninth 
congressional district was forced to resign because of salacious behavior. His 
district has a large Jewish constituency. In the special election held two weeks 
ago to replace Weiner, the Republican candidate won a seat held by the 
Democratic Party for more than 80 years.This sent an alarming message to 
Obama, who has been in campaign mode since assuming office. The message, among 
other things, is that his treatment of Israel may cost him a large share of the 
Jewish vote and reduce contributions to his campaign by Jewish 
donors.His initial response to this alarm was seen and heard in his 
speech at the UN. His attitude toward Israel during the coming election year 
will undoubtedly continue to be a reflection of electoral realities rather than 
his basic beliefs and sympathies.RUTH ROSENBERG Jerusalem Maybe he means 
it Sir, – Unfortunately, Palestinian Authority head Mahmoud Abbas shows how far 
removed he is from reality if he seriously thought US President Barack Obama was 
not serious when indicating he was against any move by the PA to get the UN to 
recognize Palestinian statehood now.We Israelis must now seriously 
consider the state of Abbas’s mental health if the PA leader is so enwrapped in 
his own extraordinary notion of driving a coach and horses through all accepted 
principles of international law that he is unable or unwilling to understand 
Obama’s plain English.PETER SIMPSON Jerusalem No such games Sir, – 
Speaking on behalf of the Anti-Defamation League, I can unequivocally say that 
Isi Leibler is totally mistaken when he suggests that American Jewish 
organizations have become reluctant to criticize American policies toward Israel 
(“The silence of American Jewish leaders,” Candidly Speaking, September 
22).When necessary, we have not hesitated to speak out, such as when the 
Obama administration focused on Israeli settlements or when it was implied that 
Israel was harming American interests.What really seems to bother 
Leibler is that an American Jewish organization would at any point say something 
positive about the administration.The truth is, we do not have the 
luxury to just be critics.America is too important to Israel to play 
such games. So when America interceded to prevent a disaster at the embassy in 
Cairo, we praised the administration. When the US openly indicated it would veto 
the unilateral declaration of the Palestinians at the Security Council, we 
commended it.There are those on the Left who never criticize the 
administration and those on the Right who never have anything good to say. We at 
the ADL cannot and will not fall into either position.The relationship 
is too serious to play such games.ABRAHAM H. FOXMAN New York The writer 
is national director of the ADL Change of address Sir, – Regarding “MK Tibi 
posts photos with PA delegation following ethics complaint,” September 21), 
which country on earth (except Israel) would tolerate a member of parliament 
consorting with and advising that country’s enemy? MK Ahmed Tibi, whom Israeli 
television and radio take great pains to interview frequently, was born and 
educated in Israel.Yet he was an adviser to Yasser Arafat and is now 
extremely visible as PA President Mahmoud Abbas’s companion.
Isn’t it 
time Tibi is made to forgo the salary and benefits he receives from Israel and 
move permanently to Ramallah? 

SONYA FEDERMAN 

Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>September should be a season for change</title>
<date>24/8/2011</date>
<content>
Winston Churchill once said that the further backward one looks, the further 
forward one can see. His advice should be heeded as September’s UN events 
approach. The questions of General Assembly recognition of Palestinian 
independence and the Durban III conference are an opportunity to examine the 
events of the past decade that foreshadowed these moments.Ten years ago, 
the delegitimization campaign against Israel was boosted by the UN World 
Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa. Some 1,500 NGOs united to 
adopt a political war plan against Israel. They produced a document that 
“declare[d] Israel as a racist, apartheid state in which Israel’s brand of 
apartheid [is] a crime against humanity” and “call[ed] upon the international 
community to impose a policy of complete and total isolation of Israel as an 
apartheid state.” They also attempted to reinstitute the “Zionism=racism” 
resolution, which had rightly been repealed in 1991.




The anti-Semitic 
rhetoric and inflammatory call to action were surprising. But equally as 
shocking – particularly at a conference meant to fight racism – was what the 
document omitted.There was no call to build mutual understanding between 
Israelis and Palestinians, no charge to take steps to foster coexistence, and no 
implementation of programs – business, cultural or other – that would lead to 
practical changes in how Israelis and Palestinians perceive one another. 
Similarly there was no call to build Palestinian society and infrastructure, or 
to take tangible steps to achieve a state living in peace with Israel. No, the 
sole focus was on strategies to delegitimize Israel.This September’s 
events will continue this Durban legacy. Now, as then, it is driven by 
NGOs.For example, Al-Haq, a Ramallah-based organization, has admitted 
that the goals are increased political attacks against Israel, not recognition 
of a Palestinian state. In a “legal brief” about the forthcoming initiatives, 
Al-Haq writes: “The issue at stake in the context of the ‘September initiatives’ 
is not statehood as such, but a strategy to strengthen Palestine’s position in 
the international legal order... by bringing international claims 
[sic].”In his anti-Israel (as opposed to pro-Palestinian) May 16 New 
York Times op-ed, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas echoed this 
approach: “Palestine’s admission to the United Nations would pave the way for 
the internationalization of the conflict as a legal matter. It would also pave 
the way for us to pursue claims against Israel at the United Nations, human 
rights treaty bodies and the International Court of Justice.”The Durban 
strategy defined the tactics and goals that Abbas and Al-Haq are pursuing this 
September. They are primarily concerned with isolating Israel and 
perpetuating the conflict.Along with Al-Haq, other anti-Israel advocacy 
NGOs, such as the Palestinian Center for Human Rights (PCHR), perfected this 
strategy. They devoted extensive funding from foreign governments to promote 
bogus legal cases against Israeli officials. At the same time, the most vocal 
proponents of the Durban strategy, including BADIL and PCHR, support a 
“onestate” solution and reject two-state proposals such as the Road Map for 
Peace and the Arab Peace Initiative.The various elements of the Durban 
strategy are linked by the nefarious goal of destroying Israel – from the NGOs 
that promote boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS), to those that invoke the 
false claims of “apartheid” and “ethnic cleansing.” To reverse this trend, the 
Durban strategy must give way to a new era. Instead of flotillas, the 
Goldstone Report, lawfare cases and calls for BDS – none of which would exist 
without NGOs – NGOs should hold international conferences that promote a 
two-state solution. A core component of these efforts would be recognition of 
Israel’s right to exist.Ten years ago, NGOs abused a United Nations 
framework and squandered an opportunity to promote peace and universal human 
rights. A declaration based on those principles would have fostered an 
environment conducive to eliminating demonetization. But, of course, that did not 
occur. As a result, September 2011 will see two events that, if anything, make a 
negotiated, two-state solution seem farther away now than it was in 
2001.
The writer is managing editor for NGO Monitor, a Jerusalem-based 
research institution dedicated to promoting universal human rights and 
encouraging civil discussion on the reports and activities of nongovernmental 
organizations, particularly in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sinai Today: Apartheid lies and the war of words</title>
<date>25/11/2011</date>
<content>
One of the worst modern libels against the Jewish people and the Jewish state is 
that Israel is guilty of apartheid. The latest manifestation of the apartheid 
lie was the so-called Russell Tribunal, which recently convened in Cape Town to 
put Israel on trial for “apartheid crimes.”The Russell Tribunal itself 
is a lie, and epitomizes the lie of the apartheid accusation against Israel. The 
word “tribunal” implies a judicial process. For a body to be called a tribunal 
it must conform to the most fundamental principles of justice: have impartial 
assessors and both sides presenting their case. This “tribunal” had neither; it 
was merely a conference of the like-minded, expressing their well known and 
one-sided condemnation of Israel.




All of the assessors had previously 
expressed their anti-Israel rhetoric, only one view was presented, and the 
pre-ordained verdict was delivered at a well-publicized press conference, the 
culmination of the event’s theatrics.How should Israel and Jews around 
the world respond? Many take the view that we should ignore such outlandish 
accusations. Some are guided by the philosophy of prime minister David 
Ben-Gurion, who said: “It doesn’t matter what the gentiles say, but what the 
Jews do.”This approach is wrong.“The Torah speaks in the 
language of tomorrow,” said Rabbi Mordechai Pinchas Teitz of Elizabeth, New 
Jersey. We turn to our Torah’s prescient and eternal principles to contend with 
any challenge.Judaism is not only about religious services, it is also 
G-d’s blue-print for every aspect of life and society, for all times and 
places.What is the Torah’s approach to the modern State of Israel’s 
foreign policy? The Talmud says that “ways of peace” must be the guiding 
principle of our dealings with the nations of the world and that eivah, hatred, 
toward Jews potentially causes physical danger.Obviously, the almost 
super-natural persistence of anti-Semitism cannot be blamed on Jewish behavior, 
but it is this very reality that obligates extra measures to mitigate its 
effect.Anything which can generate such high levels of hatred triggers 
the halachic principle of pikuach nefesh (saving life), which takes priority 
over almost all mitzvot. Pikuach nefesh clearly applies today to Israel’s 
reputation among the nations of the world.For example, military 
decisions which directly jeopardize the safety of Israeli soldiers and civilians 
are influenced by public relations considerations. Israel’s poor image also 
poses a physical threat to Jews around the world. Whenever there is an increase 
in tension and hostility in the Middle East with its attendant negative 
publicity, there is an increase in anti-Semitic incidents worldwide, many of 
which endanger lives.The apartheid lie, in particular, poses an 
existential threat to Israel. Like any South African who lived through the 
anti-apartheid sanctions campaign, especially during the 1980s, I saw first-hand 
how the morale of the National Party regime and its supporters was drastically 
weakened. Sanctions damaged the economy, but also humiliated white South 
Africans.As trivial as it sounds, even the embarrassment of the boycott 
of international music celebrities and sports teams had a detrimental effect on 
the white population’s will to continue. And that was at a time when South 
Africa faced no military threat. Such an international campaign against Israel 
could, G-d forbid, seriously undermine the will of Israelis to risk their lives 
in defense of a perceived pariah state. The stakes could not be 
higher.There is another halachic principle guiding us: the mitzva of 
kiddush Hashem, sanctifying G-d’s name, which mandates promoting the truth of 
Torah and the reputation of the Jewish people and of Hashem.The 
apartheid accusation – the reincarnation of the disgraceful United Nations 
“Zionism is Racism” Resolution of 1975 – is a hillul Hashem, a desecration of 
G-d’s name, because it seeks to bring the Jewish people into disrepute in the 
most fundamental way, striking at the heart of our core values. It accuses the 
Jewish people of desecrating one of the founding principles of creation: that, 
in the words of the Mishna (Pirke Avot 3:18), “Beloved is the human being 
created in G-d’s image.”It is our Torah which gave the world the very 
notion of equality and dignity, as the famous Catholic historian Paul Johnson 
wrote: “To [the Jews] we owe the idea of equality before the law, both divine 
and human; of the sanctity of life and the dignity of the human person; of the 
individual conscience and so of social responsibility; of peace as an abstract 
ideal and love as the foundation of justice and many other items which 
constitute the basic moral furniture of the human mind. Without the Jews it 
might have been a much emptier place.”Johnson errs in ascribing these 
insights to the Jews themselves; Jewish law’s righteousness comes from its 
Divine origins, as the Torah says, “And which is a great nation that has 
righteous statutes and laws such as this entire Torah that I place before you 
this day?” (Deuteronomy 4:8) The government of Israel and Jews around the world 
must embrace our Torah duty and redouble our efforts in responding to defamatory 
accusations. We must never underestimate how very powerful and dangerous 
lies can be. As Joseph Goebbels said, “If you repeat a lie often enough it 
becomes the truth.”Although the apartheid defamation is outrageously 
false, we cannot leave it unchallenged. Throughout our history the most 
outlandish lies have become true in the minds of the masses, and have caused 
terrible atrocities. What could be more ridiculous than the blood libels of 
Europe? Yet this did not make them any less dangerous. The apartheid and racism 
accusation is nothing short of a modern blood libel.Many Diaspora 
communities have joined the battle to defend the reputation of Israel. I am 
proud of the South African Jewish community’s sterling work in this regard, most 
recently in discrediting the Russell Tribunal. But the ultimate responsibility 
rests on the Israeli government, which must harness the full might of its 
strategic, financial and human resources to fight the battle of defending 
Israel’s reputation. It is a halachic imperative, and the Torah’s principles 
must be applied in crafting truly Jewish policies governing Israel’s 
diplomacy.There is much fertile ground for anti-Semitism in the world 
and the odds in the public relations battle we must wage seem overwhelmingly 
against us. But the many military battles Israel has fought and won have been no 
less daunting and yet this tiny country has over many decades, with G-d’s help, 
established itself as one of the world’s strongest military 
powers.Israel needs to invest the same kind of financial, human and 
strategic resources and brainpower in establishing the world’s best diplomatic 
army to defend Israel’s reputation and especially to fight the current 
international boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign, which poses an 
existential threat to the future of the Jewish state and endangers Jews 
everywhere.Our enemies understand all of this, which is why they invest 
so much time, money and effort in the campaign.How ironic that the 
Jewish state has won the war of guns and tanks, but hopelessly lost the war of 
words and ideas. We cannot accept defeat in the war of diplomacy and public 
relations; for without victory in this arena, the military battle can never 
truly be won and the Jewish state and Jews around the world can never truly be 
safe.A Jewish state needs a Jewish foreign policy. The time has come to 
move away from the philosophy of David Ben-Gurion and go back to our Torah 
philosophy of how to engage with the world, guided by the mitzva of pikuach 
nefesh and “ways of peace,” preventing hatred and promoting the cause of truth, 
and performing a true kiddush Hashem.
The writer is chief rabbi of South 
Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: Baseless hatred of the haredim</title>
<date>10/8/2011</date>
<content>
One of the central messages of Tisha Be’av, which took place yesterday, is the 
consequences of Sinat Hinam or baseless hatred. During the period of the Second 
Temple Jews quarreled so much among themselves that it brought ruin upon the 
Jewish people.Today, with the housing protests that have swept the 
country, it is worthwhile to pause and ponder one type of baseless hatred that 
is often not acknowledged: hatred of the Ultra-Orthodox or haredi 
community.




The savage hatred of haredim comes in many forms. It begins 
with the things people say; how the haredim are “parasites” who don’t pay taxes 
and don’t go to the army, that they beat their wives and create a “mini- Tehran” 
in their communities, that they are dirty, smelly “dosim” and that they 
“infiltrate” the wonderful utopian secular neighborhoods. Oh, and of course, 
they are ignorant donkeys who hate Zionism and are intolerant of homosexuals, 
Arabs and blacks.This hate is on display everywhere in symbolic 
acts.Swastikas sprayed on a synagogue in Kfar Yona, where the secular 
residents fear a haredi “takeover”. The Eruv (wire surrounding a religious 
community that allows them to carry items on Shabbat) is cut in Kiryat Yovel by 
self-proclaimed secular resistance fighters. The huge signs erected by Meretz 
during its campaign for Jerusalem city council in 2008 that read “End the 
Haredization of Jerusalem.” A student at Hebrew University does doctoral work 
analyzing how the haredim invaded Kiryat Yovel, as if anyone can imagine an open 
minded university sponsoring the work of someone wanting to analyze how Arabs 
“took over” the Wolfson neighborhood in Acre.THE HATRED of the haredi 
population is greatest among those who preach tolerance. Meretz, a far left 
political party, campaigns to end the haredi infiltration of Jerusalem’s secular 
bastions, but at the same time it complains of racism when Jews don’t want Arabs 
moving into Pisgat Zeev. Righteous people denounce the “acceptance committee 
law” that allows small communities to reject applicants, but the same people 
don’t seem to mind if a secular community opposes haredim moving to the area 
simply because they might change the character of the neighborhood. There was an 
outcry in the country when Rabbis signed a letter asking people not to rent 
apartments to Arabs in Safed, but there is no outcry among the ‘civil rights’ 
lobby when Ram Fruman created the Forum for Secular Communities, whose sole goal 
is to prevent haredi people from moving to “secular” areas. Fruman says “Our 
association works on two levels – at the local level, in sharing experience, 
knowledge and resources; and at the national level, in creating a political 
lobby that can take the lead with public action.” One imagines if the haredim 
just disguised themselves as Arabs they would be welcomed by the “open minded” 
secular elites and their rights to move where they want would be defended at the 
highest levels.The hatred of the haredi population transcends all 
political and ethnic groups in Israel; Arabs, leftists, the national religious, 
free market liberals, even Ethiopians, all have a generally visceral dislike for 
the black hat.Nechamia Stressler, the usually level headed columnist at 
Haaretz says they offer only “rotten goods, rife with ignorance, superstition.” 
Ron Huldai, mayor of Tel Aviv, described them as “aloof and ignorant people who 
are growing at an alarming rate.” Yuval Tumarkin, artist and winner of the 
Israel Prize, once said “when one sees the haredim one understands why there was 
a Holocaust.”HAREDIM KNOW they are hated. Aharon Yakter, who lives in 
Bnei Brak, recalls that “I grew up near Sheinkin street in Tel Aviv until the 
age of 18. They never yelled 'dos' back then.” But nowadays if a hated haredi 
shows his face on the trendy street the secular community would feel no qualms 
about banding together to oppose the “infiltration.” Every Israeli should be 
ashamed that they speak of the haredim the way they do. There is nothing 
honorable in denying religious Jews the ability to live where they 
want.The myths used to justify baseless hatred of the haredim are 
legion. One accuses them of not going to the army, but there are an equal number 
of secular draft dodgers as there are haredi ones, and the secular draft dodgers 
aren’t forced to attend Yeshiva in lieu of army service. Yet we don’t call the 
secular population “parasites.”The student unions and other social 
organizations rail against funding for Yeshiva students, but that funding, about 
NIS 135 million for 13,000 students in 2010, provides less than $250 a month to 
the religious students, similar or less than most secular student 
scholarships.The student union complains about equality, but the reality 
is that the secular public drains the state’s coffers and drinks at the same 
trough as the haredi public.And what about hatred of the state, do 
certain haredi groups (i.e Neturei Karta) hate the state at a greater rate than, 
say, university lecturers in the Cohn Institute of History and Philosophy at Tel 
Aviv University? At least the haredi public is not at the forefront of all the 
‘human rights’ organizations that support boycotts and accuse the country of 
apartheid.BASELESS HATRED didn’t disappear this Tisha Be’av, but it is 
essential that, at least every once in a while, people search their souls and 
ask why they acquiesce so easily to canards about the ultra-orthodox community 
and statements made against it. The haredim aren’t angels, and their community 
is not a utopia, but then again, neither are any of the communities in Israel. 
Recognizing that as a starting point will increase tolerance, for the 
better.
The writer has a PhD from Hebrew University, and is a fellow at 
the Jerusalem Institute for Market Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: Deathly silence</title>
<date>1/2/2011</date>
<content>
In coming years we will all be treated to the “expert” opinion of Western 
academics that the Egyptian dictatorship was propped up by the West, and that 
any rise of the Muslim Brotherhood was the “fault” of the US and Israel. Before 
that happens, it should be recalled that whatever support the West provided 
Egypt’s government, that collaboration was matched by the Western academy, which 
has consistently turned a blind eye to tyranny in the Middle East. If the 
academy and its democracy-loving humanists truly supported democracy, they would 
have long ago stopped shipping legions of students to these countries, and 
stopped propping up institutions in the Middle East.Over the decade I’ve 
spent at university, there doesn’t seem to have been a dictatorship where 
students didn’t want to study. Colleagues ventured to Yemen, Egypt, Syria and 
Morocco to learn Arabic and Middle Eastern studies. They joined the Peace 
Corps to work in Jordan. They rarely questioned the regimes in which they had 
chosen to study.




RELATED:


Terra Incognita: Hebronites at the gate Terra Incognita: Corporate world's new marketing strategy Terra Incognita: Pre-Islamic but retained by Islam In Jordan, my friend hid her Star of David necklace so 
as not to “offend” the local people she was “aiding.” In Yemen, another friend 
donned the burka to “blend” in to that culture. In one weird incident, American 
students at the American University in Cairo played dress up; one girl was the 
“Zionist entity” and the other students dressed as Hamas.COLLABORATION 
WITH the regimes’ dictators was par for the course. One champion of study abroad 
is the Center for Arabic Study Abroad (CASA), which maintains relations with 36 
universities and colleges in the US. In 2009-2010 the program received 162 
applicants, of which 39 received tuition-sponsored fellowships. Under the 
website’s “Frequently Asked Questions,” there are no questions alluding to the 
fact that study-abroad destinations are brutal dictatorships. The fact that 
local women are killed for ‘honor,’ or that recent studies showed 83 percent of 
Egyptian women report being sexually harassed in public was not part of the 
information provided to prospective candidates.According to CASA’s 
annual report on Syria, its “cultural program... introduce[ s] students to the 
host culture and help[s] them interact with Syrians.” As part of the 
Syrian program there were field trips, visits to the cinema and meetings with 
actors. There was even a “student-led debate,” although it didn’t touch on 
politics but rather modern Arabic literary texts.The list of 
participants in the program include highly qualified students from elite 
institutions; Georgetown, Yale and Harvard. So why is it that the best students 
in Middle Eastern studies are happy to drink dictatorial Kool- Aid in Damascus 
and Cairo? The answer the universities will provide is that it is best to study 
Arabic and the Middle East in the Middle East. There is no doubt about that. But 
the troubling aspect is whether the students who go to these countries ever 
question the abuses that are the daily fare there.In her book The Bread 
of Angels, Stephanie Saldana described study in Damascus. She was taken 
aback, as I am, by the odd popularity of these dictatorships with American 
Jewish students. No matter that Syria suppresses its Jewish community, Saldana 
recalled, “there are so many [American] Jewish foreigners studying in Damascus 
that they may as well open their own yeshiva.”They all hide their 
Jewishness, of course.Rachel Levine, another Jewish woman who studied in 
Syria, recalled that “speaking with Syrian nationals about visits to Israel, 
tuning in to radio stations from the other side of the border or speaking Hebrew 
are all ill-advised.”Saldana mentions in her book: “I’m tired of 
wondering which shopkeeper is watching me for the secret police. I just want 
something resembling a carefree day.”IN OCTOBER, Morocco expelled Al 
Jazeera (Egypt has now followed suit) from the country. Morocco didn’t ban it 
for collaborating with terrorists, but rather for “irresponsible” reporting. It 
turns out the Qatar-based station had “tarnished Morocco’s image, downplaying 
its achievements in development, infrastructure projects, democracy and human 
rights.” It had “reported critically on poverty in Morocco and on its policies 
in the Western Sahara [occupied by Morocco in 1975].”Western media, like 
the BBC and New York Times, know better than to go off the beaten track; they 
report that Morocco is a beacon of progress. Western- educated university 
students do the same as they are funneled in by programs at the universities of 
Montana, Kentucky and Georgia.The SIT Study Abroad, which Brandeis 
offers its students, is “based in the cosmopolitan city of Rabat, [where] 
students study Arabic and acquire an indepth appreciation of a rich and rapidly 
changing society in Morocco.”And to make sure the students don’t 
experience the fate of the Qatari journalists, they learn about “contemporary 
development challenges.”Suffice it to say, the students aren’t going to 
the Western Sahara to ask about Morocco’s colonization of that 
country.Likewise, the overthrow of the Tunisian dictator should remind 
us all of the blinders that our academic society has long worn regarding 
dictatorships in the Middle East. In August 2008 the International Geographical 
Union held its international conference in Tunis. Amid the festivities there was 
no inkling that the thousands of academics from around the world were being 
duped by a thuggish regime. You wouldn’t have known it either from the panel 
discussions at the conference, the field trips or back at the 
hotels. There wasn’t one discussion among the leading academics about the 
fact that this was a dictatorship.But this isn’t surprising. Academics 
who preach about democracy at home in Europe, the US or Israel tend to have no 
hesitation about travelling to countries whose rulers do not share their 
political outlook. Consider the widespread Western academic collaboration with 
the United Arab Emirates. George Mason University, Michigan State, 
Harvard Medical School and Boston University all maintain satellite campuses 
there.The UAE is a vile dictatorship, an apartheid country where only 
the 19% who are of Arab-Emirati descent have citizenship, and where millions of 
foreign workers are forced to slave in substandard conditions building a 
playground for wealthy Europeans and Saudis. These workers are housed in “work 
camps” outside the major cities, their passports confiscated, and kept 
conveniently out of the way so that no one must be bothered by their 
presence.My friends who visited the Gulf related that local Emiratis brag about running 
over Indian and Pakistani foreign workers for fun, or beating their maids. In 
one of the more heinous reports related by the BBC, a Sri Lankan maid was 
tortured for months by her employer, who hammered nails into her body. A survey 
by Colombo University found that a quarter of the 600,000 Sri Lankan women who 
work as maids abroad had been beaten and raped and/or not received payment. At 
one employment agency, “the maids are advised not to run away from their 
employer if they encounter problems, but to maintain a positive 
attitude.”Western universities have maintained that same brainwashed 
positive attitude.
The writer has a PhD from Hebrew University and is a 
fellow at the Jerusalem Institute for Market Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: The decline of the Israel Prize</title>
<date>15/3/2011</date>
<content>
How low did things have to get so that the Israel Prize – the country’s highest 
civilian honor – is routinely awarded to people who feel outright contempt for 
their fellow citizens? One was reminded of this last week, when it was revealed 
that singer Yehoram Gaon had said of Mizrahi music: “It’s rubbish that even the 
devil didn’t create.”His comments were tame compared to those by prize 
laureate Natan Zach, who last year described Sephardi Jews as cave dwellers on 
national television.




Since its inception in 1953, the prize has been 
awarded to individuals in a variety of categories such as culture, sciences, the 
humanities and special contributions to the nation. Over the years more annual 
prizes have been awarded (14 in 2010), for a total of 633. Several people 
received the prize twice, and one – architect Ram Karmi – was the brother and 
son of recipients. Beginning in the 1990s, numerous anti-Israel people have 
received the prize.Controversy began in 1992, when the Arab nationalist 
and communist Emile Habibi received the prize. The nomination caused scientist 
Yuval Neeman to return his.Awarding the prize to people who don’t like 
Israel was inaugurated by education minister Shulamit Aloni in 1992 (she also 
received the prize in 2000). Aloni has declared that this is an apartheid state 
in the online magazine Counterpunch (January, 2007). She compared Yitzhak Rabin 
to Mussolini in 1989 and Binyamin Netanyahu to Joseph Goebbels in 
1999.The next controversial person to almost receive it was Yeshayahu 
Leibowitz, the philosophy professor who called this a “Judeo-Nazi” state. 
However, he declined the prize.In 1997 the prize was almost awarded to 
Ma’ariv columnist Shmuel Shnitzer, who had written an article in 1994 entitled 
“Importing Death” (sometimes translated as “Importing Blood”), in which he 
argued that Ethiopian Jews were “thousands of apostates carrying dangerous 
diseases.” His nomination was only blocked by the High 
Court.Aloni was given the prize in 2000 by her Meretz Party colleague 
Yossi Sarid when he was serving as education minister. No one asked whether 
there was a conflict of interest. In 2003 the prize was awarded to artist Moshe 
Gershoni, who refused to accept it because he didn’t want to shake hands with 
prime minister Ariel Sharon or education minister Limor Livnat.In 2004 
Yuval Tumarkin, a sculptor, received the prize. Tumarkin described 
religious Jews as “a mob... [of] primitives and monkeys... When one sees the 
haredim, one understands why there was a Holocaust.” Moroccan Jews were 
“descended from a nation of primitive parasites.”In 2005 Alex Levac, 
famed photographer of the bus 300 affair, received the prize. He said after that 
“although the prize was given to me by the officialdom, they are not the ones 
who choose me” – an apparent reference to his respect for the cultured members 
of the selection committee. He accepted his prize despite his revulsion at the 
“officials” who gave it to him.Prof. Ze’ev Sternhell received the prize 
in 2008 despite a 2001 column in Haaretz in which he suggested that “there is no 
doubt about the legitimacy of armed resistance in the territories themselves. If 
the Palestinians had a little sense, they would concentrate their struggle 
against the settlements... and refrain from planting bombs west of the Green 
Line.”NOT EVERYONE has stood silently by while the prizes were given to 
Israel-haters. Writer Carol Novis compared rewarding a prize to unsavory 
characters to appreciating Wagner, who was a great artist and a bad man. Uri 
Avnery went further, arguing that those who stirred controversy by getting the 
prize should be happy not to receive it, for the real prize is that they are 
moral people standing against the state. Jerusalem Post columnist Jonathan 
Rosenblum condemned the continuing awarding of the prize to intolerant 
individuals. But this misses the point.Is Israel so bereft of good and 
brilliant people that none can be found who has contributed greatly to arts and 
culture and who doesn’t describe Jews as “apes” or compare Jewish politicians to 
Nazis? Why did Aloni receive the prize but not Shimon Peres or Menahem Porush? 
Perhaps when it comes to the latter it is because the prize has almost never 
been awarded to a religious Jew (let alone a Sephardi one).Jews from 
Muslim countries make up a third of the population, yet, by my own estimate, 
only about 2 percent of Israel Prizes have gone to them. Unfortunately, the 
prize is generally awarded to people from a very narrow, selfappointed elite. In 
these circles it seems that comments about Sephardim being “from caves” and 
haredim being “monkeys” are acceptable. No member of this elite seems to recall 
which culture produced the Holocaust.YUVAL NEEMAN was right to return 
the prize; it has become, like some Groucho Marx joke, a club to which one would 
not want to belong.The fact that people like Zach are only “outed” as 
racists years after receiving the prize doesn’t say much. If they describe 
Sephardim as cave-dwellers on national television, what do they do in private? 
If they write in a major paper that Ethiopian Jews are disease-ridden, what 
curses must they hurl in the company of friends? And it’s not about “freedom of 
speech.” The freedom of Zach and Tumarkin to hate other Jews is not in question; 
they are welcome to wallow in their sewer of hate. It’s just that a sewer 
shouldn’t deserve an award for being the best cesspool on the block.
The 
writer has a PhD from Hebrew University, and is a fellow at the Jerusalem 
Institute for Market Studies.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The apartheid analogy: Lessons for Israel</title>
<date>20/2/2011</date>
<content>
“Apartheid,” today's  prime stigmatic code-word for racist evil, has
become a potent weapon for delegitimizing and demonizing Israel,
especially since it evokes the precedent of powerful external pressure
in the form of boycott and sanctions as was applied against the
apartheid regime in South Africa. Hence, in the propaganda war against
Israel an equation is fabricated insidiously between the present State
of Israel and the former apartheid state of South Africa.
This must be exposed as a malicious slander, and
utterly refuted. It is also a crass abuse of the valuable lessons that
might be learned from the odious apartheid experience of South Africa.
There is no objective basis whatsoever for attributing to Israel the
ideology, policies and praxis that were known as apartheid in South
Africa. The historical context of white-black relations which spawned
apartheid differs fundamentally from that in which conflict developed
between Zionist Jews and Palestinian Arabs. 
The essence of Israel's conflict situation has always been a clash of
nationalisms; ultimately over the question of who should have primacy
in gaining national self-determination in a contested territory. By
contrast, the South African conflict evolved out of a centuries-long,
near absolute domination exercised by a self-defined racial minority
(the whites) over an externally-defined racial majority of the
population, which was denied equal civic rights, above all the primary
democratic right, enjoyed exclusively by the whites, to elect and be
elected to the legislature and government of the state. The Afrikaans
term “apartheid” originated during the 1940s to describe an ideological
conception and political program that justified, systematized,
reinforced and expanded this pre-existent system of racial
discrimination and separation.


What justified the utter excoriation of apartheid? From a moral point
of view, it must be stressed that what was so abhorrent about apartheid
as to justify sanctions and boycotts of South Africa, was neither its
undemocratic nature nor the severe repression of all resistance, the
likes of which could be found abundantly in many other countries
plagued by severe ethnic conflict. Rather, valid world condemnation
targeted two indefensible wrongs: firstly, the legalized racist basis
of apartheid’s enforced inequalities; secondly the adamant refusal of
the apartheid regime to cease its unilateral dictates and accept the
option of negotiation. Of course, an essential condition for such
negotiation was not only the willingness of the dominator to dismantle
the apartheid regime but also the willingness of the dominated majority
not to resort to reverse domination. When the statesmanship of both
Frederik Willem de Klerk and Nelson Mandela ensured that these
conditions were satisfied, condemnations of the South African state and
boycotts and sanctions against it rightly ceased. 


Manifestly, neither of the above-mentioned wrongs applies in the case
of Israel. Israel’s democratic praxis certainly has faults and moral
failings. But apartheid they are not. Any conscionable person, who has
lived (as I have) in both apartheid South Africa and Israel, knows
this. Only hostile prejudice or rank ignorance can explain the charge
that in Israel, as in apartheid South Africa, it is skin color or any
statutory race classification that determines every aspect of one's
human and civic rights  from birth to death: whether one has the right
to vote and be elected or not, live or work in one place or other,
study in one institution or other, have one occupation or other, be
treated in one hospital or other, eat in one restaurant or another, go
to the theater, sit on a particular park bench or ride in a particular 
bus.


As for refusal to negotiate a settlement, no Israeli government, not
even the present hyper-nationalist one headed by Binyamin Netanyahu,
has refused this option. Self-evidently, the boycott campaign is aimed
less at ending the occupation than at ending the State of Israel
itself. 


There is, however, a sense in which the South African case is
instructively comparable to that of Israel. It relates to the reality
of Israel's decades long occupation regime over the post-war militarily
occupied territory known as the West Bank, or in Jewish tradition as
Judea and Samaria. No military occupation can be morally benign and
this one is undeniably no exception. Manifestly, its paramount tasks
are not only to administer the region but especially to protect the
Jewish settler population as well as the security of Israel proper. It
fosters Jewish settlement while subjecting the Palestinian majority to
a wide range of administrative and legal discrimination and hardship,
including the severely damaging effects of sections of the security
barrier, and limitations on freedom of movement and housing
development. Arbitrary military suppression of resistance is
ameliorated or stemmed only by the Israeli political system's inbuilt
democratic inhibitions, especially interventions by Israel's Supreme
Court, and monitoring by Israeli human rights associations. 


Thus it is that the everyday reality of governance, work, protest and
suppression in the occupied territory looks a lot like South Africa
under apartheid, especially when depicted on TV screens, mostly
tendentiously and devoid of context. Yet, no matter how morally
deplorable, this is not apartheid: it simply is not the same
phenomenon. If one is to draw lessons, Israel's occupation regime is
equally comparable to the situation in any number of other cases of
post-war occupation or ethnic domination in deeply divided and
conflict-ridden countries, not least of all in the Arab world.


If, however, one does choose to make South Africa the comparative
model,  it is important to know that, in the course of the apartheid
regime's evolvement, the strategic goal of white ethnic supremacy
acquired a rationale that professed to be independent of racist
premises. Its proponents were a stratum of Afrikaner intelligentsia and
clergy (known at the time as verligtes, meaning "enlightened ones") who
spoke of "separate development" and sought to undo the racist
underpinning of apartheid policy by discarding its "petty apartheid"
manifestations, such as legalized prohibition of any inter-race
intimacy and racial separation of public amenities. The revised
rationale was survivalist; born of the whites’ conviction that this was
a zero-sum game; a case of dominate or be dominated! 


The most notable measure of this "reformed apartheid" praxis was the
ruthless enforcement of the homelands ("Bantustans") policy.  Only in
their own homelands were voting rights to be granted to the blacks,
including those domiciled in white areas. This ensured continued white
supremacy. Another measure was the 1983 tri-parliamentary
constitutional reform aimed at co-opting those racially classified as
Coloured and Asian (Indian).  They were to have their own separate
legislative assemblies, calculatedly subordinate to the purely white
parliament. Eventually, when the bleak realization dawned that, apart
from moral considerations, even this modified strategy was not viable,
the path of negotiation was adopted, culminating in the dismantling of
the entire edifice of white supremacy. 


Herein alone lies the relevance of comparison with Israel, for it must
be acknowledged that there is a large political and civic sector of
Israel which, for reasons of fundamentalist religious faith or zero-sum
survivalist strategy, is obdurately intent on perpetuating and
buttressing this occupation regime as a permanent de facto annexation.
This sector is assertively represented by several ultra-nationalist and
national-orthodox religious parties in the present government. Theirs
is manifestly a policy and vision that replicates the theory and praxis
of the reformed phase of South Africa's apartheid policy,  which was
adopted as a survivalist strategy but  ultimately abandoned  out of
enlightened realism, if not moral compunction. Characteristically, they
too cast about for spurious arrangements calculated to ensure Jewish
control and privilege – for example non-sovereign cantonized autonomy,
devoid of Israeli political rights, or relegation of citizenship and
electoral rights to the adjacent Kingdom of Jordan.  


It is in this respect alone that use of the South African analogy to
critique Israel is justified, and importantly so. Never as grist to the
mill of those who labor to delegitimize and demonize Israel by falsely
labeling it an apartheid state and subjecting it to sanctions and
boycotts, but certainly as a warning cry lest perpetuation of the
occupation regime cause Israel to replicate South African reform-phase
apartheid; a strategy which proved to be not only morally reprehensible
but also realistically untenable. 

The writer is Professor Emeritus of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, whose published works include Community and Conscience: The Jews in Apartheid South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The future of European Jewry</title>
<date>16/6/2011</date>
<content>
For the Jews of Europe, these are the best of times and the worst of times. Take 
British Jewry as an example.In the past 20 years we have built more 
Jewish day schools than ever before in our 355-year history. Culturally, a 
community deemed moribund a generation ago boasts a cultural center, a community 
center in the making, Jewish Book Weeks, arts, music and film festivals, and an 
adult-education event – Limmud – that has inspired offshoots in 50 other centers 
throughout the Jewish world.




Jews have achieved prominence in every 
field. Both parliamentary speakers, in the Commons and the Lords, are Jewish. We 
have had, in recent years, two Jewish lord chief justices, Jewish heads of 
Oxford and Cambridge, a Jewish editor of The Times and Jewish leaders of both 
the Conservative and Labour parties. Not only are Jews respected, but so is 
Judaism. The Jewish moral voice has become a significant part of the national 
conversation.THESE ARE astonishing achievements. But they are clouded by 
the disturbing phenomenon of a new anti-Semitism spreading like a virus across 
Europe. This cries out for explanation. After all, after the Holocaust, if there 
was one thing on which people of goodwill throughout the world agreed, it was: 
Never again.The entire post-war culture of the West – of the world – was 
tilted in that direction. Out of the determination that there should never be 
another Holocaust came the United Nations’ Declaration of Human Rights, the 
concept of a “crime against humanity,” the idea that racism is a vice, the 
movement for interfaith dialogue, and the historic shift in Christianity known 
as Vatican II, Nostra Aetate.How, then, did anti-Semitism return to the 
very nations that pledged never to repeat it? The cynical answer is that it 
never died, it merely went underground. There is a shred of truth to this, but 
very small. As a line of reasoning, it is deeply misleading. For the new 
anti-Semitism is only secondarily aimed at Jews as individuals. Its real target 
is Jews as a nation – in Israel.What has happened in our time is an 
extraordinarily subtle phenomenon that can only be understood by traveling back 
two centuries to the age of Enlightenment and the French Revolution. For 
centuries, Europe had been disfigured by crude, theologically driven Christian 
anti- Judaism. Jews were accused of poisoning wells, spreading the plague, 
desecrating the host and killing Christian children.Jews were not the 
only victims of the Church; witches and heretics were burned as well. Then, 
following the Reformation, Christians started killing their fellow Christians in 
Europe’s great wars of religion.That was when thoughtful people said, 
“Enough.” This led to the rise of science, the age of reason, the doctrine of 
toleration and eventually the emancipation of hitherto disenfranchised 
minorities, including the Jews. It was the most enlightened age in European 
history, and it was at this precise time, in Paris, Berlin and Vienna – the most 
sophisticated centers of all – that a new form of hate was born: racial 
anti-Semitism. As the deadliest virus the West has ever known, it led otherwise 
ordinary, decent human beings to do, or remain passive witnesses to, unspeakable 
acts.That was not a simple phenomenon. The anti-Semitism of the 19th 
century was not the crude anti-Judaism of the Church. Similarly, the new 
anti-Semitism of the 21st century is not the racist anti-Semitism of the 19th 
and 20th.It is not directed against individual Jews, but against Jews as 
a nation. It is not spread by conventional means, but by the new technologies of 
communication – websites, email, blogs and social networks – that are almost 
impossible to monitor and control.Its most brilliant, even demonic, 
stroke has been to adopt as its most powerful weapons the very defenses created 
against the old anti-Semitism. It accuses Israel of the five cardinal 
post-Holocaust sins: racism, apartheid, crimes against humanity, ethnic 
cleansing and attempted genocide.It is subtle, sophisticated and 
devastatingly effective.It is designed to mislead, and it works. 
Israelis and American Jews see it as a threat to European Jewry, which it is, 
but only secondarily. The real target is Israel. It is an attack on Israel where 
it is most vulnerable, namely among the opinion-forming classes of Europe. If 
Israel is delegitimized in their eyes, that leaves only America, and the shrewd 
judgment of Israel’s enemies is that, when it comes to supporting Israel, in the 
long run America will not go it alone.This is a chess game more 
long-term and coldly calculated than people realize. It aims at the destruction 
of the Jewish state. To counter it requires a coordinated global Jewish response 
beyond anything thus far envisaged. Nor is it a battle that can be fought by 
Jews alone. Without allies, Jews and Israel will lose.This means 
reframing the argument. Anti-Semitism is always a symptom of something more 
pervasive, an unresolved tension within a culture, that starts by targeting Jews 
but never stops with them. It was not Jews alone who died at the hands of 
medieval Christianity, Czarist Russia, Nazi Germany or Stalinist Russia: it was 
freedom itself.The same will be true in the 21st century. Those who deny 
Jews or Israel their freedom will lose, or fail to gain, their own.
The 
writer has been the chief rabbi of the United Kingdom and Commonwealth since 
1991, and a member of the House of Lords since 2009. He will discuss the future 
of European Jewry alongside a panel of experts later this month at the third 
Israeli Presidential Conference: “Facing Tomorrow 2011 in Jerusalem.”
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Israel Rorschach test: Real democracy or bogeyman?</title>
<date>4/1/2011</date>
<content>
From Israel’s perspective, 2010 ended as it began, with much of the world spending far too much time obsessing about it, failing the Israel Rorschach test. Despite being a democracy, Israel, like all other collective human endeavors called countries, is imperfect. Some view its missteps in that context, understanding that liberal democracies are better than dictatorships not only because they give their citizens freedoms and dignity but because those freedoms sharpen their government’s and society’s self-correcting mechanisms. Too many others treat Israel as the international bogeyman, a monster nation, wherein each misstep proves its illegitimacy.THE YEAR began with Israel still smarting from the Goldstone Report’s censure of its war of selfdefense against Hamas rockets in Gaza. In many ways, it was nothing new. Only one nation is regularly censured by the UN’s so-called Human Rights Council. And only one country has its right to selfdefense so scrutinized and constricted by the international community.




We did not need this year’s revelations of the massive casualties that resulted from American firepower in Iraq to know that modern armies cause much damage. To be frank, given Gaza’s density and volatility, it is a tribute to IDF discipline that thousands more people did not die.Nevertheless, intelligent defenders of the real Israel were honest enough to admit that the IDF, like all armies, inevitably erred occasionally, and should learn from its mistakes. There is a reason why William Tecumseh Sherman said “war is hell” – even a century before our age of hi-tech weaponry that kills en masse, and immoral enemies who hide behind mosques and hospitals, behind the skirts of old ladies and the uniforms of schoolgirls.But the Goldstone Report treated Israel as bogeyman, ignoring the context, minimizing the years of rocket fire it endured and the harshness of Hamas’s Islamist, anti-Semitic exterminationist ideology. In fact, critics could argue that Israel failed to fulfill its basic obligation to defend its own citizens by waiting so long before attacking.Once again, its enemies forgot that in a democracy criticism in context is often absorbed and taken seriously, but extreme, unreasonable criticism overrides a democracy’s self-corrective mechanism, triggering an equally essential self-protective response.THE YEAR ended with the stench of former president Moshe Katsav’s rape and sexual harassment conviction, again proving that Israel is a real democracy – with real problems balanced by an admirable ability to confront and correct them. These episodes frequently have their ambiguities and politics does intrude. A recently released tape suggests the relationship between Katsav and his accuser “A” was more layered.And yes, voices on the far Left again proved their hypocrisy by delighting in his conviction but laughing off the sex crimes of WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange – the documentarian Michael Moore dismissed those accusations as “a bunch of hooey,” prompting Katha Pollitt of the leftist periodical The Nation to complain that “when it comes to rape, the left still doesn’t get it.”Yet, the fact that Katsav was found unanimously guilty by a three-person court headed by an Arab, Judge George Kara, proved that Israel is a pluralistic democracy with rule of law, and the “boys-will-be-boys” locker room ethos of yesteryear will not pass muster today.Nevertheless, this Christmas season brought the usual condemnations – including some egregious extremes. In uncovering too many leftists’ blind spot regarding the serious charges against Assange, Pollitt discovered that the accusation that the Assange case’s “Miss A” is a CIA “honey trap,” came from one Israel Shamir, who also peddles anti-Semitic and anti-Zionist canards willynilly. Shamir claims Jews control the media and the banks, charging that “Palestine is not the ultimate goal of the Jews; the world is.”Pollitt laments: “We have now produced on the Left an echo chamber like that on the far right, where the scurrilous charges of marginal fanatics are disseminated through electronic media and end up, cleansed of their original associations, as respectable opinion.”IN QUEBEC, a different manifestation of anti-Israel absurdity played, courtesy of the increasingly marginal, ridiculous BDS movement – they call it boycott, divestment, sanctions, we call it blacklist, demonization and slander. Anti-Israel activists targeted one family-owned shoe store, Le Marcheur on Montreal’s fashionable St. Denis Street, for selling Israeli-made Beautifeel shoes. A member of Quebec’s National Assembly, Amir Khadir, joined the protests. Uncowed, the simple store owner Yves Archambault stood up to Khadir, one of Quebec’s most popular politicians, and won.The Quebec media mocked Khadir as le fanatique, unfairly picking on a family-owned business in his own district, whose interests he is supposed to represent. Most Quebec opinion-makers dismissed Khadir’s tired claim to be protesting “apartheid” as poppycock. Jewish and non-Jewish Quebecois responded with their own, informal “buycott,” swarming the store, buying many more shoes, Israeli and otherwise, from the Archambault family thanks to the protesters.A Rorschach test exposes the viewer more than the object. The real 
Israel is not a fragile state. It is a robust democracy living in a 
tough neighborhood, thriving on the historical stage, sometimes acting 
nobly, sometimes brutishly, but impressively capable of self-criticism 
and self-correction. Democrats can recognize their own countries’ 
strengths and weaknesses in its reflection.The phantom Israel is conjured up by extreme critics in an overwrought 
state who make wild accusations and are so blinded by hatred they ride 
roughshod over innocents, principles, their own obligations, their own 
self-interest. And they jump from criticizing particular actions to 
making gross generalizations about a group. We call that bigotry. And 
when directed against Jews, we call that anti-Semitism.
The writer is professor of history at 
McGill University and a research fellow at the Shalom Hartman Institute 
in Jerusalem. He is the author of Why I Am a Zionist: Israel, Jewish Identity and the Challenges of Today and The Reagan Revolution: A Very Short Introduction. giltroy@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Knesset’s boycott boomerang</title>
<date>18/7/2011</date>
<content>
As someone actively involved in combating the assault on Israel’s legitimacy, I 
believe that the new anti-boycott law passed by the Knesset hands a big victory 
to the enemies of Israel. It divides Israelis and the country’s advocates and 
friends, while damaging its image as a democracy. As such, it is assisting the 
BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) movement to reach two of its strategic 
objectives: weakening the anti-boycott campaign, and strengthening the chief 
rallying cry of delegitimizers– the libel that Israel is not a democracy, but an 
apartheid state.One can certainly understand the ardent wish to impose a 
price on those contemptible academics who support a boycott of their own 
institutions while continuing to draw a salary from them. But while there is a 
place for “price-tagging” in combating BDS, this new law is certainly not that 
place.




The BDS movement seeks to pressure governments and large 
companies, particularly in Europe (Israel’s largest trading partner), to boycott 
the country. BDS is driven by virulent opposition to the existence of the State 
of Israel as the expression of the Jewish people’s right to self-determination 
within any borders, including those that existed prior to 1967. It would not 
make any difference to them if Israel were the most democratic country in the 
world, because, as one of them put it, “an illiterate, conservative, 
superstitious Muslim Palestinian peasant who supports Hamas is more progressive 
than an educated liberal atheist Israeli who supports Zionism, even 
critically.”However, very few people in the West agree with that 
position.Many on the liberal Left are unthinkingly critical of Israel, 
insufficiently cognizant of the strength of the other side’s deep-seated 
extremism, and tone-deaf to the genuinely difficult moral and strategic dilemmas 
Israel faces in combating threats and seeking peace.But the liberal Left 
generally accepts Israel’s right to exist, even as it supports the creation of a 
Palestinian state within borders based on the 1967 lines. Most admire Israel’s 
rumbustious style of political debate, which is taken as a sign of its vigorous 
democracy.Recognizing the need to attract wider support from such 
liberals, the BDS movement has focused on undermining Israel’s image as a 
democracy, while shifting the focus of its boycott efforts to settlement 
products. However, this shift is plainly a tactical maneuver designed to split 
Israel’s supporters and serve as a launching pad for a total boycott later 
on.
IN ORDER to thwart this strategy, the anti-boycott movement has 
adopted a “big tent” strategy, bringing in left-wing groups like Peace Now, 
which played a significant role in combating the academic boycott in the 
UK.Recently the New Israel Fund adopted guidelines in which it decided 
to stop funding groups that engage in BDS; holding the NIF to this policy is 
important. With these groups inside the tent, much greater traction is gained in 
making the case that BDS is not about peace and helping the Palestinians, but 
about hurting Israeli democracy while supporting or apologizing for those 
anti-Semitic enemies of peace and democracy: Hamas and Hezbollah.In 
contrast, the new law has created a strong impression that Israeli democracy is 
being curtailed in a partisan attack on all those who actively oppose 
settlements – many more Israelis than the minuscule number active in the BDS 
movement. Supporters of the law can justify it in democratic terms until they 
are blue in the face, but as far as the target audience is concerned, it will 
not make a bit of difference.By passing this law, the Knesset has taken 
Israel’s strongest cards and started to burn them.This self-destructive 
action augurs badly for the country’s wider struggle. In 1948, Israel won the 
War of Independence, in no small measure, because of its smart, 
practically-orientated strategy and its unity of purpose. The Arab side was 
potentially stronger, but despite the bombastic rhetoric of Arab unity, it lost 
as each group focused primarily on advancing its own narrow interests.
It 
would be deeply tragic and potentially disastrous if Israel were to follow the 
same path.

The writer is head of the Argov Center for Israel and the 
Jewish People and a senior researcher at the BESA center for Strategic Studies 
at Bar-Ilan University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The power of ‘hasbara’</title>
<date>7/9/2011</date>
<content>
In his August 29 article, Ilan Bloch posits that not every young adult “needs to, or should be” an activist for Israel, and that hasbara (public diplomacy) training should not be “an integral part of an Israel program,” nor should students be educated in a manner that lends itself to positive conclusions about Israel.I beg to differ. Hasbara training is an imperative for the Jewish community. Israel and the Jewish people face enormous challenges today, among them existential physical threats, lies about Israel, and anti-Semitism.




What Jewish students need most today is a basic education that conveys the legitimacy and morality of Israel. That is not just good hasbara; it is an educational principle to teach one the basics before exploring the “nuances.” A sound hasbara strategy aims to interest people enough so that they want to become more educated.Furthermore, Jewish educators have an obligation to teach young adults to take responsibility for the fate of the Jewish people, and the well-being of the global community.At a time when the Jewish community is seeking ways to maintain Jewish 
identity, we should recognize the profound opportunity for Jewish 
engagement and leadership-building that combating anti- Israel sentiment
 provides.IF WE believe that the partisans were correct in fighting the Nazis, 
then we must understand why it is crucial to motivate young adults to 
advocate against a nuclear Iran today. If we believe that the Jewish 
people have a right to sovereignty and security in their ancestral 
homeland, we must teach students to protest the fact that Israel still 
lacks acceptance as a Jewish state among her Arab neighbors.If one understands the significance of the challenges Israel faces 
today, one must acknowledge the formula that has helped the Jewish 
people survive for so long. The Jewish values of achrayut 
(responsibility), achdut (unity) and tikkun olam (repairing the world) 
are not merely abstract concepts to be taught in a classroom, but must 
be applied today. Can we expect all Jewish students to become mobilized 
for Israel? No matter what the answer, we have a duty to motivate them.Bloch shows little familiarity with the methodology or content of most 
hasbara organizations, which consist of both substantial education and 
practical training.Bloch claims that hasbara training is not “independent, analytical and 
critical.” Perhaps he is unfamiliar with the varied goals, messages and 
strategies of the 30-plus organizations in the Israel on Campus 
Coalition. Israel advocates often disagree on the details of Israeli 
policy, but still come together on the major issues.And who says you can not facilitate analysis and criticism, while also 
encouraging students to reach the right conclusions? Yes, Jewish wisdom 
teaches us to be thoughtful, but Jewish teaching also offers answers.Bloch believes that on-campus checkpoints are a “legitimate form of 
political activity, even if they are not nuanced.” But Bloch’s premise 
is wrong. The battle for Israel’s image is not one between nuanced and 
“simplistic” narratives. It is a battle between truth and lies. Israel 
is being libeled on campuses with allegations of apartheid, genocide, 
colonialism and excessive force. That is why we must first educate 
students on the basic truths. Those who want to learn more can then 
explore the “nuances.”IN 2000, I was an undergraduate student at the University of Florida. 
One day on campus, I was greeted by an elaborate barbed wire display 
adorned with pictures of Israeli soldiers and Palestinian children. The 
organizers of the display were inviting people to have numbers written 
on the inside of their forearms in black marker. When the passersby 
would inquire about the meaning of these numbers, the organizers 
replied, “because in the West Bank, Israeli soldiers are tattooing 
numbers on Palestinian children.”Witnessing this display was a transformative moment in my life. I was 
certain this was a horrific lie. However, I had no facts or strategies 
to deal with this situation, let alone to prevent similar events from 
happening.I felt an unprecedented desire to defend Israel, and to become a leader for the Jewish people.Since my own training and subsequent student activism, I have met 
thousands of university students who have had similar experiences. 
(Bloch is “unconvinced” that this is a common occurrence, but an 
estimated 150 campuses are host to anti-Israel events each year, just in
 the US.) Upon being educated and trained in hasbara, many students 
become passionate Jewish leaders. Pro-Israel activism does not – as 
Bloch claims – “diminish the importance of other campus-centered, 
Jewish-related activity.” On the contrary, Israel activism motivates 
many to become leaders in other areas of Jewish life as well.Hasbara is both an advocacy tool and a deeply powerful opportunity for 
young Jewish adults. For some students, Israel is a cornerstone of 
Jewish identity, and they become activated once they learn they can make
 a difference. If we don’t offer a basic hasbara education to as many 
young adults as possible, how will they even know there are 
opportunities and mechanisms to become more committed activists? And for
 the many Jews who do not consider Israel to be a fundamental part of 
their identity, or may even feel antagonistic toward Israel from what 
they have heard in the media or the classroom, we have a duty to reach 
out to them as well. Once we educate those students, they can become the
 strongest advocates.I recently made aliya, and I am looking forward to the “nuanced” 
perspective that comes with being Israeli. And I believe that those who 
seek complex discussions about Israel should have appropriate forums. 
But not at the expense of combating the existential threats faced by 
Israel and the Jewish people.If we allow that, we miss an imperative – and an opportunity.
The writer is the director of education of the Hasbara Fellowships, a 
project of Aish International which educates, trains and inspires 
students to stand up for Israel on campus.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The racism bluff</title>
<date>21/12/2011</date>
<content>
Haitian anthropologist Antenor Firmin pioneered in 1885 the rebuttal of racist 
theories; since then there has been a constant endeavor to defeat racism through 
education and legislation. These efforts are undermined by those who 
deliberately exaggerate the problem of racism in present times in order to avoid 
criticisms of the many other evils in their societies.In a world in 
which Barack Obama was elected president of America, and that put a full stop to 
apartheid; in our Western societies which pride themselves on anti-discriminatory 
laws, racism is conspicuously not the world’s worst social problem.




Old 
as civilization, racial prejudices were prevalent in Europe from time 
immemorial. Plato and Aristotle who believed the Greeks were born to be free and 
to enslave barbarians. Comte de Buffon considered white people to be the “norm,” 
and Voltaire claimed that some human beings (i.e. black people) form some sort 
of “intermediate stage” between white men and apes.On the other hand, 
the anti-racist tradition was a Jewish contribution adopted and spread by 
Christianity. Its first written example appears in the Talmud, which explains 
that the biblical Adam is everyone’s ancestor so no one could ever claim 
inherited superiority.For more than 100 years, the struggle for human 
brotherhood has overtaken unfounded theories, advanced by individuals like the 
19th-century French philosopher Joseph de Gobineau and American physician 
Joshiah Nott, that physical differences indicate intellectual and moral 
hierarchies. Their polygenetic hypotheses about the supposed diverse origins of 
a variety of human races were put to rest by Charles Darwin’s theory of 
mankind’s genetic homogeneity.The Torah’s view was upheld. We stem from 
one source.The repudiation of racism must be unremitting, but in today’s 
world there are other social evils that cause greater human suffering. These 
include violence against women, state-enforced corporal punishment, lack of 
basic freedoms, slavery and tyranny. The fact that these ills are particularly 
widespread under Arab and Muslim regimes often hinders human rights activists 
from denouncing them – precisely to avoid accusations of racism.But 
totalitarianism is not a question of either genetics or anthropology, but rather 
of society and culture. Condemning the Arab world for these shortcomings is not 
an indication of racism or “Islamophobia,” but rather it is an indication that 
these phenomena are wrong.But the worst violators of human rights in the 
21st century have discovered that the best way to escape condemnation is to put 
human rights activists on the defensive by tarring their criticism as 
“racist.”For example, Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez has argued that 
opponents of Sudan’s genocidal leader Omar Bashir were not actually concerned 
about the people massacred in Darfur, but rather by the fact that Bashir is 
black. The fact that Bashir’s victims were also black exposed the stupidity of 
the claim.Even worse, Chavez’s comment was blatantly racist since it 
exonerates nonwhites of almost any criticism, as if they were moral idiots. 
Manfred Gerstenfeld calls this syndrome “humanitarian racism.”Similarly, 
the media has accused our foreign minister of being a racist without quoting a 
single expression by Avigdor Lieberman that could justify such an assault. The 
true racist is usually the slanderer.IRONICALLY, MANY of the people who 
call their political enemies “racists” have themselves fallen prey to the very 
social disease they condemn. For instance, if a law penalized the support of 
terror groups, to consider this law “racist” would itself betray a racist 
attitude since this claim assumes that only one particular ethnic group would 
break that law.Similarly, in 2008 the Knesset considered a bill that 
would have required a special two-thirds Knesset majority to approve concessions 
on the Golan Heights. When opponents of this proposal called it “racist,” they 
showed transparent racism themselves. To them, only Arab citizens would 
sympathize with the enemy. But “racism” they claimed.This linguistic 
abuse takes place time and again on the international stage, at international 
political forums, women’s rights conferences and other arenas. At women’s rights 
conferences, instead of maligning honor killings, infant girls’ marriages, 
imposed polygamy, child prostitution, clitoridectomy (female genital 
mutilation), and the fact that in Arab countries wife-beating usually goes 
unpunished, ayatollahs and sheikhs manage to sidestep the defense of women by 
ranting about “Zionist atrocities against Palestinian women.”In the same 
vein, conferences about protecting children fail to enact initiatives to 
penalize those who use child slaves as camel racers or those who sell infants 
into marriage. They fail to deal with these issues by twisting their moral 
agendas and declaring the “real problem” for children around the world is the 
way in which Israel mistreats Palestinian youth.Against these 
distortions, people tend to steer clear of confrontation. The fear is palpable 
that an assertive stand could be interpreted as racist.ULTIMATELY, THE 
racism charge is consistently misrepresented. Not even Nazism was related to its 
alleged “racism” nor with an “ideology.” Rather, these terms provided a disguise 
for fanaticism and Judeophobia. The aforementioned racists (Plato, Gobineau, 
Nott, Voltaire) were wrong but they were not sadists, as the Nazis 
were.To brand Nazis “racists” is another way to de-Judaize the 
Holocaust. Only against the Jews were the Nazis consistently “racists,” although 
the Jews are not a race. The supposedly “Semitic” Arabs were allies of the Third 
Reich.Nazi hatred focused almost exclusively on the Jews and excluded 
other “races” which, even when massacred during the war, were marginal in the 
German “racist” worldview. Dark-haired Hitler, obese Goering, petite Goebbels 
and their peers were not racial models for the supposedly “superior” Aryan man. 
Few Nazi ringleaders would have been featured in a manual for German Racism. 
Theirs was no racism, it was wanton desire to torture and kill with impunity, 
plain and simple.Although the Nuremberg Laws of 1935 excluded Jews from 
society, they were unable to offer any racial definition of the Jew – because 
such a definition is impossible. It was not because of racism that Nazis hated 
the Jews, but the opposite is true: in order to implement their madness and 
Judeophobia they used racial arguments.Today their heirs try to divert 
the struggle against social evils, and they are quite successful in vilifying 
Western democracies as “fascist” and “racist.”
Iran’s Ahmadinejad, who in 
2006 invited the Ku Klux Klan to his infamous conference for Holocaust Denial in 
Tehran, was three years later the central speaker at the UN congress against 
racism in Geneva.

The writer is author of Judeophobia and is trying to 
re-introduce that term as an alternative to the ambiguous phrase 
"anti-Semitism."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The real racism: Expecting Jews to die meekly</title>
<date>27/10/2011</date>
<content>
The most accurate way to describe Israel today is as an apartheid state... 3.5 million Palestinians and almost half a million Jews live in the areas Israel occupied in 1967, and yet while these two groups live in the same area, they are subjected to totally different legal systems. The Palestinians are stateless and lack many of the most basic human rights. – Neve Gordon, “Boycott Israel,” Los Angeles Times, August 20, 2009.Taken from an article by a senior Israeli academic, this excerpt typifies the racist Judeophobic rhetoric that has come to dominate the public discourse on the Israeli- Palestinian conflict.




Sadly it is rhetoric that has been endorsed by many in the Israeli academia and media. Even more disturbing is the complicity — or at least complacency — of Israeli officialdom in allowing it to become the defining feature of this discourse.Expecting Jews to die meekly This mode of rhetoric is no less than inciteful, Judeophobic racism, because in effect, it embodies the implicit delegitmization of the right of Jews to defend themselves.It embodies the implicit expectation that Jews should consent to die meekly. And how can an expectation that Jews die meekly be characterized other than as “inciteful, Judeophobic racism?” For no matter what the measures Israel adopts to protect its citizens from those undisguisedly trying to murder and maim them — because they are Jews — they are widely condemned as “racist,” “disproportionate violence” or even “war crimes/crimes against humanity.”It matters not whether these measures are administrative decisions or security operations, defensive responses or anticipatory initiatives, punitive retaliations or preemptive strikes. It matters not whether they entail the emplacement of physical barriers to block the infiltration of indiscriminate murderers; the imposition of restrictions to impede their lethal movements; the execution of preventive arrests to foil their deadly intentions; the conduct of targeted killings (with unprecedentedly low levels of collateral damage) to preempt their brutal plans; the launch of military campaigns to prevent the incessant shelling of civilians...Lip service to Israel’s right to self-defense The depiction of these measures as arbitrary acts of wrongdoing, whose only motivation is racially driven territorial avarice and discriminatory embitterment of the lives of the Palestinians, distorts reality and disregards context. But far more perturbing, is the moral implication of this condemnation.For if all endeavors to prevent, protect or preempt are denounced as morally reprehensible, the inevitable conclusion is that they should not be employed. This implies a no less inevitable conclusion: To avoid the morally reprehensible, the Jewish state should — in effect — allow those who would attack its citizens, to do so with total impunity, and with total immunity from retribution.True, many of Israel’s detractors protest with righteous indignation that they acknowledge that it “has a right to defend itself.” But this is quickly exposed as meaningless lip service, for whenever Israel exercises that allegedly acknowledged right, it is condemned for being excessively heavy-handed.It makes little difference if Israel imposes a legal maritime blockade to prevent the supply of lethal armaments to Islamist extremists; or if Israeli commandos are forced to use deadly force to prevent themselves from being disemboweled by a frenzied lynch mob; or if, in response to the savage slaughter wrought by Palestinian suicide bombers — which relative to its population, dwarfed the losses on 9/11 — Israel clears the terror-infested and boobytrapped Jenin, using ground troops rather than its air force to minimize Palestinian collateral damage, thus incurring needless casualties of its own.No matter how murderous the onslaughts initiated by the Palestinians, no matter how blatant the Palestinian brutality, no matter how outrageous the Palestinian provocation, the Israeli response is deemed inappropriate.Despite the declaration of recognition of some generic abstract right to defend itself and its citizens, it seems that in practice the only “appropriate” response is for Israel to refrain from defending itself.Exigencies of security Then there is the reverse racism emblazoned in the subtext of the discourse of Israeli policy towards the Palestinians: The victims of racist hatred are condemned as racist for fending off their racist attackers.Security barriers are not erected, roadblocks are not put in place, travel restrictions are not enforced as a racist response to Palestinian ethnicity but as a rationale response to Palestinian enmity. To believe otherwise is to fall prey to what Binyamin Netanyahu once called the “reversal of causality.” The blockade of Gaza is a consequence, not a cause, of Hamas’s violence; the West Bank security barrier is the result of, not the reason for, Palestinian terrorism.If not for the massive carnage at Sbarro pizzeria, at Dizengoff Center, at the Passover Seder in the Park Hotel, there would have been no IDF operation in Jenin in 2002. Without the indiscriminate bombardment of Israeli civilians, there would have been no Cast Lead operation in Gaza in 2009. If pregnant women and ambulances were not used to smuggle explosives into Israeli cities, there would be no need for checkpoints and roadblocks. If Palestinian gunmen would not open fire from vehicles on Israeli families passing by, there would be no need to restrict the movement of Palestinians on certain roads. If Palestinians did not ambush Israeli cars traveling though Palestinian towns, there would be no need to construct special roads for Israelis to bypass those towns.The outcome of Judeophobic enmity Of course, the standard Judeophobic response to this will be... “occupation,” that all-purpose, all-weather, one-size-fits-all excuse for every racist Palestinian atrocity perpetrated against the Jews.According to this morally base and factually baseless contention, all Palestinian violence is an expression of understandable rage and frustration due to years of repressive “occupation” of Palestinian lands.This claim is as egregious as it is asinine. It must be rejected with the moral opprobrium and the intellectual disdain it so richly deserves.Indeed, as I have demonstrated in several recent columns, the call for the destruction of the Jewish state was made long before Israel held a square inch of what is now designated as “occupied Palestinian land.” (In fact, the original 1964 Palestinian National Covenant explicitly disavows any sovereign claim to the “West Bank” and Gaza as the Palestinian homeland.) The founding documents of the PLO, Fatah and Hamas are all committed to the destruction of the Jewish state, irrespective of time and regardless of frontiers. This too was the sentiment reiterated by Mahmoud Abbas in his recent UN appearance.So clearly “Occupation” is not the origin of Palestinian ill-will towards Israel. Quite the reverse. The Israeli presence in Judea, Samaria and Gaza is a direct outcome of Arab ill-will towards Israel, when in 1967 their massive military offensive to destroy Israel failed catastrophically.It was not Jewish territorial avarice that brought Israel to “the territories” but Arab Judeocidal aggression.What if there had been no ‘Occupation’? Even if it can be irrefutably shown that “occupation” is not the origin 
of Palestinian hostility, might it is not be possible that elimination 
of “occupation” would induce, if not Palestinian amitié, then at least 
Palestinian acceptance of Israel? Sadly, all evidence seems to point the
 other way. Every time Israel has made tangible efforts to remove 
“occupation,” the frenzy of Palestinian terrorism has soared to a higher
 crescendo, and forced abandonment or even reversal of these efforts: •
 This was the case from 1993 to ’96, when the implementation of the Oslo
 agreements brought forth a huge wave of suicide bombings.• This
 was the case in 2000, when Ehud Barak offered sweeping concessions to 
the Palestinians, who responded with a wave of unprecedented terrorism 
which continued under Ariel Sharon’s “restraint-is-strength-policy” 
until the carnage made military response unavoidable. The result was 
Operation Defensive Shield in 2002 that brought the IDF back in force to
 the “West Bank,” where calm has been largely maintained ever since.This
 was the case in 2005, when Israel withdrew from Gaza and erased every 
vestige of “occupation,” and in return received continuing and 
escalating violence that culminated in Operation Cast Lead.Clearly,
 not only can “occupation” not be attributed as the cause of Palestinian
 enmity, but attempts to remove — or at least attenuate — it seem only 
to exacerbate this enmity.Here intriguing questions arise: What 
if Israel had never taken over the “West Bank” or had withdrawn 
immediately after doing so, transferring control back to Jordan? What 
then would have become of the Palestinians and their claims to “national
 liberation?” What “occupation” would have then been blamed for their 
plight? What territory would have then been the focus of their efforts 
to establish their state? These are weighty questions which must await 
discussion at some later stage, but merely raising them poses a serious 
challenge to the factually flawed conventional wisdom that dominates and
 distorts the debate on the Israel-Palestinian conflict.‘Criticism of Israel is not anti-Semitism’ “Criticism
 of Israel is not anti-Semitism” is the mantra sounded with Pavlovian 
regularity by Israel’s detractors. And they are of course right. 
Criticism of Israel is not necessarily anti- Semitism.However, 
the enduring practice of holding the nation-state of the Jews to 
discriminatory double standards does makes anti-Semitism an increasingly
 plausible explanation for that criticism, an explanation can no longer 
be summarily dismissed without persuasive proof to the contrary.After
 all, atrocities of ferocity and scale far beyond anything of which 
Israel is accused, even by its most vehement detractors, are perpetrated
 regularly with hardly a murmur of censure from the international 
community. By contrast the slightest hint of any Israeli infringement — 
real or imagined — of human rights immediately results in expression of 
shock and revulsion in headlines in all major media outlets across the 
globe, precipitates emergency sessions of international organizations, 
and produces worldwide condemnation, from friend and foe alike.Of
 course, the implication is not that Israel should be judged by the same
 criteria as the tyrannies of Sudan or North Korea; or by the bloody 
standards of Damascus or Tehran.The question is, however, why 
should it be judged by standards and criteria which are far more 
stringent than those applied to the democracies that make up NATO.For
 in the Balkans, in Iraq and in Afghanistan they have enforced blockades
 and embargoes far more onerous and damaging to civilians than that 
imposed on Gaza. They conducted military campaigns far from their 
borders that caused far more civilian casualties than Israel has in 
campaigns conducted only a few kilometers from the heart of its capital 
city...Yet international outcry has been — at best – muted.So,
 while holding the Jewish state to standards demanded of no other nation
 in the exercise of its right to self-defense may have explanations 
other than anti-Semitism (or Judeophobia to be more precise), no really 
compelling ones come readily to mind.The real racism This brings us back to where we began.While
 the Jewish state faces unparalleled threats, and unconditional enmity, 
it is continually condemned for acting to meet those threats and to 
contend with that enmity — no matter what measures it adopts, no matter 
how grave the peril, no matter how severe the provocation.This then is the real racism that permeates the discourse on the Israel-Palestinian conflict:• The expectation that the Jews jeopardize their security in order to maintain the viability of manifest falsehoods.•
 The perverse portrayal of every coercive measure undertaken by the IDF 
to protect the lives of Jews against those striving to kill them, merely
 because they are Jews, as racially motivated, disproportionate 
violence.• The disingenuous depiction of the inconvenience 
caused to Palestinians by these measures as a more heinous evil than the
 Jewish deaths they are designed to prevent.• The attitude that 
shedding Jewish blood is more acceptable than the measures required to 
prevent it, an element that appears to be becoming increasingly 
internalized into the discourse on the Israel-Palestinian conflict.
Israel
 needs to once again convey, unapologetically, to the world the 
rationale for its founding: Jews will no longer die meekly.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The revisionist history of Sari Nusseibeh</title>
<date>10/10/2011</date>
<content>
Sari Nusseibeh has done it again. In an article titled “Why Israel Can’t be a 
‘Jewish State,’” published on the Jewish New Year of all dates, the supposedly 
moderate president of al-Quds University goes to great lengths to explain why 
Jews, unlike any other nation on earth, are undeserving of 
statehood.“[T]he idea of a ‘Jewish State’ is logically and morally 
problematic because of its legal, religious, historical and social 
implications,” he wrote. “The implications of this term therefore need to be 
spelled out, and we are sure that once they are, most people – and most Israeli 
citizens, we trust – will not accept these implications.”




Not that this 
should have come as a surprise. For decades, Nusseibeh has tirelessly advanced 
the “one-state solution” – a euphemistic formula that proposes the replacement of 
Israel by a country, theoretically comprising the whole of historic Palestine, 
in which Jews will be reduced to the status of a permanent minority.This 
advocacy of the destruction of a long-existing state, established by an 
internationally recognized act of national self-determination, has hardly dented 
Nusseibeh’s “moderate” credentials. That can be partly explained by the 
desperate yearning among Jews and their supporters worldwide for Palestinian and 
Arab peace partners. That desire dates back to the 1920s and the 1930s, despite 
countless setbacks and disillusionments. It is also a corollary of the 
narcissist and patronizing mesmerization among educated westerners with the 
“noble savage” in general, and the Westernized native in particular. With his 
posh Jerusalem high school education, his Oxford and Harvard degrees and 
impeccable western demeanor, Nusseibeh, like cultured Arabs and Muslims before 
him, represents the ultimate product of the “white man’s civilizing mission,” a 
contemporary replica of George Antonius, the Cambridge-educated Syrian political 
activist who was the toast of the British chattering classes in Palestine and 
beyond during the 1930s.I was personally privy to this feting during a 
London meeting in the spring of 1989. I was then a senior fellow at Tel Aviv 
University’s Jafee Center for Strategic Studies, and like many well intentioned 
Israelis at the time and since, we aspired to lay the ground for 
Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation through secret talks with Palestinian 
interlocutors, including members of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, 
then an outlawed organization in Israel. The group we met was headed by Faisal 
Husseini, then the PLO’s most senior official in the disputed territories, 
flanked by Nusseibeh and a few prominent London-based Palestinian 
academics.The meeting was pleasant and informative enough, with the 
courteous British hosts going out of their way to keep their Palestinian guests 
sweet. Yet I was taken aback when Nusseibeh, the celebrated epitome of 
Palestinian moderation, turned out to be the most extreme member of the group. 
Dismissing out of hand the two-state solution – Israel and a Palestinian state 
in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip – he sang the praise of the “one-state 
paradigm,” demanding the incorporation of the West Bank and Gaza population into 
the Jewish state as full-fledged citizens, to be followed by Palestinian 
“refugees” from the neighboring Arab states and beyond.In subsequent 
years, Nusseibeh would pay customary lip service to the two-state solution while 
consistently questioning the very legitimacy of the state with which he 
ostensibly wished to make peace. On a few occasions he even let the mask drop, 
unveiling his true agenda. In the late 1990s, for example, he told an old Oxford 
friend that “one day, in the near or further future, all this [Israel and 
Palestine] will be one binational state. It’s just a question of how we get 
there.”In an April 2005 debate at Dartmouth College, Nusseibeh advocated 
the creation of a bi-national state as the only viable solution to the 
Israeli-Palestinian dispute.“We will have spent 100 years killing and 
fighting each other, doing our best to avoid a one-state solution, and we will 
find ourselves in that exact situation in 40 or 50 years,” he argued.IN 
A 2007 political memoir Nusseibeh missed no opportunity to denigrate and 
delegitimize the Jewish state through sharp, short, often subtle yet always 
false readings of history.He does this in spades in his latest article. 
A Jewish state cannot exist, he argues, because “no state in the world is – or 
can be in practice – ethnically or religiously homogenous.” But the Jewish state 
that has existed for over 63 years has never been, nor aspired to be, totally 
homogenous: unlike the Palestinian Arab leadership which, since the early 1920s 
to date, has insisted on a Judenrein Palestine. Rather, Israel has been home to 
diverse religious and ethnic minorities accounting for nearly 20 percent of its 
total population.As David Ben-Gurion told the leadership of his own 
(Mapai) party in 1947, the non-Jews in the Jewish state “will be equal citizens; 
equal in everything without any exception; that is, the state will be their 
state as well.”Nusseibeh claims that a Jewish state must by definition 
be either a theocracy or an apartheid state, and that its Jewish nature opens 
the door to legally reducing its substantial non-Jewish minority (whose very 
existence he previously denied) “to second-class citizens (or perhaps even 
stripping them of their citizenship and other rights).” This, too, flies in the 
face of Israel’s 63-year history, where Arabs have enjoyed full equality before 
the law, and have been endowed with the full spectrum of democratic rights – 
including the right to vote for and serve in all state institutions.In 
fact, from the designation of Arabic as an official language, to the recognition 
of non-Jewish religious holidays as legal resting days for their respective 
communities, to the granting of educational, cultural, judicial, and religious 
autonomy, Arabs in Israel enjoy more formal prerogatives than ethnic minorities 
anywhere in the democratic world.Small wonder that whenever an Israeli 
politician proposes the inclusion of some frontier Israeli-Arab settlements in 
the future Palestinian state, as part of a land exchange within the framework of 
a peace agreement, the residents of these localities immediately voice their 
indignation. Moreover, recent surveys show that more Palestinians in east 
Jerusalem, who are entitled to Israeli social benefits and are free to travel 
across Israel’s pre-1967 borders, would rather become citizens of the Jewish 
state than citizens of a new Palestinian one.But Nusseibeh is not 
someone to be bothered by the facts. His is the misconception, prevalent among 
Arabs and Muslims, that Jews are a religious community and not a nation 
deserving of statehood.Hence, instead of insisting on being accepted for 
what it has been for 63 years, or what the UN partition resolution envisaged it 
to be, Israel should shed its Jewish identity and become “a civil, democratic, 
and pluralistic state whose official religion is Judaism” like many of its Arab 
neighbors which have Islam as their official religion “but grant equal civil 
rights to all citizens.”This of course is the complete inverse of the 
truth.The Jewish state is a civil, democratic and pluralistic society, 
something that none of its Arab neighbors can stake a claim to. On the contrary, 
precisely because Islam is enshrined as state religion throughout the Middle 
East, the non-Muslim minorities have been denied “equal civil rights” and have 
instead been reduced to the historic dhimmi status whereby they can at best 
enjoy certain religious freedoms in return for a distinctly inferior existence, 
and at worst suffer from systematic persecution and oppression.And this 
is the “one-state paradigm” offered by Nusseibeh to Israel’s Jewish 
citizens.
The writer is research professor of Middle East and 
Mediterranean Studies at King’s College London, director of the Middle East 
Forum (Philadelphia) and author, most recently, of Palestine Betrayed.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Turkel Commission is fighting yesterday’s war</title>
<date>24/1/2011</date>
<content>
March 2011: Several “Freedom Flight” aircraft enter Gazan airspace to bring humanitarian aid. In addition to medical and food supplies, the planes carry several human rights luminaries, including a Nobel laureate and a former head of state. Israel is caught unprepared and confused. The air force is deployed with no clear mandate. Media channels and diplomats go into a frenzy.This hypothetical scenario highlights a grave truth – no matter how thorough or comprehensive the Turkel Committee’s investigation is, the country will still face surprises and setbacks. That is because the Turkel Committee’s too narrow mandate, which focuses almost entirely on the Gaza flotilla, ignores the wider and more important context: Israel faces a systemic and systematic assault on its political-economic model – a campaign to delegitimize it.




Within this long-standing “war,” the Gaza flotilla represents only one battle and Israel’s policy on Gaza only one pretext. As a whole, the campaign aims to precipitate Israel’s political implosion and takes inspiration, despite the clear differences in circumstances, from the collapse of the Soviet Union and apartheid South Africa. And as the campaign continues to seek the country’s political demise, Israel has remained focused primarily on strengthening its military.THE LOOSE network structure that allows the campaign to quickly mutate and adapt makes it particularly potent. Understanding how to better respond to a particular strike cannot help for what is next. The network that produced the flotilla, prominent mobilizations around the Durban conferences and Operation Cast Lead, the BDS campaign and the legal war against senior leaders (“lawfare”) will continue to innovate.Therefore, we must focus on the campaign’s generators, not on their high-profile tactics.In fact, the marginal radical forces driving the assault on our legitimacy have already made serious progress.For example, the Gaza flotilla demonstrated a significant increase in cooperation between two separate groups: the country’s traditional enemies that reject its right to exist based on Arab and Islamist nationalist-religious ideology, and Western-based delegitimizers who oppose its existence based on political, philosophical or historical arguments.This evolving campaign has hit us where we are most vulnerable – international media, public opinion and nongovernmental organizations. A failure to face it may threaten the country’s ability to defend itself militarily, encourage challenges to its sovereignty and fuel further use of universal jurisdiction and boycotts.Therefore, the government, along with friends and allies, must launch a global, systemic offense. Only a sweeping, ambitious, networked approach can achieve synchronized victories – success across military, legal, political, diplomatic arenas. There is no alternative.TO DO this, the security and foreign affairs establishment must focus on the source of the problem, the network that in varying forms and constellations launches repeated strikes. The Gaza flotilla was openly planned and uninterruptedly organized over a 14- month period by NGOs, primarily in friendly countries.The information was available yet the threat was not on the radar. Israel and its allies should systematically collect information on these organizations and work to disrupt, expose their activities and isolate and marginalize them.But it must also in allocate significant resources to cultivating and maintaining its own network of organizations, diplomats and friends. These can drive a clear wedge between the delegitimizers and those protesting the country’s policy by substantively engaging with criticism, however harsh, and by providing factual and relevant responses. Outing, naming and shaming delegitimizers must occur alongside engagement with critics, such as human rights organizations. One cannot succeed without the other.The national security concept should make these activities routine so 
that delegitimization is systemically addressed. Getting there means 
overhauling the conceptual basis of its response. Unfortunately, the 
Turkel Committee merely offers a corrective to yesterday’s provocation. 
It does not offer any new strategy, let alone a systemic review. Israel 
needs much more.
The writer is a senior analyst on the 
Reut Institute National Security Team which published a comprehensive 
report on the Gaza flotilla last August. She previously worked at the 
Washington headquarters of AIPAC, where she served as communications and
 research director of the student leadership program.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Vatican vs the ‘Zionist tsunami’</title>
<date>28/2/2011</date>
<content>
The January edition of La Civiltà Cattolica – the most authoritative magazine of 
the Jesuits, printed under the supervision of the Vatican – opens with an 
editorial about Palestinian refugees. Adopting the Arab propagandist word Nakba, 
it declares they are a consequence of “ethnic cleansing” by Israel. The journal 
also supports anti-Israeli historian Ilan Pappe, and falsely proclaims that “the 
Zionists were cleverly able to exploit the Western sense of guilt for the Shoah 
to lay the foundations of their own state.”The Latin patriarch of 
Jerusalem, Fouad Twal, just joined an “interreligious meeting” in Doha, Qatar. 
Sponsored by the Arab League, the event occurred on Jerusalem, with the 
participation of “Christian and Muslim leaders.”




But no Jewish 
presence.The slandering of Israel is growing among the most important 
Catholic journalists. Vittorio Messori, who conducted the first book-length 
interview with Pope John Paul II, recently wrote an editorial for the Italian 
daily Il Corriere della sera where he stated “All governments of all Muslim 
nations are under the tsunami of the violent intrusion of Zionism that has come 
to put its capital in Jerusalem.”The Vatican’s teachings have a direct 
influence on 1.166 billion people. To understand its new mood about Israel, one 
has only to read what happened in the special synod on the Middle East, hosted 
in Rome. Nothing was said about Islamist persecution of Christians; indeed, 
every effort was made to show the Catholic Church sympathetic to Muslim 
grievances, especially against “Zionism” – a word evoked as a symbol of 
evil.Archbishop Edmond Farhat – the official representative of Vatican 
politics – proclaimed that the ultimate cause of all the evils in the Middle 
East is that “foreign body” which is Israel: “The Middle Eastern situation today 
is like a living organ that has been subject to a graft it cannot assimilate and 
which has no specialists capable of healing it”.US Archbishop Salim 
Bustros wrote the final message of the synod, claiming that the Jewish Promised 
Land had been “nullified by Christ,” thus reviving the infamous replacement 
theology that played a great role in the Holocaust. Bustros also claimed that 
the Bible can’t be used to justify the “occupation” of the West Bank, attempting 
to sever any link between the Jewish people and its homeland.The former 
patriarch of Jerusalem, Michel Sabbah, named by Pope Benedict XVI to address the 
concluding session of the synod, presented a document against Israel called 
“Kairos” bearing the signatures of many Christian leaders in 
Jerusalem.It says: “The Israeli occupation is a sin against God,” and 
takes sides against the very presence of Israel.It likens the security 
barrier that has blocked suicide attacks to “apartheid,” it cancels the concept 
of a Jewish state and proclaims that “resistance to the evil of occupation is a 
Christian’s right and duty.”The document was presented in a 
Vatican-owned building run by Pax Christi, Catholic Action and the Franciscan 
Custodian of the Holy Land.THE CURRENT Vatican patriarch of Jerusalem, 
Fouad Twal, affirmed also that “you can’t have both Zionism and democracy,” 
supporting the “one-state solution” – a euphemism for the destruction of the 
Jewish state. Elias Chacour, the Catholic archbishop of Galilee and Nazareth, 
went on to say that Israel committed “an ethnic cleansing of the 
Palestinians.”Israel bashing is also part of the strategy of the Vatican 
Secretariat of State in the Middle East; its default position visà- vis militant 
Islamism is to try to reach accommodations with regimes and forswear 
condemnation of Islamist ideology. Israel is easily expendable in this 
horrendous scheme.Yet the Church should have a strategic interest in a 
friendship with Zionists. Israel and the Vatican should be natural allies 
against the devotees of death. There is only one Middle Eastern country where 
the number of Christians has grown – Israel (from 34,000 in 1949 to 
163,000).Pope Benedict should now reverse the tragic wave against Israel 
and the Jews – which its enemies want to annihilate – with the same powerful 
determination with which he raises his voice in defense of the “nonnegotiable” 
principles concerning human life.
Israel is also not 
negotiable.The writer, a journalist with Il Foglio, is the author of A 
New Shoah: The Untold Story of Israel’s Victims of Terrorism (Encounter).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The world is tired of the Arab-Israeli conflict</title>
<date>2/10/2011</date>
<content>
Paternal Western values of fairness and compromise grind a lens through which we 
see one of the children with all the pie and the other child with none. It 
follows, therefore, that we must make them sort out their differences and force 
them to share; that a “viable, contiguous” Palestinian state alongside a secure 
Israel is the solution to the core of the problem. Re-partition the land, we are 
told. This is the logical compromise.This view is naïve and arrogant in 
that it ignores the dynamics and history of the conflict: Arab rejectionist 
terror; stagnant Arab economies and repressive governments; absolutist religious 
claims; settler demographics; fundamental Israeli security concerns rooted in 
existential defense in 1967 and 1973; and the fact that the Arabs have twice 
before rejected more generous partition plans than they could hope to achieve 
now.




First, the Arabs rejected the original Partition Plan of 1947 that 
would have created an Arab state in well over half of the land west of the 
Jordan. Israel’s successful fight for survival was pronounced the Nakba, 
or “Disaster.”Brokered by US President Bill Clinton, the 2000 Wye 
Plantation Accords offered PLO chairman Yasser Arafat a stake in east Jerusalem 
and over 94 percent of the West Bank land Israel captured when attacked in the 
1967 Arab Naska, or “Setback.” Yet, the Palestinian leader rejected Israeli 
prime minister Ehud Barak’s offer in a spectacle reminiscent of the Arabs’ 
infamous “Three No’s”: No Peace with Israel, no Recognition of Israel, no 
negotiation with Israel.As Palestinian Authority chairman Mahmoud Abbas 
makes the Palestinian UN bid, Israel is labeled the apartheid state even though 
20 percent of the population are Israeli Arabs citizens with rights and freedoms 
Syrians would die for, and even though “moderate” Palestinian leaders speak with 
candor about a West Bank Palestinian state free of Jews.Israelis and 
introspective Jews in the Diaspora are seen in peace rallies with both Israeli 
and Palestinian flags, but we see Arabs with only Israeli flags in 
hand...just before they are set alight.Yet, that is the beauty 
of naiveté. If there was true Western appreciation of all the constraints to 
conflict resolution, effort would cease. If parents placed much stock in “who 
started it” as opposed to “I will end it” then managed conflict would erupt into 
open warfare.The twist is that while the Palestinian UN statehood bid 
miscalculates the depth of Western naiveté, under the right terms and conditions 
of design, a Palestinian state is in Israel’s long-term strategic, diplomatic, 
and existential demographic interests.THE KEY terms and conditions 
include a negotiated and demilitarized Palestinian state that leaves Israel 
defensible via control of a strip of land on the Jordanian border and major 
settlement blocks. In exchange, Israel would cede equivalent parcels of land 
along the Green Line with ethic Palestinian populations, a safe West Bank-Gaza 
corridor under Israeli sovereignty, and continued open access to Jerusalem, also 
under Israeli sovereignty. There is no reason why a Palestinian parliament could 
not operate in east Jerusalem with joint Israeli-Palestinian police, under 
ultimate Israeli command.First and foremost, such a Palestinian state 
has the potential to force Iran and the Arab world to deal with domestic despair 
without recourse to the distraction of the Palestinian question. Abbas tired of 
Iranian rhetoric some time ago, and the Arab street might do so as well if 
corrupt leaders could no longer invoke the image of the Zionist monster under 
the bed. Arab grievances would not evaporate, but the prospect of a war, or 
further deterioration in relations with Egypt and Jordan, would be 
reduced.Second, such a Palestinian state has the potential to restore 
warm relations with fatigued Western allies such as France and the UK. In 
exchange for territorial concessions, Israel would have great leverage to apply 
for NATO membership and/or a formal alliance with the United 
States.Israel would also have a chance to rebuild failed relations with 
powerful Muslim states such as Turkey and Pakistan, or at least to defuse 
tensions.Third, such a Palestinian state promises to solve the core 
contradiction that plagues Israel: how to remain both Jewish and democratic. 
Israel cannot retain the West Bank under occupation and ensure both these core 
values.None of these challenges are addressed in a UN bid, which is more 
theater than diplomacy, even to the naïve. The United States and Canada continue 
to show resolve and leadership in their insistence upon direct, bilateral 
Palestinian-Israeli negotiations as the process to achieve a viable Palestinian 
state beside a secure Israel.
The writer holds a PhD in International 
Relations from Queen’s University, Ontario. He completed post-doctoral studies 
at Hebrew University, Jerusalem, and follows Israel’s diplomatic and strategic 
position. He lives with his family in Toronto, working as an Information 
Technology Architect.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Thoughts on academic freedom at Pessah</title>
<date>17/4/2011</date>
<content>
Our festivals can be treated in many ways. Some ignore them altogether.Others are content with the rituals, the food and the family gatherings.




And for others, it is a time for contemplation, trying to insert contemporary significance into events that happened thousands of years ago.Pessah is when we contemplate the meaning of freedom. All too often it is physical freedom we think about. We read the story of the Jewish people’s liberation from Egyptian slavery and the transformation into an independent and free nation.We often compare the Exodus story with the more recent freedoms obtained
 by the founders of modern Israel, or the civil rights movement in 1960s
 America (for whom the Exodus story remains a major inspiration), the 
freedom from apartheid in South Africa and, for many of us, with 
concerns about the lack of freedom for the Palestinians who live under 
our political rule. For each of us, the famous words of the Haggada – 
that we should understand the Exodus story in every generation as though
 it was happening to us today – is one of the most powerful messages of 
Pessah.MY OWN thoughts about freedom are different this year. I am increasingly
 concerned about how our society is losing its ability to express views 
in an open fashion.In a country where, as we always joke, there are five opinions for every
 three people, we are being constantly attacked and targeted for having 
the “wrong” views. It has become acceptable to try and silence our 
views, even to the extent of threatening us with hate mail of a type 
which, in some countries, would provide grounds for criminal 
investigation.For the past few years, I have witnessed concerted and well-planned 
attacks on my own university by groups of right-wing activists who are 
unhappy with the political views of some faculty members. This has come 
to a head in recent months, with attempts to bring pressure on donors 
and on Knesset members to intervene, and just last week there was an 
attempt to ban a conference on human rights which took place at the 
university.The university leadership finds itself caught in a trap. It does not 
want to alienate its donors, many of whom, in the comfort of their 
Diaspora homes, hold extreme anti-democratic views when it comes to 
Israel. Nor does it want to annoy the members of the Knesset Education 
Committee in an extreme right-wing government, who would like to impose 
constraints on the freedom to think and teach by intervening in the 
academic curriculum.There is also the academic faculty, which expects its leaders to defend 
their freedom of expression, and to understand the role of 
intellectualism in raising social and political awareness.Were it not for the employment laws of the state relating to tenure, 
there is a growing feeling among the faculty that some could have been 
dismissed for expressing their views. Many believe that freedom of 
expression on Israeli campuses is facing the strongest challenge since 
the establishment of the Hebrew University back in the 1920s. No doubt, 
in today’s environment, Martin Buber, Judah Leon Magnes or Yeshayahu 
Leibowitz would have been fired if the present donors and politicians 
had their way.The thought police of the extreme rightwing has grown in strength in 
recent years. It includes sites such as Campus Watch and Isracampus, 
well-funded organizations like Im Tirtzu and NGO Monitor, whose 
objectives are to prevent freedom of expression among all those who do 
not share their fortress view of the world. For them, anyone who 
believes in such values as peace, human rights or the universal values 
of Judaism are collectively labeled as traitors, anti-Zionists and 
enemies of the Jewish State. In scenes reminiscent of darker days, they 
send their representatives into universities to record lectures, which 
are then selectively edited, published on their web sites and used as 
ammunition to impose an extreme rightwing agenda on public discourse.The attempt by my own university to prevent a conference on human rights
 from going ahead last week, and its refusal to allow the conference 
organizers to use the Senate Hall for the main session, was a knee-jerk 
reaction to this form of pressure.A similar event occurred last year, when the Center for Beduin Studies 
was forced to relocate part of its conference following political 
pressure on the university.As it turned out, last week’s conference was an orderly, well-planned, 
well-attended discussion, including many critical opinions and 
positions, as would be expected from any university proud of its role as
 a thought-provoking institution.The right-wing groups openly attended, filmed and took notes, and even 
held a demonstration (attended by few participants) but, alas, when it 
came to the facts were unable to come up with any “incriminating” 
evidence of sedition or treason.But that did not prevent them from writing blog posts or sending mass 
mailings to their supporters throughout the Jewish world describing the 
evil things being done in the name of the university. After all, why 
should a few truths be allowed to get in the way of an increasingly 
wellfunded attempt to impose a narrow and isolationist political 
ideology, one born out of perpetual fear of the outside world and of 
anyone who thinks differently? University leaders must ensure that 
freedom of expression is not trampled on. Due to political pressure, 
they have become slaves to their external environment instead of 
categorically standing behind freedom and diversity, as befits a 
university.It is they who should be sitting down this Pessah and contemplating the 
meaning of freedom, before Israel’s universities become subject to the 
Orwellian restrictions of the right-wing thought police.
The writer is Dean of the Faculty of 
Humanities and Social Sciences at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev. 
The views expressed are his alone.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Unprecedented silencing of dissent at UC Irvine</title>
<date>16/10/2011</date>
<content>
I was the first student to protest Ambassador Michael Oren’s appearance at the 
University of California, Irvine in February, 2010. Minutes into the 
speech, I stood up and yelled, “Michael Oren, propagating murder is not an 
expression of free speech!” I was moved to this simple act of protest after the 
devastation I witnessed in the Gaza Strip in the aftermath of Operation Cast 
Lead, which resulted in the deaths of over 1400 Palestinians, including more 
than 700 women and children, at the hands of the Israeli military. Months after 
the attacks, I visited Gaza to deliver medical aid. There, I met the Sammouni 
cousins, three young girls who were orphaned when an Israeli bomb fell on their 
home and killed 45 members of their family.




Many families still lived in 
the rubble of their destroyed homes, factories, work places, and schools. Those 
still lucky enough to have homes lived with clear remnants of the 
war. Besides the inability to rebuild due to the Israeli siege of the 
Gaza Strip, virtually every home and building was riddled with bullet holes 
measuring inches in diameter.Those images compelled me to raise a voice against 
the abhorrent devastation and disregard for human life caused by the policies of 
Oren’s government.Despite the fact that I acted in accordance with a 
long tradition of protest at American universities, I was arrested. The Orange 
County District Attorney eventually filed criminal charges against me and ten of 
my peers.The charges were unprecedented. Just a few months before our protest, 
thousands of students at UC Irvine undertook an aggressive protest against 
tuition increases. Demonstrators entered large, 500-person lecture halls 
chanting “walk out!” to urge students to leave their classes and 
demonstrate.At that time, senior UCI administrators and police officers 
followed the demonstrators as they moved through every major lecture hall on 
campus. Despite these interruptions (and even a shoving match between one 
student and a professor), no arrests were made or threatened. No disciplinary 
action was taken against the students who disrupted the classes or the campus 
organizations that endorsed the protest.In contrast, our protest, which, totaled just seven minutes over the course of a 90 minute lecture, was met with 
the full force of the law. After I spoke up, I began to make my way to 
the exit. I was immediately met by police and escorted to a storage room. There, 
I was placed in front of a table stacked with dozens of handcuffs, searched and 
arrested.After protests by nine more students and a large walkout where 
an eleventh student was arrested, Oren completed his prepared remarks and was 
left with nearly 15 minutes to answer questions from the 
audience. Instead of fielding questions, however, he left early to attend 
a Los Angeles Lakers basketball game and to meet their star player, Kobe 
Bryant.In an editorial earlier this month, this newspaper wrote that we 
were eventually charged with a misdemeanor “for planning to trample and then 
trampling the freedom of speech of Israeli Ambassador Michael Oren.” In reality 
we were charged with disturbance of a public meeting and of conspiracy to do 
so. We have appealed our conviction and are hopeful the court will 
overturn the decision.Some people claim that our First Amendment right 
to free speech does not include the right to block someone else from exercising 
his right to speak. But rights can only be trampled upon and censored by the 
government, not by individuals. Furthermore, although our protest was mundane 
compared to other acts of protest in the university’s history, the Orange County 
District Attorney has managed to delude even The Jerusalem Post into believing 
that the charges were fair and justified. This newspaper claimed that both 
sides, the Israeli government and American protesters, must be protected from 
interruption, as if the parties are on an equal playing field. Rather than 
“trample” Oren’s freedom of speech, said the paper, we should have voiced our 
opposition during the question & answer session.But that argument 
fails to realize that questions and answers are not an effective form of protest 
against states, especially those engaged in war crimes and possible crimes 
against humanity. States enhance their power by creating a framework within 
which non-state players can challenge state policies. Due to an imbalance of 
power, to effect real change ordinary citizens must challenge state power 
outside of this framework. We did not wish to politely ask questions but rather 
to make a poignant statement. We came to protest Israel’s actions, and a Q & 
A session was not the means through which we wanted to act. An effective protest 
must voice its opposition in a manner that challenges the policies Oren 
represents and the framework through which those policies are propagated. 
Protesters who threw tea into the Boston Harbor, who sat-in at segregated lunch 
counters, who marched against South African apartheid, and who are now 
protesting for their basic human rights across the Arab world all understood 
this crucial distinction.Acts of protest must be judged by their ability 
to empower marginalized voices to speak out and demand their basic human rights, 
whether in Iran or Irvine. The First Amendment has long recognized the 
importance of that value, despite the district attorney's attempt to chip away 
at this protection. Only by upholding this right can we protect the free 
exchange of ideas and the potential for social change.Israeli officials 
will continue to meet protests in the United States and around the world as long 
as they uphold unjust policies like the ones that caused three young girls to be 
orphaned. Of all institutions, I would expect a newspaper to support our right 
to free speech and to protest injustice loudly.
The writer is a student 
at the University of California, Irvine.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Words of truth amidst a world of lies</title>
<date>18/10/2011</date>
<content>
Bassam Nasser’s op-ed in yesterday’s paper is a must read for every citizen of the world.Nothing could better illustrate the truth about the Palestinian society of Gaza.




Nasser argues that it’s just not fair that we Israelis view the prisoners released in exchange for Gilad Schalit as terrorist murderers. After all, everyone in Gaza worships and idolizes them. We should understand that they are heroes, a source of pride and honor to their parents and families, the most eligible bachelors desired by every young Palestinian woman. Political and social organizations will seek out the released killers to advance their names and their agendas. They are not deviants of society, but rather society itself. They are lawyers, doctors, men and women, young and old, professors and illiterates.The picture he so proudly paints of Palestinian society, glaringly clarifies to all that the leaders of Gaza and its citizenry as a whole comprise one of the most despicable and detestable societies in the history of man.No Hollywood studio has ever created a villain as evil as the likes of Khaled Mashaal, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini or Hassan Nassrallah.No Hollywood writer has ever written a script about an entire society of evil, millions of devout clones of a murderous, deviant ideology and eschatology.The reality of Gaza today, and most of the Arab world, is too strange for fiction.If you don’t believe me, take a five-minute stroll past the Hass Promenade in Jerusalem, one of the city’s most popular tourist stops, and you will witness a nearly unprecedented celebration in honor of the release 1,000 of the most despicable human beings ever born. Their supporters are dancing on cars, galloping through the streets on horses, shouting and screaming for joy. For what? To welcome the woman who planned and drove the suicide bomber to Sbarro and murdered 15 young Jews and wounded over 100, for the “crime” of eating pizza in downtown Jerusalem. Other idols of their society include the person who murdered the Dickstein parents and their nine-year-old son, Shuvael, leaving behind eight orphans, aged one-to-17 years old.Another of the terrific Palestinian role models who was greeted 
yesterday was the lovely man who walked into the Shabo home and 
machine-gunned three young boys while they were watching television, 
then murdered their mother in her bed at point blank range and shot the 
leg off another of her sons as he cowered, hiding under his mother’s 
bed.YOU CAN’T win a battle if you don’t know who the enemy is. I thank 
Nasser for so clearly describing the enemy we face; an entire society 
filled with hate, the desire to kill every Jew and every Westerner, with
 the hope of destroying the very moral ethic upon which we base our 
lives. It is an enemy with the primitiveness and intolerance that 
patiently executes its long term plan to violently impose a monolithic 
radical Islamic regime on every citizen of the world. Every Tom, Dick 
and Harry is their target.The enemy we must face up to is radical Islam. Or perhaps it is Islam 
itself? A number of years ago I participated in a small gathering with 
then US Ambassador to Israel Dan Kurtzer, who said that the United 
States is deeply studying this question and hasn’t yet concluded whether
 the problem is only radical Islam or whether the ideology is so 
pervasive that it is Islam itself.It is clear that Nasser and every Palestinian leader believe that 
Palestinian murderers are comparable to South African leader Nelson 
Mandela and India’s Mahatma Gandi. This is a loathsome comparison.Neither of those men ever held a gun in his hand or killed another human
 being. Mandela was convicted of planning violent resistance while 
fighting for equality in South Africa. Another victim of the apartheid 
government, Steven Biko, headed a totally pacifist, peaceful 
organization that united 70 other groups to promote “social upliftment” 
of black residents of Durban, and Gandi was known worldwide as a 
pacifist and vehemently condemned any violence.Assimilating the joy I feel for Gilad’s return home and the disgust and 
fear that I feel over the release into world of hundreds of the cruelest
 and inhumane murderers and killers society has ever known, my only 
solace is the gratitude that I have for being born and Jew and the pride
 I feel for having made the choice to become an Israeli. We have been 
handed a moral code from God and from all of our ancestors, a heritage 
of over 3,500 years that dictates a set of behavioral norms and societal
 ethics that prevent us from deteriorating into animals.Our instincts for right and wrong, honed over thousands of years of 
thought, debate and practice prevent us from ever falling into the trap 
of adopting radical Islamic ideals.It’s time for us, the People of Israel to be a light unto the nations to
 share with them the lessons of our tradition, the value of a human 
life, the horrible crime of murder, and the code of ethics we have 
received, upon which the whole world can live together in peace.
The writer is the chairman of 
OneFamilyFund.org, Israel’s premier support organization for terror 
victims and the recipient of this year’s Presidential Citation for 
Volunteerism.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yalla Peace: Celebrating freedom... together</title>
<date>25/10/2011</date>
<content>
Gilad Schalit, an Israeli soldier kidnapped by Hamas extremists, was released 
last week after being held captive for five years. In exchange, Israel released 
1,027 out of the 5,554 Palestinians held in Israeli prisons.Israeli 
sources say that most of these individuals have been tried and sentenced, but 
Palestinian and human rights groups say the deliberations are often sham trials 
that sometimes last as little as seven minutes. Immediately, Palestinians and 
Israelis began attacking each other.Israelis argued that Schalit was being 
traded for 1,027 terrorists.




Hamas declared that although they were 
releasing Schalit, they would grab another Israeli soldier as soon as they 
could.Palestinians were outspoken in defending some of the most 
notorious prisoners who were released, including two women who were involved in 
assisting the suicide bomber who massacred civilians at the Sbarro Pizza 
restaurant in Jerusalem and one who lured an Israeli boy on the Internet to a 
fatal ambush.But I was most impressed with Schalit, who upon leaving his 
captivity, said that he hoped the prisoner exchange would kick-start the Middle 
East peace process. He also said he hoped all of the Palestinian prisoners would 
soon be released, too, on the condition that they didn’t return to 
terrorism.Some Israelis argued that Schalit was merely speaking out of 
the trauma of his experience, something that many hostages often do, expressing 
sympathy with their captors.To them, the newlyreleased hostage was reminiscent 
of Patti Hearst, the daughter of American newspaper baron William Randolph 
Hearst who was taken hostage in 1974 by a handful of crackpots called the 
Symbionese Liberation Army. Held captive for only a few weeks in isolation and 
assaulted with constant propaganda and brainwashing, she ended up carrying a 
weapon to help the extremists rob a bank. Eventually, she came out of her 
hallucinations.I’m not saying that Schalit is anything like Hearst. 
Schalit was in prison for more than five years.Hearst was held captive 
for a few months. In captivity for so long, I would think that despite being 
held hostage, he might come to understand the softer side of his 
captors.According to Hamas, Schalit was not tortured. In contrast, 
Palestinians complain of torture all the time. Few, if any, of the terrorists 
convicted of mass murder have ever expressed remorse for their actions, whereas 
some Israeli soldiers have expressed remorse for their actions after completing 
their military service.Yet in all of this back and forth blame game – 
the game we usually always play when anything happens, are we missing an 
opportunity? Maybe Schalit is doing what we should all do. Not just Israelis but 
Palestinians, too. Maybe we should express compassion for the other 
side.Israelis who say that all of those in prison are terrorists are 
surely exaggerating and expressing feelings of anger rather than 
reason.Critics say many of the prisonsers are civilians who were grabbed 
simply because they were dissidents.Israelis hate it when I refer to the 
Israeli prison system as a “gulag” because, like the word “apartheid,” it 
exaggerates the reality of the Israeli prison system. Israeli prisons are not 
comparable to the Soviet gulag where dissidents were sent and murdered, just as 
the Israeli reality for Palestinians is far less oppressive than anything black 
South Africans experienced under Afrikaner rule.But those words are 
thrown at Israel often. What’s the point? To hurt Israelis. It might have worked 
decades ago. But today, it only feeds the growing extremism and hardening of the 
Israeli public’s views.Israelis do the same when they say Palestinians 
hate Israelis and want to destroy Israel.Is it really that simple? Could 
the reality possibly be just a bit more complex, and that we simply lack 
courageous leaders who can help us see through the fog of our cumulative 
societal angers? What I saw in the Schalit-Palestinian prisoner exchange, 
however, was one little glimmer of light breaking through the dark clouds that 
have embraced Israelis and Palestinians now for more than a decade since the 
collapse of the Declaration of Principles that were a sound basis for a genuine 
peace laid out between Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and then-PLO 
chairman Yasser Arafat.For the briefest of moments last Tuesday, I saw a 
moment of unity.Palestinians celebrating the return of their people and 
Israelis celebrating the return of one of their soldiers.For the first time, I 
saw both sides celebrating simultaneously, instead of assaulting each other 
verbally and/or physically.The real fight in Israel and Palestine is 
between extremists and moderates. I know the majority of Palestinians and 
Israelis are moderates.We just need to remind ourselves of that fact. If 
you, for even one brief moment, felt any optimism at all from the prisoner 
exchange, then the pilot light exists that can reignite the peace 
process.That’s one celebration I hope to experience again.
The 
writer is an award winning Palestinian columnist. He can be reached at 
www.hanania.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Yalla Peace: If I were a Jew</title>
<date>16/10/2011</date>
<content>
Although I’m not Jewish, my wife and son are, so I spend a lot of time with 
Jews, and even occasionally attend synagogue services. One of these occasions is 
Yom Kippur, when Jews of all denominations seek atonement through prayer and 
fasting, a religious event with no real parallel in either Christianity or 
Islam.Christians believe that Jesus already atoned for the sins of all 
future generations, and that Christians can be forgiven if they accept Jesus as 
their messiah. But that’s just a one-time event. Jews celebrate Yom Kippur every 
year.




Muslims fast for 30 days during Ramadan which, among other things, 
is intended to teach and remind them of the need for patience, spirituality, 
submissiveness to God and humility. Ramadan, unlike Yom Kippur, isn’t about 
atonement per se.The synagogue we attend is Reform, which is 
significant. Reform Jews, unlike many Conservative and especially 
Orthodox Jews, do not believe that the Jewish Temple must be restored in order to 
open the door for the coming of the messiah. Rebuilding the Temple, as 
Ariel Sharon eloquently explained, would mean the destruction of the Dome of the 
Rock.They also do not believe that every Jew must move to Israel, 
although they do not discourage it either. More importantly, Reform Jews 
accept intermarriage, seeing the glass as half full rather than 
half-empty. When a non-Jew marries a Jewish spouse, especially a Jewish 
woman, and raises their children as Jews, Reform Judaism sees this as a positive 
thing, considering nearly one third of all Jews were murdered by the Nazis 
during the Holocaust.During the Yom Kippur synagogue service sermon, our 
wonderful rabbi discussed, among other things, the current difficult relations 
between Palestinians and Israelis.In his 30-minute sermon the rabbi 
spoke eloquently of the Palestinians’ right to statehood, and of the need for 
Jews to be prepared to accept a Palestinian state both for this reason and 
because such a state is necessary for the security and future of the 
Israel.I’ve listened to many sermons on Middle East politics in Arab 
Christian churches and in mosques. I’ve never heard any preach that Arabs should 
accept Israel as a state to bring about peace.As a Palestinian, hearing 
a Jewish rabbi speak of the “Nakba” from a synagogue podium on Yom Kippur made 
me feel that he and his congregation understood me. It caused me to reflect on 
the fact that atonement, seeking forgiveness for your transgressions against 
both God and your fellow man, is more than just a powerful Jewish notion, it’s 
an important component of being an exemplary human being. And it made me wonder 
– what if I were Jew? If I were a Jew, I hope I would recognize, as my wife’s 
rabbi does, the need for a Palestinian state. If I were a Jew, I wouldn’t use 
the Arab rejection of partition in 1948 as a means of putting the blame for the 
conflict on Arabs, or of rejecting the two-state solution.I would be 
magnanimous, as I know Jews can be. I would reach out to the Palestinians. I 
would recognize that while there is obviously no equivalency between the Nakba 
and the Holocaust, or between the persecution of Jews through the ages and the 
plight of the Palestinians today, their suffering is still very 
real.Like many Palestinians, one of my heroes is Nelson Mandela. He led 
the South Africans out of slavery and apartheid. But although he fought his 
enemies, he wasn’t cruel, he was magnanimous. He spent 30 years breaking stones 
under the whip of his Afrikaner jailers, sleeping in a 10 foot by 10 foot prison 
cell.Yet when he walked out of that cell, he found the strength to 
forgive the people who put him there.That power to forgive is what can 
make peace and security a reality, and is a part of atonement.So just as 
Jews ask for atonement for their transgressions, as a Jew I would also ask my 
enemies to atone for their own. Recognizing your own injustices against others 
is the power that makes humankind great, and opens the door to a genuine 
peace.I would ask Israelis, Jews and Palestinians to recognize what they 
have done to each other. I would ask them all to seek forgiveness, but also to 
forgive and be magnanimous. Violence is the result of cowardice and fear. Peace 
comes from courage.
The writer is an award-winning columnist and 
Palestinian activist.
</content>
</article>
