<article>
<title>A Christmas wish for 'justice'</title>
<date>24/12/2006</date>
<content>
The passing of each Christmas season gives the small but highly symbolic Palestinian Christian community a brief moment to highlight the difficult yoke of life in modern Bethlehem. Some use it to decry the lawless acts of radical Islamic neighbors, others the restrictive shadow of the Israeli security fence.

At a recent holiday reception for the Christian communities of the Holy Land hosted by Israel's Minister of Tourism Isaac Herzog, Lutheran Bishop of Jerusalem Munib Younan used his moment to offer a special Christmas wish for "peace and justice, for without justice there cannot be peace."

Such appeals for "justice" have become a familiar refrain from Palestinian voices - Muslim and Christian. For their part, Palestinian Christian clerics often construct their calls for "justice" in biblical terms, with a particular attachment to the words of the Hebrew prophet Micah.

"He has told you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God?" (Micah 6:8)

One influential Arab priest, Rev. Naim Ateek of the Sabeel Center for Palestinian Liberation Theology, has even written a book on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict entitled Justice, and Only Justice.
But what exactly do they mean by "justice"?

FOR MANY Palestinian Muslims, it means Israel taking responsibility for and completely reversing the nakba ("disaster") they suffered in the 1948 War of Independence, from which emerged a solidified Jewish state on "sacred" Palestinian land and a festering Palestinian refugee problem. Though Arabs launched that war, they now want Israel to "unscramble their eggs."

When Palestinian Christians cry "justice," many may have in mind the lifting of the IDF closures and checkpoints that are intended to provide security, but nonetheless significantly hinder their daily lives. Some might be thinking of going back to their old homes, like the seven Christian villages evacuated by Jewish forces along the frontier with Lebanon in the 1948 fighting. Several Jewish communities sit there today, presenting Israel with a tough moral dilemma.

More broadly, "justice" to many Palestinian Christians would encompass a one-state solution to the conflict, whereby all the land between the   Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea becomes one bi-national, democratic state in which every Jew and Arab gets one vote - "one state for two peoples and three religions."

Many Palestinian Christians have trouble accepting a sovereign Jewish state for theological reasons, but they also do not want to live in an authoritarian or Islamic state. Thus they would prefer one democratic nation with a slight Arab majority but enough Jews to ensure minority rights are protected, including their own.

To that end, some Palestinian Christian leaders and their allies abroad have championed the Durban strategy of drawing apartheid comparisons to delegitimize Israel. This has spawned the twin campaigns of divestment from Israel and dismantlement of the "apartheid wall." Former US president Jimmy Carter has joined this effort in his new book Israel: Peace not Apartheid, while South Africa's celebrated Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu hopes to do his part by visiting Gaza soon under UN auspices.

Still, at the heart of the Palestinian Christians' cry for "justice" is a struggle over their concept of God. Believing that the Church has "replaced" Israel as His redemptive agent in the world, many have trouble accepting Zionism as the handiwork of a God of mercy, as revealed in the New Testament. Is God just, they ask, to bring the Jews back in a manner that has caused such loss and dispossession for fellow humans equally loved in His sight?

In addressing this question in biblical terms, we must first distinguish between moral uprightness as an individual duty versus on a collective, or national scale. Micah 6:8, for instance, speaks primarily of individual conduct - my obligation to act justly with my fellow human, for which I alone will be judged one day.

As for collective justice, the Bible teaches that God is sovereign over the nations and deals with them based on questions of righteousness and justice as He defines them - not in human terms (Jeremiah 18:5-10; Isaiah 40:12-24).

Secondly, God gave Israel as a "light to the nations" to demonstrate the blessings of obedience and consequences of disobedience. Obedience meant the right to live in the land promised to Abraham as an "everlasting possession" (Genesis 17:8), while disobedience - refusal to "hear His voice" - meant exile among the nations (Leviticus 26; Deuteronomy 28).

Isaiah describes Israel as a "vineyard" planted by God that He then uprooted because "He looked for justice, but behold, oppression; for righteousness, but behold, a cry for help." (Isaiah 5:1-7)

THUS DID a righteous God deal severely with His own people down through the centuries. In fact, Israel has actually received from His hand "double" for all her sins (Isaiah 40:1-3; Jeremiah 16:18). This means that if anyone has a legitimate cry for justice, it is the Jews, who have suffered far more than any other people in history.

Yet with regard to Israel's sufferings, the Apostle Paul asks in Romans 3:1-8 the same tough questions being posed by pro-Palestinian Christians today:

"But if our [Israel's] unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is He? (I am speaking in human terms.) May it never be! For otherwise how will God judge the world?"

In other words, if God ever did anything to the Israelites that they did not deserve, then He has no right to judge the rest of the world.

In His mercy, this same God also promised a "time of favor" upon Israel (Psalm 102:13), in which "He who scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him as a shepherd does his flock." (Jeremiah 31:10)

This promised Jewish restoration is affirmed in the New Testament (Luke 21:24; Acts 3:21; Romans 15:8).

Though the modern-day Ingathering may make some Christians uncomfortable from a humanistic sense, it is actually the ultimate justice of God to recover this people who suffered for the sake of the nations and to redeem them back in the land.

This does not mean that everything Israel does is right or that her moral shortcomings can be overlooked. She does need to act justly - but in His sight and not necessarily at the bar of nations that have always treated her unfairly, if not cruelly.

The writer is media director of the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem (www.icej.org).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Archbishop Tutu, please be fair</title>
<date>5/12/2006</date>
<content>
In view of his record as chairman of South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Committee, Nobel Laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu's appointment as head of the UN fact-finding mission into the deaths of Palestinians at Beit Hanun is a logical choice, despite widely expressed opposition.

The manner in which he sometimes broke down and wept with the victims of apartheid atrocities during the hearings stamps him as a man of compassion.

Many fear that because of his publicly expressed anti-Israel views the archbishop's investigation will inevitably be biased. However, as a religious man of intellect and integrity he will, I hope, consider all relevant facts and circumstances even when they run counter to prior impressions about Israel.

Since the African National Congress and the Palestine Liberation Organization were one-time comrades in arms, his empathy with the PLO is understandable. Unfortunately, what many in South Africa do not realize is that there is no similarity between the ANC's struggle on the one hand, and the struggle of the PLO and Hamas on the other.

While the lofty aims of the ANC Freedom Charter state that "South Africa shall strive to maintain world peace and the settlement of all international disputes by negotiation - not war," article 9 of the PLO Charter declares the opposite. It states bluntly that the armed struggle is not merely tactical, it is the overall strategy. Article 19 rejects the 1947 UN partition of Palestine, clearly implying that liberating Palestine means the destruction of the pre-1967 Jewish state.

The Hamas charter makes it even clearer that it leaves no room for peaceful negotiation. Article 13 unambiguously declares "initiatives, and so-called peaceful solutions and international conferences, are in contradiction to the principles of the Islamic Resistance Movement. There is no solution for the Palestinian question except through jihad."

ARCHBISHOP TUTU has been quoted as saying, "My dream is that one day my children will wake up and realize that they are members of one family." Very sadly, there is a force at work in the Middle East determined to prevent the realization of that noble dream.

I refer to incitement to violence as preached in mosques, schools and state-sponsored media. If the archbishop would spare a few minutes to visit the Web site  he will no doubt be grieved to learn how Palestinian children are indoctrinated from infancy to hate viciously, and he will realize that there can be no hope of a peaceful settlement as long as people grow up on a diet of hate.

Dare one hope that during his investigation the archbishop will lend his immense prestige to demanding an end to this destructive incitement as vigorously as he has criticized Israel in the past?

If he took the opportunity during his forthcoming visit to impartially examine all the facts, he would discover - to his pleasant surprise - that accusations of Israeli apartheid are mean-spirited and wrong-headed.

He would find that whereas the apartheid of the old South Africa was entrenched in law, Israel's Declaration of Independence absolutely ensures complete equality of social and political rights to all inhabitants, irrespective of religion, race, or gender.

He would discover that in regard to discrimination, Israel compares favorably even with the new South Africa, where "Black Economic Empowerment" is a form of reverse apartheid, albeit justifiably introduced to redress past evils.

He would find that Arabs and Jews are entitled to equal medical treatment under our health insurance law. An unblinkered visit to an Israeli hospital would convince the severest critic about the complete absence of any form of racial discrimination there. Arab and Jewish doctors collaborate easily. Arab and Israeli patients share the same wards. In some hospitals Arabs far outnumber Jewish patients. Especially noticeable after terrorist bombing incidents is the equal treatment given to victims and perpetrators.

WITH REGARD to the Beit Hanun tragedy, perhaps the archbishop would at least recognize Israel's difficulty in totally minimizing collateral damage, in contrast to the cynical and grossly illegal practice of Palestinian terrorists deliberately aiming at civilian populations while sheltering behind civilians.

Perhaps he would consider the reaction of IDF soldiers to their unwelcome duties, as described in an "A gunner's nightmare" by Steve Linde (Post, November 8). Linde wrote: "Can you imagine how terrible the artillery troops who fired the shells at Beit Hanun yesterday must be feeling now? After serving in IDF Artillery, I can only say that this is every gunner's nightmare scenario: killing innocent men, women and children."

Linde points out that in response to Kassam rocket attacks gunners were ordered to "fire at the source" - which they did, firing a dozen or so shells. He adds that whereas the Kassams are intentionally fired at civilian targets, hoping for maximum casualties and damage, the troops who fired at Beit Hanun weren't aiming to hit civilians. They were targeting terrorists firing rockets.

PERHAPS the archbishop would concede that it is incomprehensible that, in passing judgment on Israel's response at Hanun, the world rejects equipment malfunction as a probable cause of the tragedy, knowing technical faults and human errors occur even in such highly disciplined fields as space exploration.

Archbishop Tutu is not only a man of compassion. He is a man of courage, as evidenced by his outspoken criticism of the present South African government.

Dare we hope that he will exhibit similar courage by challenging the knee-jerk anti-Israel actions of the UN body which appointed him and offer constructive conclusions after conducting a thoroughly impartial investigation into the all the circumstances leading up to the Beit Hanun disaster?

The writer is a South African living in Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>August 14: All tied up</title>
<date>13/8/2006</date>
<content>
All tied up

Sir, - The UN has for decades tied Israel's hands, enabling its neighbors to go on murdering Israelis. This latest cease-fire ties Israel's hands so that Hizbullah, a military wing of the Islamic dictatorship of Iran, can claim victory and prepare for a much bigger attack on Israel.

That Israel's government accepted the UN proposal - which doesn't even involve punishing Iran for starting the war - is immoral. How many disasters will it take to realize that appeasement of evil promotes evil?

Many good people have given their lives to create and preserve an oasis of freedom and prosperity called Israel in a desert of despotism. Israel's government is not only imperiling its present and future citizens, it's destroying the noble legacy of its forefathers ("Israel expected to approve UN cease-fire today," August 13).

GLENN WOICESHYN
Calgary

Sir, - Embarrassing. There is no other way to sum up Israel's performance during this war. Olmert was clearly in way over his head and must be replaced by someone with military and leadership experience.

Next time Hizbullah attacks, hit them with the kitchen sink on the first day, and then every day thereafter until the desired result. And when Condi calls, don't answer the phone.

ABE KRIEGER
Philadelphia

Darfur revisited

Sir, - Darfur was supposedly going to be a great UN achievement. There were rallies all over supporting the May 5 peace deal; the UN glowed with its success. Now the UN cites its own failure, admitting that violence has continued, that the government of Sudan has not helped and, more important, that it has continued to be ineffective as violence among competing armed groups persists.

What a lesson for the Israeli leadership which, having failed to protect its own people, now turns to the UN for support. Unthinkably for a country that once proudly declared it would be responsible for its own security, the Olmert government has placed Israel's security in the hands of a UN dominated by Muslim Arabs seeking now and always to dismember it forever. In doing so the government has made Israel a focus of international derision ("Olmert tackled from the Right and Left for accepting UN resolution," August 13).

TOBY WILLIG
Jerusalem

What achievement?

Sir, - How can Herb Keinon say with a straight face that the "Resolution meets 'essential demands'" (August 13), and that it "could be seen as an achievement for Israel"?

The two reasons Ehud Olmert sent us to war, he said, were to disarm Hizbullah and return our captured soldiers. Neither of these is anywhere resolved in the UN resolution.

AVIGDOR BONCHEK
Jerusalem

The crux is...

Sir, - UN Resolution 1701 is about what was expected. It's biased toward the Arabs, but not egregiously so, meaning we should accept it.

However, I'd like to point out the two most ridiculous paragraphs. OP5 says Lebanon should abide by the 1949 Armistice Agreement. Notice how the UN couldn't bring itself to admit that the Arab League declared war in 1948, and demand that the Lebanese accept Israel's existence.

OP6 is just as hypocritical. It says the international community should help rebuild Lebanon. It doesn't once say it should help Israel's bombarded North. Why is it the aggressor receives help and the defender doesn't?

Oh, right, we're Jews.

DAVID TEICH 
Rehovot

...Israel's existence

Sir, - There can be no valid hudnas, negotiations, UN resolutions, settlements, truces, road maps or anything else of any use until the first move has been made - one that is still disgracefully incomplete after nearly 60 years.

Quit the pretence, and stop playing games. Stand up now, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, and finally ask your august assembly: Who accepts and who denies the existence of the State of Israel in its ancient homeland?

Such acceptance is the only solution. There is no other.

ROSEMARY DRIMAN 
Cape Town

How it is

Sir, - Hizbullah's murder of an Arab-Israeli woman and her child is perfect proof of the Islamist destruction of democracy, multiculturalism and harmony ("Katyusha kills mother and son," August 11).

This crime also exposes the Arab lie regarding Israeli "apartheid." While there is apartheid and racism in Arab countries - where non-Arabs are unwelcome and non-Muslims persecuted - Israel is a democratic, freedom-loving state for all.

DORON UR
Melbourne

Statesmanlike

Sir, - Former prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu has shown what a statesman he is. Shunning opportunism, he did not criticize PM Olmert's disastrous handling of recent affairs but remained silent.

This patriot is an example of a true leader. I would like to see the US constitution changed for one time to have such a man as American president. I think he will soon be Israel's PM - at which time he will have to fight this fight over again, as it was not finished.

MARTIN SAFFORD 
Ransomville, New York

Sick...

Sir, - Right now I am feeling sick over this "peace agreement." I am so disappointed with my president for encouraging it, also with the political decisions of your leader. This decision is going to lead Israel into another war down the road, and those who have just been wounded and killed will have paid the price in vain.

These terrorists will rearm right in front of UN troops. I shake my head thinking of the French leading this fiasco. They will sit back and let it happen.

JOYCE FRENETTE 
Apache Junction, Arizona

...sorry

Sir, - I am so sorry our government voted for a cease-fire. Although I am not a person of violence or war I do believe that you in Israel are fighting an evil force, and thus a just war. I wish you would destroy the enemy in toto.

THERESE TERSCHUREN
Omaha, Nebraska

Sir, - As a Christian, I wish to assure the people in Israel that I and many others are standing four-square behind the Israeli people in this battle for survival.

MAURICE HEWITT 
Portadown, Northern Ireland

Obvious, no?

Sir, - Isn't it obvious why America, Canada, Britain, India, Australia, Spain, Scandinavia and the rest of Europe are subject to the terrorist threat? They are occupying Arab land.

EDMUND JONAH
Rishon Lezion

Sir, - One is appalled at the stupidity of international leaders and others in blaming Israel, which was trying to implement peace.

DEANNA ALBERT-WARD 
Hastings, New Zealand

Sir, - I was kind of hoping you would make a parking lot out of Iran and Syria, because that's what they want to do to you, and to my country.

NORMAN CUNNINGHAM
Murphy, Texas

Wachsman's words

Sir, - As a parent of a soldier, I want to thank Esther Wachsman for expressing what many of us think but are unable to put into words ("To the PM, from a mother," August 13).

MOSHE POUPKO 
Jerusalem

Sir, - If Israel could turn to God for help, He would interween for Israel again, but Jews and Christians alike forget and make the same mistakes all over again.

We Christians have to do what the word of God says: Bless Israel and pray for the peace of Jerusalem, and let God be the judge.

BJ RG HOLST 
Durban
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bulldozing Caterpillar</title>
<date>8/3/2006</date>
<content>
By now it's an old story, but a destructive one nevertheless. On February 6, the Church of England's highest decision-making body, the General Synod, heeded "the call from our sister church, the Episcopal Church in Jerusalem and the Middle East, for morally responsible investment in the Palestinian occupied territories and, in particular, to disinvest from companies profiting from the illegal occupation, such as Caterpillar Inc., until they change their policies."

To smooth the waters and decipher the gobbledygook of the decision, the archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, who supported the motion, wrote to British Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks to express "deep regret" that "distress has been caused, especially to our Jewish friends.... The synod has not, by its action, resolved to disinvest," but rather, he wrote, "to register our concern."

The day after the synod vote, former archbishop of Canterbury George Carey told The Jerusalem Post he was "ashamed to be an Anglican" and that the decision was "a most regrettable and one-sided statement" that "ignores the trauma of ordinary Jewish people" in Israel who endure terrorist attacks.

The rap on Caterpillar, a responsible and legitimate heavy-equipment manufacturer, is that their bulldozers have been used to level the homes of some Palestinians. Never mind that this same machinery was also used by Israelis to knock down Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip, northern Samaria and Amona on the West Bank. What is at issue here has little to do with moral justice; but it has much to do with radical, liberal, leftist obsession.

For leftist zealots of instability and chaos, the matter is not based on the facts of the case, but rather on a predisposition to denigrate the State of Israel and its people for their simple desire to stay alive.

The reason Israel demolished the homes of suicidal Islamist radicals is well documented. In the Gaza Strip, Israel destroyed homes having tunnels that were used as conduits for weapons. Elsewhere, the homes of Palestinian suicide bombers responsible for slaughtering innumerable civilians - Israeli, Muslim, and others - fell to the blades of the dozers. The question is, "What civilized country under attack would not have done the same?"

Attacking Caterpillar and others doing legitimate business with a sovereign state is nothing more than a diversionary attempt to mask a true agenda and violently held prejudices.

LET IT be understood that the entire left wing of the Protestant mainline establishment is hostile to the very idea of a literal fulfillment of the biblical promises to Israel. It contests Israel's future restoration, as well as the promises of the Millennial Kingdom and a reigning Messiah.

In fact, a literal, resurrected Jewish Kingdom is wholly beyond mainline Protestantism's concept of what new world theology is all about. It considers the Scriptures antiquated, unacceptable and pass , and contends that those who believe and accept the Scriptures as written are ignorant, uninformed, and far removed from contemporary realities.

For such Protestants, the biblical promises, themes, pronouncements and mandates are old and irrelevant. Biblical revelation for them is an aberration - particularly when it touches Israel and the Promised Land.

Logically speaking, it doesn't make sense for objectively sane people to portray little Israel as a militant, "apartheid state" panting to commit genocide against innocent Palestinians. Consequently, the bottom line must be something else. In my opinion, it is what I term theological anti-Semitism. Israel's very existence is an intolerable offense to people who allegorize and spiritualize God's Word and attempt to impose on it the theology that the church has replaced Israel as the true heir of Abraham.

This school of thought has drawn an increasing number of gullible, uninformed people to its side. It has abandoned the literal, historical, grammatical interpretation of Scripture and forsaken Scripture's clear dictates regarding end-times events and the glorious future of the Jewish people and nation of Israel.

TO SAY it plainly, we Gentiles are not the be-all and end-all in the plan of God. And to infer as much is to assume a degree of self-induced arrogance and self-esteem wholly inconsistent with anything the Bible has ever taught. Israel's very existence is a glaring contradiction to everything left-wing, theological pretenders believe and endorse. In fact, I believe the entire liberal school of rejectionist thinkers would suffer no angst or disappointment if the State of Israel passed off the scene.

What is perhaps most distressing in the entire episode of bashing Caterpillar, the United States, and, in the process, evangelicals is the aid and comfort passed along to the enemies of, in essence, you and me.

Here we are in a time of war. And whether you believe it or not, it is a very real and protracted conflict. Islamists affirm continually that they are waging an all-out jihadist war that will end in triumph over the democracies of the West and in the establishment of an Islamist, global caliphate.

The first step in realizing their dream is Israel's destruction. Why? Because Israel represents the only true, viable democracy in the Middle East. It is a democracy imbued with all of the attributes of a functionally free state. To Arab demagogues, its existence is an insufferable anomaly - one they cannot tolerate. Thus we witness the invasion of Islamist fanatics from other Muslim countries to wage war against the forces of freedom and democracy in Iraq. From their point of view, freedom for their people is simply out of the question.

All of which raises a serious question. Why would Americans side with an avowed enemy that is determined to subjugate and destroy everything we hold dear as a free people? It is indeed strange that those campaigning to destroy Israel, a democracy attempting to survive in a hostile area, would themselves be the first on the chopping block of those whose cause they champion. No, it doesn't make sense. Sanity and legitimacy belong to those who stand with Israel and the establishment of democracy, freedom of religion, and the rights and privileges of the individual everywhere in the world.

UNFORTUNATELY, today we live in a world of "posts" - the post-Christian era, the post-Zionist era, etc. Strange, isn't it, that the "post" definition being popularized by secular and liberal religious elitists repudiates everything positive in the history of Judaism and biblical Christianity? But it is, after all, merely the evidence of the chaotic, confused state of the world we live in.

What does it mean to be a Christian Zionist? Simply this: It means to believe the Jewish people have an inherent, God-given right to possess a homeland sanctioned under international law in the land divinely given in perpetuity to the Jewish descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

Such a belief is not radical or subversive; it simply accepts what the Scriptures have declared about the rights and legitimate possessions of the Jewish people. It's as simple as that. In so saying, we do not diminish any of the rights or privileges of believing Gentiles during this interim Age of Grace in which the gospel is extended to all people everywhere - Jewish and Gentile.

Having said that, we have nothing to apologize for in declaring ourselves, based on biblical dictates, to be Christian Zionists.

Yes, I am aware that the Presbyterian (PCUSA) hierarchy, in its infamous decision to disinvest from companies operating for profit in Israel, took a swipe at those "ill-informed" evangelicals who identify themselves as Christian Zionists and are so woefully out of step with reality. However, we ill-informed Christian Zionists have the light of biblical revelation and historical reality on our side. It is, rather, the deserters from biblical truth who should declare what they really are and retreat from the field.

WHEN FORMER archbishop Carey told the Post that the General Synod's decision made him "ashamed to be an Anglican," he spoke for many thousands of Anglicans, Presbyterians, Lutherans, Disciples of Christ, and others who felt utterly betrayed by leaders who do not in any sense share their sentiments on the issue.

The beneficial aspect of the synod's vote was that, for the first time, it definitively unveiled to the people in the pews the anti-Semitic proclivities of its corrupted leaders.
Their agenda is radical and political. If you doubt this fact, study the decisions they have made over the last few decades. They have made themselves clear. Now they have officially gone on record, and members can see the true commitment of their leaders and those who control the expenditures of the believing laity.

For thousands of people, there is an awakening to the realities of what is taking place. Israel is a tiny entity in a sea of militant nations devoted to its destruction. American and coalition forces are fighting and dying to create conditions conducive to the spread of freedom and democracy in the Middle East.

The forces that defame the efforts and sacrifices of people who are paying the ultimate price for our survival and freedom are not the friends of liberty. In fact, they are quite the opposite. They are giving aid and comfort to enemies who are out to destroy not only tiny Israel but all free people in the Western world.

I cannot forget the poignant words of humorist Art Buchwald who commented on the September 11, 2001, attacks in New York and Washington. Although he had served on the European front in World War II, Buchwald said that, on that morning, for the first time in his life, he realized there were people out there who wanted, above all else, to kill him.

That's the fact of life in our times, friend. There are people out there who are enemies of everything we represent, and they want to see us dead. We must not give them any encouragement to accomplish their objective.

`
The writer, a pastor, is a leader of the Christian Zionist movement in the United States.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Carter's compromised statesmanship</title>
<date>4/12/2006</date>
<content>
Whatever else one might have said about the presidency of Jimmy Carter, he was a statesman. As much as any international figure before or since, he took advantage of the opportunity of the day to advance peace between Israel and her neighbors.
Early in his new book president Carter shares his account of the fateful negotiations in 1979. In describing Camp David I and its aftermath, Carter makes clear that he had a warmer relationship with Egyptian president Anwar Sadat than prime minister Menachem Begin. For this he can be forgiven.

But it is Carter himself who constantly reminds us in his outlandishly titled book, Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid, of the necessity of being an honest broker in advancing peace. It thus is startling that a former president who prides himself on his ongoing contribution to world peace would write a crude polemic that compromises any pretense to objectivity and fairness.

The book's inflammatory title is a case of false advertising, conjuring up comparisons between Israel and Apartheid South Africa, a comparison Carter never makes. South Africa's policies were racial in nature and deprived black subjects of basic rights in their own country. The only just solution was to give blacks full rights in the same state.

Carter never claims that Israel is engaging in racially-motivated policies and rightly argues for a two-state solution to the conflict. His use of the word "apartheid" is misleading, referring instead to his view that Israel's security fence and the "honeycomb" of settlements and roads behind it constitute a permanent Israeli control regime over Palestinian life. He neglects to mention that Israel's planned re-deployment from the West Bank would effectively remove such controls. That is precisely what happened in Gaza.

Carter leaves out what any reasonable observer, even those that share his basic views of the conflict, would consider obvious facts, but does include stunning distortions. I'll cite just two of the numerous examples of such mendacity.

First, discussing president Bill Clinton's peacemaking efforts, Carter discounts well-established claims that Israel accepted and Arafat rejected a generous offer to create a Palestinian state. "The fact is that no final offer was ever made," Carter asserts. To prove his point, he disingenuously cites a quote of then-prime minister Ehud Barak that there were "no negotiations" but "non-binding contacts" at the later stage talks in Taba. Barak made this statement in order to cut his political losses during an election, and to preclude the Palestinians from pocketing yet more concessions for future negotiations.

Moreover, anyone who read Clinton's account of the post-Camp David negotiations knows that he offered final "parameters" that substantially sweetened the pot for the Palestinians and met Carter's own stated standards for a fair settlement.

"I brought the Palestinian and Israeli teams into the cabinet room and read them my 'parameters' for negotiations," wrote Clinton. "In December the parties had met at Bolling Airforce Base for talks that didn't succeed because Arafat wouldn't accept the parameters that were hard for him." Carter must have known this history. But he conveniently ignores it in his book, leaving the reader to think that Barak's quote was the final commentary on the matter.

In another manifest distortion, Carter states that Israel plans to build a security fence "along the Jordan River, which is now planned as the eastern leg of the encirclement of the Palestinians."

Once again, any informed observer knows that Israel has modified the projected route of the security fence on numerous occasions (the current route roughly tracks the parameters that Clinton advanced to the parties in negotiations) and that there is no plan to hem the Palestinians in on the eastern border. Again, Carter overlooks these well-known developments, leaving readers to think that a route that was once contemplated in proposed maps but never adopted or acted upon represents current reality.

The extent that Carter goes in propping up an extreme version of the Palestinian narrative, and in burying and devaluing any trace of the Israeli and American versions of events, is deeply disappointing. In accepting the Palestinian narrative, Carter has conveniently revised history, excused the Palestinians for their tragic failure to come to terms with Israel each time the chance presented itself, and blithely ignored Israel's very legitimate security concerns.

Many Israelis, including those that once greatly admired his role in fostering peace with Egypt, may never again trust Carter's diplomacy, including his vaunted role as an election monitor.

He can no longer claim to be an honest broker.

This book will not help the cause of peace, and with its publication, the world has lost a statesman at a time when one is most needed.

The writer, based in New York, is executive director of the American Jewish Committee.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 18: David and Rachel...</title>
<date>17/12/2006</date>
<content>
David and Rachel...

Sir, - Wendy Mogel advises Jewish parents, for their children's sakes, to soft-pedal Hanukka in favor of the flash and dash of Christmas: "Let's call a magnificent holiday a magnificent holiday, and let our minor holiday be minor" ("Why can't David and Rachel enjoy the Christmas glitz," December 17).

She has it backwards. Hanukka is not about dreidels, candles and jelly doughnuts. It is about the defeat of the existential threat to our survival as a Jewish nation at the hands of the conquering Greek army. That's major. If not for our victory then, Ms. Mogel would not be around as a Jew today to write that article.

Her apologist attitude was reflected on the same page by "Humor's in the cards to boost lagging Hanukka sales," Hanukka greeting cards being the Jewish version of Christmas cards. This attempt by Jews to "fit in" to the dominant Christian society in which they live dilutes Jewish observance and culture, making it likely that future generations will lose them entirely.

I would advise her to come to Israel, where she wouldn't have to apologize to her children for being Jewish.

DEENA SPIGELMAN
Jerusalem

..& Christopher and Mary

Sir, - One might ask why Christians don't celebrate Hanukka. After all, they state that their savior was born, in accordance with a divine plan, as a Jew in a Jewish land, and not as a Greek, a Roman, or an Egyptian. Had the Maccabees not defeated the Greeks, Judea would have ceased being Jewish, so that even if a new religion had come about, it would not have been Christianity.

Christians celebrating Hanukka thus makes much more sense than Jews celebrating any aspect of Christmas, even disguised as a childish frivolity.

SYDNEY DAVIS
Jerusalem

...& Ahmed and Ismail

Sir, - From reading UK newspapers it appears that a great deal of thought is being devoted to the question of Muslim integration into British society. It seems to have escaped the attention of many that, decadent and materialist as that society is, there isn't much to motivate a morally upright young Muslim to integrate.

In Israel, too, it should be asked if the secularist nature of the state isn't one of the factors that leads to confrontation with Arabs in and outside the country.

DESMOND STONELY
Scunthorpe

Hidden yidden

Sir, - How exciting that the number of American Jews should be front-page news on Hanukka eve ("1.2 million more US Jews: Hanukka gift or flawed study?" December 15). The "hidden yidden" are finally being counted, and whether the community population studies are accurate can certainly be debated.

However, I've lived in three American communities where scientific population counts were held in the last decade. In each of them - Delaware, Pennsylvania and, most recently, Georgia - these studies showed growing numbers of Jews. The late, noted historian Prof. Salo Baron used to tell us: You will never know the true size of the American Jewish community until you have an accurate census of the smaller communities, which provide the national number.

We native American Jews are delighted to see such numbers in "Uncle Sam's land."

DAVID GEFFEN
Jerusalem

Another Jew

Sir, - Re Roseanne Skop's concern with how the "other half" feels concerning conversion to Judaism ("From a fool," Letters, December 15): Intermarriage is often considered a danger to the future of Judaism in the US. But to my mind, it means we have not lost another Jew. And the possibility of getting an additional one is still there. We Jews are in bad enough shape that we needn't worry about the feelings of the goyim in this respect.

LEONARD ZURAKOV
Netanya

Shhh...

Sir, - Israel, existing in one of the most volatile areas of the world, is surrounded by vicious nations striving for its destruction, an aim fueled by Iran, which seems to have endless money for the purpose. Sam Ser's "To hell with ambiguity" (December 17), in which he advocates a policy of straightforwardness and honesty about any atomic capacity Israel might have, would only add fuel to the raging fire and legitimize a nuclear arms race in this region.

Better policies would be "Walk softly and carry a big stick," or "Silence is golden."

P. BERMAN
Shoham

Lion and the lamb

Sir, - Look at history, or even nature. In battle it is always the strong that win; but in peace it is always the weak that survive. The wolf, the bear, the shark, the lion are slowly disappearing from the world, while the rabbit and the lamb live on.

My advice would be to be as strong as the lion and as meek as the lamb, that you might both win in battle and have a place in the future.

DAVID DOTHAGER
Mulberry Grove, Illinois

Mr. Disappointment?

Sir, - I was appalled by the fawning TV interview with Jimmy Carter on Channel 1's Seeing the World on Saturday night, conducted without a rejoinder from any of the many who have claimed that Carter's book contains inaccuracies and lies ("Carter explains apartheid reference in letter to US Jews," December 17). Might the former US president be profoundly disappointed by not having made history as bringer of peace to the region?

Not the least of Carter's inaccuracies was calling Ramallah and its environs "Palestine." As former prime minister Menachem Begin declared, he too "was a Palestinian before the declaration of the state" since there has never been an independent Arab nation of Palestine.

Mr. Carter called Gaza "one percent of the Holy Land," without clarifying that it was holy only because it was promised and given to the people of Israel. The land was never promised to its Arab dwellers. Since Joshua brought his people over the Jordan there has never been a time here without a Jewish presence.

Carter also ignored the Palestinians' repeated declaration that they will not rest until Israel no longer exists as a Jewish state. Here I can understand his blind spot, since he is equally blind to the fact that the Arab world will not tolerate any non-Muslim or democratic state in the region.

ZECHARIA DOR-SHAV
Jerusalem

Sir, - Is Jimmy Carter connected to Natorei Karta, or is it just coincidence?

SAM SYLVESTER
Jerusalem

Get involved!
Sir, - This past week 16 more people were killed and a larger number seriously injured on our roads, the second time in a month that the week's figures have been so high. Many young people are among the dead. Recklessness, fatigue and lack of responsibility at the wheel prevails, and the authorities continue to fail miserably in reducing the carnage, despite the constant messages over the airwaves ("Son kills mother with tractor as 8 die in road accidents," December 17).

Metuna, Israel's leading voluntary road injury prevention organization, has embarked on an innovative program for potential drivers (11th grade) but, as usual, budget constraints are holding us back. We appeal to the caring public to get involved. If enough people care we can move mountains in changing government policy and nurturing a new generation of responsible road users.

For more information, call (09) 884-4667 (www.metuna.org).

ZELDA HARRIS
Metuna
Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>December 24: Lazybones Knesset</title>
<date>23/12/2006</date>
<content>
Lazybones Knesset

Sir, - If MKs refuse to exercise their responsibilities, how can they complain about the Supreme Court filling the vacuum? ("A too-political judiciary," December 21.)

The Knesset is lazy and does   not function properly. As Evelyn Gordon states, there must be a balance of powers between the branches of government, and the Supreme Court must be bound  by the laws of the Knesset.

TOBY WILLIG 

Jerusalem Israel

More than the enemy

Sir, -  Further to "IDF: Hizbullah almost back to full combat strength" (December 21) and the IDF officer's comment that if Hizbullah attacks, it will be left  to the "country's diplomatic  echelon to determine Israel's response":

The North will become another Sderot which can look forward to a life back in the shelters; to more broken promises of what the government will do when the war is over; and to another resounding national and international humiliation.

It is time Israelis used the full democratic process to remove this government, whose only solution is capitulation to every international demand, as well as those of the enemy. It threatens Israel's existence more than any enemy.

IAN KEMP

Nahariya

Orwell in 2006...

Sir, - Re "Austrian judge commutes [David] Irving's sentence" (December 21): The Orwell archives at University College, London, include a notebook containing the outline Orwell made for his politically prophetic work 1984, under its working title The Last Man in Europe. At the head of the list of themes the author noted to bear in mind was: a) the system of organized lies on which society is founded; b) the ways in which this is done - falsification of records, etc.; c) the nightmarish feeling caused by the disappearance of objective truth; d) leadership worship, etc.;  e) anti-Semitism (and the terrible cruelty of war, etc.).

All those themes are current today, except for "the nightmarish feeling caused by the disappearance of objective truth."

Why not this one? Because we have passively accepted the false definition of freedom of speech as including the right to lie, just as we have passively accepted the false claim that one does not make peace with one's friend, but with one's enemy.

MIRIAM L. GAVARIN 

Jerusalem

...and in Britain

Sir, - Once again British writers and artists are being called upon by John Berger and his pack of 95 signatories to undertake a  cultural boycott of Israel ("Prize-winning writer calls on Brits to join Israeli cultural boycott - John Berger condemns 'day-to-day brutality of the Israeli army in Gaza and the West Bank,'" December 20).

Amazing how the Brits are always spearheading some boycott or other of Israel! I don't ever remember reading or hearing of Berger, Ken Loach, Eno,  or Arundhati Roy and the rest of them instigating a boycott of Russia on account of its brutal handling of Chechnya; or of China for subjugating and occupying Tibet, and so on. And why are there no violent protestations and letters to The Guardian condemning the United Nations and the protesters' own governments for their inaction in Darfur, where hundreds of thousands are being killed?

The truth of the matter, one has to conclude, is that they could not care less, the overriding factor seeming to be hatred of Israel, which in essence is hatred of Jews.

M.U. MILUNSKY 

Netanya

Sir, - Perhaps it was a coincidence, but on the page facing the report detailing the antics of John Berger and his band of merry men, all eager to "rob from the rich" - Israel - and "give to the poor" Palestinians, you ran "Birthright trips expected to contribute NIS 100m. to economy this winter."

As we get ready to welcome a "record 13,000 [birthright]    participants from 25 countries," those who are shocked by the bias and appalled by the hypocrisy of the latter-day would-be Robin Hoods can take comfort in the knowledge that most, if not all, of the young Jewish visitors to Israel will return to their homes in the Diaspora with a picture of our country that is far truer and more honest than the one peddled by Berger and his ilk.

A. MORRIS

Tel Aviv

Why the walls don't
come tumbling down

Sir, - Newspapers are filled with reports of the two Palestinian groups, Hamas and Fatah, killing each other, noting that civilians of both parties are being slaughtered. The Egyptians are not able to control the borders between their country and the Gaza Strip, and the huge underground tunnels built by the Palestinians are used to bring astronomical quantities of weapons to that territory for the purpose of terrorizing Israelis, as well as making war on their own people. To the north, Hizbullah is bringing in    massive amounts of deadly rockets under the auspices of Syria and Iran, looking for another war to destabilize Lebanon.

And yet President Jimmy Carter saw fit to write a book in which he claims that despite all that Israel has given up - leaving Gaza peacefully, not striking back after the bombing of Israeli citizens in Sderot and suicide  bombings in Israel proper - all that is wrong in the region is totally Israel's doing!

These opinions do no credit to a past US president. As for the statement equating Israel's security fence - put up to    prevent further injury to Israelis, including Arabs, who have also been hurt by the violence - with past South African apartheid, it is just ridiculous.

The fence has been an effective deterrent in stopping Palestinian suicide attacks, and every nation has the right to protect its       citizens. If the Palestinians made efforts to stop the terror and began to educate their people to responsible partnership for peace, that fence and those walls would come down!

MARILYN SHUSTAK

Monroe Twp, New Jersey

Bin there, done that

Sir, - My husband led a delegation of rabbis from New York City to the White House to meet then president Jimmy Carter. A photograph of this meeting adorned my husband's study until last week - when it was   relegated to the refuse bin.

We have been faithful readers of your newspaper since making aliya some years ago, and are quite dismayed that so much coverage has been given to this man and his anti-Israel (anti-Semitic?) tirades.

EILEEN P. STRIZOWER

Jerusalem

Kill bill

Sir, - I wonder whether MK Ophir Paz-Pines's proposed bill barring adults from bringing minors closer to Judaism applies the other way as well.

Will it bar secular youth organizations which organize activities that desecrate the Sabbath from recruiting Ethiopian immigrant children from  traditional homes? Will it prosecute social workers and youth leaders from the Jewish Agency who encourage Ethiopian and other immigrant youngsters to go to the beach on Shabbat rather than to synagogue with their parents?

Will it retroactively prosecute the Hashomer Hatza'ir movement, the madrichim of Youth Aliya, and their bosses, who turned thousands of     people away from religious observance?

And what about the heartbreak of parents who survived with their Judaism intact in the Diaspora, only to see their children come home and say, "Look, Ma, this is Israel, we don't have to do this stuff to be good Jews anymore"?

What a hypocritical and shortsighted proposal!  ("Bill handcuffs Chabad's tefillin campaign," December 12).

SAM FINKEL 

Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Divide and conquer</title>
<date>10/12/2006</date>
<content>
A strange phenomenon has been taking place over the past few years. Israel has been carrying out a systematic plan to try and separate Gaza from the West Bank. Little attention has been given to this effort separating people - and a country - using administrative measures.

This phenomenon began in the late 1980s with the launch of the Palestinian intifada, was accelerated in the beginning of the second intifada in 2000, and has been accelerated even more since the unilateral Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, causing a critical human and economic crisis.

Gaza, the West Bank, as well as Israel were part of historic Palestine. In 1948, with the creation of the State of Israel, they were abruptly divided. The Egyptian authorities were left to administer the Gaza Strip, whose population had been doubled as a result of the Nakba, sending Palestinian refugees from the southern towns of Palestine to Gaza.

On the other hand, the West Bank was held by Transjordan. In April 1949, Transjordan became the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and one year later, in 1950, the West Bank became constitutionally an integral part of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. While Egypt didn't confer citizenship on the Palestinians of Gaza, West Bankers became Jordanian citizens.

All this changed after the June 1967 war. In an ironic twist of history, these two sectors of Palestine were reunited, albeit under Israeli occupation. Palestinians of Gaza and the West Bank were able to travel freely back and forth even though this meant going through the pre-'67 Israeli territory. And since all were part of a single economic area, the movement of people and goods went on uninterrupted for tens of years.

Palestinians from Nablus or Hebron married and started families with fellow Palestinians from Gaza or Rafah. Students from Khan Yunis or Deir El-Balah attended universities in Bir Zeit or Al-Najah. Businesses in Ramallah or Hebron distributed their dairy products, stone, or toilet paper to the Gaza market, and trucks carrying bamboo furniture or sand made daily trips to Bethlehem or Jenin.

The 1991 Madrid Peace Conference and the 1993 Oslo Accords brought with them both a legal restriction of movement and a reaffirmation of the unity of Palestinian lands. The PLO-Israel Memorandum of Understanding devoted an entire chapter to routine safe passage to facilitate movement of people and goods. Signs were put up dedicating a special road between north Gaza and the Tarkumiya checkpoint, south of Hebron.

BUT ALL THIS seems like a charade now. Except for a few photo opportunities of a few buses traveling on the Gaza-West Bank route, the safe passage never materialized and the signs have entered the museum of Palestinian-Israeli failures.

Israel has never admitted it, but the plan for separating these two entities is obvious, even though largely underreported. Palestinians from Gaza wishing to travel to the West Bank, and vice versa, are unable to do so as a result of publicly-known as well as secret administrative decisions and guidelines.

Technically, of course, one can get the coveted permit to travel back and forth - but such passes were, I imagine, easier to come by in apartheid South Africa. Extreme humanitarian cases are often the only ones in which a limited time permit is allowed.

For a while Palestinians traveled from Gaza to the West Bank by flying from the Egyptian El-Arish airport and then crossing into the West Bank or vice versa, but even using nearby Arab countries is now administratively impossible. Democratically elected members of the Palestinian parliament, as well as many others have had to use video conferencing in order to communicate with fellow Palestinians. Only President Mahmoud Abbas and a few senior, "acceptable" PLO leaders have been allowed to travel into and out of Gaza.

WHAT THE Israelis hope to accomplish is unclear. Some feel they are still dreaming that one day Gaza will be administered by the Egyptians, and the West Bank by Jordan. Both Arab countries as well as all Palestinians vehemently oppose this.

And, in the meantime, Israel continues to violate the 13th clause of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states "Everyone has the right to freedom of movement. You have the right to move about freely within your country. You also have the right to travel freely to and from your own country, and to leave any country."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Editor's Notes: Turban-bomb tragedy</title>
<date>10/2/2006</date>
<content>
Among the most potent of the 12 cartoons that have so enraged many of the world's Muslims is the one that shows the Prophet Muhammad with a lighted bomb in the folds of his turban.

While several of the "offending" cartoons were in any case entirely benign, this one is particularly powerful because of the very simplicity and clarity of its message - that some of the prophet's purported devotees are invoking his name, his teachings, his faith, to kill fellow human beings; they are asserting that it is in the fulfillment of his will that they commit murder.

Cartoons and caricatures often hold up a kind of looking glass to society - like one of those concave and convex mirrors you see at the circus that distort your body proportions - to highlight and skewer what the artist deems worthy of visual comment.

But the pity of the turban-bomb prophet cartoon lies in the very lack of distortion needed to make its all-too-valid point: Islam has been hijacked. Many of its professed spiritual leaders and their adherents invoke Allah in declaring their lust to kill their fellow humans and themselves, and many of those who insist that this is a terrible perversion of a gentle, humane religion have, nevertheless, been cowed into reticence, even silence, by the extremists.

That the dominant response to publication of these cartoons has been incandescent anger, the burning of flags, the torching of embassies and legations, deaths and injuries in clashes with security forces and dire threats of murderous revenge only underlines the original illustrated barb. Leveling accusations of insensitivity and bias and blasphemy, responding with violence and vowing more, the would-be defenders vindicate the very critique they claim is so outrageous. It would be ironic were it not tragic.

Muslims who feel themselves to be misunderstood and misrepresented, adherents who subscribe to a benign faith and lament its growing image as a vicious one, might reasonably respond to these caricatures with sorrowful acknowledgement of the damage the extremists are doing to the good name of their religion, and a determination to rectify that harm via a publicized reassertion of humane and moderate values.

Some Muslim leaders and opinion-shapers, to their credit, have done precisely that. A "we are sorry" Web site founded by Muslims in Scandinavia is extolling Islamic tolerance. And it is worth highlighting the common sense of Jihad al-Momani, editor of a Jordanian weekly, Shihan, who printed some of the cartoons and who, in an editorial headlined "Muslims of the world, be reasonable," wondered: "What brings more prejudice against Islam, these caricatures or pictures of a hostage-taker slashing the throat of his victim in front of the cameras or a suicide bomber who blows himself up during a wedding ceremony in Amman?"

His answer was not long in coming. He was fired.

UNSURPRISINGLY, IRAN is attempting to remake the cartoonists' pen-and-pencil indictment of Islamic extremism as yet another plot hatched by us Elders of Zion - "a conspiracy by Zionists who were angry because of the victory of Hamas," in the words of Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei.

Only slightly more surprising, given their track record, is the effort by some in the West to assist in Teheran's deception rather than endorsing the critical need for Islamic introspection and change and condemning the deplorable surge in violence.

The Jerusalem Post chose not to republish the incendiary cartoons. We had no desire to provide ammunition for Islamic extremists to place Israel at the heart of their latest display of brutal intolerance. At the same time, while the cartoons are readily accessible on various Web sites, we felt that the readers of our print edition ought to have some sense of what it was that people in our region were burning embassies and threatening massacres over. And so, as you may have seen, on an inside page of our Monday paper we carried a one-column wide reproduction of the original page of the offending Danish daily Jyllands-Posten - the cartoon page, that is, scaled down to perhaps a fortieth of its original size. Ma'ariv, incidentally, had done the same a day before. (Israel TV's Channel 1, by contrast, prominently showed the cartoons.)
Britain's Guardian newspaper, which this week has carried reams of copy from its correspondent here examining the "explosive comparison" between Israel and apartheid South Africa, promptly and inaccurately reported on its Web site that "The Jerusalem Post today became the first Israeli newspaper to publish the controversial Danish cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad that have sparked furore across the Muslim world."

The Guardian's excited effort to haul Israel to the center of the cartoon battlefield on the strength of what it acknowledged, lower in its text, was "A facsimile of the original page from the Danish paper... one column wide and about two-and-a-half inches high," was dwarfed, however, by the hysterical reaction of the Norwegian press and government.

Two leading Norwegian newspapers not only asserted, as the lead item on their Web sites, that the Post had published the cartoons, but were so kind as to manufacture our reason for doing so. "The English-language paper says it is publishing the drawings to enable people to understand the Muslim reaction," one of the sites reported, quite unperturbed by the fact that "the English-language paper" had not said anything at all.

If distance may have bred confusion for the Norwegian media, at least Norway's diplomats in Israel knew the truth. Indeed, a Norwegian diplomat even telephoned our office to inquire politely whether we did intend to publish the full-sized cartoons in the paper at a later stage, and was told that we had no such plans.

Curiously, this did not prevent Norway's Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Store, no less, from rushing to issue a statement criticizing the Post for its unwise publication of the caricatures, noting the insult to Muslim religious beliefs and values, and reminding us that freedom of speech is to be used with sensibility.

This is the same Norway, of course, whose Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen recently urged a boycott of Israeli goods to underline displeasure at Israel's policies regarding the Palestinians. (She subsequently reversed the demand.)

And this is the same foreign minister who, also last month, declared that Norway would no longer follow the EU's lead in designating terrorist organizations - a move that means Norway may no longer apply EU-style restrictions on dealings with the likes of Hamas and the Aksa Martyrs Brigades.

Norway explained at the time that its "continued alignment" with the EU risked jeopardizing its role as a potential peacemaker. "The government wants to intensify these efforts," Store noted, "and we must therefore avoid a situation that makes it more difficult for us to have contact with any of the parties to a conflict."

With Norwegians like these on board as honest brokers, determinedly exploring relations with groups of gunmen the benighted rest of us insist on calling terrorists, surely the quelling of Islamic ire at cartoonists, Danes, Zionists et al, not to mention Iranian legitimization of Israel, the annulment of the Hamas charter, the disarming of Hizbullah, and a new era of coexistence and Middle East harmony, cannot now be far away.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Essay: The fifth alternative</title>
<date>10/8/2006</date>
<content>
Dear Writers, - The August 11 UpFront magazine will be largely devoted to the theme "One Year After Disengagement" and we're keen to have our op-ed writers address the disengagement anniversary. Thank you for your positive consideration.

This, from the editors of The Jerusalem Post a few weeks ago. A perfectly reasonable request to make, I would say, especially from someone like me, who was a strong supporter of disengagement and is now expected by many readers, in light of events in Gaza and Lebanon, to wipe the egg from my face and apologize for my stupidity.

I don't dispute that they have a strong case. The situation this country is in, a year after disengagement, is not the situation that I or any other advocate of disengagement envisioned. And it is - in a far grimmer way - very much like the situation foreseen by many of disengagement's critics, who subjected us for months to dire predictions, most or all of which have come true, of what would happen if Israel withdrew unilaterally from the Gaza Strip.

The least one owes them, then, is an honest admission: They were right and I and others like me were wrong.

Would I still have supported disengagement last summer had I been as prescient as they were? No, I don't suppose I would have. Nor do I imagine that most of the roughly two-thirds of the Israeli public that was in the pro-disengagement camp at the time would have, either. Apart from the inveterate settler-haters, none of us relished evicting Jews from their homes in the Land of Israel. We were reluctantly in favor of such a step because we believed it was one in the right direction - one that, by freeing over a million Palestinians from an oppressive Israeli presence, and Israel from over a million Palestinians, would pave the way for a similar evacuation of much of Judea and Samaria, make a de-facto peace between us and the Palestinian people possible, and help stabilize the entire Middle East.

I'll say it again: We were wrong.

AND YET this does not mean that those who were right have been entirely vindicated. Although their prophecies of doom have turned out, at least in the short run, to be correct, their prophecies of redemption are as far-fetched as ever.

For what, after all, do the latter consist of? They rest on the assurance that if only we stand firm and refuse to cede an inch; if only we make it clear that all the territory between the Jordan and the Mediterranean is ours and will never be handed over to anyone else; if we fight Palestinian nationalism and Palestinian terror ruthlessly and relentlessly and kick enough behinds for as long as it takes - then, though it may indeed take long, the Palestinians and the Arab world will ultimately raise their hands in surrender and good times will come to the people of Israel in their land.

This was nonsense before disengagement, and it is nonsense now. We have been kicking Palestinian and Arab behinds for as long as most of us who are alive can remember, and it did not bring good times any closer even before disengagement was proposed by Ariel Sharon. Being ruthless with one's enemies may sometimes be necessary, but unfortunately, it never has quite the same effect on human beings as does letting them live with a measure of freedom and dignity.

MOREOVER, those unpleasant little facts known as demographic statistics refuse to go away. It can be - and has been - disputed just how many Palestinians live in Judea and Samaria, but even the optimists put their number, together with that of Israel's Arab citizens, at close to 40 percent of the total population (minus Gaza) west of the Jordan. Even if, by some demographic near-miracle caused by unanticipated Jewish immigration, unprecedentedly sharp drops in Palestinian birthrates, et cetera, the percentage should hold at that level, this still gives the territorial maximalists only three options: to forcibly expel millions of Palestinians; to turn this country into an apartheid-style South Africa in which millions of its inhabitants do not have the ballot; or to have a Knesset in which close to 50 out of 120 members are elected by Arab votes.

Those who are opposed to territorial concessions owe us an explanation today, just as they owed us (and never gave us) one year ago, of which of these three alternatives they are for, and of how they intend to go about implementing it.

There is of course a fourth alternative that does not involve holding onto everything: seeking a negotiated settlement with the Palestinians that would involve territorial concessions even greater than those of a unilateral West Bank withdrawal. Among the opponents of last summer's disengagement from Gaza there was a small group on the Left that favored such a policy, and if any of disengagement's critics from the other end of the spectrum would like to adopt it now, let the line form on the Right. Just don't expect it to be a long one.

WHICH BRINGS us back to the fifth alternative - or, if you like, the first one: Unilateral disengagement to borders determined by Israel on the basis of its own military, demographic, political and historical interests.

In the long run, I still think that this alternative is the best one, if only because all the other alternatives are worse. But it's not an alternative for now. Ehud Olmert's statement that as soon as the fighting in Lebanon was over, he would proceed with West Bank disengagement was unfortunate, not because such disengagement is in itself a bad idea, but because the time is not yet ripe for it.

If the fighting in Lebanon ends successfully with the expulsion of Hizbullah from the Lebanese south and the clear message that Israel will not tolerate cross-border terror against it; and if the same message can be delivered to Hamas in Gaza, so that attacks stop from there, too;  and if  Israel can gain de-facto international recognition for a unilaterally established West Bank frontier, so that it will not be pressured from it again at some future date - then disengagement will become relevant again and I will support it again.

Until then, Ehud Olmert would be wise to remove it from the top of his agenda.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Interesting Times: Old-fashioned solution</title>
<date>19/1/2006</date>
<content>
This is the most grave situation that we have faced since the end of the Cold War, absent the whole war on terror.  

- Sen. John McCain on Iran, on Sunday's "Face the Nation"

John McCain, Republican Senator from Arizona and presidential hopeful, is absolutely right about the gravity of the threat from a nuclear Iran. But does anyone notice something strange?
McCain strongly backed President George Bush in toppling Saddam Hussein, and is an unabashed hawk in the war against militant Islamism. Presumably, he cheered when Bush launched his doctrine of regime change against rogue regimes - the famed "axis of evil," of which Iran is a charter member.

Yet even McCain describes the Iran crisis as something separate from the fight against terrorism.

How can this be?
Somehow the old, pre-9/11 idea that fighting terrorism means hunting down groups like al-Qaida, rather than confronting terrorist states has crept back into the minds of even the most ardent supporters of Bush's foreign policy. Perhaps McCain made a slip of the tongue, but if so, it was quite a slip. What he should have said was that preventing a nuclear Iran is the pivotal challenge facing the war against terrorism today.

But doesn't everyone know that al-Qaida is Sunni and Iran is Shi'ite, and never the twain shall meet? Iran supports Hizbullah and Islamic Jihad against Israel, but what do the mullahs have to do with al-Qaida and 9/11?

In reality, the conventional notion of a chasm between the Sunni and Shi'ite branches of the Islamist jihad is mistaken.  The official 9/11 Report has a whole section titled "Assistance from Hezbollah and Iran to al Qaeda" that notes "we now have evidence suggesting that 8 to 10 of the 14 Saudi 'muscle' [9/11] hijackers traveled into or out of Iran between October 2000 and February 2001."

The report states that al-Qaida terrorists received "advice and training" from Hizbullah, and cites detainee testimony that "Iran made a concerted effort to strengthen relations with al Qaeda after the October 2000 attack on the USS Cole, but was rebuffed because Bin Ladin did not want to alienate his supporters in Saudi Arabia."

The same source reports that Iranian border inspectors were instructed not to stamp the passports of al-Qaida operatives, mainly to facilitate travel to Saudi Arabia.

On December 18, 2005, The New York Times reported that after the fall of the Taliban in Afghanistan, "Al Qaeda lost its sanctuary, and Osama bin Laden and other Qaeda leaders scattered to Pakistan, Iran and other countries."

THERE IS, then, no shortage of direct connections between Iran and al-Qaida, including specifically  the 9/11 hijackers. Sunni and Shi'ite terrorists, it turns out, are happy to work together toward a common cause such as killing Americans and Israelis. Still, it might be argued that al-Qaida, regardless of any assistance it receives from Iran, is essentially an independent actor, and so it is a stretch to claim that targeting Iran is an efficient way to fight al-Qaida.

But this sort of thinking, though common, also misunderstands the war we are in. Putting terrorist groups at the center and their state backers on the periphery is the wrong way around. The whole progress of the war, in either direction, should be measured, as the terrorists do, in the coin of states, not groups.

Al-Qaida knows that no terrorist group can subdue the US, let alone control the world. The militant Islamist theory of victory is simple: Take over as many states as possible, first in the Muslim world, then beyond.

Now that pro-terror regimes in Iraq and Afghanistan are gone and Libya has cried uncle and ostensibly abandoned the terror/nuke business, Iran is far and away the most important terrorist regime in the world. For Israel, Iranian nukes are obviously an existential threat. But for the world as well, a nuclearized Iran would represent the pivot between a world with more terror states and one with fewer.

Make no mistake, if the mullahs fell, it would be a major, perhaps mortal blow to al-Qaida and to militant Islam worldwide. This is so because terrorists depend not on military power, which they lack, but on a sense of inevitability and despair, which they hope to create. They are either the wave of the future, or they are nothing. When the Taliban fell in Afghanistan, there was suddenly a surplus of Bin Laden T-shirts in Peshawar, Pakistan.

McCAIN SAID another important thing in that same interview: "The Iranian people are not happy under these mullahs. They oppress and repress them. We've got to do much more to encourage the democracy movement in Iran."

He's right for two reasons: The fall of the Iranian regime would deal the greatest blow to Islamist terrorism, and it is the only sure way to protect against a nuclearized terror state.

As our columnist Amir Taheri noted, the West should "acknowledge that the problem is not uranium enrichment but the nature of the Iranian regime. More than 20 countries, from Argentina to Ukraine, enrich uranium without anyone making a fuss. But who can trust the present leadership in Teheran not to embark upon some tragic mischief in the name of its ideology?"

The Iranian regime should be the subject of withering international isolation of the sort used to topple Somoza in Nicaragua, Marcos in the Philippines, the apartheid regime in South Africa and, most recently, to reverse the stolen election in the Ukraine. Indeed, the mullocracy is more deserving of pariah status than any of these other nasty regimes, since it both oppresses its own people and poses a dire threat to international security.

The great irony is that though Iran's aggression compounds its human rights sins, its support for terrorism has allowed it to escape the campaigns used to vanquish less-threatening dictatorships.

The most significant impact of economic, or even military, sanctions may not be their direct effects but their contribution to a comprehensive denial of legitimacy. Though the mullahs seem to revel in flouting the international community, it is such isolation and rejection - and their own people - that they fear most.

The ultimate solution to the Iran problem is an old-fashioned one: revolution.

saul@jpost.com




- Editorial Page Editor Saul Singer is author of the book, Confronting Jihad: Israel's Struggle & the World After 9/11
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>In the Diaspora: A footnote's footnote</title>
<date>25/4/2006</date>
<content>
Reading through the chronicle of perfidy that is the working paper by two leading American political scientists on the Israel Lobby, I could barely contain my outrage. I had made it 20 pages deep into the report by Stephen Walt of Harvard and John Mearsheimer of the University of Chicago and I hadn't found myself listed among the conspirators.

There were Howard Dean, Dennis Ross, and Martin Indyk; there were Gary Bauer, Elliott Abrams, and George Will. But after years of writing about American Jews and Israel, to say nothing of that time a stranger at a Seder mistook me for Thomas L. Friedman, did I get any of the credit for tricking and pressuring and hypnotizing America into a self-destructive alliance with the Jewish state?

No, 20-odd pages into the professors' screed, and my name had yet to be named. I couldn't claim even the tiniest bit of responsibility for motivating al-Qaida and enticing America into Iraq, just two of the Israel Lobby's achievements, according to Walt and Mearsheimer. I'd been left off the most elite Who's Who (or should I say Who's Jew) this side of the Harmonie Club or the Herzliya conference. What was I? Chopped liver?

Then, at last, I spotted a reference to me. Leaping into the paragraph, I felt my pride turning into indignation. The authors had cited a statistic from a column that I'd written back in April 2003 for USA Today, showing that American Jews tended to be less supportive of the Iraq invasion than the nation at large.

My work was being trotted out to prove that the Israel lobby didn't even represent American Jewish interests. I didn't get to be part of the cabal. I failed the tzitzis check. Bummer.

Once I got over my disappointment, the kind of sting I remember from being turned down when I asked an eighth-grade classmate to go steady, I began to think just how revealing my place in the Jewish Lobby working paper was. It offered me an incomparable chance to see the way Walt and Mearsheimer, purportedly from the "realist" camp of foreign-policy intellectuals, misrepresent source materials to present a warped analysis beneath the veneer of scholarly detachment.

In my USA Today article, I had indeed cited a statistic from a compilation of opinion polls about the Iraq War, then in its early, popular stages. The professors had accurately repeated the number: 52 percent of American Jews endorsing the war, as compared to 62 percent of Americans as a whole.

Walt and Mearsheimer, though, had conveniently ignored the entire point of the op-ed column, which is that American Jews have no more reason to apologize for their lobbying than do any other racial or ethnic groups pushing for key issues - Mexican-Americans for an amnesty for illegal immigrants, African-Americans for sanctions against South Africa during the apartheid era, Cuban-Americans for a continuing embargo against the Castro regime, and so forth.

'FROM THE time of Madison to the present, democratic theorists have always understood that groups should promote their particular ideas," Gerald Pomper, an emeritus professor of political science at Rutgers University, had said in the article. "The task of government is to take the views of these factions and meld them into something that resembles the more general good. Democracy is about free debate, competition of ideas, clashing interests within a peaceful structure for reconciling differences."

To try to protect themselves against charges of anti-Semitism, Walt and Mearsheimer preemptively assert that "the Lobby's activities are not a conspiracy of the sort depicted in tracts like the Protocols of the Elders of Zion."

You have to wonder why the professors would have thought it necessary to protect themselves against such a comparison. In fact, the Protocols doesn't even offer the right parallel, though for reasons Walt and Mearsheimer cannot or choose not to grasp.

The best analog to their paper on the Israel Lobby is a 1991 publication by the Nation of Islam entitled The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews. Like the professors' paper, the Black Muslim tract is not a forgery or fabrication akin to the Protocols. It is, rather, an adroit exercise in cherry-picking, a document that takes painstaking care to employ Jewish sources in prosecuting a case of Jewish skullduggery.

The Secret Relationship draws on Jewish scholarship on such topics as Jewish prominence in Hollywood, Jewish involvement in slave-trading, and Jewish business stakes in black slums. Taken individually, the citations from such respected figures as Neal Gabler and Jacob Rader Marcus appear to be accurately quoted or paraphrased. The bigoted fiction comes in weaving together these strands into a whole cloth of irremediable, almost primordial Jewish hatred of blacks.

Walt and Mearsheimer, as I first realized pondering my own footnote, have done very much the same thing. Ben-Gurion, Barak, Joseph Lieberman, Haaretz, even little ol' me - their evidence of an Israel Lobby committed to damaging American interests takes the form wherever possible of the written and spoken words of Jews. The subtext, of course, is that no reasonable person could possibly doubt the insidious power of the Israel Lobby when the Jews themselves admit it.

AS MY own modest contribution to their unified-field theory of Zionist subversion shows, the professors are perfectly capable of leaving aside anything their Jewish sources might possibly have said contrary to the belief that the Israel Lobby pulls the puppet strings of America.

And who's to say Walt and Mearsheimer have made the wrong choice? Fifteen years after its publication, The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews has a pretty healthy ranking on Amazon.com and lot of laudatory reader reviews.

There's a lot of dough to be made in this sort of thing. Being your basic money-grubbing Jew, I'll have to remember to ask Walt and Mearsheimer for my share of the royalties.

The writer is a professor of journalism at Columbia University. His most recent book is Letters To A Young Journalist.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Jimmy Carter, go back to your peanut farm</title>
<date>20/11/2006</date>
<content>
If one picture is worth a thousand words, then the cover of Jimmy Carter's new book, Palestine - Peace, Not Apartheid will sear a damning image of Israel into the consciousness of anyone who walks into a bookstore.

The book's cover shows a thoughtful and obviously troubled Jimmy Carter, who believes that he is the moral voice of all those who suffer human rights indignities, overlooking the security wall Israel has built, with thousands of Palestinians protesting in front of it.

It is difficult not to draw the "obvious" conclusion - the Israeli wall is equal to the Warsaw Ghetto wall. Carter equates the wall with the ethnic cleansing of Arabs.

What a warped sense of history, past and present; what a blatant abuse of our sensibilities. I look at the cover - as I did on a recent visit to the US - and ask myself, would it not have been far more appropriate had Carter, instead of superimposing his own humble presence over the wall, superimposed a replica of the hundreds of memorial plaques that dot Israeli bus stops, restaurants, supermarkets, malls and synagogues where Palestinian suicide bombers carried out their acts of murder?

The security fence did not come about in a vacuum. Would any country in the world do differently if going out of the house meant that its citizens played Russian roulette with their lives?

It is amazing how one can start out with what seems like a perfectly logical formula and misapply it so that it becomes a ridiculous piece of mischievous nonsense. Carter's political theme is that "things equal to the same thing are equal to each other."

Granted that Nazis, white supremacist South Africans and Israeli Jews are all members of the human race, but they are not interchangeable. To hint at such a possibility is not only intellectually dishonest, but cruelly justifying of suicide bombers.

Apartheid, aptly applied at one time to South Africa and Zimbabwe - as well as to the United States at various times in history - has no historical accuracy when applied to the Israeli-Palestinian reality.

THE ARAB nations rejected the United Nation's 1947 two-state solution; and today there is a continued rejection of Israel as a legitimate state, not only by Hamas, but by Hizbullah and Iran - all committed to Israel's destruction.

Therefore, we are not talking about one country, Israel, where citizens are denied basic rights, but of one country, Israel, with rights for all its citizens, and one aspiring Palestinian nation, trying to cast off the yoke of Israeli occupation by means so brutal that they defy the human imagination (an aspiring nation that has so far displayed no semblance of human rights or democracy). This is not apartheid.

As an Israeli human rights activist (I was a founder of Rabbis for Human Rights), I not only oppose the occupation, but the excesses that ensue from it. My operative position is that if all Israelis are not guilty for the reprehensible behavior of the Israeli government and its army toward the Palestinian population, then we are all responsible. This view should cut both ways.

Citizens who vote for Hamas whose charter is anti-Zionist and anti-Semitic should expect repercussions, especially when that charter is realized through continual acts of terror.

Let me point out to Carter and other well-intended liberals throughout the Western world, both secular and religious, Jewish and non-Jewish, we are dealing with unspeakable actions on the part of Arabs not only toward Jews, but toward each other - with nary a word from any respectable Arab leader denouncing Arab atrocities.

I KNOW that this is politically incorrect, especially coming from a civil rights advocate, but we are talking about craziness. Whoever heard of going into a home and shooting at point-blank range a three year old and a five year old in the head? But, let's not confine ourselves to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

How does the American occupation of Iraq justify Sunnis drilling holes into the hearts of Shi'ites, chopping off their heads, stuffing their genitals into their mouths, raping and torturing by the thousands - and vice versa?

Sudan, Bosnia, Chad, Somalia, Afghanistan - need I go on?  Let's return to the Middle East - the late King Hussein of Jordan slaughtered 3,000-5,000 Palestinians in Black September of 1970; the late Hafez Assad of Syria massacred 10,000-25,000 supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood in 1982.
In Gaza today, right now, are not Palestinians killing Palestinians?

And Carter dares to accuse Israel of ethnic cleansing by constructing a barrier - in some places a wall - to protect its citizens from such madness! Despite Carter's perfunctory statements about Arab intransigence and terrorist tactics, for him the blame for the present conflict between Israelis and the Palestinians lies almost exclusively with Israel.

The barrier is a necessary evil, which unfairly impinges on some of the elemental rights of the Palestinians. But that is a far cry from endorsing apartheid. Indeed, by using such a loaded term, enforced by that indelible image on his book's cover, Carter is purposefully providing a great measure of both respectability for and acceptability of the Muslim world's drive to wipe the Jewish state off the face of the globe.

Postscript: No footnotes accompany Carter's book, making it possible for him to impugn opinion as facts.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Left, lefter, loony</title>
<date>23/5/2006</date>
<content>
There was a time when you might have expected a South African former freedom fighter and columnist writing in a left-leaning European newspaper to have no problem at all with a proposition of the following kind: Vote for fascists and take the consequences.

What is clear from an article last week in Britain's Guardian newspaper by South African Intelligence Minister Ronnie Kasrils, writing jointly with columnist Victoria Brittain, is that such a proposition would now need to be amended on the following lines: Vote for fascists and take the consequences, unless those fascists are committed to the destruction of the world's only Jewish state and have targeted and killed hundreds of Jewish civilians to bring that aim to fruition.

That, in a nutshell, is the only way to make any sense of Kasrils's and Brittain's call to replace the withholding of aid to the Hamas-led government with full-scale sanctions against the state of Israel.

It is the cruelest of moral inversions: Israel, Europe and the United States join forces to put pressure on a government composed of self-confessed Jew-haters; Kasrils and Brittain see this as the perfect opportunity to use the largely self-imposed suffering of the Palestinian people as a stick with which to beat Israel into submission.

After all, they opine: "Never in the long struggle for freedom in apartheid South Africa was there a situation as dramatic as in Palestine today... And those who care for freedom, peace and justice must build a global Palestine solidarity movement to match the anti-apartheid movement of the 1980s."

NOW LET us agree that nothing more needs to be said on that score other than that comparisons between apartheid South Africa and Israel are the emblematic property of the moral and intellectual dunce, and get to grips instead with the issue at hand: Why do so many in Western opinion-forming circles refuse to see Hamas for what it is, and what does this particular pathology tell us about broader hostility to Israel?

If you had a penny for every news report which referred to the Hamas victory as the product of despair at corruption in Fatah or frustration at Fatah's failure to raise general living standards, you could pay off the debt-ridden Palestinian Authority all on your own.

Ian Fisher, writing in The New York Times on January 28, described the various motivations succinctly: "Clearly, some want a bigger fight with Israel. Others want more religion in public life. Some just want change."

Indeed so. Voters across the world choose their preferred party for a whole host of reasons, none of which absolves them from taking responsibility for the policies of the party they actually vote for.

And one thing that Hamas cannot be accused of is obfuscation over its aims and beliefs, which, in its charter, clearly set before us many of the classic building blocks of a fascist-like organization.

To wit: its open anti-Semitism - "The stones and trees will say O Muslims, O Abdulla, there is a Jew behind me, come and kill him." (Article 7); its glorification of violence - "Allah is its goal, the Prophet its model, the Qur'an its Constitution, Jihad its path and death for the cause of Allah its most sublime belief." (Article 8); its socialist populism - "Social solidarity consists of extending help to all the needy, both materially and morally... For the masses are of them and for them, their strength is [ultimately] theirs and their future is theirs." (Article 21); and its totalitarian fusion of art with politics -  "So, books, articles, publications, religious exhortations, epistles, songs, poems, hymns, plays, and the like, if they possess the characteristics of Islamic art, have the requisites of ideological mobilization..." (Article 19).

OF COURSE, all fascist movements have differed according to time, geography and overall political context. But the character of Hamas as just such a movement is crystal-clear.

The main reason why some still fail to see the truth about the new Palestinian government is probably that the whole debate about Israel and its enemies is now so steeped in an irrational, almost elemental, need to hate that the pre-requisites for sober and informed judgment are simply absent.

You can access information about Hamas, and indeed Israel, over the Internet in a matter of seconds. If you're uninformed, you must want to be so.

-In a more general sense, many of Israel's most vehement critics have played with half-truths and outright fabrications for so long now that dishonesty has become a "normal" part of their discourse.

If you keep repeating for long enough that Israel practices "apartheid," that its policies are "Nazi," that Hamas is only motivated by the "brutal occupation" or that the suicide bombing of a falafel store is a matter of "self-defense," you may start believing it.

As for the rest of us, we must remain steadfast in saying that fascism should continue to be opposed. If the Palestinian people are now suffering as a consequence, then that is a great cause for regret. But frankly, you pays your money and you takes your choice.

The writer is a senior transatlantic fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States. The views expressed here are entirely his own. rshepherd@gmfus.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Middle Israel: Good morning Canada</title>
<date>8/6/2006</date>
<content>
How ironic. Just days after one group of Canadians took sides in the Mideast conflict by publicly and sweepingly backing Israel's enemies, the rest of Canada learned that another set of anti-Canadian Canadians had taken the next logical step and targeted Canada itself.

Granted, the membership, leadership and pompous resolutions of the Ontario division of the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) interest the average Israeli about as much as the World Cup interests the average grandmother. However, the 17-man terror ring arrested last weekend for plotting to detonate Canada's parliament, storm its Broadcast Corporation and behead, among others, Prime Minister Stephen Harper - they do interest us Israelis, because we know that those kinds of characters, unlike that union's armchair mutineers, know what they believe in, and will readily die for it.

MIDDLE ISRAELIS generally follow old Ben-Gurion's advice to think less about what the gentiles will say and more about what the Jews will do, and these days even if they had wanted to they could scarcely deal with situations as distant and bizarre as that created by one Sid Ryan, the unionist who led the call to boycott Israel "until it recognizes the Palestinian right to self-determination."

Ryan will have to excuse us for spending less time thinking of him and more fending off rocket attacks from Gaza in the South and dueling with Hizbullah troops up North while also seeking more national funding for cancer treatments and plowing our way through massive traffic jams caused by the early summer's sudden pressure on an inept Electric Corporation.

Ryan's outfit, which apparently has already addressed its 200,000 members' more immediate problems and can therefore get down to the business of mending the rest of the world, also condemned our anti-terror barrier and promised to launch an education campaign about our conflict with our neighbors. In addition, that new statesman intimated that "they" - you know who - "say they are creating an independent state, but they're not giving them the tools to do that."

To cap its pontification, the CUPE's Katherine Nastoski intimated that "boycott, divestment and sanction worked to end apartheid in South Africa," and that "the same strategy will work to enforce the rights of Palestinian people, including the right of refugees to return to their homes and properties."

Even when they finally pay some attention to a guy like Ryan, Israelis see in him an oddity rather than a threat. Who knows what his real problem is? Maybe he is an impressionable ignoramus, maybe he is an obsessed ideologue, and maybe there is something in all this for him, nothing substantive, God forbid, only liquid. Either way, the CUPE conveniently ignored some glaring basics.

For instance, the fence was only built after Israel had offered, in the presence of the president of the US, the very state and lands Ryan now demands it deliver, but was turned down, and in fact attacked by a Palestinian leadership that violated its commitments in the Oslo Accords to never again resort to violence in its dealings with Israel. Not only did it attack, it targeted the civilian population.

Even more basically, Israel has actually recognized the Palestinian right for self-determination, and, if anything, it is the current Palestinian government that does not recognize Israel, a fact of public record with which the CUPE is either unfamiliar or happy.

Most ominously, admitting Palestinian refugees to Israel - which of course would reward their rejection of the UN's two-state resolution in 1947 and the pan-Arab attack on the young and internationally recognized Jewish state - would mean also opening numerous other Pandora's boxes worldwide, including the potential restoration of 12 million Germans to the many European lands from which they were removed in the aftermath of World War II.  This, of course, is besides the fact that such a move would destroy the Jewish state, an obvious prospect which to the CUPE is either unknown or agreeable.

Ryan and Nastoski also don't realize what they are getting into when they resort to the South African analogy; not only because the fence project, for better or worse, is a response to an external enemy rather than a part of the local society, but also because their insinuation, that the Jews do not belong in Israel more than the whites belonged in South Africa, raises the perplexing question of how firmly, actually, they themselves belong in Canada. After all, their ancestors arrived in the New World only several generations ago, while Jews have been living in the Promised Land continuously for millennia, including a good 2,000 years before Islam's emergence.

Now Ryan of course insisted his effort did not constitute "an attack on the Jewish people," only objection to Israeli policies. Yet the fact is that his preaching and bullying are seen, reflexively, by all Jews who hear of them, as attacks on them, not only because of their substance, but also because of their context.  When Ryan launches a boycott of China for its brutal occupation of Tibet, or of Russia for its razing of Grozny by aerial and artillery bombardment, we will reconsider our current impression that his and his organization's agenda, in their failure to demand of others what they demand of the Jews, are not anti-Israeli but anti-Semitic.

WHILE TRAVELING last year through eastern Canada from Halifax to Moncton, my Israeli mind could hardly digest the vastness, greenery, emptiness, tranquility and endlessness of that land. Maybe the flipside of that indigestion is the CUPE's failure to comprehend just how arid, minuscule, vicious, besieged and beleaguered Israel and its inhabitants are.

Similarly, it is very tempting to delude oneself, the way Ryan and Nastoski are misleading their flock, that what currently separates the West and its enemies is just some more time-honored Jewish stubbornness. Throw the Islamists those few Israeli bones they so much crave and all will be fine between Ottawa and Vancouver. Well, that's basically what so many in the West said back when Fascism demanded its own few Jewish bones.

Now, with last week's arrests in Ontario, the 30 million Canadians who do not belong to Ryan's and Nastoski's outfit were served a stark reminder concerning who is at play, what is at stake and where their national interest lies.

At play are the world's most obscurantist, reactionary and subhuman forces, and on the other hand those who still prefer to deny that from London and Madrid to Tel Aviv and Ottawa, Western civilization is under attack; at stake are the West's very flesh and soul, its sanctification of life, freedom, self-fulfillment, equality, justice, law and order; and Canada's interest is to join rather than flee the battle for the values with which it so much likes to be identified.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Middle Israel: Let Hamas rule</title>
<date>2/2/2006</date>
<content>
Having argued consistently for nearly half a decade that the Palestinians' real leaders are not the PA, but Hamas ("Let Hamas rule," August 10, 2001), Middle Israel was neither surprised by nor unprepared for its formal election last week. Others, however, were compelled to offer strange rationales with which they still hoped to somehow preserve their dated ideas.

On the Left, Yossi Beilin was saying, even as exit polls were indicating a major Hamas gain, that Israel must now rush to strike a deal with the manifestly abandoned Mahmoud Abbas. And on the Right, Silvan Shalom scolded the government for having allowed Hamas's participation in the election; as a terror organization, he explained, Hamas could have been barred from running according to the Oslo Accords, not to mention post-9/11 international norms.

How ironic that these otherwise diametrically opposed ideologues finally meet, even if in the netherworld of political denial. Beilin and Shalom both believe Israel can, and should, manipulate the genuine Palestinian political will, whether for the sake of imposing our neighbors' accommodation with us or prolonging our occupation of them.

The denial reflex is also shared, again for different reasons, by Europe and the US. The former can't bring itself to concede that the Palestinian public has just emphatically stated that it is nasty regardless of Israel's deeds or misdeeds, and that confronting it has become imperative not just for Israel, but for anyone who shares the Western quest for freedom, pluralism and life.

The US, at the same time, has been confounded in its axiom that people do not freely vote for belligerence. Well, while it's still true that no two democracies have ever seriously fought each other, the Palestinian election must be taken for what it is: a fairly contested vote for war.

And then there is Mahmoud Abbas himself, the political eunuch who rolled out the red carpet ahead of Hamas's marching victors. Now this caricature of a leader says he wants a "technocrats' cabinet," i.e. another shenanigan whereby Hamas is mechanically denied the power that the people have so unequivocally granted it.

Hovering above all this is a silly debate over the causes of Hamas's success. Here, my colleague from Haaretz Akiva Eldar insists that then-premier Binyamin Netanyahu's cornering of Yasser Arafat is the original sin behind Hamas's victory, while Netanyahu himself argues that the disengagement is what handed Hamas its victory.

The prosaic fact is that Hamas won regardless of us; it won because the Palestinian leaders who went to Oslo never began to even reluctantly reeducate their people to stop hating Jews, to accept them as worthy neighbors and to respect them as indigenous inhabitants in their ancestral land. That is what recognition is about, that is what our interlocutors remain light years from, and that is what will continue to stand between us and them for many years to come.

BEING THE pragmatists they are, Middle Israelis take what happened last week with no grain of salt. The way they see it, the choice made by the Palestinian voter was genuine, fair, and unstoppable by any external trickery.

It would have been disastrous to adopt Shalom's suggestion to keep Hamas out of the process, let alone by an administrative decree, particularly one inspired by foreign demand, and not just foreign - but American. In case the former foreign minister does not know, such an intrusion has already been attempted once, in Algeria, following the election there in 1992, with catastrophic results.

In that contest - the first ever truly free and fair Arab election - everything was right from a Western viewpoint except the winner: The Islamic Salvation Front. And so, in typically colonial arrogance and tunnel vision, the relevant Western powers, France and the US, allowed - some say ordered - a local junta to annul the election. The result was one of the worst post-colonial civil wars, and a massively fueled Islamist fury across the Arab world.

At the time, US diplomat Edward Djerejian noted that the Algerian democratic will could not be compared with, say, post-apartheid South Africa's, since what the Islamists espoused was not "one man, one vote," but "one man, one vote, one time." While nice as a pun, that attitude still could not justify that election's annulment, just like a thief cannot be tried, let alone sentenced, before he actually steals.

And that is why in our situation, too, the rightful winner of the Palestinian election must now be made to rule. The worst thing that happened back when Yasser Arafat ran for election in 1995 was that Hamas did not run. Yes, the Beilins of the world had a good time deluding themselves that Arafat's handsome defeat of feminist pioneer and political anecdote Samiha Khalil (who has since then died in complete obscurity) amounted to a democratic choice.

It didn't.

The real rival was Ahmed Yassin, whose sway and outlook eventually overshadowed the ostensibly empowered Arafat's. Had Yassin run against Arafat, the winner would have had the popular license with which to confront the loser. Having not run, Yassin enjoyed the luxury of maximum power and minimum responsibility. This is what we would now be in for if Beilin and Shalom had it their way last week, and this is what now awaits us if Abbas is to have it his way next week.

Maximum power and minimum responsibility is also what many in Hamas still seek, as they grimly fathom the prospect of being expected to deliver not just funerals for the Jews, but also jobs, housing, utilities, hospitals, universities and dignity for the Palestinians.

Now everyone should hold the Palestinian political system to its democratic obligation and make Hamas lead it. Let them come from behind the PA's apron. Yes, Europe's wishful thinking that these child sacrificers will transfigure to civic humanists is likely to be quickly refuted. Yet the PA's newly elected leaders will also make it simpler for Israelis to understand whom they have business with, and how to conduct it.

This is not to say there is no hope.

Some day, a critical mass of Palestinians will understand that their lives were abandoned to the devices of medieval clerics, not because the Israelis did or didn't do anything, but because those Palestinians who did cherish life, prosperity, freedom, creativity and pluralism spent too much time demonizing Zionism, and too little standing up to Islamism.

When that day arrives, so will peace.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Neve Gordon can't take criticism</title>
<date>8/11/2006</date>
<content>
It's ironic that those who shout loudest about freedom of speech for themselves and their friends are often the first to try to silence those with whom they disagree.

A case in point is Dr. Neve Gordon of Ben-Gurion University, who has defamed so many people, as well as the nation of Israel.  He also recently defamed me by saying that I had tried to prevent the publication of Norman Finkelstein's latest anti-Zionist screed, Beyond Chutzpah.  In fact, as I specifically wrote in my letters to Finkelstein's publishers - as Gordon knew, because I released the letters -  "I have no interest in censoring or suppressing Finkelstein's freedom of expression."

Gordon's lie came straight from Finkelstein, who has a history of claiming that prominent Jews are trying to silence him, prevent publication of his books and keep them from being reviewed: "All opinion-leaders, from the left to the right, are Jews  The Silence around my book in the US - if this is not a conspiracy, then what is one?"

What's ironic about Gordon's article, though, is that just as he was falsely accusing me of trying to silence Finkelstein, he was trying to silence Prof. Steven Plaut of Haifa University.

THE GENESIS OF Gordon's notorious lawsuit against Plaut was a fawning book review Gordon wrote of Beyond Chutzpah for Haaretz. In response, Plaut wrote an Internet posting entitled "Haaretz Promotes the 'Jews for Hitler.'" Plaut subsequently wrote that Yasser Arafat was Gordon's "guru" and compared Gordon to members of Judenrats after Gordon illegally entered Arafat's compound in solidarity with the terrorist leader.

For exercising his freedom of speech in this way, Plaut was found liable for slander and fined NIS 80,000, by a Nazareth judge, Reem Naddaf, who went out of her way in her opinion's dicta to justify Holocaust revisionism, which of course often goes over the line into something far darker, as it does when Finkelstein espouses it to mock survivors and condemn those seeking justice.

The verdict against Prof. Plaut was wrong, as I will explain by discussing both substantive and legal aspects of Plaut's accusations.

First, as to substance: Gordon argued, dubiously, that Plaut meant to include him (Gordon) when he wrote "Jews for Hitler," rather than Finkelstein and his fellow-travelers such as Noam Chomsky, who have openly endorsed Holocaust deniers and revisionists.

Even so, is there a factual basis behind the claim that Gordon supports genocidal anti-Semites, considering his admiration for Norman Finkelstein?

Finkelstein himself isn't an outright Holocaust denier (though neither was Hitler, of course), because he acknowledges the basic facts of the Holocaust, while minimizing the number of victims.  But Finkelstein is, in many ways, worse than an outright denier. He denies the reality of survivors, calling them "hoaxes" and "hucksters" and accuses Elie Wiesel of lying about his past.

The major theme of the Finkelstein book that Gordon was extolling is that Jews are responsible for anti-Semitism.  "Alongside Israel, [American Jewish elites] are the main fomenters of anti-Semitism in the world today. They must be stopped."

FINKELSTEIN'S and Gordon's articles are featured on Holocaust denial and neo-Nazi Web sites, such as that of the Hitler-loving Ernst Zundel, who said of Finkelstein that "[h]e is making three-fourths of our argument - and making it effectively."

So if Finkelstein and Gordon aren't themselves explicitly neo-Nazi, they're at least very highly regarded by those who are - and for good reason.

It's no wonder Gordon is so attracted to Finkelstein. As I have previously written: "Considered one of the world's most extreme anti-Israel academics, [Gordon] belongs to the class of rabidly anti-Israel far-left professors whose trademark is the delight they take in comparing Israel to apartheid South Africa and Nazi Germany."

The bulk of his writing consists of anti-Israel propaganda designed to "prove" that the Jewish State is fascist. Consider the irony: Gordon, who has no qualms about comparing Israelis to Nazis, has taken legal umbrage at being compared - at least as he sees it - to these same Nazis.

Talk about chutzpah! It's absurd that Gordon is allowed to call people Nazis, but Plaut isn't (especially given that Plaut's characterization is far closer to the truth). I personally wish everyone would stop using the term Nazi, except when referring to Hitler and his followers.

AS FOR the legal and civil liberties aspect of the case, it seems clear that what Plaut said - about a public figure, no less - falls squarely within the realm of (well-supported) opinion, and it should be protected in any free society. Finkelstein and Gordon have dragged the debate over the Holocaust and the Middle East into the gutter, and now they are trying to enhance their own statures through a forum-shopped lawsuit.

Gordon is apparently afraid of the open marketplace of ideas and so he has gone whining to a friendly judge to protect his "reputation." It's an undemocratic ploy, violative of principles of free speech and fairness.

So here is my challenge to Neve Gordon: I visit Israel frequently, and am easily available for service of process. I invite Gordon to sue me for essentially restating in my own words what Prof. Plaut has said: It is my opinion that Neve Gordon has gotten into bed with neo-Nazis, Holocaust justice deniers, and anti-Semites. He is a despicable example of a self-hating Jew and a self-hating Israeli.

The writer is a professor of law at Harvard. His most recent book is Preemption: A Knife that Cuts Both Ways.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>NGOs that take sides</title>
<date>30/7/2006</date>
<content>
The war with Hizbullah, like all Israel's confrontations with terror groups in the past decade, includes a political front that is as important and complex as the military front. The words and images used by journalists, politicians, diplomats and officials of powerful non-governmental organizations (NGOs) set the framework in which the military actions are judged.

Where the Israeli response to Iranian and Syrian-supported terror is viewed as justified, which is largely the case in the United States, support for Israel is high, allowing for the dispatch of weapons necessary to defeat Hizbullah.

But in Europe, Asia and elsewhere, the dominant images are based on false allegations of "disproportionate force" and "war crimes," in which the Lebanese are portrayed as victims of Israeli aggression.

The central role of Iran and Syria in this war is easy to hide, creating a further distortion in the picture reaching international eyes. Reporters and politicians posing for photo-ops on the bomb-scarred streets of Beirut do not see any sign of the weapons and training from Teheran and Damascus. Most avoid looking at the concrete slabs with air holes below their feet that protect the Hizbullah command centers.

In a particularly surreal example, the BBC ran a program in which the presenter and Terje Roed-Larsen (the perpetual UN envoy remembered for promoting Jenin massacre myth in 2002) filled 30 minutes with meaningless UN-speak without mentioning Iran or Syria. This topic was only introduced when I joined the program and an Israeli voice was finally heard to counter the allegations about "collective punishment" of Lebanese civilians.

IN THIS battlefield of political warfare, a group of powerful NGOs play a central role, introducing and amplifying the demonization of Israeli self-defense.

New York-based Human Rights Watch issued eight statements on the Lebanon conflict between July 13 and July 24, of which only one focuses on criticism of Hizbullah.

HRW, which has been producing anti-Israel propaganda for many years (often providing a single exception as a fig leaf to mention in responses to critics), included a detailed "Q and A" report purporting to analyze violations of international law, primarily by Israel.

In a detailed article written by Dr. Avi Bell and published by NGO Monitor, HRW's analysis was shown to be based on "distorted views of the underlying facts, selective omission of crucial legal issues... [that] mislead readers and betray the bias of the piece."

HRW's campaign was joined by similar statements - some more balanced and honest than others - issued by Amnesty International, B'Tselem, Christian Aid, the International Commission of Jurists (based in Geneva), the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues (based in Paris), Oxfam, Norwegian People's Aid, MIFTAH (run by Hanan Ashrawi), and others.

THESE NGO superpowers have immediate access to the media and politicians. HRW and Amnesty have annual budgets of tens of millions of dollars, of which more seems to be used for promotion than for actual research.

Enjoying what is know as the "halo effect," few if any journalists or diplomats bother to check the details, biases or credibility of NGO claims. When the details were examined by NGO Monitor's research staff, or Prof. Alan Dershowitz of Harvard University, the claims have often been shown to be false or unverifiable.

The impact of these anti-Israel campaigns, disguised by the rhetoric of international law, are amplified by the European Union and the UN. On July 13, the EU's "Non-Governmental Platform," which is part of the massive Euromed framework, issued a "Declaration about the situation in Lebanon and Gaza."

The only reference to the Israeli soldiers kidnapped by Hamas and Hizbullah provides a classic example of facile moral equivalence. "Detainees and captured persons should be liberated, and we condemn and reject all acts of violence against civil populations."

Having made a seemingly balanced statement, the declaration goes on to "strongly condemn... the Israeli aggressions which are a striking violation of International Law" and calls on the EU to "intervene quickly and firmly in order to stop the Israeli government's military operations which are threatening the entire region with its dangerous escalation."

THE USE of EU funding and official frameworks under the cover of "civil society" for virulent anti-Israeli incitement is blatantly unethical. Under the guise of "peace partners" and "human rights" programs the EU, and the governments of Canada, Switzerland and Norway fund NGOs that promote the Durban strategy of painting Israel as a "racist apartheid state."

The latest examples are a further step, and undermine the European desire to play a serious diplomatic role.

The reduction of the role of NGOs in the political war against Israel would be an important step toward removing the justification of terror. The funders - private organizations, individuals and governments - in whose name the NGOs act need to take control to end this incitement, and halt the shameful distortion of the legitimate principles undergirding the pursuit of human rights and the advancement of international law.

The writer directs the conflict management program at Bar-Ilan University and is the editor of NGO Monitor (www.ngo-monitor.org).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No one to talk to?</title>
<date>6/11/2006</date>
<content>
Every day on the radio I hear someone say, "There is no partner" or "There is no one to talk to" - it's become part of Israeli political culture.
My own view is that irrelevant to what political position one takes, whether there is a partner or not, not to talk to the other is a very dubious position. It is dubious because, from a psychological point of view, it implies that there is no obligation on you. No one to talk to means that you are not to blame for anything that has gone wrong; it means that you have a license to do whatever, because they wouldn't talk.

How convenient!

This attitude easily slips into a victim mentality. I am not to blame; I tried; look what they did to me.

How curious that 58 years after independence this galut victim mentality is so prevalent in Israel - the Jew as the victim, as the nebech. This victim mentality, this view that I'm blameless, sits easily with the attitude that the world is against us; that the goyim hate us.

Now let us assume that this is indeed true. There is no partner in the Middle East, and the goyim do hate us. So what is the next step?

Well the next step is that since the world hates us, we can rely only on our own strength. We have to be strong and that means to sear our existence into others' consciousness, to smash them to smithereens. We can't expect help from anyone.

FOR THE past 40 years or so, Israel's foreign policy has been motivated by crass realpolitik. Zionism has meant supporting anything or anyone who is seen as good for the Jews. How often one heard that ethics and morality were fine for Europe and Scandinavia, but not for the Middle East.

So Israel supplied weapons to every fascist dictator in South America (no rabbi ever said a word that this was against Halacha). Israel even began to help the racist apartheid regime in South Africa obtain nuclear weapons. How ironic that we now have to turn to the goyim - in this case the Europeans (who of course haven't learned anything from history), and to Russia and China, to help us deal with a very real threat from Iran.

But if our foreign policy was motivated by self-interest, why should Russia and China behave any differently from us? If you want the Quartet to take their noses out of the Middle East, if you haven't invested with the Europeans, then why on earth should they help us, unless it is in their self-interest to do so?

NO COUNTRY can go it alone any longer. There is no successful war against terror unless there is international cooperation. And, lo and behold, Israel has now had to turn to the accursed United Nations to help it do what it couldn't do in its own backyard, namely, to patrol southern Lebanon. Our amoral government couldn't see the irony when it suggested that German soldiers should also be part of the force protecting the Jewish state. But the Germans, thank God, could see the irony, and refused.

Some readers will conclude that this writer is some rootless cosmopolitan with no Jewish background suffering from an acute case of Copenhagen Syndrome, etc, etc. So let me conclude with a dvar Torah in the name of R. Simha Bunim of Przysucha.

R. Bunim was the dominant hasidic personality in Poland in the first half of the 19th century, when Poland was the center of Hasidism. In Kol Simcha (p. 95), he asks, how could Moses have made a peace overture to Sihon, the Amorite King, when God expressly told Moses to make war against him?

R. Bunim answers that the pursuit of peace is so important even though you know the other side will not respond, nevertheless, seeking peace is the dynamic to be in and it will bring its own reward.
No knee-jerking negative response here. On the contrary, someone who has a degree of self-confidence, an inner-strength of identity, can engage the other.

What a contrast to the Shamir government of the 1980s, which made it a crime for an Israeli even to talk the PLO. To talk, even to understand, does not mean to agree with. But at least you begin to see how the other sees the world. And if he rejects your overture, what have you lost? Let the responsibility be seen as his.

The writer is rabbi of Yakar in Jerusalem.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 28: History mystery</title>
<date>27/11/2006</date>
<content>
History mystery

Sir, - Articles in the press and discussions in the media bemoan the fact that Israelis know so little about the American Jewish community. Since 1971 I have been teaching American Jewish history at Tel Aviv University. Over 5,000 students have taken my classes. A few years ago an American donor contributed money for a chair in the American Jewish experience and the president of the university assured me that the teaching of American Jewish history would continue after I retired.

I am retiring at the end of this academic year, and no one is slated to replace me. Consequently, the history of Jews in the United States - the largest and most important Jewish community in the Diaspora - will no longer be taught at Tel Aviv U. As so often happens, the eventual losers will be the students.

If government ministers and Jewish Agency officials truly believe that knowledge about the American Jewish community is important to the upcoming generation of Israelis, they should invest in university and school courses on the subject instead of merely giving    speeches about it.

DR. ROBERT ROCKAWAY
Arsuf

Lip service

Sir, - Once upon a time I taught English at a high school in Jerusalem. One of the things that bothered me greatly at the time and still does is the fact that Arabic is not a required part of the curriculum. The Education Ministry doesn't consider Arabic essential, and offers it only as an elective. What arrogance and shortsightedness!

Several European countries require English plus another foreign language as part of their schooling. Yet Israel, surrounded by Arab countries, refuses to recognize that knowing the language of the region is the first step to integrating into the Middle East. It seems stuck in a fortress-state mentality - understandable, but self-destructive.

Many Arabs speak excellent Hebrew, but few Israelis speak   Arabic. How can there be a meeting of minds if you can't speak each other's language? Isn't it   time to reform the curriculum?

There are no easy solutions to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict,  but making Arabic a requirement would be a small step away  from the abyss.

REGGIE LANDAU
Teaneck, New Jersey

Terrible toys

Sir, - Re "IDF uncovers deadly stuffed animals in raid on Nablus bomb factory" (November 26): This discovery indicates an absolute lack of feeling among Palestinian terrorists, as such explosives-rigged items could find their way to any innocent baby or child - precisely what is intended. The images this      conjures up are horrifying beyond description.

Can any cause justify the mind-set that creates such a "toy factory"?

In the wake of this discovery Israel must launch a major   information barrage in which these deadly items are displayed, clearly marked, so that the West, and even Russia, are made aware of what is done in the name of Palestinian "rights."

TOBY WILLIG
Jerusalem

Friends as enemies

Sir, - In "Wise men and rednecks" (November 23) Larry Derfner made two salient points: 1. Jimmy Carter is no more anti-Semitic than Ami Ayalon and Nahum Barnea; 2. Oslo, an outcome of the Madrid peace talks, was a Rabin-Peres government initiative in which James Baker and the American            government had no part.

Derfner appreciates Carter, Bush (the father) and Baker as "proven friends of Israel" even though they respectively: besmirched Israel as an apartheid state, withheld badly-needed loan guarantees, and said (Baker): "F*** 'em (the Jews), they don't vote for us anyway."

This seems to further prove the wisdom of the adage "Save me from my friends, I can protect myself from my enemies."

Of most concern is that in our case, "friends" includes some of our most powerful politicians     and journalists.

TUVIA MUSKIN 
Rehovot

My right to debate

Sir, - Re "Lack of integrity" (Letters, November 26): Ian Jaffe accuses me of a "lack of integrity" and "irrelevance," alleging that I advocate the dissolution of Israel as a Jewish state. This is clearly a distortion of my views. We saw this twisting of an opposing view all too often during apartheid's heyday, with the shortsighted aim of demonizing one's opponent.

As a member of the South African government I support the two-state solution, but this does not deny me the right to remind the Israeli government that in the face of its unacceptable conduct, that option is fast disappearing. As an interested and passionate observer it is certainly my right to debate other options to secure a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. If I was    without integrity I would not   be so open in my views.

As to the slur that I am somehow willing to see the destruction of six million Jews, I refer Jaffe to my most recent response in a South African newspaper to vilifiers of this hue. I wrote: "Far from advocating the expulsion of the Jewish people or the destruction of Israel, I have argued that it is precisely Israel's expansionist and militaristic doctrine that endangers its citizens, and that only a just, negotiated settlement between the parties concerned can secure peace and security for all in the region." (Sunday Independent, Johannesburg, November 26.)

I have often stated that it is ultimately up to the Israeli and Palestinian peoples to work out whether they opt for a unitary, binational or two-state solution. Whatever negative aspersions Jaffe levels at the new democratic South Africa, a country that gave him and his family a most privileged start in life during the apartheid days, we are prepared to provide advice (and, yes, why not criticism?) to those who wish to learn something from our not inconsiderable experience.

RONNIE KASRILS, MP
Minister for Intelligence Services
Pretoria

Violence unchained

Sir, - I was outraged by the title "Experts: Sela poses 'no immediate' danger to women" (November 27), which can give unsuspecting women a false sense of safety. Benny Sela should be seen as extremely dangerous no matter if it's     his first hour or first week      on the run.

Prof. Zvi Zemishlany is correct that "An escaped serial rapist is like a wild animal who hides." The problem: If Sela is hiding in a location where an unsuspecting woman is present, the likelihood of her being assaulted is extremely high.

Research into the treatment of sex offenders is still in its infancy. As of yet there has been no proven treatment for those who offend, especially for violent sex offenders such as Benny Sela.

VICKI POLIN
Executive Director
The Awareness Center, Inc.
Baltimore, Maryland

Sir, - Reading the words of psychiatrists Profs. Zemishlany and Witztum I found myself shaking my head in incredulity. These authorities admitted they knew almost nothing about this specific creature, yet waxed prophetic about someone who has defied expectation at every turn.

This is topped only by the buffoonery of our national police and prison service.

JOSH MARK
Jerusalem

Sir, - In the case of an escaped rapist it is better to be safe than sorry. I'd rather women were  vigilant about their safety than have a false sense of security.

LAURA GOLDMAN 
Tel Aviv
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 25: The Jewish state</title>
<date>24/10/2006</date>
<content>
The Jewish state

Sir, - Ida Nudel's analysis of the non-Jewish nature of what was meant to be the Jewish state, evokes sympathy and breaks one's heart ("What Israel can learn from Muhammad Yunus," October 24). It seems only the president of Iran and the leader of Hizbullah recognize that Israel is a Jewish state.

As Nudel points out, our media, sophisticated humanistic academia even our government - in removing the word "Jew" from identity papers - and the retired president of our Supreme Court, who once said he preferred a state that was democratic but not Jewish to one that was Jewish but not democratic, prefer Israel to be non-Jewish.

But the origin of this failure to equate Jewishness with Israeliness, goes back to David Ben-Gurion and his colleagues of 60 years ago. On the one hand, they were inspired by, and claimed to be fighting for, the Judenstat of Herzl's book.

On the other hand, they were so bamboozled by "democracy" that they did not dare to equate Israeli citizenship with Jewish identity. In the founding document of 1948, after citing the prophets, the Rock of Israel, Jewish history and the Holocaust, they welcomed with open arms the non-Jewish residents of the new state into full, equal citizenship. This limitless reaching out in the name of democracy did not and still does not prevent our enemies from labelling us apartheid, racist, theocratic, etc.

Ida Nudel is right. She would have been right in 1948 if she could have advised Ben-Gurion to be less democratic and more Jewish in founding the Jewish state.

JACOB CHINITZ
Jerusalem

Labor's future

Sir, - Re "Labor to vote Sunday on whether to quit gov't" (October 24), wherein Binyamin Ben-Eliezer deigns to reassure us that he actually could sit with Avigdor Lieberman because he sat with Yasser Arafat.

Is this overblown, self-important, underachiever of a minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer drawing equivalence between the two? Sitting at the same table with another Israeli, however much one may disagree with his opinions, is that the same as sitting at the same table with the man responsible for more Jewish deaths than anyone else since the end of World War II? This does not bode well for the future of this Labor Party.

Even more telling about its future is the semi-concealed and certainly hushed-up fact that the party's largest sector is made up of Arabs. I, for one, have not exactly seen or heard the likes of Ophir Paz-Pines, Eitan Cabel and Yitzhak Herzog celebrate this fact as one would expect of a left-of-center, multicultural party.

Finally, what does it say about the integrity of Labor Party members in the first place with regard to their original assertions about the deep ties that bind them to the ideology of the party? Were those ties so tenuous, were those ideological bonds so weak and so unimportant that so many of them, including life-long party member Shimon Peres, could jump ship to join the ranks of a sewed-together party of hangers-on, has-beens, would-bes, political opportunists and soon-to-be-indicted politicians?

LOWELL BLACKMAN
Ramat Ilan

Coddling a murderer

Sir, - I am baffled and stunned by the news allowing Yigal Amir a 10-hour conjugal visit ("Amir's wife to stay over Tuesday," October 24). I believe execution would be more appropriate for the murderer of one of Israel's great patriots.

If I sound harsh, it is because I am unable to understand the reason why he is being treated in such a humane manner.

MURIEL VERED
Ramat Hasharon

Who wants peace

Sir, - One the one hand Prime Minister Ehud Olmert says, "I don't intend to enter talks with Syria," while Defense Minister Amir Peretz says that Israel should explore the possibility of making peace with Syria ("Seek peace possibilities with Assad, Peretz insists," October 23).

Do these two people really run the country or are they just rehearsing for their next career move into show biz as the Israeli Abbot and Costello? Who wants peace, they want peace, no we want peace, they want peace, no they don't want peace...

Peace is but a mere word, an illusion. We offer it apologetically and our enemies refuse it. They don't even want the illusion.

So will these two comedians please exit stage left, and can we get a new script. One in which we show our backbone, stand strong and focus on a strong deterrent and a better Israeli society. A script which doesn't mention this word peace, this illusion that has distracted us for too long.

MITCHELL BARNETT
Tel Aviv

Maybe I'll run

Sir, - In response to Michael Boyden ("Israel needs a president," October 22). I wholeheartedly agree. In a country in which everything is politicized, including the selection of supposedly unbiased and impartial judges, it is mandatory for us to select a president who represents all Israelis from all walks of life.

Politicians are, well, politicians, and it is hard to believe that they would be able to shed that identity and remove themselves from the political arena upon assuming the mantle of the presidency. This restriction, however, narrows or even eliminates the field of announced candidates.

Ruby Rivlin and Shimon Peres, although highly accomplished and having undoubtedly contributed enormously to the growth and success of our country, are still politicians. Colette Avital, also a politician, is qualifying herself merely because she is a woman. There are many women in our country who are more qualified. There may even be men more qualified as well.

Now that I think about it, I have shown my dedication to this country by voluntarily giving up a very comfortable life and successful business in the US and coming on aliya with my family. Thus, my English is excellent and I would have a natural appeal to Diaspora Jews, as I would try to convince them to join us here. My children who are of age have all served in Sherut Leumi or the IDF. I have a master's in the biological sciences and a doctorate in the hi-tech industry, so I can represent Israel while extolling our unmatched strength in the hi-tech and bio-tech fields.

I have not harassed anyone, I love my country, I would like to make it an even better place for my children and grandchildren, I pay my taxes and I love all Jews. And above all I am not a politician.

Maybe I should announce my candidacy...

MOSHE RAAB
Ma'aleh Adumim

Donate organs

Sir, - Recently quite a few accolades have been heaped on the Israeli people, especially after the last war, for how caring and compassionate they were toward their fellow Jews fleeing their homes during the horrendous rocket attacks. However in one extremely important sphere, Israelis fail miserably and lag badly behind the rest of the world. They have a very poor track record when it comes to donating their organs after death.

I cannot fathom out why they are so loath, as human life is so precious and its preservation takes precedence over every other consideration. Even the Sabbath may be violated to save anyone with a dangerous illness.

What can be a greater mitzva than saving the eyesight of a living person by transplanting the cornea of a deceased, or saving the life of a critically ill individual desperately in need of an organ transplant. Why should anyone living in Israel suffering from a life-threatening disease have the heartbreaking struggle of attempting finding the huge sums of money required for an organ transplant performed in some other completely strange country on the other side of the world.

It is essential that a nationwide campaign be launched to make Israelis far more aware of the vast benefits derived from donating their organs The whole nation benefits, while the gratitude of the receiver is unbelievable A life is restored because someone cared!

M. U. MILUNSKY
Netanya
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 31: 'Maak' a plan</title>
<date>30/10/2006</date>
<content>
'Maak' a plan

Sir, - Re "New Carter book decries Israeli 'apartheid'" (October 29).

Growing up in apartheid South Africa in the 1950s, I used to complain about racial segregation to my boere - white Afrikaans-speaking - friends. Their answer was: "A boer [farmer] maak a plan" meaning that white South Africa had to "make a plan" for its cultural and political survival and that plan was apartheid.

The title of former US president Jimmy Carter's new book - Palestine Peace Not Apartheid - creates in the reader's mind the impression that he has come to assume that the Jews of Israel, like the Boers of South Africa, are also now applying apartheid as a plan for their own cultural and political survival.

However, this is not the case at all and I for one am taken aback that a US president could make such a facile comparison, for indeed the Israeli plan for Jewish cultural and political survival stands apartheid on its head. Here the majority rules and not the minority. Moreover the Arab citizen minority holds full civic rights, cultural and political freedom.

The security fence is the exact opposite of apartheid for it is not constructed upon a color bar, but upon security considerations, no different from the one currently being built along the US-Mexican border.

Since Carter liked to identify as a farmer, I, as a farm girl myself, would like to take this opportunity to say to him, with all due respect: "Jy verstaan niks nie van apartheid" - you don't understand anything about apartheid, so please do not  use the word in the title of  your book.

LILY SINGER
Jerusalem

Missed opportunity

Sir, - The article on human experimentation missed an opportunity ("Clinical trials & tribulations," Health, October 29).

Most of the examples of ethical transgressions quoted in the article occurred in other countries and at a time when current regulations (such as exist in this country since 1980) did not operate. One hopes and trusts that such egregious abuses do not occur anywhere where Declaration of Helsinki regulations are in force and, as such, quoting them only confuses the reader and blurs the issue.

And the issue is not the lack of regulations or regulatory bodies, but the conscious or unconscious failure to abide by the rules. Such alleged occurrences are very rare in Israel, where the vast majority of medical scientists are ethical and careful to protect their patients.

It is understandable but regrettable that the media and politicians have targeted medical research for one of their recurrent bouts of moral indignation. If either of these two professions came even close to physicians in their publicly perceived ethical standards, they might have something to contribute. As it is, we know better.

A new law is most definitely not needed, but proper supervision of the existing very comprehensive regulations is. Unfortunately there are no scoops or political points to be won in quiet methodical supervision. That is why the correct and effective thing will not be done but the melodramatic headline catching will be.

DR. ANTHONY LUDER
Chairman
Helsinki Ethics Committee
Sieff Hospital
Safed

Basic laws

Sir, - Your editorial "Basic or not?" (October 29) raises, well, basic questions.

Discussing the basic law relating to the presidency, you note the ease with which basic laws can be amended for political expediency, as we have too often seen.

This calls into question how basic laws are amended and how they come into being. It should be self-evident that basic laws require the support of at least a real majority (61) of the members of the Knesset to be enacted or amended.

I maintain that they require more - either a super-majority of, say, two-thirds of the elected members (80) or, better still, a referendum of the people, wherein a real majority of enrolled voters support the proposed basic law or amendment.

The latter would put constitutional power into the hands of the people, where sovereignty properly lies.

Moreover, there should also be provision for constitutional change to be initiated by the people.

There is a further, related matter of how any law is passed by the Knesset. The contemptuously small numbers of MKs that can make a law (that is often disregarded in practice) suggest that some respectable, minimum number of MKs participate before new legislation can be passed in the Knesset.

Such provisions, that deliberately exist in other democracies, should exist here too.

MERVYN DOOBOV
Jerusalem

Misleading poll

Sir, - We at AACI (Association of Americans and Canadians in Israel) were concerned by the article "Poll shows high rate of olim going back" (October 26). The article could have misled many of your readers, because while the poll in question was not described, it was oriented primarily to immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

The number of olim from North America that return to their home countries has historically been less than 20 percent. But we take pride in the fact that of the many new olim who come to AACI for post-aliya counseling and/or employment assistance, less than 1% are interested in returning to their countries of origin.

MATT SCHEIN
Vice president of operations, AACI
Jerusalem

New record?

Sir, - We would like to take this opportunity to recommend Mahmoud Abbas for entry into the Guinness World Book of Records for having the ability to stretch his constant two-week threats and ultimatums regarding Hamas into month-long campaigns in which nothing is ever resolved ("Hamas has two weeks to form coalition with Fatah, Abbas says," October 29). Abbas's unending two-week scenarios should be spelled too weak.

JERRY AND SYLVIA DORTZ
Ariel

Change in strategy

Sir, - Larry Derfner bemoans the lack of solutions to Israel's present malaise ("Misreading our malaise," October 26). The last Lebanon war has shown the inadequacy of a military option, while a political resolution is not in the offing, as there's no one with whom we can negotiate.

What is sorely lacking in his article is what got us into this position. Successive vital concessions, effectively unilateral, have made us appear as lacking resolve or purpose. Expending and equipping our armed forces to expel their fellow Jews from their homes and destroying Gush Katif have made us weaker physically, economically and morally.

Perhaps, if we were to reverse our strategy by strengthening our settlements, rejuvenating our Zionist spirit and better preparing our forces to defend ourselves against our enemies, our neighbors would conclude that it is in their best interest to achieve a resolution in which their needs, if not their aspirations, can be met while assuring our safety.

TUVIA MUSKIN
Rehovot
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Operation 'prayer shield' for Israel [pg. 15]</title>
<date>23/5/2006</date>
<content>
There was a time when you might have expected a South African former freedom fighter and columnist writing in a left-leaning European newspaper to have no problem at all with a proposition of the following kind: Vote for fascists and take the consequences.

What is clear from an article last week in Britain's Guardian newspaper by South African Intelligence Minister Ronnie Kasrils, writing jointly with columnist Victoria Brittain, is that such a proposition would now need to be amended on the following lines: Vote for fascists and take the consequences, unless those fascists are committed to the destruction of the world's only Jewish state and have targeted and killed hundreds of Jewish civilians to bring that aim to fruition.

That, in a nutshell, is the only way to make any sense of Kasrils's and Brittain's call to replace the withholding of aid to the Hamas-led government with full-scale sanctions against the state of Israel.

It is the cruelest of moral inversions: Israel, Europe and the United States join forces to put pressure on a government composed of self-confessed Jew-haters; Kasrils and Brittain see this as the perfect opportunity to use the largely self-imposed suffering of the Palestinian people as a stick with which to beat Israel into submission.

After all, they opine: "Never in the long struggle for freedom in apartheid South Africa was there a situation as dramatic as in Palestine today... And those who care for freedom, peace and justice must build a global Palestine solidarity movement to match the anti-apartheid movement of the 1980s."

NOW LET us agree that nothing more needs to be said on that score other than that comparisons between apartheid South Africa and Israel are the emblematic property of the moral and intellectual dunce, and get to grips instead with the issue at hand: Why do so many in Western opinion-forming circles refuse to see Hamas for what it is, and what does this particular pathology tell us about broader hostility to Israel?

If you had a penny for every news report which referred to the Hamas victory as the product of despair at corruption in Fatah or frustration at Fatah's failure to raise general living standards, you could pay off the debt-ridden Palestinian Authority all on your own.

Ian Fisher, writing in The New York Times on January 28, described the various motivations succinctly: "Clearly, some want a bigger fight with Israel. Others want more religion in public life. Some just want change."

Indeed so. Voters across the world choose their preferred party for a whole host of reasons, none of which absolves them from taking responsibility for the policies of the party they actually vote for.

And one thing that Hamas cannot be accused of is obfuscation over its aims and beliefs, which, in its charter, clearly set before us many of the classic building blocks of a fascist-like organization.

To wit: its open anti-Semitism - "The stones and trees will say O Muslims, O Abdulla, there is a Jew behind me, come and kill him." (Article 7); its glorification of violence - "Allah is its goal, the Prophet its model, the Qur'an its Constitution, Jihad its path and death for the cause of Allah its most sublime belief." (Article 8); its socialist populism - "Social solidarity consists of extending help to all the needy, both materially and morally... For the masses are of them and for them, their strength is [ultimately] theirs and their future is theirs." (Article 21); and its totalitarian fusion of art with politics -  "So, books, articles, publications, religious exhortations, epistles, songs, poems, hymns, plays, and the like, if they possess the characteristics of Islamic art, have the requisites of ideological mobilization..." (Article 19).

OF COURSE, all fascist movements have differed according to time, geography and overall political context. But the character of Hamas as just such a movement is crystal-clear.

The main reason why some still fail to see the truth about the new Palestinian government is probably that the whole debate about Israel and its enemies is now so steeped in an irrational, almost elemental, need to hate that the pre-requisites for sober and informed judgment are simply absent.

You can access information about Hamas, and indeed Israel, over the Internet in a matter of seconds. If you're uninformed, you must want to be so.

In a more general sense, many of Israel's most vehement critics have played with half-truths and outright fabrications for so long now that dishonesty has become a "normal" part of their discourse.

If you keep repeating for long enough that Israel practices "apartheid," that its policies are "Nazi," that Hamas is only motivated by the "brutal occupation" or that the suicide bombing of a falafel store is a matter of "self-defense," you may start believing it.

As for the rest of us, we must remain steadfast in saying that fascism should continue to be opposed. If the Palestinian people are now suffering as a consequence, then that is a great cause for regret. But frankly, you pays your money and you takes your choice.

The writer is a senior transatlantic fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States. The views expressed here are entirely his own. rshepherd@gmfus.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Why is Muhammad Abu al-Hawa dead?</title>
<date>18/4/2006</date>
<content>
Muhammad Abu al-Hawa was a 42-year-old father of eight when he died last Wednesday night. As Israeli Jews were beginning our Pessah Seders and retelling the story of our exodus from Egypt and our rebirth as a free nation, Abu al-Hawa was being tortured by Fatah terrorists. As we ate our Seder meal, he was shot seven times. As we called out "Next year in Jerusalem," Abu al-Hawa's body and car were torched.

Abu al-Hawa was tortured and murdered because he stood accused of committing what the Palestinians consider a capital crime. Eight young children were orphaned last Wednesday night because their father allegedly sold an apartment building in Israel's capital city to Jews. The building in question is located in Jerusalem's A-Tur neighborhood, just above the Temple Mount on the Mount of Olives.

Muhammad Abu al-Hawa was buried in a makeshift cemetery on the road between Jerusalem where he lived, and Jericho where he was murdered. His body was buried there because the Palestinian Authority's mufti in Jerusalem, Ikremah Sabri, has barred all Muslims accused of selling land to Jews from being buried in a Muslim cemetery.

When the PA was established in 1994, the first legal step its chairman Yasser Arafat and its justice minister Freih Abu Medein took was to declare null and void all laws that had been in force until that date. After plunging Palestinian society into legal chaos, Arafat and Medein reinstated one law. That law was a Jordanian law which Israel had revoked in 1967. It made selling land to Jews a capital offense.

SINCE 1994, dozens of Arab Israelis and PA residents have been murdered on suspicion of selling land to Jews. Abu al-Hawa's murder - like those that preceded it - tells us several important things about Palestinian society. It tells us that like the PA today, any successor Palestinian state will be a racist, apartheid state where laws will be promulgated based solely on race and religious origin. Jews will be denied all basic human rights and Arabs who peacefully coexist with Jews will be accused of treason and made targets for murder.

On Saturday night Sheikh Raed Salah, the former mayor of Umm el-Fahm and the head of the northern branch of the Israeli Islamic Movement, spoke to an audience of some 30,000 Israeli Arabs in Kafr Kana. There he placed Abu al-Hawa's murder in the context of the Arab-Islamic strategy for conquering Jerusalem. His address, which was broadcast live by al-Jazeera, was devoted to calling for the expulsion of all Jews from Jerusalem. He called on his Arab brethren to "save Jerusalem from the hands of the Jews," promising that "Jerusalem will soon be the capital of the world Islamic nation, and it will be governed by a caliphate."

Salah's speech placed him in the company of Sheikh Yusuf Qaradawi, the Qatar-based Sunni cleric who acts as a religious authority for both Hamas and al-Qaida. Speaking in Sanaa, Yemen, last December, Qaradawi, who chairs the Al-Quds Foundation, referred to the goal of Islamizing Jerusalem by ending coexistence with Israel as "a civilian jihad that should go side by side with armed resistance."

Today, there is no figure of authority in the Arab and Islamic world in general and in the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority particularly who would have stood up for Abu al-Hawa. For today's Arab and Islamic leaders, murders like Abu al-Hawa's serve an "educational" goal of terrorizing Palestinians into ending any ongoing relationships they may have with Israelis.

Neither Abu al-Hawa nor countless other victims before him had an opportunity to answer the charges leveled against them. According to Palestinians and to Jews involved in purchasing lands from Palestinians, in the majority of cases, the Arabs murdered for the "crime" of selling land to Jews never sold land to Jews. At most they were "guilty" of having ties of friendship or commerce with Israelis. The fact that merely having relations with Jews can expose an Arab to allegations of collaboration is enough to convince most Palestinians that they shouldn't have anything to do with Israel or Israelis. So by murdering people like Abu al-Hawa, the Palestinian leadership ensures that Palestinians will be too afraid of being killed to risk peaceful coexistence with Israel.

YET WHILE once marked as a land seller Abu al-Hawa could expect no protection from the Palestinian leadership, as a resident of Jerusalem he had a legal right to expect Israeli authorities to protect him.

Indeed, it was the responsibility of the Israel Police to protect him. Disturbingly, not only did the police not
protect him, they may well have made it impossible for him to escape death.

Last month the Jerusalem Magistrate's Court ordered the police to evict squatters from the building formerly owned by Abu al-Hawa who had moved in during the previous weeks. Sources intimately involved with the story allege that rather than carry out the eviction order as quietly as possible in order to minimize local Arab attention to what was already shaping up to be a difficult and dangerous situation for Abu al-Hawa, the police leaked the court-ordered operation to Israel's TV Channel 10.

Last Sunday and Monday nights, Channel 10 led its primetime news broadcasts with footage from the police operation at A-Tur. The footage showed riot police ejecting the squatters and their personal effects from the apartment building. Reporter Assaf Zohar portrayed the Arab squatters as innocent victims and the Jews who bought the building legally, guarded the building legally and moved into the building legally as arrogant bullies and greedy, wealthy fanatics.

Abu al-Hawa described Jews approaching him with a suitcase filled with cash offering to buy his apartment. He vociferously claimed that he refused their pushy offers because he would never sell to Jews. Zohar made no mention of the fact that the PA conducts extrajudicial murders of those accused of selling land to Jews.

IT WAS hard to imagine Al-Jazeera portraying Jews in a worse light than Israel's Channel 10. The fact that the building in question is located in Israel's capital city across the street from the Temple Mount apparently made absolutely no impression on Zohar.

After the Channel 10 "expose," the level of incitement against Abu al-Hawa went up several decibels in A-Tur and in the PA. Sources in the neighborhood argue that if he had been harassed by the PA before the Channel 10 broadcast, Abu al-Hawa's life was immediately imperiled in the broadcast's aftermath.

The fact that the police allowed and allegedly facilitated Channel 10's coverage of the evictions together with the decidedly anti-Israel slant of the Channel 10 story says two very disturbing things about the state of Israel's elites today. In the case of the police, it says that the one body responsible for safeguarding Abu al-Hawa's life operated in contradiction to its basic mission.

If the police had wished, they could have made it clear to neighborhood residents and PA interlopers that it was in their best interests to leave Abu al-Hawa and his family alone. Yet rather than do so, they apparently facilitated the Channel 10 coverage which made killing Abu al-Hawa a matter of honor for his murderers eager to prove their mettle as defenders of Palestinian pride and Islamic solidarity against the Jews.

For its part, Channel 10's unsettlingly biased story was noteworthy not merely because it made Abu al-Hawa an irresistible target. It was noteworthy for what it said about how Israel's elites view official Palestinian anti-Semitism. By leading their primetime news broadcast night after night with a sevenminute segment that portrayed Jews moving into a building in Jerusalem as wealthy, exploitative trespassers, Channel 10 showed that its editors, producers and reporters accept the anti-Semitic basis of Palestinian claims against Israel.

That is, these representatives of the Israeli elite classes believe that the goal of establishing a Palestinian state justifies nullifying the right of Jews to own land in areas that the Palestinians claim are theirs.

There is little doubt that the combined capabilities of the police, the IDF and the Shin Bet could easily render it all but impossible for Palestinians to carry out their "law" dictating the murder of those who sell land to Jews. They could also make it clear to the Palestinians and the Israeli Arab leadership that they have no choice other than to abide by Israeli law in Israel's capital. That is, Israel has the physical and intelligence capacity to win this war for the maintenance of survival of the Jewish state against its domestic foes rather handily.

Unfortunately, for Israel to win this war, it first needs to accept that it has a right to fight it. And when our elites adopt the racist Palestinian narrative of the war and present it to the Israeli public as an objective truth, accepting that Israel has a right to fight this war becomes a Herculean effort.

Abu al-Hawa's torture and murder is the result not only of the barbarism that reigns supreme in Palestinian society. It is also result of the fact that supporters of that barbarism reign supreme in Israeli society.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Preliminary biographical dilemmas</title>
<date>12/1/2006</date>
<content>
"The IDF is ready as never before; it can fend off an Egyptian attack and it will take a generation before Egypt can threaten us again," assured Maj.-Gen. Ariel Sharon in a momentous meeting between a bellicose General Staff and a skeptical security cabinet less than a week before the Six Day War.

In what would prove emblematic of the pre-2002 Sharon, that statement contained both the military focus and the geo-strategic ignorance whose combination was once Sharon's hallmark. For decades, Sharon embodied the political bull in a china shop, the one whose disregard for norms and complexities made him bully US diplomat Philip Habib, harass prime minister Yitzhak Shamir, provoke the Temple Mount's ghastly spirits, and rattle the entire country of Lebanon.

The gap between that Sharon and the one we all now wish a full recovery is unique even among comparable political careers. Yes, Lincoln did not become a crusading abolitionist until well after the outbreak of the Civil War, Nixon offered no hint of his Chinese somersault until well after his arrival at the White House, and de Klerk never hinted he would end apartheid until he assumed his country's leadership. People develop, particularly ones who change history.

Still, Lincoln did not invent slavery, Nixon did not father the Cold War, and de Klerk did not devise what he undid. Yes, Ben-Gurion, the IDF's founding architect, made a much longer ideational journey since the days when he thought the Palestinians descended from the ancient Judeans and would join the Jewish socialist cause. Yet Sharon's transformation was more dramatic than all these, for he was not just the only Israeli who destroyed settlements, but also their builder.

It follows that Sharon's biographer will have to offer a thesis as for the moment, cause and significance of his massive transition, so vividly recorded in a televised meeting when Sharon preached to Likud's astonished Knesset faction the drawbacks of ruling over a foreign population. So unfathomable did that appearance initially seem that some suspected it was a hoax.

Did Sharon keep a diary, like Moshe Sharett and David Ben-Gurion? Did he arrive at his new convictions suddenly or gradually? Did some of his right-winger's heresy nest in him already in fall 2000, when he climbed the Temple Mount? Did his age, or the passing of his wife Lily shortly before his rise to power, affect his political behavior in any way? Did a particular event fuel his belated epiphany? If so, what was it: the success of the one-man, one-vote demand in South Africa? The terror war here? The rise of Islamist fundamentalism worldwide? Did any individual lead him to new ideological pastures, and if so, who? Weisglass? Olmert? Peres?

Hopefully, these tough questions will be answered in due course.

SHARON'S BIOGRAPHER will face an even greater dilemma in just deciding which Sharon is more historically significant: the soldier, the politician or the statesman.

How would Israel have developed had Sharon not created the Likud, and where would the Likud have headed had Sharon not done to it what he did to the Katif settlements?

Just like Julius Caesar's biography was written differently according to its respective writers' generations and locations, some reflecting admiration and others disdain for strong leadership, Sharon's biographers will inevitably echo a contemporary assessment of his diplomatic impact. If the fence proves militarily effective and diplomatically durable, then Sharon will be written down as a visionary trailblazer. If it is ignored, whether by violence or peace, then he will be depicted as a tactician who failed to rise to the strategic occasion.

Some may argue, in the spirit of Tolstoy's and Hegel's historic determinism, that the fence would have risen anyhow, because of the conflict's persistence and the Israeli people's will. Others yet, in the spirit of Sir Isaiah Berlin's famous essay "Historical inevitability," will argue that the fence, let alone the Gaza retreat, could not have happened despite or even regardless of Sharon, only because of him.

As a general, of course, Sharon's deeds will be easier to assess. His role in shaping the IDF's fighting spirit and commando tactics in the 1950s, then in offsetting the Yom Kippur War, and finally in turning the tide in this decade's terror war are likely to make military historians mention him in one breath alongside Hannibal, Napoleon and Rommel. Still, the fact that he will likely be universally admired as a militarily historic figure does not necessarily make Sharon's a lasting imprint on Israeli, let alone Jewish, history.

WAS SHARON'S role in shaping our destiny comparable to Ben-Gurion's, Weizmann's, or Menachem Begin's?

In terms of its pretensions it clearly was. Sharon's effort to etch in concrete Israel's borders, like his accomplishments in restoring the Israeli consensus and his goal of easing conversion procedures even at the cost of exposing his ultra-Orthodox flank, were the kinds of aims that transcend immediate political squabbling and potentially render one a towering, historic figure. In terms of these initiatives' impact, however, the jury is still out, and will remain there for many years.

Still, it isn't too early to say that in his determination to disengage naive Israelis and violent Palestinians, Sharon was not unlike Hegel's "great man," whom the German philosopher defined as one who expresses his contemporaries' will, knows to tell them what he wants, and then also gets it done.

It is also natural to think of Sharon when reading sociologist Max Weber's insight that the people yearn for a charismatic personality in moments of crisis, when the ruling elite loses the nation's trust, the masses become fearful and unconfident, and a sense of deep failure becomes pervasive. The setting from which Sharon's premiership emerged in winter 2001 was clearly such.

Obviously, no Israeli biographer will fall into the trap of ignoring Sharon's faults, the way Hegel scolded those who derided Julius Caesar and Alexander the Great for their corruption.
Having once seen Napoleon at the peak of his conquests, Hegel wrote almost breathlessly "I saw the Emperor - that World Soul," and attested it was "truly a wonderful sensation to see such an individual." Granted, when this was written, in 1806, the full extent of Napoleon's damage had yet to unfold.

Sharon's damage, both that which he helped undo and that which will never be redeemed, will have to be addressed in his biographies, as will all the questions raised here, including the most pressing of all the questions surrounding Sharon's public life: Is it really over?

(Based in part on Zvi Yavetz's Then and Now: History and Zeitgeist.)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: Anti-Semite and Jew</title>
<date>18/10/2006</date>
<content>
I'm against the campaign to boycott, sanction or divest in Israel. I think such tactics should be used only against countries, such as apartheid South Africa, that are wholly, 100% guilty of oppressing wholly, 100% innocent people, which, as bad as the occupation has been, is definitely not the case with Israel.

I disagree with Harvard professors Walt and Mearsheimer about the Israel lobby in the US. I think they exaggerated the lobby's power, which, although fearsome, isn't nearly fearsome enough to force any US government to do anything it really doesn't want to do in the Middle East - certainly not fight a war in Iraq, which the Bush administration would have fought if there was no Israel lobby or even no Israel.

I disagree with anti-Zionists who say the Jews have no right to a state, and with anti-Zionists like historian Tony Judt who say the Jewish state is bad for the Jews. I believe the history of anti-Semitism gives Jews the right to a state, and while I realize that the Jewish state definitely has inherent problems, I think changing it into a binational or Western-style secular state would create incomparably worse problems, mainly for the Jews living here.

Having said that, I do not believe that the people who favor boycotts and sanctions against Israel, or the anti-Zionists, or the Israel-lobby-bashers, are necessarily anti-Semites. They may or may not be. I'm sure that some of them are. But I'm afraid that in recent years, as one brand of anti-Semitism - Muslim anti-Semitism - has genuinely grown by leaps and bounds, the organized Jewish world has begun flinging the charge of anti-Semitism too far, too wide, and too fast - almost automatically.

Not only is this an illegitimate way to fight Israel's critics - it's basically character assassination - but by waving the red flag of anti-Semitism, the Jewish establishment in Israel and the Diaspora is also playing on gentile guilt and Jewish solidarity to intimidate a lot of gentiles and Jews into silence. The rage for anti-Semite-baiting has also stoked the paranoia and xenophobia of all the Jewish paranoids and xenophobes.

Meanwhile, the bar for anti-Semitism seems to keep getting lower and lower.

Abraham Foxman of the Anti-Defamation League called Amnesty International's report on Israel's wartime killing of Lebanese civilians "bigoted, biased and borderline anti-Semitic." Amnesty International slams every killer of civilians on earth, including Hizbullah, but when it slams Israel, it's suddenly bigoted and anti-Semitic.

Human Rights Watch likewise goes after every abuser of innocents on every continent, but when it blames Israel for too often showing "indifference" to civilian deaths in Lebanon - a fair charge, I believe - Gerald Steinberg of NGO Monitor doesn't call the accusation merely unfair, he calls it a "modern blood libel."

Alan Dershowitz writes that Walt's and Mearsheimer's claims against the Israel lobby "are contemporary variations on old themes such as those promulgated in the notorious czarist forgery, The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, in the Nazi and America First literature of the 1930s and early '40s, and in the propaganda pamphlets of the Soviet Union."

THIS IS overkill, to put it mildly. But then the only sort of criticism of Israel that is safe from being branded as anti-Semitism is the toothless kind, the sad-eyed, hand-wringing sort. Any antagonistic, morally outraged criticism of Israel is automatically deemed unfair, and any unfair criticism of Israel is automatically deemed anti-Semitic.

This is the problem. All reasonable Jews would allow - whether they really meant it or not - that criticism of Israel isn't necessarily anti-Semitic. But how many of them would also allow that unfair criticism of Israel isn't necessarily anti-Semitic?

No, Jews on the whole can't imagine that anybody who compares Israel to apartheid South Africa, or thinks Zionism is terminally undemocratic, or signs petitions against Israel but not against the Palestinian Authority, can have any other motivation except anti-Semitism - hatred of Jews and anything Jewish.

The truth, though, is that people can have all sorts of motivations for criticizing Israel unfairly. Anti-Semitism is one. Sympathy for the weak, such as the Palestinians, is another. Resentment of the strong, especially when they portray themselves as the victim, such as Israelis do, is another. Lack of historical or international perspective is another. And in some cases, this unfair criticism actually stems from the critic's higher expectations of the Jews.

South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu is a supporter of divestment in Israel, which, in the eyes of most staunch Jews, I imagine, casts him as an anti-Semite. I think Tutu is mistaken on this issue. But an anti-Semite?

"To criticize the occupation is not to overlook Israel's unique strengths," he wrote in 2003. "In a region where repressive governments and unjust politicians are the norm, Israel is certainly more democratic than its neighbors. [But] divestment from apartheid South Africa was certainly no less justified because there was repression elsewhere on the African continent...

"Almost instinctively, the Jewish people have always been on the side of the voiceless," Tutu continued. "In their history, there is painful memory of the massive roundups, house demolitions and collective punishment. In their scripture, there is acute empathy for the disenfranchised. The occupation represents a dangerous and selective amnesia of the persecution from which these traditions were born."

Even though Tutu supports a policy I find excessively, unfairly punitive toward Israel, not only wouldn't I call him an anti-Semite, I'd call him a friend, albeit a misguided one, of Israel and the Jewish people.

I'm not saying Desmond Tutu is representative of divestment supporters; in fact, I doubt that many of them have any sympathy for Israel at all, and some probably aren't too fond of Jews, either. The same generalization can be made, I imagine, about anti-Zionists and angry denouncers of the Israel lobby.

But an anti-Semite, in the true, pre-inflationary meaning of the term, is someone who hates Jews, plain and simple. Such a person is in a whole different category than someone who is merely anti-Zionist, or anti-Israel, or anti-Israel-lobby. An anti-Semite is a twisted, evil person. An anti-Semite is someone who should be shunned. Anti-Semitism is an awfully grave charge to level against anyone, certainly against large groups of people. In the case of the left-wing anti-Israeli critics and movements tarred as anti-Semitic by many in the Jewish establishment, I don't think the term correctly applies to more than a marginal few.

Which makes it a libel. Not a "blood libel," but a libel. A defamation based on a "reckless disregard for the truth." I don't know how much damage all this anti-Semite-baiting has done to its targets; I hope not much. But it's had one hell of a chilling effect on the Jews and gentiles caught in the middle.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Rattling the Cage: Wise men and rednecks</title>
<date>22/11/2006</date>
<content>
Jimmy Carter, James Baker and George H.W. Bush are in the news. Carter has a new book,    Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid. Baker is crafting a new Middle East policy for America. Papa Bush's "realist" foreign policy is being vindicated by his son's misadventures, and his men are moving back into power in Washington.

Naturally, Israelis are filled with dread. As far as they're concerned, the title of Carter's book tells you everything you need to know about how he feels toward Israel. As for Baker, didn't he say "F--- the Jews" or something like that? And Bush the First refused Israel those loan guarantees, which shows how much of a friend he is.

Israelis don't like American leaders trying to tell them what to do, and they especially don't like American leaders protesting the way they treat Palestinians. So Carter is widely viewed in this country as an anti-Semite, while Baker and H.W. are thought of as "Arabists," which is a euphemism for anti-Semites.

In my view, this is redneck thinking, Israeli Archie Bunkerism. Not only don't I see Carter, Baker and the first president Bush as anti-Semites, I appreciate them all as proven friends of Israel. They just dared to be friends of the Palestinians, too, and this Israelis won't accept. It's not enough to be pro-Israel, you have to be both pro-Israel and anti-Arab - like Bush the Second - to be our friend. Helping us try to make peace with our enemies - like Bill Clinton did - doesn't get you anywhere with us. Helping us make war against our enemies - that's the litmus test of friendship around here.

Jimmy Carter brokered, he enabled Israel's peace treaty with Egypt; it wouldn't have happened if he hadn't dragged Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin into signing it. That peace treaty has kept the Middle East from blowing up any number of times; it's one of the most valuable political assets Israel has - and the majority of Israelis couldn't care less. The Egyptians hate us, and Carter hates us, all he cares about is the Palestinians - that's the mainstream Israeli view.

Here is a quote from Carter's interview with The Forward last week: "I've been teaching the Bible and my belief is that God ordained that the Jews should have a homeland there, and I think that international law beginning in 1948 says the same exact thing, and that's what I believe."

Is this an anti-Semite, an Israel-hater? No. But that's what most Israelis think as soon as they see the word "apartheid" associated with the word "Palestine." (For many, use of the word "Palestine" by itself is proof of anti-Semitism.)

BUT I'M terribly sorry, while there are important differences between the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and the former apartheid regime of South Africa, after 39 years of occupation the similarities have come to outweigh the differences. The Palestinian majority in the West Bank lives under the harsh, frequently brutal rule of the Israeli army, while Jewish settlers are the lords of the land. If comparing the occupation to apartheid makes one an anti-Semite, then Carter has company, for example, in Labor MK and former navy and Shin Bet chief Ami Ayalon, as well as Yediot Aharonot columnist Nahum Barnea, the country's number one print journalist.

But this is a comparison Israelis don't have the courage to hear, so they hate the messenger, even if he made peace between Israel and its worst enemy.

As for George H.W. Bush, what Israelis remember most about him is that he refused us $10 billion in loan guarantees because some of that money would have been used by prime minister Yitzhak Shamir to build settlements. The consensus view here is that Bush was meddling in Israel's affairs.

Somehow Israelis think America is required to finance our settlements, even if these settlements are the bane of the Palestinians' existence, because Israelis think America is required to obey Israel's policy toward the Palestinians. So George H.W. Bush is branded as anti-Israeli. It doesn't matter that most Israelis have become totally fed up with the settlements and only wish they could wash their hands of them.

Even Bush's extraordinary conduct of the first Gulf War, which stopped Saddam Hussein and thereby did a tremendous service to Israel, fails to win him any points in this country. He didn't finish the job, we say, he didn't get rid of Saddam once and for all like he should have. We prefer his son's way - which turned into a disaster whose end can't even be imagined. Again, no matter. If H.W. knew the limits of force and W. doesn't, that's just another reason why Israelis love W. and don't care for his dad.

REGARDING James Baker, his close partnership with Bush in getting the world's support, including Arab support, for the first Gulf War means less than nothing to people in this country. What Israelis remember is that he sat there in Congress and had the shameless, Arabist, anti-Semitic gall to read out the State Department's telephone number and suggest that the Shamir government call it - if and when that government ever got "serious about peace."

And if anybody here still had any doubts about Baker, they didn't after he said "F--- the Jews!"

So here is why I'm glad Baker is the man drawing up a new American policy in the Middle East, and why I think that if anybody is going to bring peace to Israel, it's him.

When Baker said the Shamir government wasn't serious about peace, he was 100 percent right, as most people who aren't members of the Yesha Fan Club now realize. But again, Israelis don't have the courage to hear this message, so they take it out on the messenger.

As for saying "F--- the Jews!" - he never said it, with or without an exclamation point. People who don't know the story imagine Baker must have been sitting in Riyadh with his oil sheikh friends, and the heady atmosphere got to him and he lost his inhibitions, stood up and shouted, "F--- the Jews!"

Not exactly. What happened was that Ed Koch, the former New York mayor, wrote a newspaper column in which he quoted an anonymous source who said he was present at a meeting in which Baker proposed some policy regarding Israel, to which someone at the meeting suggested that it wouldn't go down well with the American Jewish community, to which Baker said, "F--- em. They don't vote for us anyway."

The State Department said the whole story, including the quote, was "garbage." Koch, for his part, has never named his source. Doesn't this all sound a little less sinister than the "F--- the Jews!" story about Baker that has since lodged in so many pro-Israel minds? Even if Baker really did say, "F--- em. They don't vote for us anyway," as Koch claims, would that make him an anti-Semite? To my mind, it would only make him a politician.

WHAT'S REALLY important about Baker, as far as Israelis should be concerned, is that he got European and Arab countries, including Syria, to join the coalition against Saddam in the first Gulf War. What's important is that he got Israel together with the Palestinians, Syrians and Jordanians at the Madrid peace talks, even if those talks didn't go anywhere until the Rabin-Peres government, on its own, began talking with the PLO, for which Baker deserves neither credit nor blame.

What's important is that Baker has a very keen sense of when it's time to shoot and when it's time to talk, and he understands that now is a time to talk - something the Olmert government and most Israelis doesn't understand and don't want to hear about.

Israelis don't like it when American leaders tell them what to do, or criticize the way they treat others, which is why they're so antagonistic toward Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush and James Baker. But if not for them, Israel would still be at war with Egypt and there's no telling how powerful Saddam would have become.

These three are Arabists or anti-Semites only in the eyes of Israeli rednecks. Everybody else in this country ought to listen to what they have to say. In the case of Baker, I think we're going to have to listen fairly soon. The way things are going around here, I'd say the sooner the better.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The church's cheap shot</title>
<date>13/2/2006</date>
<content>
In September 2005, the Church of England's Ethical Investment Advisory Group decided "not to recommend" disinvestment from Caterpillar Inc., the American manufacturer of giant bulldozers supplied to the Israel Defense Forces. The committee noted its decision was taken "particularly at the present time of political fluidity given Israel's disengagement from Gaza."

"Fluidity" is a polite word for the revolutionary turn of events in this case. Indeed, the very bulldozers that have been used by the IDF to destroy buildings in the course of defensive actions against Palestinian terrorism, or against illegal Palestinian buildings, have been used to destroy entire Jewish settlements and, most recently, to flatten illegal Jewish buildings at Amona.


JPOST.COM HIT LISTSee JPost.com's hottest articles this past week [click here]


It is with some degree of shock, then, that we viewed the vote of the Church of England's highest decisionmaking body, the General Synod, on February 6 to "heed the call from our sister church, the Episcopal Church in Jerusalem and the Middle East, for morally responsible investment in the Palestinian occupied territories and, in particular, to disinvest from companies profiting from the illegal occupation, such as Caterpillar Inc, until they change their policies."

This, in plain English, is a call for disinvestment. On Friday, however, Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, who supported the disinvestment motion that passed in the synod, wrote to British Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks to express his "deep regret [that...] distress has been caused, especially to our Jewish friends." The letter continued, "The synod has not, by this action, resolved to disinvest." This effort to "register concern... is emphatically not to commend a boycott, or to question the legitimacy of the State of Israel and its rights to selfdefense; least of all is it to endorse any kind of violence or terror against Israel or its people, or to compromise our commitment to oppose any form of anti-Semitism at home or abroad."

These sentiments are, of course, heartwarming under the circumstances, but serve to illustrate exactly the problems with the action the synod has taken, in evident contradiction to the recommendation of its own ethical investment committee. What the church has done is call for disinvestment while deciding not to heed its own call. The effects of this call, regardless of how much Williams may wish it not so, are to question the legitimacy of Israel and its right to self defense, to inflame anti-Semitism in England and elsewhere and to encourage terrorism against Israel.

Terrorism and the disinvest campaign against Israel, after all, do not occur either in isolation or in a vacuum. Regardless of how they are billed, murderous attacks against Israelis or attempts to paint Israel as an illegitimate "apartheid" or "colonial" state are not about building a Palestinian state but about destroying the only Jewish one.

This can be seen by anyone willing to open his eyes and see what Israelis and Palestinians have done. Israelis are so committed to creating a Palestinian state that they overwhelmingly supported the unilateral dismantling of settlements - with those Caterpillar bulldozers - despite four years of relentless suicide bombings that cost us a thousand dead. And now, even after the rise of Hamas, the Israeli electorate is poised to endorse the path of further disengagement - which means an openness, and even a desire, to create a Palestinian state even if the Palestinians are not ready for peace with Israel.

So at the moment when Israel is taking strides toward the two state solution and the Palestinians, through the election of Hamas, have taken strides away from it, the Church of England sees fit to send a signal to both sides: Israel should be sanctioned and the Palestinians, by implication, should be encouraged.

By what stretch of the imagination is such a step moral? How does it make sense? Does the church want to discourage Israel in the path it is taking and encourage the Palestinians in theirs?

Our only conclusion is that the church would rather take cheap "moral" shots than see or think about the conflict as it is. Saying otherwise, or apologizing to a British Jewish leader rather than to the State of Israel, is not enough. If Williams and the church really care about Palestinians and Israelis, and about discouraging anti-Semitism and terrorism, they should be reversing their recent moves and instead joining the global demands that the Palestinians end terrorism and accept the right of a Jewish state to exist and to defend itself.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The doors are closed</title>
<date>15/5/2006</date>
<content>
We should be ashamed about those 50 black refugees from the Darfur region in Sudan, fleeing murderous and genocidal Arab militias.

They reached Israel, and what did the Jewish state do? It put them in jail, under an antiquated military ordinance, without access to lawyers or recourse to the basic principles of the rule of law. If it hadn't been for some human rights organizations, which brought the case before the Supreme Court, no one would know of their existence and arbitrary and brutal incarceration.
One must realize what is happening in Sudan - something the police and military authorities apparently don't know about.

In Darfur the black population is being subjected to ethnic cleansing, murder and rape at the hands of government-backed Arab militias. Nobody knows the number of people killed - tens of thousands, probably more - but UN sources admit that almost two million people have become refugees.

The reason given by our security and police authorities for the Darfurians' arrest is that they are citizens of an enemy country. This is technically true - but as the Holocaust historian Professor Yehuda Bauer told the court in his deposition on their behalf - German Jews fleeing Nazism were sometimes viewed as "enemy citizens" by the Allies. Indeed, many of them were put in detention camps by the British authorities when they reached the United Kingdom.

To imagine that the Jewish state is as blind to the plight of refugees fleeing from their own murderous government as European governments were in the l930s and 1940s should make any one of us deeply ashamed.

THE COURT was also told that the refugees, who entered Israel illegally, are being held pending their deportation. But to which country should they be deported? To which country can they be deported? Back to Sudan, whose government has been murdering them?

It may be that the agreement recently signed in Abuja, Nigeria, between the Sudanese government and some of the black insurgents will be implemented and a modicum of peace achieved. The record, though, is not good. As in the past, the world community has done little about Darfur - and not for lack of knowledge. But with the US bogged down in Iraq there is little support anywhere for a robust threat of the use of force to stop the Sudanese government continuing its ethnic cleansing.

Israel can do little to help or alleviate the enormous suffering of the millions of refugees. But it can - it should - grant asylum to those refugees who have reached our shores.

In the 1970s prime minister Menachem Begin granted asylum to shipwrecked Vietnamese boat people picked up by an Israeli commercial vessel; in the 1990s prime minister Yitzhak Rabin  granted asylum to a number of Muslim Bosnian refugees from the wars in the Balkans.

It may not be an accident that in the latest cases of ethnic cleansing and near-genocide it has been Jewish groups and individuals in the US and Europe who have spoken out most forcefully for more vigorous Western intervention on behalf of those threatened and victimized.

In the Balkans the victims were mostly Muslims - Bosniaks, Kosovo Albanians - but true to the universalistic premises of Jewish ethics this did not stop Jewish people from feeling empathy and a moral obligation to help. In Darfur, everyone is Muslim - the Arab victimizers as well as the black-African victims - but this does not matter, as the issue is not one of political calculus but of basic moral responsibility: We are our brothers' keepers.

As a state, Israel has over the years had to balance political calculations with moral precepts. Not always did it emerge from the equation with flying colors. Our ambivalence about apartheid in South Africa, as well as a reticence regarding the historical reckoning regarding the Armenian genocide, are not exactly shining examples of ethical behavior in international affairs.

But these complexities are not relevant in the Darfur case, where the way we treat the refugees should be addressed on the only meaningful plane - that of basic humanitarian compassion.

It is a moral duty for Israel, a nation built by refugees, to follow this example. Otherwise, all the lofty talk about "Never again" and "the world's silence" is mere hypocrisy.

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni have a chance to make the world a little less cruel for a small number of people: This is what tikkun olam is about.

The author is a former director-general of Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The First Word: Mark genocide, foment 'Zionocide'</title>
<date>2/2/2006</date>
<content>
On January 27 more than 1,000 Jews came to the United Nations General Assembly to mark the UN's first annual "International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust." Only a month earlier, the same hall had been filled with UN member states repeatedly demonizing the Jewish state. What is going on?

One answer might be: the secretary-general bought himself and his organization some goodwill at very little cost; Israel's Foreign Ministry had a plus instead of the usual minus; the na ve and neglected victims of anti-Semitism enjoyed warm feelings of recognition on a global scale.

This answer is suggested by the tug-of-war behind the drafting of the UN resolution establishing Holocaust Remembrance Day, which left out the words "anti-Semitism" and "Israel." It only managed to include the word "Jewish" in the preamble, without specifying the number of Jews who perished "along with countless members of other minorities." At the same time, the idea of a resolution dedicated to anti-Semitism - which would have been the first ever in the General Assembly's 60-year history - was yet again a non-starter.

There is, however, another way of looking at the UN's Holocaust event. Elderly Holocaust survivors with terrible personal stories and the courage to tell them, surrounded by dedicated educators from Yad Vashem and elsewhere, brought their dignity and strength like lifelines to an organization adrift from its original moorings. Israeli Ambassador Danny Gillerman said he had received hundreds of messages from survivors and their families who were comforted by the thought of enlightenment on a global scale.

Related events at UN headquarters also brought profound emotion. With a large photograph of Daniel Pearl in the background, his father Judea recounted how he had lost both his son and his grandparents. Daniel's last words were "My father is Jewish, my mother is Jewish, I am Jewish," before being brutally murdered by terrorists professing to be good Muslims. His grandparents had been murdered in Auschwitz 60 years before.

The Jewish people today are a remnant population. All Jews are survivors, in a sense, but some with the most direct experience of genocide no doubt lightened their load by sharing the burden of remembering with others. New spirits also might have been touched by ceremonies held to mark Holocaust Remembrance Day in other places, such as Germany and Kenya.

But this benefit bore a cost: a wedge driven between Jews and the Jewish state. The UN remains the leading global purveyor of anti-Semitism directed at Israel today. Jews who died 60 years ago are easier to mourn than those murdered as citizens of Israel, particularly when justifications for the latter are driven by UN fallacies.

According to the UN, Israel is the world's top human rights violator. Only last December the General Assembly adopted 19 resolutions critical of Israel's human rights record, and 12 resolutions critical of human rights in the other 190 UN states combined. A draft General Assembly resolution focusing on the Sudan, where almost 200,000 have been killed in the past three years and two million more displaced, was defeated.

Thirty percent of all resolutions of the UN Human Rights Commission critical of specific states over four decades have been directed at Israel alone. But there has never been a single resolution condemning human rights violations in places like China, Saudi Arabia or Zimbabwe. Such demonization is not an abstraction. Combined with the inability of the UN to define terrorism, it is lethal.

THE STRIKING contrast between the events of December and January were no doubt apparent to General Assembly President Jan Eliasson, who did not manage to mention the words "Jew," "anti-Semitism," or "Israel" in his Holocaust Remembrance Day speech. He referred instead to "the sites where the lives of millions of people were extinguished on political, religious or ethnic grounds."

But at least he showed up - or more precisely had the Acting General Assembly President deliver a speech in his name. Representatives of most of the UN member states were nowhere to be found in the largely Jewish audience.

The visitor to the Yad Vashem museum moves from the darkness of the Holocaust memorial to the sun on the Jerusalem hillside. The message is clear without a word being spoken. Not so at the UN.

THE TRUTH is that the attempted genocide of the Jewish people has continued for the past 57 years. Since the day of Israel's birth, originally sanctioned by the United Nations, its Jewish inhabitants have faced the constant threat of annihilation. Wars threatening Israel with extinction occurred in 1948, 1956, 1967 and 1973, and prolonged assaults from terrorists and their state sponsors have characterized the decades since, until today.

The 20,000 Israeli dead over this time are the proportional equivalent to 700,000 American victims. Citizens of a Jewish state have endured 57 years of mandatory military service for every young man and woman, with men forced to continue reserve duty into middle age in order to protect their families and their future.

In this war against the self-determination of the Jewish people, the UN is an accomplice. It is the UN that strives to distinguish anti-Semitism against individual Jews from discrimination, incitement and rejection of the Jewish state. As the repository for universal equality rights and the principle of non-discrimination, the UN failure to understand and denounce all forms of anti-Semitism matters.

Instead of recognizing Jew-hatred, the UN foments it. Instead of championing Jewish self-determination, the UN leads the global movement to undermine it. UN conferences, Web sites and publications regularly include comparisons of Israel to Nazi Germany or apartheid South Africa.

Israel is a second-class citizen at the UN, as the only country not fully admitted to any one of the UN's five strategic regional groups.

Instead of supporting Israel's right of self-defense against its mortal enemies, the UN constantly attempts to tie Israeli hands. Defensive actions, from a non-violent security fence to the killing of unlawful combatants, are routinely denounced by the secretary-general as illegal.

Instead of identifying the terrorist enemy of civilized society, the UN gives him sustenance. To this day the UN has no definition of terrorism. On the contrary, it nurtures the fiction that Israeli occupation is the root cause of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and demonizes the terrorists' Jewish target.

In the Holocaust, the Jewish family lost so many that most of an entire generation suffered direct personal loss. Any means by which the few remaining direct survivors can cope with the horrors they endured deserves respect. But the attempted genocide against Israeli Jews - "Zionocide" - is a current reality. No decent person can afford to ignore it, even if the UN does.
Instituting a Holocaust remembrance event without demanding that the UN stop encouraging Zionocide provides a cruel smokescreen for UN-based anti-Semitism. Such anti-Semitism is thriving, regardless of the UN's sudden awakening from a prolonged amnesia about Jewish deaths six decades ago.

The writer is a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, a professor at Touro Law School, and editor of www.EyeOnTheUN.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>There couldn't be a more perfect time</title>
<date>9/12/2006</date>
<content>
Today, December 10, marks International Human Rights Day, and the presence in Israel of Irene Khan, head of Amnesty International, highlights the demise of once-lofty goals. Amnesty International is a superpower with an annual budget of almost $200 million, used to promote radical political agendas and photo-ops for its leaders.

As a result, little remains of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in the shadow of the Holocaust. Officials of Amnesty and other non-governmental organizations focus their attacks on democracies attempting to defend against terror, with far fewer resources to oppose totalitarian and genocidal regimes such as Sudan and Iran.

The silence of Khan and other officials regarding the human rights of the Israeli soldiers kidnapped by Palestinians and by Hizbullah, and the human rights of Ron Arad, is damning. Amnesty and HRW (founded as Helsinki Watch) gained their legitimacy by campaigning on behalf of political prisoners, including Natan (then Anatoly) Sharansky. Genuine human rights groups would be leading the campaigns to win the freedom of Israeli prisoners held by terrorists.

THE HYPOCRISY and political bias of these NGOs, in collaboration with the United Nations Human Rights Council, is particularly blatant in the case of Israel. Amnesty, Human Rights Watch (HRW), Christian Aid (UK), and pro-Palestinian partners actively implement the 2001 Durban agenda using the rhetoric of human rights to demonize Israel. Adopting the version of history starting with "Israeli occupation," these groups advance an ideology that presents Arabs as victims and Israelis as aggressors.

The war between Hizbullah and Israel produced another wave in which defensive actions were automatically condemned as "war crimes," "collective punishment" or violations of international law. Amnesty and HRW together issued dozens of press releases, almost all of which focused on allegations against Israel. Without providing criteria, Amnesty statements declared that the Israeli strikes in Beirut were "grossly disproportionate," while acknowledging this was where "Hizbullah had its headquarters," directing the firing of thousands of rockets against Israel.
No one seemed to notice the logical disconnect.

THE "DISCOVERY" of Hizbullah's cluster bombs and human shields came weeks or months later. In another surreal statement demonstrating their detachment from reality, Amnesty officials observed that "No investigation into violations of international humanitarian law by Hizbullah is known to have been conducted by Hizbullah commanders...."

The NGOs that dominate the human rights discourse also feed journalists and diplomats with false or unverifiable claims. Their reports are based on "eyewitness testimony," such as by Palestinians in Gaza and Lebanese in areas    controlled by Hizbullah.

During the recent war, HRW and Amnesty claimed to have found no evidence of Hizbullah activities in the areas struck by Israel. There is no reason to conclude that these "researchers" and "military experts" bothered to check the allegiance and credibility of their sources. But HRW's 49-page report - the largest PR effort during the war - entitled "Fatal Strikes: Israel's Indiscriminate Attacks Against Civilians in Lebanon," was headlined without question by journalists around the world.

IN ADDITION, the European Union and its member states fund many groups that also use the language of human rights to promote conflict and demonization of Israel. The grandly named Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network (EMHRN) issued a torrent of political statements and one-sided condemnations during the Lebanon War. Other EU-supported "human rights" groups campaign against Israel's security barrier, with terms such as "apartheid wall" and call for boycotts, sanctions and other measures that are part of the political war.

Some of these NGOs refer to "resistance" and "martyrdom" operations against "Israel Occupation Forces," meaning terror attacks and suicide bombers that have killed hundreds of Israeli civilians.

In this way, European governments, including Switzerland and Norway, are contributing to the destruction of human rights based on universal principles, and undermining peace efforts they claim to promote.

This moral decay is also evident in the activities of the newly reformed United Nations Human Rights Council, which has focused on gratuitous Israel-bashing. The pseudo-reform process was strongly supported by the NGO network, which criticized the US and Israel for warning that the new UNHRC was no better than the old, discredited version.

IT WAS ONLY after the activities of the new UNHRC brought the use of double-standards to record levels that these human rights NGOs finally began speaking out against the abuse. (HRW's recent criticism of the Palestinian use of human shields to protect terrorists was attacked by fringe groups seeking to paint this illegal practice as non-violent protest.)

To reverse course, and restore the credibility, universality and substance of human rights the credibility and accountability of groups like Amnesty and Human Rights Watch must also be restored. Ideology and political preferences can no longer dominate their agendas and publications, and human rights cannot use double standards which punish democracies and reward dictatorships.

Ethical norms must be freed from political and ideological agendas, particularly when these are used by those who declare the goal of "wiping Israel off the map." International Human Rights Day is an appropriate time to start.

The writer is the director of the Program on Conflict Management at Bar-Ilan University and executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>There couldn't be a more perfect time</title>
<date>10/12/2006</date>
<content>
Today, December 10, marks International Human Rights Day, and the presence in Israel of Irene Khan, head of Amnesty International, highlights the demise of once-lofty goals. Amnesty International is a superpower with an annual budget of almost $200 million, used to promote radical political agendas and photo-ops for its leaders.

As a result, little remains of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in the shadow of the Holocaust. Officials of Amnesty and other non-governmental organizations focus their attacks on democracies attempting to defend against terror, with far fewer resources to oppose totalitarian and genocidal regimes such as Sudan and Iran.

The silence of Khan and other officials regarding the human rights of the Israeli soldiers kidnapped by Palestinians and by Hizbullah, and the human rights of Ron Arad, is damning. Amnesty and HRW (founded as Helsinki Watch) gained their legitimacy by campaigning on behalf of political prisoners, including Natan (then Anatoly) Sharansky. Genuine human rights groups would be leading the campaigns to win the freedom of Israeli prisoners held by terrorists.

THE HYPOCRISY and political bias of these NGOs, in collaboration with the United Nations Human Rights Council, is particularly blatant in the case of Israel. Amnesty, Human Rights Watch (HRW), Christian Aid (UK), and pro-Palestinian partners actively implement the 2001 Durban agenda using the rhetoric of human rights to demonize Israel. Adopting the version of history starting with "Israeli occupation," these groups advance an ideology that presents Arabs as victims and Israelis as aggressors.

The war between Hizbullah and Israel produced another wave in which defensive actions were automatically condemned as "war crimes," "collective punishment" or violations of international law. Amnesty and HRW together issued dozens of press releases, almost all of which focused on allegations against Israel. Without providing criteria, Amnesty statements declared that the Israeli strikes in Beirut were "grossly disproportionate," while acknowledging this was where "Hizbullah had its headquarters," directing the firing of thousands of rockets against Israel.

No one seemed to notice the logical disconnect.

THE "DISCOVERY" of Hizbullah's cluster bombs and human shields came weeks or months later. In another surreal statement demonstrating their detachment from reality, Amnesty officials observed that "No investigation into violations of international humanitarian law by Hizbullah is known to have been conducted by Hizbullah commanders...."

The NGOs that dominate the human rights discourse also feed journalists and diplomats with false or unverifiable claims. Their reports are based on "eyewitness testimony," such as by Palestinians in Gaza and Lebanese in areas    controlled by Hizbullah.

During the recent war, HRW and Amnesty claimed to have found no evidence of Hizbullah activities in the areas struck by Israel. There is no reason to conclude that these "researchers" and "military experts" bothered to check the allegiance and credibility of their sources. But HRW's 49-page report - the largest PR effort during the war - entitled "Fatal Strikes: Israel's Indiscriminate Attacks Against Civilians in Lebanon," was headlined without question by journalists around the world.

IN ADDITION, the European Union and its member states fund many groups that also use the language of human rights to promote conflict and demonization of Israel. The grandly named Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network (EMHRN) issued a torrent of political statements and one-sided condemnations during the Lebanon War. Other EU-supported "human rights" groups campaign against Israel's security barrier, with terms such as "apartheid wall" and call for boycotts, sanctions and other measures that are part of the political war.

Some of these NGOs refer to "resistance" and "martyrdom" operations against "Israel Occupation Forces," meaning terror attacks and suicide bombers that have killed hundreds of Israeli civilians.

In this way, European governments, including Switzerland and Norway, are contributing to the destruction of human rights based on universal principles, and undermining peace efforts they claim to promote.

This moral decay is also evident in the activities of the newly reformed United Nations Human Rights Council, which has focused on gratuitous Israel-bashing. The pseudo-reform process was strongly supported by the NGO network, which criticized the US and Israel for warning that the new UNHRC was no better than the old, discredited version.

IT WAS ONLY after the activities of the new UNHRC brought the use of double-standards to record levels that these human rights NGOs finally began speaking out against the abuse. (HRW's recent criticism of the Palestinian use of human shields to protect terrorists was attacked by fringe groups seeking to paint this illegal practice as non-violent protest.)

To reverse course, and restore the credibility, universality and substance of human rights the credibility and accountability of groups like Amnesty and Human Rights Watch must also be restored. Ideology and political preferences can no longer dominate their agendas and publications, and human rights cannot use double standards which punish democracies and reward dictatorships.

Ethical norms must be freed from political and ideological agendas, particularly when these are used by those who declare the goal of "wiping Israel off the map." International Human Rights Day is an appropriate time to start.

The writer is the director of the Program on Conflict Management at Bar-Ilan University and executive director of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think Again: Democrats go European</title>
<date>2/11/2006</date>
<content>
Israelis would like to believe that American support for the Jewish state is strong, bipartisan, and will ever remain thus. Contrary to that happy scenario, Israel definitely has a dog in next week's American midterm elections.

Deep ambivalence toward Israel has infected the Democratic Party. A Bloomberg/Los Angeles Times poll comparing voter attitudes on the war in Lebanon and toward Israel shows Republicans to be far more supportive of Israel than Democrats: 54% of Democrats advocate that the United States adopt a more neutral - i.e., less pro-Israel - stance to the Middle East, as opposed to only 29% of Republicans. Nearly two-thirds of Republicans felt the Israeli bombing in Lebanon was fully justified, as opposed to only 29% of Democrats. A recent Zogby poll showed that almost exactly the same number of Americans believe that an "Israel lobby" influenced America's entry into the deeply unpopular war in Iraq.

Those who hold this view are found overwhelmingly in the Democratic Party. Key Democratic constituencies are deeply ambivalent about Israel. African Americans are three to four times as likely to hold anti-Semitic views as whites, and that may be reflected in the votes of the Congressional Black Caucus on Israel-related issues.

Past labor leaders, like Lane Kirkland, were strongly internationalist in outlook. Today, however, the union movement is primarily concerned with globalization, and has become increasingly isolationist in orientation, with a concomitant resentment of any military or foreign aid spending that reduces domestic spending.

The teachers' unions provide much of the manpower in Democratic campaigns, and their membership - once heavily Jewish - increasingly shares the views of the college professorate, whose materials are seeping more and more into high school texts.

No mainstream Democratic spokesman or candidate would follow party senior statesman Jimmy Carter in labeling Israel an apartheid state or blaming it for most of the ills of the world, but such views are prominent in the Democratic blogo-sphere, which plays an ever-more prominent role in Democratic campaigns and candidate selection.

After spending several months campaigning for Senator Joseph Lieberman in Connecticut, Lanny Davis, former special counsel to president Bill Clinton, revised his lifelong view that intolerance and hate speech are more likely to be found on the Right. In a piece in The Wall Street Journal, Davis provided a sampler of the anti-Semitic attacks on Senator Lieberman posted on some of the most widely read and influential Democratic blog sites.

Lieberman was accused of supporting the war in Iraq so that American soldiers, not Israeli ones, would die. One post on Daily Kos, the most influential Democratic blog, read, "Jews only care about the welfare of other Jews... Ignore all the Jewish propaganda about participating in the civil rights movement of the '60s."

A reader at Huffington Post opined that Lieberman "cannot escape the religious bond he represents. His wife's name is Haggadah or Diaspora or something you eat at Pesach."

A post onMoveOn.org, which spearheaded the presidential campaign of Democratic Party Chairman Howard Dean, read: "(I)t's those GREEDY PIGS who own our mainstream media who are placing RELIGION/POLITICS (ISRAEL) and CORPORATE GREED above the best interests of the American people (peace, democracy, clean air, healthcare, etc.). As we've already agreed, most of these GREEDY PIGS are Jewish."

Fifty percent approved of this post. By contrast, only 21% agreed with a post pleading to eschew such "abhorrent anti-Semitic trash."

MUCH MORE significant than the anti-Semitic rantings, however, are the congeries of attitudes that increasingly characterize party leaders, even as they profess strong support for Israel. Those attitudes might be summed up in one word: European.

In the recent Senate hearings on John Bolton's nomination as ambassador to the United Nations, Senator John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic standard-bearer, repeatedly criticized Bolton for the fact that America is consistently the odd man out at the United Nations, and stands outside the consensus of our European "allies."

One shudders to think where Israel would be if the United States ceased to be the "odd man out" at the UN. Recall that six of those so-called European allies, including France, voted in favor of a resolution of the UN Human Rights Commission specifically legitimizing terrorism against Israeli citizens to further Palestinian liberation.

The Democrats' bible, The New York Times, editorialized during the Lebanon War that the Bush administration's refusal to join the Europeans in calling for an immediate cease-fire gave the lie to its professed multilateralism. An early cease-fire would have handed Hizbullah a huge propaganda and moral victory.

Increasingly the American Left shares with its European counterparts a naive Enlightenment belief that all problems can be solved by rational men sitting around a conference table. In that view, all men are basically interested in increasing their allotment of material goods, and all conflicts can be resolved by slicing the pie slightly differently.

In this happy world, talk is always good, and military action, unless sanctioned by the UN, is always bad. Democrats have long ago cast off the UN skepticism of four-term Democratic Senator and former UN Ambassador Daniel Moynihan. So enamored are they with the idea of the UN that they forget it maintains an entire bureaucracy devoted specifically to anathematizing Israel and portraying the Palestinians as the world's most oppressed people.

Republican Senator Rick Santorum, who seems headed for defeat next week, has taken the lead in labeling Islamofascism the primary threat to Western civilization. Democrats, like the French, disdain such talk of a conflict of civilizations as simplisme, just as they once found risible president Reagan's "Evil Empire" and President Bush's "Axis of Evil."

For Israelis, however, Islamic fanaticism is no joke.

One final question: Which party is more likely to act to prevent Iran from testing the calculus that it can destroy Israel with one nuclear missile, while 15 million Iranians will survive Israel's counter-strike? The Republicans under George W. Bush or the Democrats?


Click here for more articles by Jonathan Rosenblum
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Tolerating the intolerable</title>
<date>4/10/2006</date>
<content>
Last week the impotence of the world Jewish community was on display for all to see. For all the talk of how the Jews control the media, the banks and the American government, a man whose declared intention it is to wipe Israel off the map was treated as an international dignitary in the city that contains more Jews than any other on earth. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran not only spoke at the UN from the same podium and just a few hours after the leader of the free world, but was even invited to the prestigious Council on Foreign Relations  to hold forth as a visiting statesman.

So now the world Jewish community must contend with the sad truth that 60 years after the Holocaust, a man can declare himself the new exterminator of the Jews and still be treated with respect.

What's new on JPost.com

As I watched the Ahmadinejad media circus fly through Manhattan - his face adorning the cover of Time magazine, his soft-glove interview with Brian Williams of NBC news, The New York Times's front-page coverage of his cool demeanor at the Council on Foreign Relations - I could not help but wonder whether a grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan whose declared intention it was to "wipe out" all traces of black life from the United States might similarly be feted as a bona-fide leader.

During the years of apartheid, South Africa was subject to comprehensive international sanctions for its disgraceful and sinful segregation of the black population. It would have been unthinkable for president P.W. Botha, the last great symbol of the white apartheid regime, to be feted as an international celebrity in New York City. Had he been invited to lecture the world from the rostrum of the United Nations about the perils of the black menace in Africa, not only the African-American community but every decent American would have objected to his rancid presence. And yet, Ahmadinejad of Iran calls not for the isolation of the State of Israel, but its utter destruction, and is given Western rostrums from which he can spew his vile hatred.

All this is done, of course, in the name of freedom of expression. The argument goes that the best way to change evil is to engage in a dialogue with it. If only Ahmadinejad would be exposed to reason he might be won over. If only we could logically point out to him the error of his ways and the insensitivity of his remarks, he would never utter them again. But tolerating the intolerable is the liberalism of fools and gives a safe haven to evil in a world that is sorely embattled.

WOULD THE Council of Foreign Relations invite a speaker who denied that slavery ever took place in the United States? Would Kofi Annan break bread with any world leader who claimed that the Rwandan genocide of 1994 was a hoax perpetrated by Africans on the white population in order to curry sympathy?

Allowing Ahmadinejad to debate the Holocaust with serious scholars in front of the world's cameras is akin to Harvard University inviting the many "scholars" who argue that the Apollo missions to the moon never took place, and the American government perpetrated a cruel hoax in order to scare the Russians.

The Holocaust is the most documented crime in the history of the world, and the Council of Foreign Relations allowing a denier a platform is the same as allowing a serious discussion on whether the moon is made of green cheese.

All that happened in Ahmadinejad's visit is that a man previously regarded as a dangerous kook was now granted the legitimacy not only of prestigious platforms, but of reasoned dialogue and debate.

I watched Ahmadinejad's skilled retorts to his various interviewers. He was on his guard never to lose his cool. His purpose was not to change or moderate his views, but rather to demonstrate their rationality. First we had Ahmadinejad as independent scientist and historian. How do we know that the Holocaust happened if independent research is not allowed to be conducted? Then there was Ahmadinejad as champion of human rights. Of course he believes Israel must be terminated, but only because of what it has done to the poor Palestinians.

There is good reason why it is pointless to argue with certain individuals, and one of the best is that terrible horrors can be justified in the name of reason. Hitler always maintained that he was a rationalist who stood fast against the irrational tenets of religion that went against nature. So, while religion argued for the mystical idea of the infinite value of every human being, regardless of natural ability, Hitler euthanized Germany's helpless because rationally, in a state that is challenged with limited resources, hospital beds and medicines should be given to those who might one day improve. The mentally infirm would only take and never give back, and thus were a threat to the healthy population. Would any of us have debated the question with Hitler? Or would we have chosen to simply condemn his barbarity and inhumanity? There are conversations that can simply never be had.

AS A marital counselor I have listened to husbands who justify beating their wives. "She continuously provokes me." "She had an affair." Should I debate the subject with them? Or is engaging in a debate already a concession that maybe they have a point?

Rather, we must tell a husband in the strongest, most condemnatory tone, that there is no pretext ever for hitting one's wife. One can divorce one's wife, and one can admonish one's wife. But lifting a hand is an act of unforgivable cruelty.

Stalin argued that sheer national necessity compelled him to modernize Russia and collectivize the farms in the 1930s, even though the famine this triggered led to the deaths of some 25 million people. Pol Pot killed one in three Cambodians because of the necessity of reeducating them. When it comes to rational dialogue, every argument has a counterargument. And that's why certain values can never be debated. There is good reason why there is a commandment, rather than argument, not to murder.

All this bespeaks an increasing willingness on the part of the world to stomach evil and its progenitors. From a Hamas terrorist government being increasingly accepted by the Western powers, to Hizbullah being treated as legitimate representatives of the Lebanese people, it is becoming increasingly clear, not to mention tragic, that the world is prepared to stomach those whose declared objective it is to maim, dismember and destroy innocent civilians.

Yes, tolerance is important. But tolerating the intolerable and forgiving the unforgivable is the surest way to empower evil.

The writer's newest book is Parenting With Fire: Lighting Up the Family with Passion and Inspiration.

www.shmuley.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why Jimmy Carter is not an anti-Semite</title>
<date>26/12/2006</date>
<content>
I grew up in the US during the 1970s, the one decade universally acknowledged to have truly sucked. In 1970s America we danced to disco music, wore leisure suits and watched the Brady Bunch. But if that wasn't torture enough, we had Jimmy Carter as our president.

I can still recall how depressing it was to watch his taciturn face on TV announcing one catastrophe after another, from the skyrocketing misery index, to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, to the capture of our hostages in Iran, to the tragically-botched rescue attempt to free them.

Jimmy Carter was arguably the most hapless president in all American history, and indeed, today most presidential historians today rate him at or near the very bottom of the list.

Ronald Reagan was able to crush Carter at the polls with the simple slogan "Morning in America," a tacit acknowledgement that under Carter's watch it had been a cold midnight across the fruited plain.

But with the publication of Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid, his ignorant rant against Israel,  many in the American Jewish community believe that Carter is not just a loser but an anti-Semite. I disagree.

Jimmy Carter is not so much anti-Semite as anti-intellectual, not so much a Jew-hater as a boor. The real explanation behind his limitless hostility to Israel is a total lack of any moral understanding.

Carter wants to do what's just. His heart's in the right place. He just can't figure out what the right is. He is, and always has been, a man of good intentions bereft of good judgment. He invariably finds himself defending tyrants and dictators at the expense of their oppressed peoples. Not because he is a bad man, but because he is a confused man.

CARTER SUBSCRIBES to what I call the Always Root for the Underdog school of morality. Rather than develop any real understanding of a conflict, immediately he sides with the weaker party, however wicked or immoral.

Israel has tanks and F-16's. The Palestinians don't. Therefore the Palestinians are being oppressed. Never mind that the Palestinians have rejected every offer to live side by side with Israel in peace and elected a government pledged to Israel's annihilation. Their poverty dictates the righteousness of their cause even if their actions speak otherwise.

If Israel builds a barrier to cordon off the Palestinians, it is not to prevent their suicide bombers from dismembering children but to punish them for having darker skin.

Carter's obsession with the unrighteous underdog has embarrassed him many times before. It was what motivated him to visit and legitimize Fidel Castro and take his side in a bio-weapons dispute with the United States. Castro runs a tiny island in the shadow of the world's superpower. He must therefore perforce be a victim of American bullying, even if he is a brutal dictator and tyrant.

Championing the unrighteous underdog also led Carter to praise the murderous North Korean tyrant Kim Il Sung with these words: "I find him to be vigorous, intelligent... and in charge of the decisions about this country." Carter added, "I don't see that [the North Koreans] are an outlaw nation."

He also hailed Marshal Joseph Tito as "a man who believes in human rights," and said of the murderous Romanian dictator Ceausescu: "Our goals are the same: to have a just system of economics and politics... We believe in enhancing human rights."

Championing the underdog also had Carter tell the Haitian dictator Raul C dras that he was "ashamed of what my country has done to your country."

AS A MARITAL counselor I have met many well-meaning arbitrators who always take the side of the wife in an ugly dispute in the belief that a woman, inherently weaker than her husband, is always the innocent and aggrieved party. Even where the evidence points to the wife as being violent and unreasonable, such arbitrators cannot conceive of the husband as anything but the oppressor.

Needless to say, such arbitrators cause more harm than good, which is why Jimmy Carter would make an even worse marital counselor than he was president.

No, Carter is not anti-Semitic so much as a man whose lack of judgment and shallowness render him absolutely incapable of telling right from wrong.
Carter's obscene comparison of Israel with apartheid South Africa ignores the fact that Israel is the first country to airlift tens of thousands of black Africans to become free and full citizens in its borders, a phenomenon that has no precedent in the history of the world.
But by saying that the Palestinians are being subjected to apartheid Carter has grossly maligned not Jews, but black South Africans. Whereas black South Africans inspired the world with their humane capacity for forgiveness and peaceful coexistence with their white brethren, even after having been so egregiously wronged, the Palestinians have unfortunately embraced murderous hatred and racism. Arab newspapers routinely publish grotesque caricatures of Jews, and the Palestinians teach kindergarten children to grow up and blow up Israeli buses.

Nelson Mandela rose to become the world's greatest statesman with his articulation of brotherhood and reconciliation. But Yasser Arafat fathered international terrorism and stole hundreds of millions of dollars from his own people.

Which leads to one conclusion: Before one runs around the world as a global do-gooder, one should first develop the ability to identify the good.

The writer, a rabbi, hosts the national television program "Shalom in the Home" and is author most recently of Parenting with Fire: Lighting Up the Family with Passion and Inspiration(www.shmuley.com).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Winning the battle of ideas</title>
<date>18/12/2006</date>
<content>
Jimmy Carter's vile anti-Israel book, Palestine: Peace and Apartheid is bad enough for being another in a seemingly endless flow of tracts demonizing the Jewish state. But the author is a former US president, who despite antipathy to Israel played an important role in the negotiations leading to peace between Cairo and Jerusalem.

Besides being the world's greatest superpower and the domicile of the majority of Diaspora Jews, the United States remains one of the very few nations in which public opinion remains steadfast in support of Israel. It is the one country which is more important to us than all the other nations of the world combined.

Ten years ago it would have been inconceivable for Carter to state that the "abominable oppression of Palestinians by the Israelis is worse than South African apartheid." He was undoubtedly emboldened to do so by the intensifying international demonization and delegitimization of Israel following the disastrous unilateral disengagement and the Israeli government's subsequent pathetic efforts to appease those seeking its destruction.

TODAY ISRAEL'S global image is probably more negative than at any time since its creation. As the shadow of the Holocaust recedes, a ferocious new wave of global anti-Semitism, fuelled by traditional anti-Semites and Muslim extremists, has reemerged. What makes it worse is that in the new post-modernist climate, liberals and the left-wing establishment have targeted the Jewish state as the symbol of colonialism and a violator of human rights. The "progressive" chattering classes now even challenge the moral legitimacy of Israel and predict its demise.

It is symptomatic of the prevailing paralysis in our government that while prominent American Jewish activists have taken up the gauntlet in response to Carter's bizarre attacks, our Foreign Ministry has remained silent, giving the appearance of being unperturbed by the dissemination of this new flow of anti-Israeli propaganda.

This is merely another example of the disastrous mishandling of the entire course of the global battle for ideas by the Israeli government. It is a major reason why we are being so effectively defeated by our enemies in this crucial war.

NOW IS the time for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to seek innovative ways to get his house in order. The Bush administration may not have adopted the Baker Report, but its influence on future policy development must not be underestimated. The report, which has already been lavishly praised by the PLO, contains alarming recommendations impinging on Israel's future that we ignore at our peril. Combined with recent disconcerting remarks by Robert Gates, the newly appointed secretary of defense, it demonstrates that we have failed to convince the American people of the extent of the Iranian threat.

The report also resurrects the false mantra that the solution to the Iraqi imbroglio, and all the woes of the Middle East, lie in resolving the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians - a code message that Israel must be pressured to make further concessions, irrespective of the impact to her security. This is reflected in the recommendations to solicit the cooperation of Syria and Iran, that Israel unilaterally give up the Golan Heights, that the US cooperate with a Palestinian "unity" government including Hamas, and that Israel engage in negotiations over "the right of return" (sic). If implemented, these policies would have catastrophic repercussions on Israel.

IT IS thus crucial that the Foreign Ministry raise themselves from their stupor and consider new approaches to stem this mounting new threat.

The Jewish people have always relied on its intellectual and moral leaders to pave the way. This would be an ideal opportunity for the Foreign Ministry to get off its high horse, cease its idiotic posturing in trying to rebrand Israel as a hip country, and renew the relationship with Diaspora Jewish activists.

The former nexus between Israel and the Diaspora was consciously severed during the initial heady days of the Oslo Accords, when the Rabin government convinced itself that in view of the "irreversible peace process" the support of Diaspora Jewry was superfluous.

Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, who has just resurrected the global conference on anti- Semitism, should invite to a consultation a number of key Jewish experts from the leading American Jewish organizations engaged in promoting the case for Israel. She should ascertain whether their skills could be harnessed more effectively in the war of ideas.

The invitees should include the leading big three American professionals in the Jewish political arena: Malcolm Hoenlein, David Harris, and Abe Foxman. The American Jewish Committee and the Anti-Defamation League have formidable resources and could possibly be persuaded to intensify their existing activities in this area. Consideration should also be given to undertaking long-term, information-related projects such as the creation of a global Jewish TV satellite station.

This should be a genuine partnership, and the views of the Diaspora experts should be heard with respect. Needless to say, they would not at all be involved with policy formulation. They would concentrate exclusively on ways and means to effectively promote the case for Israel and the Jewish people. The American Jewish experts have a profound insight into their domestic political turf and can also reach out to sectors of society beyond the reach of the Foreign Ministry and its diplomatic representatives.

Even more importantly, they can enroll the support of leading American Jewish academicians, intellectuals and writers willing to volunteer their services in support of Israel.

THE TIME for action is surely now. Livni could, in a matter of days, form a small advisory group which should include Israeli as well as Diaspora experts.

This proposal may sound somewhat like a stab in the dark. But these are times when we should dispense with the norm and explore new solutions. It is disgraceful that during these difficult times we have failed to utilize the outstanding Jewish talent both here in Israel and in the Diaspora. Many of these people, out of understandable disgust with corruption in Israeli politics and alienation from the parochialism of Diaspora Jewish affairs, tend to shy away from public life. But in these troubling times a substantial proportion of them would unquestionably be willing to volunteer to assist the cause of Israel and the Jewish people in the battle for ideas.

The writer chairs the Diaspora-Israel relations committee of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, and is a veteran international Jewish leader.
ileibler@netvision.net.il
</content>
</article>
