<article>
<title>A blueprint to combat the assault on Israel’s legitimacy in Europe</title>
<date>5/4/2014</date>
<content>
At its core, the assault on Israel’s legitimacy is a denial of the  Jewish people’s right to self-determination in Israel, the nation-state and  historical homeland of the Jewish people.The Israeli-Jewish Congress  (IJC) is an Israeli-based organization devoted to promoting the principle of  Israel as the State of the Jewish people and strengthening ties between Israel  and the Diaspora. As part of that mission, we work closely with many Jewish  communities of Europe, the Knesset and Government of Israel, and European  Parliamentarians, to combat all forms of anti-Semitism and delegitimization of  the State of Israel.




The catalyst for the delegitimization movement, or  more accurately, assault on the moral legitimacy of Israel, was the 2001 UN  Conference against Racism, in Durban South Africa. Held under the auspices of  the United Nations and led by a horde of NGOs, the movement seeks to portray  Israel as a pariah state, equating it with Apartheid South Africa and Nazi  Germany, and calling for the Jewish State to be completely isolated from the  international community, and ultimately from the family of nations  altogether.The public face spearheading this assault today is the  Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) Campaign, with increased calls for  boycotts against Israel across many parts of Europe and campuses in the United  States. This campaign is being waged by the dangerous union of the far Left and  radical Islamist groups.Although successes of the BDS Campaign have been  relatively limited in scope, the greater danger is that it keeps spinning the  propellers assaulting Israel’s legitimacy. Therefore, we must remain both  vigilant and take actions to combat this.In the meantime, we must also  be mindful that those leading the assault on Israel’s legitimacy are becoming  increasingly clever, nuanced and manipulative in their tactics. In many parts of  Europe, and indeed around the world, it is no longer socially acceptable to be  openly anti-Semitic or flatly reject Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state.  Instead, today’s anti-Semitism is directed not only against Jews as individuals,  but also in the vilification and assault on Israel’s legitimacy, as the Jew  amongst the nations, with false claims and malicious distortions of truth  disguised as acceptable criticism of Zionism and Israel.This is seen in  the rejection of Jewish self-determination in Israel, comparing Israeli policies  to apartheid and Nazism, promoting the ‘One State Solution’, while also singling  out Israel for special opprobrium and holding the Jewish state to unjust and  double standards. The added concern is that portraying Israel as such an immoral  entity, a criminal state or a violent force in the Middle East, helps create a  situation in which violence directed against Israel or Jews is often considered  as retaliatory action or a legitimate expression of ‘resistance’, also a  euphemism for terror.Let there be no ‘ifs’, ‘buts’ or ‘maybe’, the  assault on Israel’s legitimacy as the nation-state of the Jewish people is the  modern-day manifestation of anti-Semitism.The question now turns on what  ought to be done to combat this pernicious assault on the Jewish state,  particularly in Europe, where it is so vehement? Here are some suggested action  items: 1. Delegitimize the delegitimizers: we must single out, expose and shame  those who deny or attack Israel’s legitimacy and call for boycotts, including  establishing a monitoring unit to track such individuals and organizations to  expose them publicly. 2. Europe must have a comprehensive definition of  anti-Semitism taking into consideration that delegitimization of Israel is a new  form of modern anti-Semitism. In this regard, it was most unfortunate to see  last year the decision of the EU Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA), the central  European body charged with combating anti-Semitism, remove its working  definition of anti-Semitism, especially when the FRA definition also included  calls for the delegitimization of Israel as a possible form of anti-Semitism).  Reinstating this FRA definition will also create a framework in which legal  action can be taken against those seeking to delegitimize Israel.3.  Lobbying European countries who are already friendly to Israel to follow  stringent French law, which makes BDS illegal, deeming it both criminal and  anti-Semitic. France is at the forefront of anti-BDS law in Europe and there  have been a number of successful legal prosecutions against BDS. It is important  to however recognize that resort to legal tools alone cannot help defeat the  assault on Israel’s legitimacy, but it is nonetheless an important tool in the  overall arsenal.4. Having pro-Israel Parliamentarians in Europe be more  active on those issues of delegitimization and BDS, including by promoting  resolutions in this regard seeking to thwart such attempts, strengthening  relations with Israel and discrediting those Parliamentary colleagues  delegitimizing Israel.5. Stopping EU funding of organizations which  openly delegitimize Israel.6. It is critical for pro-Israel and Jewish  organizations to build bridges and create alliances with other minorities, NGOs,  religious groups and civil society, to help fight common causes, present our  case and create more allies to help speak on our behalf.7. Mobilizing  the business community in Europe and Israel to be more involved in combating  delegitimization efforts, including by strengthening bilateral business  relations.8. Reframing the narrative: most Europeans view Israel  primarily through the prism of the conflict with the Palestinians, while many  others are simply resistant to hard facts. Supporters of Israel should do more  to broaden this conversation by focusing on Israel’s positive achievements  (high-tech, innovation, etc) and potential gains for Europe by strengthening the  relationship with Israel. At the same time, more can be done to reinforce and  strengthen ‘People-to-People’ links between Israelis and Europeans, especially  on a grass-roots level, with groups like academics, trade unions, students,  scientists, faith groups and artists. This can be done through mutual visits and  joint projects, allowing Europeans to see the real face of Israeli people and  creating an emotional value-attachment to Israel and a new front-line in the  defense against BDS.9. Greater exploitation of social media, using this  medium to present Israel’s position in a more creative way and to reach a wider  audience, especially youth.10. Create a digital platform of  communication between Jewish communities in Europe, other pro-Israel and Jewish  organizations around the world, and the Israeli government and relevant  ministries to allow an exchange of ideas, information and best practice  solutions.
The writer is is the Director of Research at The  Israeli-Jewish Congress.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A blueprint to combat the assault on Israel’s legitimacy in Europe</title>
<date>6/4/2014</date>
<content>
At its core, the assault on Israel’s legitimacy is a denial of the Jewish  people’s right to self-determination in Israel, the nation-state and historical  homeland of the Jewish people.The Israeli-Jewish Congress (IJC) is an  Israel-based organization devoted to promoting the principle of Israel as the  state of the Jewish people and strengthening ties between Israel and the  Diaspora. As part of that mission, we work closely with many Jewish communities  of Europe, the Knesset and government of Israel, and European parliamentarians,  to combat all forms of anti-Semitism and delegitimization of the State of  Israel.




The catalyst for the delegitimization movement, or more  accurately the assault on the moral legitimacy of Israel, was the 2001 UN  Conference against Racism, in Durban, South Africa. Held under the auspices of  the United Nations and led by a horde of NGOs, the movement seeks to portray  Israel as a pariah state, equating it with Apartheid South Africa and Nazi  Germany, and calls for the Jewish state to be completely isolated from the  international community, and ultimately from the family of nations  altogether.The public face spearheading this assault today is the  Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) Campaign, with increased calls for  boycotts against Israel across many parts of Europe and campuses in the United  States. This campaign is being waged by the dangerous union of the far Left and  radical Islamist groups.Although successes of the BDS campaign have been  relatively limited in scope, the greater danger is that it keeps spinning the  propellers, assaulting Israel’s legitimacy. Therefore, we must remain both  vigilant and take actions to combat this.In the meantime, we must also  be mindful that those leading the assault on Israel’s legitimacy are becoming  increasingly clever, nuanced and manipulative in their tactics.In many  parts of Europe, and indeed around the world, it is no longer socially  acceptable to be openly anti-Semitic or flatly reject Israel’s right to exist as  a Jewish state. Instead, today’s anti-Semitism is directed not only against Jews  as individuals, but also takes the form of vilification of and assault on  Israel’s legitimacy, as the Jew among the nations, with false claims and  malicious distortions of truth disguised as acceptable criticism of Zionism and  Israel.This is seen in the rejection of Jewish self-determination in  Israel, comparing Israeli policies to apartheid and Nazism, promoting the “One  State Solution,” while also singling out Israel for special opprobrium and  holding the Jewish state to unjust and double standards.The added  concern is that portraying Israel as such an immoral entity, a criminal state or  a violent force in the Middle East, helps create a situation in which violence  directed against Israel or Jews is often considered as retaliatory action or a  legitimate expression of “resistance,” also a euphemism for terror.Let  there be no ifs, buts or maybes – the assault on Israel’s legitimacy as the  nation-state of the Jewish people is the modern-day manifestation of  anti-Semitism.The question now turns to what ought to be done to combat  this pernicious assault on the Jewish state, particularly in Europe, where it is  so vehement.Here are some suggested action items: 1. Delegitimize the  delegitimizers: we must single out, expose and shame those who deny or attack  Israel’s legitimacy and call for boycotts, including establishing a monitoring  unit to track such individuals and organizations to expose them  publicly.2. Europe must have a comprehensive definition of anti-Semitism  taking into consideration that delegitimization of Israel is a new form of  modern anti-Semitism.In this regard, it was most unfortunate to see last  year the decision of the EU Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA), the central  European body charged with combating anti-Semitism, remove its working  definition of anti-Semitism, especially when the FRA definition also included  calls for the delegitimization of Israel as a possible form of  anti-Semitism.Reinstating this FRA definition will also create a  framework in which legal action can be taken against those seeking to  delegitimize Israel.3. Lobbying European countries who are already  friendly to Israel to follow stringent French law, which makes BDS illegal,  deeming it both criminal and anti-Semitic. France is at the forefront of anti-  BDS law in Europe and there have been a number of successful legal prosecutions  against BDS.It is important to however recognize that resort to legal  tools alone cannot help defeat the assault on Israel’s legitimacy, but it is  nonetheless an important tool in the overall arsenal.4. Having  pro-Israel parliamentarians in Europe be more active on those issues of  delegitimization and BDS, including by promoting resolutions in this regard  seeking to thwart such attempts, strengthening relations with Israel and  discrediting those parliamentary colleagues delegitimizing Israel.5.  Stopping EU funding of organizations which openly delegitimize Israel.6.  It is critical for pro-Israel and Jewish organizations to build bridges and  create alliances with other minorities, NGOs, religious groups and civil  society, to help fight common causes, present our case and create more allies to  help speak on our behalf.7. Mobilizing the business community in Europe  and Israel to be more involved in combating delegitimization efforts, including  by strengthening bilateral business relations.8. Reframing the  narrative: most Europeans view Israel primarily through the prism of the  conflict with the Palestinians, while many others are simply resistant to hard  facts. Supporters of Israel should do more to broaden this conversation by  focusing on Israel’s positive achievements (hi-tech, innovation, etc.) and  potential gains for Europe by strengthening the relationship with  Israel.At the same time, more can be done to reinforce and strengthen  “people to people” links between Israelis and Europeans, especially on a  grass-roots level, with groups like academics, trade unions, students,  scientists, faith groups and artists.This can be done through mutual  visits and joint projects, allowing Europeans to see the real face of Israeli  people and creating an emotional value-attachment to Israel and a new front-line  in the defense against BDS.9. Greater exploitation of social media,  using this medium to present Israel’s position in a more creative way and to  reach a wider audience, especially youth.10. Create a digital platform  of communication between Jewish communities in Europe, other pro-Israel and  Jewish organizations around the world, and the Israeli government and relevant  ministries to allow an exchange of ideas, information and best practice  solutions.
The author is the director of research at The Israeli- Jewish  Congress.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Abu Mazen and his threat to ‘return the keys of the Palestinian Authority’</title>
<date>24/4/2014</date>
<content>
Following recent statements of by Israeli leaders and politicians supporting  Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen) as a “worthy leader of the Palestinians, who seeks  peace with Israel and opposes terror,” it is perhaps time to ask ourselves if  indeed he is such a reliable, credible and worthy peace partner.Does he  have the authority and standing to commit the Palestinians to international  obligations vis-a-vis Israel and the rest of the international community, and of  instilling trust among the Israeli public, as well as among his own Palestinian  public? Does he have the practical capability of fulfilling such obligations and  of ensuring that the civil and military authorities under his jurisdiction would  indeed accede to his authority? Does he have any authority or credibility  vis-à-vis the population and the Hamas leadership of the Gaza Strip? In seeking  to answer these questions it is perhaps pertinent to review his performance as  leader and representative of at least part of the Palestinians, living in the  West Bank areas, as well as spokesman for all Palestinians both in the United  Nations and within the international community in general.




Take for  instance his public statements to the international community in the UN General  Assembly in November 2012 and 2013, where, in speeches replete with hatred,  deceit, aggression, incitement and demagogy, he deliberately and unabashedly  misled the international community, accusing Israel of: • “Intending to  extinguish [Palestinian] being and to expel them in order to uproot and erase  their presence.”• Throwing the Palestinians “from their beautiful,  embracing, prosperous country to refugee camps in one of the most dreadful  campaigns of ethnic cleansing and dispossession in modern history.”•  Accusing Israel of “barbaric and horrific” attacks in the Gaza Strip, while  totally ignoring the Hamas rocket attacks that brought about Israel’s need to  response.• Representing Israel’s occupation as “synonymous with an  apartheid system of colonial occupation, which institutionalizes the plague of  racism and entrenches hatred and incitement.”At the same time, Abu Mazen  tried to deceive his listeners into believing that he alone is: • “Trying to  breathe new life into the negotiations” and “setting a solid foundation for it,”  and • Reaffirming that “Palestine will always adhere to and respect the Charter  and resolutions of the United Nations and international humanitarian law, uphold  equality, guarantee civil liberties, uphold the rule of law, promote democracy  and pluralism, and uphold and protect the rights of women.”These past  weeks the world witnessed just how committed Abu Mazen is to peace. On March 17,  he refused to support the US draft framework for negotiations during a meeting  with President Obama. A week later he declared to the Arab League in Kuwait that  he would not even discuss recognizing Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish  People. Finally, on April 1, he signed requests to become party to 15  international conventions, contrary to commitments he had given that he would  not do so, and in stark violation of PLO obligations pursuant to the Oslo  Accords.How can anyone really believe, or elude themselves that a  Palestinian leader who accuses Israel of apartheid, ethnic cleansing, racism and  hatred, who has no qualms about blatantly deceiving and lying to the  international community, who willfully and deliberately ignores those  obligations undertaken by the Palestinians in agreements with Israel to prevent  terror and violence and to solve all outstanding issues through negotiations,  could possibly be a worthy partner for negotiation? Abu Mazen’s new/old fad is  to threaten repeatedly that he’ll invite Prime Minister Netanyahu to his  Ramallah Palestinian Authority headquarters in order to “transfer to him the  keys to the Palestinian Authority.”Regrettably and surprisingly, several  senior members Israel’s Knesset and political parties, as well as the Israeli  media, view this threat seriously every time that Abu Mazen voices it. Some have  even made well-publicized pilgrimages to Abu Mazen to plead with him not to give  up the keys.The threat is nothing more than demagogy, similar to Abu  Mazen’s oft-repeated threats to initiate charges against Israeli leaders and  officers with the International Criminal Court.Legally, if Abu Mazen as  the “ra’is” of the Palestinian Authority, genuinely feels that he has failed to  lead the Palestinian people to peaceful coexistence with Israel, as foreseen by  the Oslo Accords, under which the Palestinian authority was established and  functions, then logically, pursuant to the same accords, he should indeed hand  over his keys, but to the PLO , the body that signed the agreements with Israel  and that appointed him ra’is of the Palestinian Authority as well as chairman of  the PLO itself.Thus, rather than playing demagogic games and issuing  empty threats, he can resign his post and open up the stage for  elections.
Alan Baker served as the legal adviser to the Foreign Ministry  and as ambassador to Canada. He participated in the peace process negotiations  with the Palestinians and Israel’s other neighbors. He is presently director of  the Institute for Contemporary Affairs at the Jerusalem Center for Public  Affairs, as well as director of the International Action Division of the Legal  Forum for Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Academic boycotts</title>
<date>21/12/2014</date>
<content>
The growing movement on university campuses across the world,  but especially in North America, in support of an academic boycott of Israel is  of particular concern. It is worrying because it targets those who will become  leaders of the next generation.In their new book, The Case Against  Academic Boycotts of Israel, editors Cary Nelson and Gabriel Noah Brahm provide  an excellent series of essays on what Peter Berman terms in his preface “the  world’s most adaptable boycott” – the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement  against the Jewish state – and in particular the boycott of Israel’s academic  institutions.




The book’s title is also the title of a conference on  Monday organized by the Institute for National Security Studies and the Israel  Action Network and sponsored by the Jewish Federations of North America. Nelson,  an English professor at the University of Illinois who served as president of  the American Association of University Professors between 2006 and 2012, and  Brahm, an associate professor of English at Northern Michigan University and a  senior research fellow in Israel Studies at Brandeis University, will be keynote  speakers.Nelson told Channel 1 in an interview broadcast on Saturday  night that the BDS movement against Israel had become so prevalent on American  campuses that it could actually become a political movement and a threat to  Israel’s security. The US, after all, is Israel’s most important ally, and if  its new academic generation buys the BDS lies being spread on campuses across  America, then the Jewish state may be in the process of losing the core of its  political support.Brahm concurred with his colleague. “I think BDS is  potentially a threat to Israeli security, and the purpose of the INSS conference  is to explore that danger,” he told The Jerusalem Post in a telephone interview.  “There’s a security threat if, in America, free educational institutions are  threatened; there’s a security threat if networks of personal and professional  life revolve around hating and demonizing Israel; and there’s a security threat  if, in the philosophy of BDS and its theoretical statements, Israel is  characterized beyond rational belief as a kind of linchpin in the nefarious  system of global capital or imperialism, racism, colonization and ethnic  cleansing. All these terms are heaped upon Israel as a unique source of much  larger phenomena.”Brahm said BDS is threatening to become “a fashionable  cause” that links personal lives to career advancement.“It gives people  a sense of righteousness, a self-image of politically correct virtue that they  share with their friends and colleagues which then becomes the basis of meetings  and activities that crisscross their personal, political and professional  lives.”Other speakers at Monday’s conference – including INSS director  Amos Yadlin, Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya Prof.Galia Golan and  JFNA’s David Denkner – will discuss the other side of the coin: the way in which  Arab-Jewish cooperation in Israel is so productive.“All the avenues of a  successful life are open to Arabs in Israeli academia,” Brahm said. “The  thriving academic freedom that Jews and Arabs share here is something that  benefits everyone, and there’s a kind of security risk there if that’s shut down  potentially, which is what the BDS movement wants. This would only cause further  alienation between people and more and more conflict,” said Brahm.Nelson  and Brahm both noted that boycotting Israeli academics is an assault not just  against Israel but on the very core of academic freedom. Just last week, the  University of California’s graduate student union passed a resolution supporting  an academic boycott of Israel until it “has complied with international law and  respected the rights of the Palestinians.”The crux of the matter, Brahm  suggested, is that BDS targets neither Israeli academia nor Israeli products but  the very existence of the Jewish state. At the INSS conference, Brahm said his  address would focus on the theory behind BDS as well as the meaning of what he  termed “the obsession with Israel as a threat to the planet.”“Over and  over again the BDS people argue not only against Israel’s policies, but that  it’s actually a source of harm to the world,” Brahm said. “Everyone in society,  they say, will benefit from an end to the Jewish state, per se.”Just as  the anti-apartheid movement succeeded in boycotting South Africa, the BDS  movement believes boycotting Israel – academically and in every other way – will  ultimately bring about the end of the Jewish state.
It is high time that  Israel and pro-Israeli academics everywhere wake up and invest serious efforts  and resources into finding effective ways to counter this powerful and  pernicious boycott movement.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>A Fresh Perspective: Let there be more Stephen Harpers</title>
<date>2/1/2014</date>
<content>
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Israel’s best friend among world 
leaders, is coming soon for his first visit to Israel.While this trip is 
a great opportunity to celebrate the unique friendship Harper has shown towards 
the Jewish state, it should also be a day of soul searching for the Foreign 
Affairs Ministry.




Foreign policy cannot be seen as the forbearer of 
Harper’s loyalty to Israel. His friendship towards the Jewish state is 
commendable despite foreign policy.Harper and the Foreign Affairs 
Ministry speak in opposing rhetoric. While Harper embraces the righteousness of 
the Zionist cause and the justice which Israel symbolizes, the ministry is busy 
using an apologetic language.If Israel wants more Stephen Harpers in 
this world, it needs to start studying what it is doing wrong, and understand 
the framing through which Harper looks at the State of Israel. Only then will we 
be able to reproduce this framing amongst other world leaders. Only then will we 
get more Stephen Harpers instead of getting more boycotts and sanctions against 
Israel.Ever since the start of the Oslo peace process, the Foreign 
Affairs Ministry has stopped defending Israel. Instead, it started defending the 
two-state solution.During Oslo, with President Shimon Peres serving as 
foreign affairs minister and its architect, the traditional discourse of the 
ministry shifted dramatically.Israel was not to justify its connection 
to all parts of the land, including Judea and Samaria, but rather it was to 
embrace the two-state solution and yearn to implement it. Israel was not to 
attack our enemies diplomatically, but, rather, it was to highlight advances in 
the peace process.This mind-set became so entrenched in the minds of 
Israeli diplomats that the ministry then became known as the “Foreign Affairs 
Ministry of the Two State Solution.”Even after Israeli policy shifted 
away from the peace process, the diplomats kept pushing it forward. This not 
only caused bad relations between elected officials and those diplomats, but 
also incredibly bad foreign policy.As the peace process became 
completely irrelevant, instead of once again changing its framing and going back 
to defending Israel, the ministry pushed on with the very same framing. Instead 
of looking for other diplomatic possibilities, Israel kept arguing for the 
twostate solution, while blaming the Palestinians for the failure to implement 
it.However, according to this policy, the solution was still the right 
one. It was still being pushed forward. The framing did not change.The 
ministry became the place in which people went in order to achieve peace, 
instead of being a place where people went in order to help Israel.The 
reasoning behind such a flawed strategy is clear. The ministry was so entrenched 
in that framing, that it believed it was impossible to speak to the world in any 
other frame of mind. The only way to gain world support, the diplomats thought, 
is by embracing the two-state solution. The world, they thought, will support 
the side which shows the greatest embrace of the peace process and of the 
two-state solution.The real problem with this approach is that the very 
acceptance of the two-state solution means that Israel should not be in Judea 
and Samaria since, in the twostate solution, Israel needs to get out of these 
areas. If Israel should not be there, it is acting as an occupying force. By 
using a framing which accepts the two-state solution, Israeli diplomats invited 
international pressure and boycotts.It is not surprising that – during 
my time working in the Foreign Affairs Ministry – I heard many of Israel’s own 
diplomats saying that the boycotts against Judea and Samaria might be good since 
they might pressure the Israeli government to “finally” reach a peace deal. 
Israel’s own diplomats, when they needed to choose sides between Israel and the 
two-state solution, chose the side of the two-state solution.This flawed 
framing of Israel’s diplomacy will never create more Stephen Harpers.It 
will just create more boycotts.The Canadian prime minister’s great 
friendship with Israel shows that this strategy was based on nothing more than 
pure conjecture.When speaking about Israel, Harper never mentions the 
peace process. It’s not that he opposes a solution, he supports the 
establishment of a Palestinian State. Yet a more pressing matter for him are 
ethical issues.Harper sees Israel as an outpost of democracy in a sea of 
tyrannical regimes. As a supporter of democracy, he cannot negate the only 
stable democracy in the Middle East.Harper looks at Israel as the front 
line in the war between Western free society and Eastern dark regimes. In this 
clash of civilizations, how can one not side with freedom? He speaks often of 
his total opposition to anti-Semitism. To him, the singling out of the Jewish 
State is no different than the singling out of Jews.Anti-Zionism is the 
continuation of the horrible anti-Semitism that has plagued the world for 
centuries.Finally, Harper also sees the story of the Jewish nation 
returning from exile after 2,000 years as a symbol of hope.This romantic 
story between a nation and its land, which were separated for so long and are 
now reunited, is the source of great hope for all people, including Harper 
himself.In short, the Canadian prime minister embraces Zionism. He looks 
at Israel with the admiration that great Zionists do. The question of the 
Israel-Palestinian conflict is then looked at in the correct context and 
proportions.To bring these thoughts to the practical sphere, a few 
principles can be outlined to guide the actions of Israeli diplomats in building 
positive support for the state: First, Israeli diplomats should never 
differentiate between Judea and Samaria and the rest of Israel. The very 
differentiation between these areas assumes our presence in Judea and Samaria is 
unjust and makes us look like wrongdoers. This invites both pressure and 
boycotts.Second, diplomats should learn to tell Israel’s story without 
relation to the Israeli- Arab conflict. Israel’s story is a story of great hope 
and can be inspiring to all people. Israel’s strategic importance as an outpost 
for democracy and as the front line in the battle for freedom is something that 
is completely unrelated to the Israeli-Palestinian territorial 
conflict.These things need to be emphasized rather than letting 
ourselves be dragged to questions of borders.Third, diplomats should use 
all the tools available to them to defend Israel’s right to all parts of the 
Land of Israel.This includes the Edmund Levy Report that justifies 
Israel’s presence in Judea and Samaria. The reason is simple: Even if one 
believes in the two-state solution, shouldn’t he want Israel to get to the 
negotiating table in the best possible starting position? In order to get to the 
best possible starting position, it is crucial to use all the tools we have in 
order to get there. Without doing this, we are once again inviting more 
boycotts.Finally, diplomats need to stop playing defense and start 
playing offense.Israel’s goal should not be to justify itself against 
accusations of apartheid or occupation. Its goal should be to be the one to set 
the agenda. Once we set the agenda as a Zionist agenda, everything else is seen 
from a different perspective.This should be our goal.If Israeli 
diplomats were to follow all of these principles, boycotts would be replaced by 
celebrations of Zionism, and international pressure would be replaced with 
international admiration.Harper would stop being the exception to the 
rule, and instead, the standard for heads of state the world over. 
The writer 
is an attorney who graduated from McGill University Law School and Hebrew 
University’s honors graduate program in public policy. He is currently working 
as a research fellow at the Kohelet Policy Forum.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>American academia bites the dust: Brandeis University’s historic mistake</title>
<date>12/4/2014</date>
<content>
By now, we all know that Brandeis University was about to bestow an honor on the  elegant and distinguished author and activist Ayaan Hirsi Ali, best known for  her critique of Islam, her decision to leave Islam, and her championship of  Muslim women’s rights.One might understand why an apostate intellectual  might be in danger in Somalia, the country of her birth, or in Saudi Arabia,  where she once lived.




However, she has just been dishonored by Brandeis  University, which withdrew its offer of a Distinguished Professorship because  the Muslim Brotherhood in America, known to us as the Council on  American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), and its national student group, the Muslim  Students Association, which is also allied with the Islamic Society of North  America (ISNA), mounted a successful campaign against the award.Both  CAIR and ISNA are unindicted co-conspirators in the Holy Land Foundation  terrorist financing case.CAIR provided the Muslim Student Association  (MSU) at Brandeis with outdated, out-of-context and highly inflammatory quotes  from Hirsi Ali. They did not provide her thought-provoking, stirring, moving  passages of which there are many.Brandeis simply caved to the lynch  mob.This is a terrible moment for academic freedom and critical inquiry  on the American campus.Yale University drove the first nail into the  coffin of academic freedom, freedom of thought, and critical inquiry, when  Yale’s University Press refused to publish the Danish “Mohammed” cartoons to  accompany Jytte Klausen’s 2009 book on the subject: The Cartoons That Shook The  World.Yale drove a second nail into that coffin when it ousted  Dr.Charles Small, who dared to focus on contemporary anti-Semitism, not  merely on safely dead Jews. Dr. Small’s major international conference on this  subject in 2010 had over 100 speakers and 600 in attendance.The  conference did not demonize the Jewish or American states and it did look at  Jew-hatred and the persecution of Christians in Islamic countries today.  However, official Palestinians and student Palestinians insisted this was an  “Islamophobic” conference. A campaign was mounted and Yale administrators and  professors dismissed Dr. Small’s Institute for the Study of Global Antisemitism,  although it was independently funded.Brandeis University, the “Jewish”  university, (in terms of liberal values), has driven the third nail into the  coffin of academic freedom and intellectual diversity, when it bowed to student  and faculty pressure and rescinded its offer to Hirsi Ali.I am outraged,  saddened and frightened all at the same time. I have sentimental ties to  Brandeis and I am suffering from its betrayal of its own stellar  values.I understand that perfectly peaceful Muslim students at Brandeis  may not wish to be associated with the hate propaganda and terrorist atrocities  being committed in Islam’s name. They should be standing outside the mosque that  indoctrinated the Boston bomber with signs reading “Not in my Name,” and listing  the gender and religious apartheid that characterize Islam today, and the  Muslim-on-Muslim and Muslim-on-infidel violence being committed in the name of a  religion that is dear to them.They should be holding teachins at mosques  and within Muslim communities about human rights in Islam and wrestling with the  question of whether radical Islam is compatible with modern Western  values.Hirsi Ali is a consummate intellectual. Students should hear what  she has to say.Instead, Brandeis and the Muslim Student Association have  taken a Sharia-like position about apostates and the anti-Islamist position she  has adopted.The Brandeis MSA student Facebook page is filled with an  attitude of offended Islamist supremacism and rage over alleged  “Islamophobia.”Ironically, none other than Brandeis Professor Jytte  Klausen, the author of The Cartoons That Shook the World, published her views in  the Brandeis student newspaper The Justice. In her (Stockholm-syndrome?) view,  giving Hirsi Ali a degree “undermines years of careful work to show that  Brandeis University promotes the ideals of shared learning, religious toleration  and coexistence, irrespective of religion.”Klausen was joined by  Brandeis Professors Mary Baine Campbell and Susan Lanser of the English  Department. Campbell told Justice that “Hirsi Ali represents values that  Brandeis, in naming itself after Justice [Louis] Brandeis ... was founded in  noble opposition to.” Professor Lanser said that Hirsi Ali’s (outspoken views on  Islam) foment an intolerance that is wholly antithetical to Brandeisian  values.”Women’s and Gender Studies Professor Mitra Shavarini told  Justice that offering this award to Hirsi Ali is not in line with the  university’s mission, unless it wishes to “incite hate, mistrust and division  among its community.”She further stated that Hirsi Ali’s approach to  discourse “collapses thought in obscure, non-contextualized allegations that  have no intellectual merit.”Alas, this is the language being used these  days by professors on American campuses.I have been told that over 40  professors signed a petition against honoring Hirsi Ali.American  campuses have long welcomed critiques of Judaism, Christianity, Mormonism  etc. on the grounds of misogyny and biblical-era atrocities. Secularists,  atheists, anti-religionists have been lionized. Great thinkers have,  historically, condemned religion – all religion.Over the years, Brandeis  has awarded Distinguished Professorships to a wide variety of worthy people. The  awards are wide-ranging, balanced and reasonable.In 1987, the award was  given to Adrienne Rich who said, “With initial hesitation but finally strong  conviction I endorse the Call for a US Cultural and Academic Boycott of Israel.”  In 2000, Brandeis also gave this award to Desmond M. Tutu, who has been quoted  as saying that the “Jewish lobby” is too “powerful and scary.” In 2006, Brandeis  also gave this award to Tony Kushner who is on record saying that he can  “unambivalently say that I think it’s a terrible historical problem that modern  Israel came into existence.”There was no groundswell of protest against  these awards; if there were, they were not successful.
The conclusion:  One can criticize Judaism, the Jewish state, America, real apartheid in South  Africa, but one cannot criticize Islam, Islamic Jihad, Islamic supremacism and  Islamic gender and religious apartheid without being attacked and silenced.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>An app to fight BDS</title>
<date>8/5/2014</date>
<content>
The “Fight BDS” app is a 21st-century PR tool. In the battle to  win hearts and minds for the Jewish state, it is designed to revamp Zionism,  build a worldwide online activism network and empower lovers of Israel with the  technological tools and knowledge to reclaim the just cause of Jewish  self-determinism and sovereignty.Rabbi Avi Schwartz, son of the  legendary Palmah fighter and commander Mordechai Schwartz, and founder of  teknerd.info, a software and app design company, together with his team of  designers have created a PR app enabling users to have instant access to a wide  array of interface capabilities.




Compatible with android devices and the  iPhone, the app provides the resources to present Israel’s case in a  well-informed, comprehensive and entertaining manner against its detractors and  to those sitting on the fence.A filmmaker and author of the acclaimed  and fast-selling book Through Fire and Water, Schwartz has been a student of the  Palestinian- Israeli PR war since his graduate school days.“When  researching both global and Jewish Diaspora opinion and sentiments towards  Israel, a drastic shift clearly took place during the 1982 Lebanon War which  Israel is still reeling from its effects,” says Schwartz. “On a personal level I  clearly remember how my peers regarded me preand post-Lebanon. Pre-Lebanon, I  was one of the coolest kids in Bronx High School of Science because I was  Israeli. Several months into the war and all the media distortions that was then  broadcast on the nightly news eroded my status. Shortly thereafter being an  Israeli became a liability. Perceptions is reality no matter how wrong the facts  may be. But most observers don’t investigate the facts, rather they interpret  the facts on first impressions. And first impressions count.”He points  to the Holocaust as a classic case of anti-Zionist distortion to delegitimize  and discount the 70 years of Jewish immigration, land reclamation and state  building prior to the Shoah. He persuasively argues that it was economic  self-interest and not non-Jewish guilt that changed the course of history, as  many tend to believe, by presenting the fact that the UN vote for the two-state  solution under the Partition Plan was originally set for November 26, 1947, but  was tactically delayed by the Jewish Agency UN delegate, Moshe Sharret, after  assessing that disastrous failure was inevitable due to a lack of votes.  Sharret’s tactical maneuver to filibuster that Wednesday delayed the historic  vote on account of the Thanksgiving recess, allowing the Jewish delegation, the  White House, Congress, Harvey Firestone of the Firestone Rubber Company and  senior US statesman Adolph A. Berle 48 hours to cajole, persuade and place heavy  economic incentives before the Philippines, Spain, Haiti and Greece to vote for  the Partition Plan.Even war-torn France was earlier informed by the  White House via Bernard Baruch that if it did not vote for partition needed aid  would not be forthcoming. He further reinforces that claim as the nations of the  world stood by watching seven invading Arab countries alongside the Palestinian  forces under the leadership of the grand mufti attack the 600,000 Jewish  inhabitants of the fledging state with the intention of genocide – only  two-and-ahalf years after the Shoah. “Had it not been for the thousands of brave  and self-sacrificing youth who gave life and limb in 1948 there would have been  two Holocaust Remembrance days, one for the Jews of Europe and one for the Jews  of Palestine.Nonetheless, BDS rhetoric manipulate the events… and those  ignorant of the truth are their prey, turning good-hearted intelligent people,  both non-Jewish and Jewish, especially college students, into manipulated and  exploited agents of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionist aspirations.”Though  the PR battle shifted in favor of those who oppose Zionism, the blame cannot be  placed only on Arab rhetoric and certain Israeli policies, but also on the lack  of what made Zionism a revolutionary, utopian and historic movement, namely, a  coordinated and sophisticated PR strategy.Israeli policy in the ’80s and  ’90’s to PR had become indifferent, even disdaining the consequences bad press  could produce, as opposed to the architects of Zionism and early Israeli policy  of the ’50s and ’60s, particularly David Ben-Gurion, Golda Meir, Moshe Sharret  and Abba Eban, who masterfully presented the Jewish people’s need, right and  hope for self-determinism in its historical homeland.“The first public  relations practitioners were employed by Zionist institutions.They used  PR to enlist the new immigrants to the challenging tasks involved in building a  nation and a state. They also provided the enlisting narratives, symbols and  emotional messages that inspired the sacrifice of personal individual goals, and  sometimes, lives, for the sake of building a state,” said Margalit Toledano and  David McKie, authors of Public Relations and Nation Building Influencing Israel,  in a recent Routledge interview.It was only in 2011 that Israeli  universities officially begin to offer an academic program in public relations.  Israeli governmental PR tactics are still lacking when compared to BDS’s  considerable tactical achievements since 2005, including the recruitment of  Prof. Stephan Hawking, the Association for Asian American Studies, the American  Studies Association, the threat of the EU halting grants to Israeli research  groups, increased world anti-Semitism and the intimidation on American campuses  endured by pro-Israel Jewish and non-Jewish students alike. Even calling Chloe  Simone Valdary, an African-American student at the University of Louisiana, “a  Zionist Uncle Tom” for standing against BDS.“Pro-BDS groups expanded use  of guerrilla and intimidation tactics... At New York University Jewish students  in a dormitory were served with ‘eviction notices’ by Students for Justice in  Palestine. The leaflets stated that the students’ suites were scheduled for  demolition.... Similar ‘eviction notice’ intimidation campaigns directed at  Jewish students have occurred at the University of Michigan, Rutgers, Harvard,  Florida International, Yale, the University of Chicago and other schools,” wrote  Alex Joffe, an archeologist and historian specializing in the Middle  East.Heeding Herzl’s advice that Zionism must use contemporary  technology to communicate its ideals and vision, the Fight BDS app employs  smartphone technology to allow the user to obtain facts and information  regarding the 2,000-year-old Jewish longing to return home, the history of  Zionism, organized counter-BDS arguments, Israel’s amazing world contributions,  the advantages and rights of Israeli Arab citizens, daily news, video  presentations ranging from icon Zionist leaders such as Abba Eban to clever rap  songs about Israel’s vibrant democracy, blogs, photos, and how to help Israel  through networking and donations with one simple tap. In the palm of one’s hand,  teens, college students and others now have all the knowledge, reasons, facts  and resources to support the Jewish dream for self-determinism, connect to  Israel, fight BDS and have an online network to communicate and  inspire.The app has been well-received by Israel supporters. Spreading  the app through college campuses via Hillel both in the US and Israel, Christian  groups and organizations, and to people of conscience via social media, it  grants individuals the apparatus to unite in one strong voice and revamp Zionist  spirit and pride as they present their quest for freedom, equality and justice  to the world, demonstrating that Israel is not an apartheid state but a strong  democracy with Jewish values and Middle Eastern roots extending back 4,000  years.Recently Finance Minister Yair Lapid asked for an improvement in  Israel’s counter- boycott tactics. One hopes the app will be a major tool and PR  stepping stone, since it allows iusers to interact and exchange ideas to foster  the Zionist dream and develop tactics to further its legitimacy and  beauty.“Zionism is justice after 2,000 years. All who support Justice  must support Zionism. And justice can only be brought by reasonable individuals  dedicated to fairness and equity through peaceful and truthful dialogue,” says  Schwartz.
The app is available at the Google Play Store and ITunes.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Another tack: Temper tantrum tactics</title>
<date>5/6/2014</date>
<content>
When preschoolers don’t get their way, they sometimes attempt to intimidate us into giving in. They throw terrifying temper tantrums, some more frequently and frighteningly than others. The rule of thumb is that the more spoiled a kid is, the worse the whining, crying, screaming, kicking, hitting, rolling on the floor and breath-holding. According to the preeminent Jewish psychoanalyst Heinz Kohut, the tantrum-thrower’s “core is likely to contain a self-centered, grandiose-exhibitionist part,” and the outbursts represent “narcissistic rages at the blow to the inflated self-image.” Therefore, various refusals, “regardless of their justifications, will automatically provoke fury since they offend the child’s sense of omnipotence.”




In most individuals such shock and awe antics abate over the years. But not always. When immaturity – irrespective of chronological age – coincides with privilege and a sense of entitlement, it’s liable to produce adult petulance and a proclivity for spiteful rants.This should sound abundantly familiar to anyone who heard of the “nasty” anti-Israel “tirade” by Martin Indyk, US Secretary of State Kerry’s chief envoy to the misnamed Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations. According to the Washington Free Beacon, Indyk lost his cool for a full half-hour at the bar of a Ritz Carlton Hotel shortly after delivering an address to the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.Although predictably denied by the State Department, Indyk’s reported tantrum was quite in sync with his boss’s reactions. Kerry’s self-centered, grandiose plans to super-swiftly impose peace on Israel and its genocidal enemies didn’t quite garner him the glory he envisaged. Not only did he fail to engineer in nine mere months – as per his cocky timetable – the miracle solution to a century-old conflict, but the sides couldn’t even agree on talks about the talks.The bigger Kerry’s initial pretension, the greater was his resultant humiliation.And Kerry unleashed all his frustration on Israel – like the child who acts out before those most likely to cave in. He threatened us with BDS ostracism, new spates of terror and apartheid-state stigma. No matter how he later attempted to explain away his cantankerous conniptions, he had done us damage; he knows he had and he meant to. Some slung mud always sticks.Kerry’s crabbiness was equally expressed in his jarring failure to rebuke Ramallah figurehead Mahmoud Abbas for scuttling the process by seeking state-status in UN forms, by gumming up the works with nonstarter extortionist demands (not for ending the dispute but for restarting the moribund talks) and, most of all, by aligning himself with the jihadist Hamas – a move the US officially no longer opposes, i.e. it no longer opposes doing business with Hamas.The subtext is clear – Abbas can do no wrong and Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu willfully refuses to do right (by Obama Administration definitions).And just in case we failed to understand the undertones, an unnamed “highly-placed source” in Kerry’s entourage (perhaps none other than Indyk) blasted Netanyahu, empathized with Abbas and warned that, whether Israel likes it or not, Palestine shall arise – as if this is humanity’s great last hope.We can safely bet our bottom shekel that neither Kerry nor Indyk would be much perturbed by what the Palestine they so passionately prescribe would be like. If they at all gave a hoot, they might have already noticed a few troubling spoiler alerts.Ramallah recently announced that if Israel really wants recognition of Jewish-state legitimacy, then it should withdraw not just to the June 4, 1967 lines (which are in fact the 1949 armistice lines) but to the lines drawn by the UN’s Partition Resolution (General Assembly resolution 181, adopted on November 29, 1947). That resolution specifically speaks of a Jewish state.Ah, but there’s the rub.The entire Arab world violently violated Resolution 181. No sooner was it passed, then local Arabs (who then still viscerally resented the “Palestinian” moniker) launched a homicidal spree, a blood-soaked preview of what was to come. Later, when Israeli independence was proclaimed on May 14, 1948, seven Arab armies pounced on the newborn state in a concerted attack from all directions.The watching world coolly waited for the Jews to be defeated. The enlightened democracies didn’t raise a squawk about the in-your-face Arab defiance of Resolution 181. The Brits even actively aided the Arab Legion.This was despite the fact that the Jews were allotted only paltry territorial scraps, shameful remains of what was enshrined in the post-WWI San Remo Conference of 1920.Britain first ripped off nearly 80% of the total Palestine Mandate territory to form the fictional Transjordan (today’s Jordan) on the lion’s share of Palestine. Then in 1947 the UN awarded nearly half of the remainder to the second Palestinian Arab state. All the Jews got were three non-contiguous mini-patches, 11% of the total, existentially vulnerable and essentially untenable.Jerusalem was to form a “corpus separatum” – an international zone. This was in utter disregard of the fact that ever since the first census was taken in early 19th century Jerusalem, Jews constituted its overwhelming majority.With Perfidious Albion’s avid assistance, Jerusalem was quickly conquered by Jordan’s Arab legion – in impudent contravention of resolution 181. The city was liberated by Israel 19 years later, in a classic war of self-defense, but the illegal Jordanian occupation was consecrated as the status quo ante that must be restored.Nowadays, the world pretends that an actual independent Arab Palestinian state was aggressively crushed by Israel. No one remembers the Palestinian state that already exists east of the River Jordan and which cynically bears its name. No one remembers that it was none but the Arabs who scornfully rebuffed Resolution 181. Yet again, Arab chutzpah isn’t decried by Washington’s powers-that-be.The Arabs are allowed, without as much as a minor slap on the wrist, to repeatedly clamor for a return to the Square One they had just rejected. They chronically hanker after what they lost because of their own belligerence and the so-called family of nations lets them get away with the travesty.It’s only expected that heart-rending Arab nostalgia for the 1967 lines would inexorably be replaced by intense Arab yearning for the 1947 lines.And what’s to come next? What are the follow-up machinations? Sneak peeks are already amply available. They are featured often and bluntly in the reunited Ramallah and Gaza fiefdom, where the endgame is a region without Israel altogether. The latest pronouncements to that effect came recently from the al-Aksa Mosque imam, Raed al-Daana, hardly an insignificant minor official.“We will return to the sea of Jaffa, to the sands of Haifa, to the palm trees of Beit She’an, and to the hills of Lod and Ramle,” al-Daana intoned. “We in the blessed al-Aksa Mosque await the legions of conquerors. We await armies from Tunisia, from Jordan, from Egypt, from Iraq, from the Maghreb, and from Hejaz.”In other words, the PA’s faithful await a replay of the orchestrated multi-state Arab invasion of 1948. Moreover, this threat to overrun Israel proper wasn’t uttered in hushed whispers but boastfully broadcast on Al Jazeera TV, wherefrom it was picked up by MEMRI, the Middle East Media Research Institute.Was Kerry in the slightest discomfited? Did Indyk wince? Heck no! It’s as if al-Daana never hectored. Hardworking western news purveyors were certainly not interested enough to quote what didn’t quite mesh with their pro-Arab and Israel-bashing bon ton. No way would they allow the truth to spoil a good storyline.So nobody minds that so prominent a Palestinian cleric extolled “the great and proud men” of Gaza “who realize that darkness and the Jewish state would vanish” and that “on that morning, the sun will rise on Palestine.”Will that be the same Palestine whose “rising” is inevitable according to Kerry and/or Kerry’s mouthpiece and/or his special envoy?Sadly, that‘s precisely what Abbas, the supposed moderate in the Palestinian equation, teaches his people to expect. In English he may pose as the weary 79-year-old who has had his fill of the intransigence of irredeemably evil Jews, but in Arabic Abbas sounds chillingly different.He is the one who welcomes convicted mass-murderers sprung from Israeli prisons. He exalts them as national heroes and role models for Arab youths. He is the one who names schools, streets, city squares and a host of institutions after suicide-bombers and other assorted slaughterers of Israelis. He is the one who glorifies still-incarcerated butchers. He is the one who earmarks hefty financial disbursements to both terrorists and their families (bankrolled by inimical European philanthropists).Abbas is the one whose school system conditions the minds of youngsters from kindergarten age onwards to hate Jews, aspire to annihilate them and destroy their state. He is the one who endorses the same messages in both the electronic and print media that he controls outright. He is the one who allows preachers in the mosques under his direct aegis to brainwash believers into denigrating Jews as loathsome offspring of “pigs and monkeys,” whose extermination becomes a sacrosanct commandment.No one exposed to Abbas’s education, press or religious indoctrination can conceivably be ready for the hallowed two-state harmony that Abbas seems to grudgingly strive for in English.The truth is that neither Abbas, his newfound bedfellows in Gaza nor the masses in both Palestinian Authority halves, remotely desire co-existence side-by-side with a Jewish state. Their aim is the piecemeal Arabization of the de facto entity temporarily called Israel (which is why they won’t concede Jewish-state legitimacy) or its vanquishment as al-Daana anticipates.In either case the idea is for an Arab Palestine to devastate and supplant the Jewish state.If Kerry doesn’t realize this, then he’s even more incompetent than is generally presumed. If he realizes this but doesn’t care, then we can only conclude that his temper tantrums had effectively cancelled out any residual reason and self-control.As any parent knows, tantrums mustn’t be rewarded and should never be soothed by surrender, no matter how many toys are tossed out of the pram. Sometimes the only way to deal with a temperamental meltdown is to set clear guidelines and say a firm no-nonsense “no.”
Kerry must be told in no uncertain terms that Israel will not be browbeaten by childish churlishness, juvenile threats or choleric fits. Israel will not commit national suicide for the sake of Kerry’s aggrandizement. Temper tantrum tactics just won’t work.

www.sarahhonig.com    

Debunking the Bull, Sarah Honig’s book, was recently published by Gefen.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Another Tack: The Kay and Tim Show</title>
<date>3/7/2014</date>
<content>
We Jews are famous for overthinking, for analysis-paralysis, for hair-splitting ourselves to distraction. We can complicate the simple, mind-bogglingly confound common-sense and convolute the straightforward like no one else. No other nation reacts like us. Period.We’re the only ones who can come up with inanities like the notion that inaction signifies strength. We’re the only ones for whom combating implacable foes isn’t knee-jerk. Only we strain to guess how other nations will judge our responses to insufferable provocation. We are the only nation threatened with genocide but only we seek to win the world’s love and end up losing it by also trying to stay alive. We are the only ones whose survival prospects must be counterbalanced by our craving for international approval.




Human evolution has produced no one like us. And for all our pains to be liberal and likable we are despised and demonized.Predictably, on the day Eyal Yifrach, Gil-Ad Shaer and Naftali Fraenkel were laid to their eternal rest, our talking heads spent hours of air time dissecting the dilemma of whether we should do something now about the enemies who bay for the blood of all of us – not just for that of the three youngsters they stalked, snatched, and slaughtered.The kibitzers’ consensus was that it would be a crying shame to waste the maybe-morsel of understanding tossed our way abroad. It was as if these three victims – who never made it home from school  – constituted a sacrifice, albeit an unintentional one, on the altar of our reputation within the dysfunctional family of nations. That sacrifice, decreed the know-it-alls, mustn’t be squandered by going after Hamas too effectively, lest that would unleash upon us all the censure we have grown accustomed to  whenever we lift a finger in our defense. Therefore, advised the advice-givers, let’s hold onto our meager gains and lap up the little compassion belatedly shown us.So, to examine just how popular overseas the untimely loss of three lives has made us, I decided to channel-surf and watch how foreign TV broadcasters were covering the funeral, the mass turnout of ordinary Israelis and the manifest solidarity in heartbreak. Our one-large-family ethos was inspiring to us, but will others be even a smidge moved?Fox was preoccupied to its eyeballs with the Hobby Lobby victory over Obamacare. France 24 had the Sarkozy scandal to salivate over. But then I got to Sky News. Here I hit the mother lode. This outlet was hooked on the funeral with live feed and constant commentary. At first glance, it looked friendly. No wonder – it’s owned by Rupert Murdoch (who also owns Fox, but you can’t win them all).Kay Burley was the comely anchor and Tim Marshall, Sky News’ foreign affairs editor, functioned as the authoritative guide to the perplexed, introducing the viewers to the intricacies of our strange ways (including wardrobe tips like the fact that average Israelis shun suits and ties even at formal occasions).It soon became evident, though, that there was nothing remotely kind or caring about the banter of Kay and Tim. It’s not that this pair matters in the least but what does matter is that journalists like them become the filters through which our agony, our struggle – our entire existential saga – must seep to reach the masses in other lands. And we for some reason persistently presume that these masses actually tune in and weigh every nuance with the gravity with which Israel’s homegrown omniscients yammer.This, therefore, makes Kay and Tim significant to our domestic discourse. It’s worth our while to see how our message emerges from their sifter.First off, it needs be stressed that Kay and Tim aren’t the worst among opinion-molders. In fact, odds are that they would indignantly rebuff any suggestion that they aren’t even-handed, or are – heaven forefend – anti-Israeli. Doubtless, they are probably better than some of the more overtly hostile sorts who proliferate in the global media. So let’s hit the highlights of the several hours I spent watching the Kay and Tim show on the afternoon of the funeral in Modi’in.There was a lot of back-and-forth about what language we speak. Tim referred to the distress call Gil-Ad made to the police. Deadpan, sounding very well-versed in the minutiae of esoteric Israel, Tim shared his wisdom: “I assume he was talking in Hebrew… Both his parents have Israeli Hebrew names.” Deep!Later on Tim also assumed, with equal erudition, that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu would address the mourners in Hebrew, “although many people in Israel speak English.” Really deep!These profound linguistic insights were accompanied by abundant mispronunciations of everything from victim Gil-Ad’s name (he became Jilad some of the time) to Tim’s lack of familiarity with the name Etzion (which came out something like Zion). It was defined as an illegal settlement deep in the Palestinian heartland, which the boys had visited…Okay, so Tim the expert didn’t know that Kfar Etzion was a well-established Jewish community before the state of Israel was born on May 14, 1948. Kfar Etzion was besieged by the Jordanian Legion – British-trained, British-equipped and British-led. It was the last stand of the few against the many. In the end, however, undermanned and underarmed, its defenders surrendered on May 13, 1948. They had put down their weapons, lined up in front of a school and were even photographed. Then sub-machine fire and hurled grenades mowed them down. About 50 of the group managed to flee to the cellar of a nearby old monastery but the Arabs blew it up. There were a mere five survivors. The massacre victims numbered 128.Nineteen years after the carnage, Jews – many of them descendents of the butchered prisoners of war – came back to the ruins of the village and resurrected it. By the skewed scales of international justice, this is deemed illegal occupation by a foreign invader. The conquest of and subsequent bloodbath at Kfar Etzion weren’t likewise condemned. But why should an esteemed editor know any history? Ignorance is forgivable if it’s politically correct ignorance and Tim is politically correct if he’s anything.Still, the boys’ story was out there for 18 days. It stands to reason that Tim would have boned up on the gist of it and explained to his audience that these kids were coming home from the school they attended in Kfar Etzion. Yet apparently, a handle on events may be too much to expect.Hence, Tim confidently claimed that there’s no evidence Hamas did the dastardly deed. According to his take, the very fact that these hostages were killed right off, actually serves to absolve Hamas of suspicion as its modus operandi is to keep its hostages alive. If Tim had even rudimentary acquaintance with Hamas’s homicidal record, he’d have known that the diametrical reverse is true. Tim plainly had no inkling about Avi Sasportas, Ilan Sa’adon, Nissim Toledano, Yaron Chen, Ehud Roth, Ilan Levy, Shachar Simani, Arik Frankenthal, Sharon Edri, Oleg Schaichet, Eliyahu Asheri and many unfortunate others.But even a smattering of knowledge is clearly not a prerequisite job qualification in these postmodern times.Undaunted by cluelessness, Tim was busy supplying us with what passed for fair-minded perspective, which Kay then kept hammering in unremittingly. Both stressed that while the three “young men” (as Kay called them throughout) were being eulogized, “Arab families too grieved.” We were treated to scenes from the riotous funeral procession in Jenin for (again in Kay’s words) “a 19-year-old boy… The Israelis accuse him of having thrown an incendiary device and for this they shot him” she informed us with a stern stare.  The footage from Jenin was played over and over.Then commentary was sought from PA politician Mustafa Barghouti who blamed Netanyahu for the tragedy because he, Netanyahu, sent the boys to occupied territory, broke off the peace talks and runs a racist regime far worse than apartheid South Africa. Straight-faced, Barghouti depicted the Palestinians as nonviolent followers of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King (his words), except that Israeli oppression messes with their inherent pacifism. Presenter Kay listened to this malarkey wide-eyed and never challenged her interviewee on any assertion, no matter how outrageous. In the end, she solicitously asked him with childlike credulity: “Do you think you’ll see peace in your lifetime?”It was clear that Barghouti is the good guy and we know who the villains are. After all, Barghouti told Kay he himself was shot eleven times by the Israelis.As the camera panned across Modi’in’s cemetery and served up close-ups of the seated mothers and fathers, teary eyes but dignified, Kay asked in ostensible innocence: “Can you see anything else than the escalation of violence, given the scenes we’re seeing?” All I could see was stoic restraint but Kay spotted something evidently sinister.Then it dawned on me. The sad farewell to three schoolboys was exploited to drum up crass sensationalism. The viewers were recurrently reminded that Netanyahu is about to address the multitudes and that fire and brimstone are to be anticipated.Will he attack Gaza? Doubtless Israel’s reaction would be ruthlessly disproportionate and thus merits denunciation a priori. According to prescient Tim’s two cents, our excessive retaliation will provoke Hamas to rocket the vicinities of Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. To the best of my recollection, Jerusalem wasn’t ever in the range of Gazan missiles but what the heck, it’s a good story.  No need to mention the ongoing daily unprovoked rocketing of the Negev.Bottom line: Kay and Tim were building up to a bogeyman shocker by Netanyahu but he disappointed them insensitively. Their hype notwithstanding, there was zero hysterical hyperbole and horrific hectoring on his part. Ah, well, tomorrow is another day. The show must go on. Kay and Tim aren’t really bothered but Israel’s image emerged from their talk-fest battered and bruised.And the truth? It was downright immaterial to Kay and Tim.These are the people we Israelis obsessively seek to impress even against our best interests. All our sophisticated simulations drown in their syrupy shallowness. Their smug superficiality stifles our sorry aspiration for a scrap of sympathy out there. And that’s assuming there’s no ill-will to boot – which in the case of the beleaguered Jewish State isn’t always a realistic assumption.

www.sarahhonig.com
Debunking the Bull, Sarah Honig’s book, was recently published by Gefen.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Arab Knesset members’ anti-Israel rhetoric</title>
<date>16/9/2014</date>
<content>
I had the chance to witness an interesting event on September 8 at the  university of Helsinki, Finland. A member of the Knesset, Jamal Zahalka, was  speaking about the situation in Gaza. Together with him was Amira Hass, an  Israeli Jewish journalist who started her speech by stating that she is “an  honorary Gazan.”Zahalka, although speaking in an event that was titled  “Peace forum,” and despite himself being a member of the Israeli parliament,  concentrated in his speech on demonizing Israel and ensuring that his audience  would, by end the night, be hating Israel.




When someone asked him whether  Israel was an apartheid state, he responded, “No, but it’s from the same  family.” Then he began describing how Israel is much like apartheid – but  apparently worse. He said, “We [Israeli Arabs] would actually prefer apartheid.  Give us apartheid! At least we would then be allowed to stay in our  homes.”I couldn’t stop thinking of how my South African friends who  survived the real apartheid would react upon hearing an Arab member of the  Israeli parliament explaining to a group of Europeans how he would prefer  apartheid to the current situation in which he is not only allowed to vote but  is actually a member of the government.Zahalka also kept on speaking  about Israeli violence against Palestinians, refusing to talk about Hamas  terrorism beyond calling it a “struggle for a just cause.”He asked  people whose side they were on: that of the pilot who about to fire a missile  into a Gaza building, or that of a baby inside that building. When asked how  about the Gazans who demonstrate against Hamas’s policies, demanding peace, and  who are executed by Hamas as a result, Zahalka simply repeated that Israel kills  Palestinian children.As if all of that wasn’t enough, Zahalka demanded  that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu be prosecuted at the International  Criminal Court for his “crimes” against the Palestinians. Hass, on the other  hand, explained to the audience that “there is not a single Palestinian who has  not been hurt by Israel, and who would not be threatened by Israeli  policies.”Neither condemned Hamas rockets, neither condemned Hamas’s use  of UN facilities as rocket launching sites, neither mentioned the plight of  Gazans under Hamas rule nor the use of civilians as human shields. Neither  brought up the fact that Israeli Arabs have the highest level of education,  standard of living and human rights in all Middle East. Zahalka, instead, was  calling for the world to pressure Israel by sanctions and boycotts, to push  Israel into becoming a “real” democracy.In my country such a politician  would be called a traitor and his place would not be in the  parliament.The audience, however, not surprisingly loved Zahalka and  Hass – after all they had confirmed to their listeners that Israel really was as  bad as they thought – even worse, in fact.On the other hand, I had a  chance to speak with an Iraqi person attending the event. This Iraqi said to me,  “I can not believe that this Arab brother travels the world sympathizing with  the Islamist Hamas, while thousands of his brothers are being slaughtered by  other Islamists in Syria and Iraq.”It was quite a strange moment to me,  realizing that after hearing two Israeli speakers, the only common sense I heard  all evening came from an Iraqi Muslim.Thanks to people like Hass and  Zahalka, the anti-Semitism in Europe has risen to 1930s levels. Their message in  the “peace forum” (organized by ICAHD Finland and partly paid for with public  money through the Finnish Ministry of Education and Culture) was not one of  peace but of pure hatred. I am neither Israeli nor Jewish, but I felt absolutely  disgusted.If this is the way these speakers promote peace, no wonder  peace hasn’t been achieved.And Mr. Zahalka, I’d suggest you first speak  with South African survivors of apartheid, then with the rest of the Israeli  Arabs, before you start asking for apartheid.I don’t think many of your  voters would agree with you.
The author has a bachelor’s degree in social  sciences.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>BDS in South Africa – an abject failure</title>
<date>1/9/2014</date>
<content>
Despite all the opportunities offered by Operation Protective Edge in Gaza to  harness latent anti-Israel and anti-Semitic sentiment, the Boycott, Divestment  and Sanctions (BDS) movement has come up empty handed. This despite investing  huge human and financial capital in this endeavor.Over the past month  BDS activists have initiated a strident call on the South African government to  cut diplomatic relations with Israel and to send the Israeli ambassador, Aurthur  Lenk, packing. They have harnessed the support of all the usual suspects, like  COSATU, NUMSA and the ANC Youth League and even the “venerable” Archbishop  Desmond Tutu, to rally the masses. They have succeeded in rallying the masses,  but to little or no practical effect, other than to allow these strident voices  to vent their frustrations, which in fact have nothing to do with Israel or even  with the Middle East conflict.




The Palestinian ambassador, Abdel Hafiz  Nofal, added his voice to these demands, which failed to gain any traction with  those it was targeted at. Last week, both President Jacob Zuma and Vice  President Cyril Ramaphosa took principled stands, rejecting outright these calls  to recall the South African ambassador or to send the Israeli ambassador  home.During the Gaza conflict, at the end of July, during the budget  speech, Minister of International Cooperation Maite Nkoane-Mashabane announced  that she would send two envoys to Israel and Palestine, led by former deputy  minister Azziz Pahad. On their return the envoys delivered a balanced and  nuanced rendition of the situation, in which they apportioned blame equally to  both sides. Again BDS was left with egg on its face, as it had tried repeatedly  to have the notorious “Cape Town Declaration,” which called for sanctions  against Israel, adopted in parliament.BDS has also conducted a  relentless boycott campaign against Woolworths. It justifies picking on  Woolworths because Woolworths claims to have an ethical approach, which BDS  asserts precludes doing business with Israel. Again, only Israel is targeted,  not Zimbabwe, or China or Iran, which have dismal human rights records, exposing  their thinly veneered agenda to destroy the only state that functions as a  democracy in the whole region. The BDS agenda is arrogant and racist, in that  Israeli imports serve the very Orthodox sector of the Jewish population and  there are no other sources for these products. If business were to succumb to  BDS pressure, the floodgates would be opened to have a whole plethora of  products boycotted.Those supporting the BDS boycotts against Woolworths  do not fit the profile of shoppers that frequent this chain, which emasculates  the power of the boycott.Thankfully Woolworths has stood its ground and  has refused to bow to BDS pressure. To rub salt into the BDS wounds, Woolworths  continues to flourish and outperform the retail sector. Other stores that have  been targeted, like Dischem, have likewise not caved in to pressure, and have  not suffered any adverse effects as a result.Meanwhile, despite several  years of lobbying by BDS to have Israeli products kept out of South Africa, and  preventing government officials from visiting Israel, trade between the two  countries is flourishing like never before, exceeding R5  billion.Frankly, BDS is subverting the full development potential of the  South African economy, because Israel can offer South Africa solutions to all  its most pressing problems.Israeli companies stand ready to assist with  water scarcity and treatment solutions, food supply solutions, youth employment  and entrepreneurial solutions and answers to many other medical and security  challenges.Just when it looked like the BDS campaign would achieve a  victory, the senate and the vice chancellor at the University of Cape Town, in  the last week in August, overturned a resolution which was adopted by a majority  of the Students Representative Council to sever links with Israeli universities  and to boycott Israeli academics and students.Archbishop Tutu tried  repeatedly to prevail upon a Dutch Presbyterian Investment Fund to withdraw its  investments from Israeli companies, and had his call rejected  emphatically.The archbishop leads a hectic life, but finds time to  comment on the racial makeup of our national rugby team, finding it a little too  white for his liking. His Christian interests seem relegated to the background,  as he can’t seem to find the compassion for Christians suffering in Nigeria, the  Eastern Congo, South Sudan and of course the Middle East, that he feels for the  Palestinians.Whenever BDS has initiated an action it has engendered a  counter-response that has more than canceled out any gain it hoped to attain.  Before the elections, it launched a billboard campaign on the highways that met  with a response which negated the BDS claims as lies. When it brought thousands  of supporters on to the streets, calling for “death to Israel” it was countered  by thousands who came out in Johannesburg and Cape Town in support and  solidarity with Israel. If anything, the pro-Israel rallies tapped into a rich  vein of Christian support, which now that it has been activated will become more  vocal and united in the future.When BDS paid for a half-page  advertisement in The Sunday Times, the largest nationally distributed newspaper  in South Africa, the Christians responded with a full-color, full-page  advertisement expressing wholehearted support for Israel.All that the  BDS campaign has produced as a result of its negative and hateful message is a  crop of anti-Semitic statements emanating from the likes of Tony Ehrenreich,  Cape leader of COSATU, which have had a very detrimental effect on intergroup  relations and which will result in long and expensive litigation. The BDS  organized the event at Wits University where the “shoot the Jew” song was sung,  which has forever cast the BDS as an anti-Semitic movement, particularly as they  tried to justify themselves after the event. Its racist and divisive policies  have lost it many adherents.The reason for its abject failure is that it  is offers no solutions, other than its stated objective to destroy a sovereign  state, one which contributes more to the world than any other its size. Its bias  aimed at slandering only one state, Israel, is so blatant that its message is  cheapened. While it purports to care and speak out for the Palestinians, its  failure to apportion blame elsewhere than Israel undermines its authenticity. It  has, for example, said nothing when Palestinians are bombed and killed in  Lebanon or in Syria. It is silent about the plight of Palestinian Christians,  who suffer terrible discrimination in the West Bank and Gaza.It is  speechless about the plight of Palestinian refugees living in refugee camps in  Jordan, Syria, Lebanon and even under the control of the Palestinian Authority  in the West Bank or Hamas in Gaza.Its inversion of the truth, by trying  to label and associate Israel with crimes against humanity such as apartheid,  ring hollow, largely because they are completely untrue and unfounded but also  because Arab states are the worst perpetrators of human rights abuses. They are  completely silent and ignore the widespread human rights crimes committed in the  name of Islam, such as mass beheadings, systematic rape of women who are  considered to be “infidels,” honor killings of women, millions of young girls  forced to marry older men, and the institutionalized slavery of guest workers.  Precisely because of their utter silence and failure to condemn all of these  crimes, they are morally bankrupt, corrupt and unprincipled.
The author  is national vice chairman of the South Africa Zionist Federation.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Bibi needs to mend Israel-US ties</title>
<date>30/10/2014</date>
<content>
The volcano has finally erupted. In Greek mythology, when a volcano erupts the  gods are angry. Israel-United States relations are generally good, they are  calm and partly hidden deep underground. But in moments of stress, which have  been multiplying of late, the lava begins to boil. Sometimes there are warning  signs, when smoke comes out the mountain’s mouth, and sometimes there are not.  Then, if the temperature rises, the volcano erupts in a great blast of fire, and  burns its surroundings and sometimes even distant areas.The Greeks  thought that it was how the gods expressed their anger, and sought a way to  appease them. In the 21st century this god is called Barack Obama, and this week  he was angry, really angry.




The long-standing relationship between the  two countries is based on two foundations – interests and values . The  interesting part was that this duality corresponds with the general political  division in the United States between Democrats and Republicans.The  Republicans looks at the world in terms of power: America the Great leads the  world. It relies on its economic and military power and if necessary acts as an  international policeman. Today it is the leading force in the battle against the  Iranian nuclear program and the insane Islamic extremism. In domestic affairs  the Republicans are devotees of competition and believe that people are able to  move forward due to their capabilities and ability, without government  involvement.The Democrats perceive the world in terms of values and  employing dialogue and discourse. The main message of America is democracy. It  is fighting for freedom, human rights, equality for minorities, women’s rights  and peacemaking around the entire world. Domestically, they believe it is the  state’s obligation to close social gaps and to help the minorities that were  pushed aside by the system.Through the years, Israel has been able to  connect with the two political camps and has developed useful and productive  dialogues with both. The Republicans see us as the long arm of the West,  confronting its enemies, radical Islam these days and before that the Eastern  Bloc. The Democrats are happy that among all the regimes, dictatorships and  partial democracies in the Middle East, there is also a complete democracy that  is stormy and choppy at times but real.Every US president found in his  personal worldview the worthy reasons to continue the close connection –  military assistance, solid political support (veto in the UN Security Council,  support at international institutions and international conferences such as  Durban I in 2001), agreements and economic cooperation on various fronts over  the years.The relationship between Obama and Netanyahu is, however,  notably bad. From the first there was no love lost between the two men, first of  all because Obama is a Democrat and Netanyahu holds Republican  views.Obama is looking for the values that established Israel and make  the country function, while Netanyahu expects the United States to act firmly in  the international system, first use force and then talk.The Iranian  issue demonstrates this well.While Obama would prefer to reach an  agreement with Iran after exhausting the power of economic sanctions, Netanyahu  feels betrayed, as he expected military action if the sanctions fail to put a  halt to the enrichment of uranium, as happened.This week the Americans  came out and called Netanyahu “chickenshit” – not in the least because of their  perception that he threatened to use military force but in the end expected that  the Americans would do the work for him. This criticism surely grated on  Netanyahu, who is a former General Staff Reconnaissance Unit (Sayeret Matkal)  warrior. Two of Netanyahu’s predecessors sought US approval to attack Arab  nuclear activity. Menachem Begin destroyed Osirak in Iraq in 1981, and,  according to foreign sources, Ehud Olmert destroyed a facility in Syria’s Deir  ez-Zor region in 2007. No leader likes being compared to his predecessors and  being found wanting.Another focus of the tension is the Israeli-  Palestinian relationship. The American government blames the failure of the  negotiations on Netanyahu and his ministers (Naftali Bennett, Moshe Ya’alon, Uri  Ariel) and thus appointed John Kerry to carry out the mission. Kerry jumped into  the pool head first, only to discover at the last minute that there was no  water. Personal insults certainly did not contribute to improving the  atmosphere. Netanyahu, despite their good personal relationship, declined to  rescue him. Obama still expects that democratic Israel, as it is perceived by  him, will not expropriate land, not build in the territories, and not create an  apartheid regime on the bus service in the West Bank.The recent Gaza war  also contributed to the disrupted US-Israeli relationship.Israel  received full support from the US, but eroded it with aggressive activity that  caused a very high number of casualties and unbelievable destruction in the Gaza  Strip. Moreover, it stymied Kerry’s initiative for a cease-fire and mocked him  behind his back. The bottom line is that, despite it all, Israel failed to crush  or topple Hamas. Israel’s achievements seem quite incomplete and it certainly  failed to project its military power.The US government hurried to try to  fix the damage caused by the “chickenshit” comment, as if trying to return the  lava back to the volcano. But even the Americans can’t do that. What was said,  was said.However, the reality in the Middle East, the chronic  instability and violent extremism, require Israel and the United States, out of  shared responsibility, to take a deep breath and calm down. We do not have the  luxury to fight right now.Netanyahu should initiate a gesture of  reconciliation, perhaps a phone call, or maybe a special envoy to Washington, to  appease the angry ones there. You can disagree with the Americans’ opinions,  because even they had many mistaken perceptions of the Middle East in recent  years. But all that is for behind closed doors. On the public front, it is  better if we stand together. If not, the United States – and Israel even more so  – have a lot to lose.

Dr. Nachman Shai is a member of the Knesset for the  Labor Party, deputy speaker and chairman of the Lobby for US-Israel Relations at  the Knesset.
Translated by Maya Pelleg.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Britain’s Jewish Christmas</title>
<date>2/1/2014</date>
<content>
Christmas in Britain is a legal holiday devoid of faith – unless you’re 
Jewish.The British TV channels seek British hearts not so much by 
sending film crews to churches or monitoring children singing hymns, but by 
analyzing and broadcasting the best Christmas movies and songs.




According 
to British media, the stars of Christmas were Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Jimmy 
Stewart and Mariah Carey – and not Jesus, Mary and the three wise 
men.Beyond who sold how many songs or movies, the analysts seem to 
disagree regarding whether it was a victory for “White Christmas” and It’s a 
Wonderful Life, or for Die Hard – which qualifies as a Christmas movie in 
Britain because Bruce Willis goes to a Christmas party before battling 
terrorists.It is not clear how many British Christians go to Christmas 
parties, but it is clear that not too many go to church. Of about 25 million 
baptized in Britain’s Anglican Church, only a million go to church on Sundays, 
according to the church. A similar falling off in synagogue attendance has beset 
Britain’s Jews.But many British Jews use Christmastime as a period to 
shop for Jewishness, by going to the annual conference known by the Hebrew word 
“Limmud” – study.And the stats are impressive: 1,102 sessions, 25 films, 
55 panel debates and 30,000 meals served to about 2,500 people – roughly 1 
percent of Britain’s 250,000 Jews.It is a celebration of Jewish 
peoplehood held at a British university campus whose students are on Christmas 
vacation, and this year it was at the University of Warwick, a town that boasts 
of one Britain’s oldest and most beautiful castles (with moat).Amid 
flailing ice-storms and gale-force winds, while Christians hunkered down to eat 
minced pudding, watch movies and listen to the queen’s Christmas speech, many of 
the Jews – including whole families with baby carriages – braved the harsh 
weather and came out of their shells in every sense.Jews in Britain tend 
to try to stay under the radar, and they usually succeed. They do not display 
their Jewishness or make a big deal about Hanukka or other things.But on 
Christmas many Jews come out of the closet at the Limmud 
conference.Many, including women, wear kippot and take classes ranging 
from Jewish musicology and Talmud to Israeli films and politics and Jewish 
feminism. As befits a Jewish conference, more questions are asked than are 
necessarily answered.Limmud, like the idyllic version of Christmas, is 
also a family affair, sometimes taking on the qualities of summer camp in 
blustery December. Whole families, equipped with baby carriages, come to the 
conference to hear educators from Britain, America, Israel and other 
countries.Britain’s chief rabbi was there, and so was Natan Sharansky 
and many more. I gave two talks on terror and was a panelist on a discussion 
about Jews in US politics.The Jewish film society also showed the movie 
The Gatekeepers for which I was a commentator.The Gatekeepers and the 
way it was featured at the conference raise some important issues not just about 
how a democratic society fights terror but also about how conferences about 
Israel and the Jews sometimes allow themselves to be used against Israel and the 
Jews.Real democracies ask tough questions about themselves, and this is 
especially a good Jewish quality, but Gatekeepers has more than a few elements 
of anti-Israel propaganda – combining real material with fabrications.In 
the film several former heads of Israel’s domestic intelligence service, the 
Shin Bet, accuse Israel and its elected leaders of crimes, while not being 
really confronted regarding their own complicity in these alleged crimes, their 
personal motives or their shortcomings.The Gatekeepers might have been 
be a good launching point for discussing how democratic societies can fight 
terror in an ethical manner. In fact, it is a broadbased attack on Israel, on 
Israeli leaders, and on settlers.That was good enough for a nomination 
for an Academy Award, or to get on a program at Limmud.Such fare has 
become the regular diet at Israel studies conferences around the world, along 
with featuring speakers who say Israeli soldiers are murderers or who compare 
Israeli policies to South African apartheid.Perhaps some of these 
conferences should invite some of the thousands of dark-skinned Eritreans, 
Somalis and Ugandans who clamber across jungles and deserts to get a taste of 
what sets Israel apart.That too should be part of the menu and part of 
the conversation when Jews get together on Christmas and at other times of the 
year.Jews meeting regularly to discuss aspects of Jewish life may not 
cure the ills of falling birth rates and rising intermarriage, but it is not a 
bad start for Jews to come together and think of themselves as part of one 
family. It is the kind of thing of which one does not see enough in America or 
Israel.
The writer is the author of Battle for Our Minds: Western Elites 
and the Terror Threat, published by Threshold/ Simon and Schuster. He teaches at 
Bar-Ilan University, and is the Schusterman Visiting Professor at University of 
California, Irvine for 2013-2014.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly speaking: British vote epitomizes ignorance, opportunism and malice</title>
<date>21/10/2014</date>
<content>
The British parliamentary resolution that called for the immediate and  unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state, endorsed by an overwhelming  majority of 274 to 12, was an unprecedentedly aggressive act. Although not  binding, and with the participation of only 44 percent of parliamentarians  (primarily opposition Labour MPs under instructions to vote in favor of the  motion), it nevertheless provides evidence of the dramatic surge of hostility  against Israel that is sweeping through Europe.It reflects a growing  trend among European countries to encourage Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas to pursue his intransigent policy, rejecting meaningful  negotiations, refusing to make any concessions and proceeding on the supposition  that he has international support to bring Israel to its knees. Regrettably,  over the past few months, the Obama administration has been widely perceived as  giving a wink to the Europeans to pursue policies toward Israel along these  lines, which neither American public opinion nor Congress would  endorse.




That such a resolution was even contemplated during the regional  meltdown of the past few months has created an Alice-in-Wonderland environment –  especially as it failed to even pay lip service to the obligations of the  Palestinians. Nor did it acknowledge that both Yasser Arafat and current “peace  partner” Mahmoud Abbas rejected offers of 95 percent of the territories formerly  occupied by the Jordanians.Abbas continues to incite to violence and  hate and his Fatah party still calls for the destruction of the Jewish state. In  recent months, the official PA TV revived the medieval blood libel accusing Jews  of using the blood of Palestinian children to make matzot for Passover, promoted  The Protocols of the Elders of Zion and alleged that Israel was poisoning  Palestinian water wells. Abbas continues to glorify mass murderers and insists  that there will never be an agreement unless Israel accepts the right of return  of the five million descendants of Arab refugees, which would entail the end of  Israel as a Jewish state. He also reaffirmed his union with Hamas – the globally  designated terrorist organization.The UK parliamentary resolution  effectively endorses a state in which the genocidal Hamas occupies a central  role and which, according to polls, would emerge victorious in an election. To  make matters worse, Abbas has publicly stated that should that occur, he would  hand over control of the state to Hamas.British socialists who voted for  the resolution totally disregarded Israel’s security concerns by supporting the  establishment of a state based on the 1949 armistice lines. The resolution does  not even require Hamas to amend its charter calling for the destruction of  Israel and the murder of Jews throughout the world – a charter that the Nazis  would proudly have supported. Nor did it call for demilitarization and cessation  of hostilities against Israeli civilians.The implications of passing  such a resolution are harrowing, exceeding the worst excesses of perfidious  Albion when the anti-Semitic British foreign secretary Ernest Bevin displayed  his hostility to the Jews during the last years of the mandate.One  cannot justify such behavior on the basis of ignorance. Clearly, the motivations  represent a combination of electoral opportunism, leftist political correctness  which transforms Israel the victim into the aggressor, cultural relativism which  no longer distinguishes between good and evil and promotes moral equivalency;  and above all, an indisputable odor of outright anti-Semitism.Some  remarks made in the course of the debate were even more despicable than the  resolution itself.There were renewed demands for an arms embargo, calls  to intensify boycott, divestment and sanction campaigns and to suspend the  EU-Israel Association Agreement.There were repeated condemnations of  Israel for promoting racism and practicing apartheid. This, despite the fact  that 20% of Israel’s population is comprised of Arabs who are granted the same  constitutional rights and privileges as Jewish Israelis.One need only  visit a Jerusalem hospital or shopping mall to appreciate how absurd it is to  accuse Israel of apartheid. In contrast, Abbas has made it clear that a  Palestinian state would be Judenrein and that he would not tolerate “the  presence of a single Israeli – civilian or soldier – on our lands.” What is that  if not ethnic cleansing? Liberal Democrat MP David Ward stated that were he  living in Gaza, he would undoubtedly endorse launching missiles against  Israel.Sir Alan Duncan, a leading Conservative MP, condemned the timid  Anglo Jewish leadership – desperate to maintain a low profile – for acting as a  Jewish lobby, renewing the classic anti-Semitic conspiratorial charge that Jews  promote the interests of “a very powerful financial lobby,” and accusing them of  harboring dual loyalties.Demonization of Israel concentrated on  settlement policies, described in the debate as “the colonization of another  country.” Duncan even went so far as to call for those endorsing Israeli  settlements to be considered as racists and be denied participation in public  life.The facts are that the settlements comprise a mere 3% of the  territories previously occupied by Jordan; there have been no new settlements  created over the past decade; prime minister Ariel Sharon unilaterally withdrew  from all settlements in the Gaza Strip – an area that was subsequently  transformed into a launching pad for rocket attacks against Israeli  civilians.The only “settlement construction” has essentially related to  natural growth in east Jerusalem and the existing blocs, which will undisputedly  always remain part of Israel. The growth has been to cater for population  expansion and no Palestinians were displaced because of the  construction.Sir Richard Ottaway, chairman of the Foreign Affairs  Committee, who described himself as a long-standing supporter of Israel, said  that a proposed settlement expansion on state land in Gush Etzion “has outraged  me more than anything else in my political life.”Yet the move that so  outraged him, wrongly described as a “land grab,” was approved years ago, and  involved about 2.6 square kilometers of land adjacent to the Green Line, in an  area that shall remain in Israel under any conceivable peace deal, and where no  Palestinians live.Ottaway’s outburst is even more bizarre when viewed in  the context of the ongoing murder of hundreds of thousands of civilians in the  region; five million people who have been transformed into refugees; the  imminent massacre of the Kurds by Islamic State (IS), and the barbaric  atrocities that organization has already committed; not to mention the thousands  of Hamas missiles and terror attacks against Israel.It is hard to grasp  the fact that the British Parliament, with the overwhelming support of the  Labour Party, ironically under the leadership of Ed Miliband, a Jew, could  endorse such a pernicious resolution. It reflects the electoral influence of  Muslim migrants and confirms that anti-Israelism is now embedded in the DNA of  the Left. But above all, it reveals the reality that anti-Semitism has remained  an integral component of British and European society, which is now expressed as  hatred of the Jewish state.Unfortunately, the Obama administration has  failed to fight robustly against this global trend.Secretary of State  John Kerry’s most recent gaffe, at a ceremony marking a Muslim festival when he  again suggested that the Arab-Israeli conflict was a major element in creating  support for IS, was undoubtedly aimed to appease the Arabs and encourage the  Europeans to increase pressure against Israel.Israel must exert great  efforts to present its case, but needs to firmly resist pressures to make  further unilateral concessions which could have devastating long-term  consequences. Fortunately, Israel today is in a stronger position but it must  rely on the ongoing support of the American public and Congress to prevent the  Obama administration from throwing us to the wolves by failing to exercise the  veto at the UN Security Council.There is some light at the end of the  tunnel.The barbaric behavior of Islamic fundamentalists is beginning to  penetrate the consciousness of the Western world, which will hopefully  ultimately recognize that Hamas is indeed a component of the global Islamic  fundamentalist threat.As an afterthought, there are certain parallels in  the current behavior of British Parliament to that of its predecessor prior to  World War II, when it sought to appease Hitler. Had Winston Churchill not  assumed leadership, the Nazis may have conquered the world. When recollecting  how Churchill responded to calls to negotiate with the Nazis, one could also  predict his response to a parliamentarian complaining of lack of proportionality  in striking back at Nazi aggression.
Isi Leibler’s website can be viewed  at www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at ileibler@  leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly speaking: Duplicitous Abbas comes out of the closet</title>
<date>1/10/2014</date>
<content>
Even the few delusional apologists who maintain that Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas is a genuine partner for peace must have been stunned by  his obscene and demagogic address on Rosh Hashana at the United Nations General  Assembly.Abbas, whose 1982 doctoral thesis promoted Holocaust denial,  accused Israel of engaging in genocide, terrorism and apartheid. He condemned  “the racist occupying state” for having “chosen to make it a year of a new war  of genocide perpetrated against the Palestinian people.” He stated that “the  devastation caused by this recent aggression is unmatched in modern times” and  that “in the name of Palestine and its people, I affirm here today: We will not  forget and we will not forgive, and we will not allow war criminals to escape  punishment.”




Significantly, he even reverted to the pre-Oslo Accords  jargon of the radical rejectionists by referring to Israel as the “colonial  occupying power” and other derogatory terms. He promised to “maintain the  traditions of our national struggle established by the Palestinian fedayeen...  in early 1965” – an unequivocal endorsement of terrorism.The speech was  clearly a calculated appeal to the Palestinian street to demonstrate that his  hatred of Israel matched that of Hamas. He was probably also desperate to  refocus attention on the Palestinian issue, which had been relegated to the  sidelines because the world, including Arab countries, is obsessed with the  threat of Islamic State (IS). US President Barack Obama’s address at the General  Assembly even contradicted his previous rigid stance by conceding that “Iraq,  Syria and Libya should cure... the illusion that the Israeli-Palestinian  conflict is the main source of problems in the region.”None of this  should shock us. From the outset, Abbas has consistently followed the policy of  his predecessor. Like Yasser Arafat with Ehud Barak at Camp David, Abbas  rejected the offers of Ehud Olmert in 2008, which would have enabled the  creation of a Palestinian state on 94 percent of the territories formerly  occupied by Jordan.Abbas intensified the demonic hatred of Israel  promoted in Palestinian schools, mosques and the media. His brainwashing bred a  criminal society suffused with hatred, to the point at which proud mothers on  Palestinian state television would exuberantly thank Allah for enabling their  children to become martyrs by murdering Jews, while praying that their remaining  offspring would follow the same path. Only last week, the PA referred to the  murderers of the three Israeli teenagers as “shahids” – martyrs.Abbas  has diverted vast sums of money toward salaries for terrorists in Israeli  prisons and provided state pensions for families of suicide bombers, as well as  generous endowments for released mass murderers, who are sanctified as heroes.  He has honored perpetrators of the most horrific suicide bombings and acts of  terrorism by establishing city squares, football clubs and institutions in their  names.The duplicitous Abbas shares precisely the same goal as Hamas –  the destruction of Israel. Like Arafat, who denied the existence of the Jewish  Temple, he too refutes Jewish links to Israel. But he was savvy enough to  realize that he could tactically achieve far more by theoretically disavowing  violence and employing diplomatic pressure to seek to undo Jewish sovereignty in  stages.The world is willfully blind to his corruption and unperturbed by  the PA’s siphoning off of billions of dollars of international funds designated  to improve the living conditions of Palestinians. Abbas also suspended elections  for four years, aware that the majority of his constituents were likely to  support Hamas because of the PA’s rampant corruption.Until now, Abbas  spoke with a forked tongue, speaking softly and depicting himself as a man of  peace to the West, particularly to America, while simultaneously inciting his  people to vicious hatred.Alas, due to a combination of naiveté and US  pressure, Israel engaged in an Alice in Wonderland charade of lip service to  Abbas as a “moderate” and “peace partner” instead of exposing him as the corrupt  autocrat of a criminal society.One of the most notable Israeli  apologists for Abbas is former president Shimon Peres who, still desperate to  uphold the discredited Oslo Accords, continues to defend him as a moderate peace  partner even when directly confronted with evidence to the contrary.Now  that Abbas has merged the PA with Hamas, despite the fact that until recently  they were still murdering his supporters, he has decided to dispense with his  sugar-coated approach. With the nightmare of Hamastan extending to the 1949  armistice lines, Abbas now realizes that there is no way that Israel will cede  additional territories unless it can be assured of total security – currently  impossible.Thus he has effectively terminated the “peace process” and is  focusing his efforts on delegitimizing Israel and garnering popularity among the  Palestinians by expressing extremist views.Abbas has effectively written  off the Obama administration but is aware that the vast majority of countries  affiliated with the United Nations would even endorse resolutions that the world  was flat if promoted by the 57 members of the Islamic bloc and their allies.  Besides, under the current grotesque circumstances, many European nations will  continue to debase themselves by abstaining from even the most outrageous  anti-Israeli resolutions.However, the bellicose Abbas address enabled  Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to speak at the UN in an uninhibited manner  for the first time, without recourse to the mindless mantras expressing hopes  for cooperation with our “peace partner.”Even the US State Department,  in a rare criticism, condemned Abbas’ speech, saying it “included offensive  characterizations that were deeply disappointing and which we reject” and are  “counterproductive and undermined efforts to create a positive atmosphere and  restore trust between the parties.”It did, however, dissociate the US  from Netanyahu’s equation of Hamas and IS as both representing “branches of the  same poisonous tree.”We should be under no illusions. Abbas has brought  the phony, American-orchestrated peace process to an end. He has effectively  rejected any future negotiations based on providing Israel with security. Aside  from his incendiary libel, by suggesting that Israel accept the ‘right of  return’ of Palestinian refugees, he is blatantly promoting  eliminationism.He will now seek to galvanize the majority of nations –  Islamic countries, Third World countries and rogue states – to intensify efforts  toward delegitimizing and demonizing Israel. This will lead to an active  campaign to criminalize the IDF at the International Criminal Court, and to  impose global sanctions on Israel.But that will only become a real  threat if Abbas obtains the support – or even the abstention of – the United  States and the major European countries.To retain our relationship with  Western countries, Netanyahu must go further than exposing the criminal nature  of Palestinian society, which he did so belatedly but articulately in his  address at the UN General Assembly.Implementing a two-state solution is  currently inconceivable. Even setting aside the fanatical hatred of the PA, a  Palestinian state today would effectively transform the West Bank into  Hamastan.Nor, in light of the repeated total ineptitude of UN  peacekeeping forces, can Israel be expected to delegate security to  international parties.But the overwhelming majority of Israelis do not  wish to annex territories that will ultimately result in millions of additional  Arabs having voting rights and the ability to transform Israel into a binational  state. The government must therefore announce that there is no intention of  annexing Palestinian territories other than the major settlement blocs – less  than 5% of the formerly Jordanian-occupied West Bank – based on demographic  changes. US recognition of the settlement blocs as part of Israel would be  consistent with the commitment that president George W. Bush gave to prime  minister Ariel Sharon in 2004 to encourage the disengagement from  Gaza.The Israeli government should freeze construction other than for  natural growth in areas that are located outside the settlement  blocs.Today we need Western support on a number of critical issues:  preventing the rearming of Hamas; avoiding sanctions; combating the intensified  efforts to demonize and delegitimize Israel; and above all building a coalition  to prevent Iran becoming a nuclear power.Even though it could generate  domestic problems among far-right elements, the government must speak with one  voice and commit itself to a separation from the Palestinians if and when there  shall be a genuine peace partner. In the interim, it will seek to improve the  living standards of Palestinians in the West Bank.Netanyahu must convey  the unequivocal message that Israel’s objective is to live in peace with its  neighbors, and it is only legitimate security concerns and a lack of a peace  partner that prevent us from moving forward immediately with a  separation.If that can be communicated to the US and Western countries,  the defamatory outburst by Abbas at the General Assembly could prove to have  well served our cause.
The author’s website can be viewed at  www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at  ileibler@leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly Speaking: Further ugly vibes from the Obama administration</title>
<date>9/6/2014</date>
<content>
The gloves are off. The White House has now unequivocally designated Israel as the scapegoat and is meting out punishment for the disastrous outcome of the peace negotiations it initiated.The process began in March when President Barack Obama publicly lambasted Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu in a brutal and offensive manner the day before their scheduled meeting in Washington. It climaxed last week when the White House reneged on its commitment to Israel, announcing that it would continue business as usual with the new PA government after the merger with the genocidal Hamas, the terrorist organization which remains utterly committed to the destruction of Israel.




Prior to this, administration spokesmen had been campaigning behind the scenes to undermine the standing of Israel with the American public. That Israel had frozen settlement construction for nine months and conceded to an abhorrent release of Palestinian terrorists with blood on their hands were facts they simply ignored. Conversely, the Palestinian refusal to make a single concession or agree under any circumstances to an end of conflict was rarely mentioned.Even following the announcement of the PA-Hamas union, Secretary of State John Kerry continued blaming Israel, making bizarre predictions about it becoming an “apartheid state,” which followed his earlier warnings of an impending “third intifada” and “international boycotts” – all of which he subsequently retracted.Kerry’s views were echoed by his envoy, Martin Indyk, whose feral hatred of Netanyahu should have disqualified him from assuming any mediating role. When Netanyahu agreed to the wretched terrorist release, he made it clear to both the US and the PA that construction in the settlements would resume. Yet, in a series of “background” and open briefings, Indyk laid the primary blame for the collapse of the peace negotiations on Israel for having announced building tenders for 700 homes, not in some obscure or isolated settlement, but in Gilo, a suburb existing for over 40 years in the heart of Jewish east Jerusalem. And so it was that this “provocative action,” the “poof” which scuttled negotiations, became the basis for the US administration’s condemnation of Israel.To make matters worse, unsubstantiated allegations were circulated that Israel was engaging in massive espionage activity against the United States. Despite angry disclaimers from Netanyahu and leading government officials, the administration failed to refute the charges, which were even used to justify denying Israel eligibility for the US Visa Waiver Program.However, with Obama’s current catastrophic ratings and the impending congressional elections, it was assumed – mistakenly – that at least in the short term, the White House would avoid a frontal confrontation and merely give the Europeans the wink to intensify the pressure.But the administration shocked Israel by accepting the new PA-Hamas government even before the consummation of the union. This was in flagrant breach of former undertakings, a betrayal of its long-standing ally by announcing disingenuously that it would work with the new PA- Hamas government, as long as it “abides by the principles mandated by the US.” Yet, far from renouncing terror, Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal boasted that “the reconciliation will actually consolidate the resistance... from one of intifada to another until the liberation of Palestine.”The US initiative was clearly designed to pave the way for Israel’s further global isolation. It was immediately endorsed by the European Union, the United Nations, the UK and France and of course China, Russia and India all of whom praised the union as an important step toward “Palestinian reconciliation.”AIPAC, the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations and other Jewish agencies immediately condemned the “charade” stressing that “US law expressly prohibits funding to a Palestinian government in which Hamas participates.”They urged Congress to conduct a review of assistance to the PA and ensure implementation of the law denying support to the PA if it cooperated or bonded with Hamas.There were senior lawmakers – Democrats as well as Republicans – who also condemned the move and insisted that the Palestinian anti-terror act passed in 2006 specifically precludes the US government from funding any government in which Hamas is involved or exercises influence.Although there is no certainty that Congress will, in the short term, force the White House to back down, US public opinion unquestionably opposes the Obama policy. Despite the hostility generated by the anti-Israeli liberal media, opinion polls all indicate record levels of support for Israel among the American people. The most recent, conducted last month by Paragon Insights on behalf of the Israel Project, showed that a two-to-one majority blames the Palestinians for the breakdown in negotiations and agrees that Israel cannot be expected to deal with a PA which merges with genocidal Hamas terrorists.Over recent months, Congress has also displayed a lack of confidence in the Obama administration’s lack of accountability and transparency in foreign relations. This has created major tension, particularly among Democrats who do not wish to be obliged to choose between abandoning their president or supporting Israel.That is the reason why Democrat Senator Robert Menendez, head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and a powerful supporter of Israel, temporarily withdrew the US Israel Strategic Partnership Act from the agenda. He did so out of concern that an amendment, introduced by Republican Bob Corker reflecting congressional distrust of the president’s handling of nuclear talks with Iran and demanding greater accountability, could create major splits in the ranks of the Democrats.The bill, which designated Israel as a “strategic partner” and had already been passed in the House of Representatives by 410 to one, was designed to expand US weapons stockpiles in Israel and extend areas of joint US-Israel collaboration in areas such as energy, water and homeland security.Ultimately a compromise will be found, but this behavior reflects the turmoil – even among President Obama’s Democratic supporters – concerning the administration’s appeasement of the Iranians and pressure against Israel.In the meantime, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act, which included major boosts for Israel’s missile- defense programs as well as sections highlighting concern about negotiations with the Iranians, on a bipartisan majority of 325 to 98.It is indicative of the direction in which the wind is blowing when potential presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, in her new memoir, signals her disapproval of President Obama’s policies when referring to the “tactical error” in trying to “enforce a hardline on settlements.”She also criticized Obama’ Iranian policy, telling a gathering of the American Jewish Committee: “I personally am skeptical that the Iranians will follow through and deliver... No deal is better than a bad deal.”After the November midterm elections, the president will increasingly become a lame duck and with the onset of primaries and campaigning for the next presidential election, there is every probability that the Senate and Congress will act against Obama if he makes further excessive demands on Israel or totally capitulates to the Iranians.However, it should be noted that, despite the Obama administration’s harsh political behavior toward Israel, it has in fact strengthened the crucial US-Israel defense relationship.Israel must weather the remainder of Obama’s presidential term, diplomatically balancing resistance to the negative pressures without severing its crucial relationship with the US. It should simultaneously seek to further strengthen the public support it currently enjoys among the American people and throughout Congress.
The writer’s website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com. He may be contacted at ileibler@leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly speaking: The fake ‘martyrdom’ of J Street</title>
<date>8/5/2014</date>
<content>
Despite widespread predictions to the contrary, J Street failed dismally to gain admission into the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations (Presidents Conference). It was unable to obtain the constitutionally required two-thirds majority, and could not even muster a simple majority. Only a third of the constituents supported its affiliation.An embittered J Street and its allies have launched a campaign seeking to portray the organization as a martyr, claiming it was blackballed by a fanatically rightwing Jewish establishment which is blindly supportive of Israel, brooks no dissent in its ranks and is effectively a bigoted, reactionary body undermining the pluralism and tolerance of the American Jewish community. The reality is that the Presidents Conference also includes left-wing organizations such as Americans for Peace Now, Ameinu and the Jewish Labor Committee. It is also noteworthy that Rabbi Meir Kahane’s right-wing Jewish Defense League was previously excluded.




There have even been false allegations that the voting was rigged. In fact, J Street was given a fair hearing and overwhelmingly rejected by a majority of organizations, many of whom were neither right-wing nor Orthodox.The most vocal condemnation of the exclusion came from Rabbi Richard Jacobs, head of the Union of Reform Judaism – a former member of the J Street Board of Rabbis – who even threatened to withdraw the Reform movement from the Presidents Conference.Yet, were he to do so, this would create a schism within his own movement. One need only read the recent moving appeal by Rabbi Richard Block, president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis (Reform), calling on rabbis to express solidarity rather than continuously criticize Israel, to appreciate that Rabbi Jacobs’ enthusiastic support of J Street would not be endorsed by all his colleagues and constituency.His criticisms were endorsed by Rabbi Julie Schonfeld, executive vice president of the Conservative movement’s Rabbinical Assembly, who described the vote as “misguided and destructive.” Yet, in the same breath, she conceded that she had “painfully witnessed” rabbis in her own movement facing searing criticism from members for having joined the J Street “rabbinic cabinet.”What was the justification for excluding J Street from the Jewish mainstream umbrella organization? Was it, as J Street would have us believe, an intolerant expression of prevailing bigotry, a fear of engaging in dialogue, an attempt to deny freedom of expression to a dissenting minority, an effort to enforce conformity and exclude dissidents from the “big tent” of the Jewish community? Nobody is seeking to suppress the right of J Street to express its views – which receive media coverage far in excess of its standing and influence within the Jewish community. Nor is there fear of engaging in dialogue and debate with J Street. On the contrary, I recollect that a few years ago during a visit to New York, when invited to participate in a TV debate, J Street informed the compère that it refused to share a platform with me.The crux of the issue, which has distressed many well-intentioned people, is the confused belief that the community has a moral obligation to encompass all viewpoints in the “big tent” and that this was breached by excluding this purportedly “pro-Israel, pro-peace,” liberal, humanistic organization.This presupposes that an organization primarily created with the express purpose of serving as a vehicle to express support for Israel should take under its umbrella organizations committed to opposing its raison d’etre.Most committed Jews believe in the centrality of Israel in Jewish life. They also recognize that as a matter of decency, Diaspora Jews should recognize that issues relating to security should be determined exclusively by Israelis, as these decisions could have life and death repercussions for them and their children.The Presidents Conference has respected this status, irrespective of the political composition of the democratically elected government of Israel and despite its constituents spanning the broad political spectrum from Americans for Peace Now to the hawkish ZOA.Despite J Street allegations to the contrary, the Presidents Conference also steadfastly endorses a two-state policy. AIPAC is the most proactive organization promoting the case for Israel on a ground level and can take most of the credit for the bipartisan Congressional support that Israel currently enjoys. One of J Street’s principal objectives is to undermine AIPAC by maliciously and falsely labeling it an “extreme right-wing organization,” even accusing it of generating anti-Semitism by its “one-sided support for Israel,” creating hostile feelings that American Jews harbor dual loyalties.When J Street describes itself as “pro-peace, pro-Israel,” it is simply engaging in Orwellian doubletalk. In reality, it is actively campaigning to encourage the US government to exert greater pressure on the democratically elected government of Israel. It has the chutzpah to insist that it knows better than Israelis what is good for them, and that they should be treated with “tough love.”To cite a few examples of J Street’s bizarre “pro-Israel” initiatives: • During the IDF’s Operation Cast Lead, J Street described Israel’s action as an “escalation” that was “counterproductive” and “disproportionate.” It ascribed moral equivalence to both sides, finding difficulty in distinguishing “between who is right and who is wrong” and “picking a side.”• Despite its self-designated “pro-Israel” tag, J Street actively canvasses for and raises millions of dollars to fund anti-Israeli Congressional candidates.• J Street claims to oppose Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions, but invites pro-BDS groups to promote their case at its conferences.• A co-founder of J Street, Daniel Levy, is on record describing Israel’s creation as “an act that went wrong.”• J Street collaborated with the biased UN Goldstone Committee which accused Israel of engaging in war crimes. It even facilitated meetings on Capitol Hill for Goldstone to promote his wretched, now discredited, report.• For a long time, J Street totally opposed any sanctions against Iran. It now lobbies against promoting the threat of military action.• In 2011 J Street actively canvassed the White House not to veto a one-sided UN Security Council resolution condemning Israel.• J Street described the behavior of IDF commandos on the Mavi Marmara Gaza flotilla ship as “cruel brutality.”• J Street encourages its campus extension to promote discredited anti-Israeli groups like “Breaking the Silence” which promote lies about alleged IDF war crimes.• It opposed a 2011 congressional petition condemning Palestinian incitement.• J Street refuses to condemn the recent PA-Hamas deal.• Most recently, it defended US Secretary of State John Kerry’s offensive remarks that Israel could become “an apartheid state.”• Until it was conclusively exposed, J Street leader Jeremy Ben-Ami lied repeatedly to conceal that George Soros, the vicious anti-Israeli financier, was and still is one of the principal funders of J Street. There are also other donors with questionable political interests.It is surely undeniable that J Street is in fact canvassing and promoting anti-Israeli initiatives while castigating and seeking to undermine the policies of the democratically elected government of Israel. If J Street’s self-description as “pro-Israel” is to be accepted, we must truly be living in wonderland.Reform leader Rabbi Jacobs says that there should be “no litmus test of ideological orientation” applied to candidates for the Presidents Conference. Under such terms Jews for Jesus and the Neturei Karta sect would presumably also qualify for membership.Rather than sanctimoniously castigating the majority of organizations who voted to reject J Street, Rabbi Jacobs and Rabbi Schonfeld should consider reviewing their own educational programs, which seem to lead many of their rabbis toward supporting anti-Zionist leftists who demonize the Jewish state. They should concentrate on educating youngsters about the values and achievements of the Jewish state and its central role for the future of the Jewish people. Bringing organizations which display constant hostility to Israel into a mainstream umbrella body committed to promoting Israel would not widen the Jewish tent. It would destroy it.The writer’s website can be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com.
He may be contacted at ileibler@leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly speaking: The insanity of providing platforms for our enemies</title>
<date>4/3/2014</date>
<content>
Anti-Zionist charades from  the far-left-wing American Jewish community are now a daily occurrence. We  witness the manipulations of the reprehensible BDS movement, J Street’s efforts  to encourage the US administration to pressure Israel, and the frequent hosting  by universities of radical anti-Israel speakers. As disturbing as these  developments have been, we have tended to discount them as the workings of the  radical Left.But now, American Jewish anti-Zionists are engaged in an  aggressive campaign to gain acceptance by the mainstream Jewish community. In  the name of freedom of expression and open dialogue, radical Jewish liberals and  well-heeled Jewish armchair progressives are pressuring Jewish organizations to  provide platforms for those engaged in vicious efforts to demonize and  delegitimize the Jewish state. Their efforts are being enthusiastically promoted  by the increasingly anti-Israeli liberal media, especially The New York  Times.




There is an Alice in Wonderland element to this situation. It  ignores the fact that the Jewish people and Israel are confronted with genocidal  adversaries whose barbaric behavior toward their own people leave no illusions  as to what they would do to us in the absence of the IDF. It overlooks the  reality that anti-Semitism (primarily promoted under the cloak of  anti-Israelism) is the greatest political growth industry, and now even  reminiscent of the medieval anti-Semitism which blamed the Jews for all the  natural disasters of mankind.Until recently the United States was one of  the few countries where this did not apply, aside from the far Left and on  campus.However, there is now an effort to legitimize attitudes which, in  the past, would never have been countenanced in reputable Jewish quarters. This  campaign is not about legitimate criticism of Israeli policies, in which we all  indulge. It relates to liberal Jewish intellectuals, literati and even rabbis  providing legitimacy to those demonizing the country, and even justifying BDS  (boycott, divestment, sanctions).This manifested itself last year when  the venerable 92nd St. Y, the Jewish nonprofit community and cultural center,  invited author Alice Walker and musician Roger Waters. Both are outspoken BDS  supporters.Walker has refused to authorize the translation of her works  into Hebrew and Waters has performed openly anti-Semitic programs, including  releasing a pig-shaped balloon painted with a Star of David in a 2013 concert.  Following mass protests, the Y withdrew both invitations, but its initial offer  signaled a new initiative to open doors to anti-Zionists and even anti-Semites  in conventional Jewish venues.Last month, the New York Jewish Museum  invited the prominent anti-Zionist and BDS supporter Judith Butler to speak.  While the topic was Franz Kafka – not an Israel-related subject – this  invitation provided a major Jewish platform to an anti-Israel  fanatic.One wonders whether Leon Wieseltier, The New Republic literary  editor, who sanctimoniously proclaimed that “Judith Butler’s misguided views  should not disqualify her from speaking on Kafka,” would also have endorsed a  Jewish organization inviting Hitler’s chief architect, Albert Speer, to address  its audience, if his subject had been limited to architecture.Around the  same time, the Museum of Jewish Heritage, a New York Holocaust museum, invited,  disinvited and re-invited author and editor John Judis to lecture on his recent  book, Genesis: Truman, American Jews and the Origins of the Arab/Israeli  Conflict. The book is an anti-Zionist diatribe promoting the Palestinian  narrative and condemning president Truman for having endorsed the Zionist  enterprise and establishing a Jewish “settler colonial” state.Now  Hillel, the Jewish campus organization, is undergoing an upheaval over who can  be invited to speak to its audiences. A number of branches declared themselves  “Open Hillels” in protest to the guidelines laid down by Hillel president Eric  Fingerhut, who issued a prohibition against collaboration with speakers or  groups that demonize or support the delegitimization or boycott of the Jewish  state.But the most bizarre example of communal nihilism was the recent  crisis at Ramaz, the prestigious Orthodox Jewish high school on Manhattan’s  Upper East Side, where tuition fees can reach close to $40,000 per  annum.“Pro-peace pro-Israel” activist Peter Beinart had the gall to  boast that he had personally persuaded the Ramaz student body to invite Columbia  University Professor Rashid Khalidi to address them. Khalidi is a former PLO  spokesman and probably the most influential voice within American academia  savaging Israel. The purported objectives of the invitation were “to promote  open dialogue” and “give the student body the opportunity to hear an outside  perspective.”Not surprisingly, the principal, Paul Shaviv, intervened  and rescinded the invitation – but 250 students subsequently signed petitions  demanding that the invitation be reinstated.One must ask whether, in  their desperation to demonstrate their “open-mindedness” and “fairness” to the  non-Jewish liberal establishment, students and parents supporting this petition  have lost their minds. How else can one explain parents of an Orthodox Jewish  school plunging to the depths of demanding that the school provide a platform  for a PLO spokesman promoting boycott and delegitimization and accusing Israel  of war crimes and practicing apartheid? Would these parents and students of  Ramaz have supported the invitation of a diplomatic representative of the Soviet  Union in the 1970s to promote the case for Zionism equals racism? Would they  tolerate the presence of anti-Semites such as David Duke or others who endorse  white supremacy, racism or fascism? If not, why object to excluding an academic  notorious for demonizing and delegitimizing the Jewish state? Do they consider  demonizers of Israel and supporters of BDS more kosher than other racists? The  media had a field day. The New York Times provided extensive exposure to the  “rifts” within the Jewish community and the efforts by the Jewish establishment  to deny freedom of expression to dissidents and nonconformists.Haaretz  published an article by Peter Beinart, who stooped to the level of invoking the  revered name of Rabbi Joseph B Soloveitchik and accusing Ramaz of failing to  maintain the rabbi’s “Torah U’Madda” (Torah and Worldly Knowledge) philosophy,  preposterously implying that by seeking dialogue with someone promoting the  demonization of Israel, the Ramaz students were fulfilling the rabbi’s  mission.These misguided initiatives by museums, universities and  religious schools have met with a chorus of support by Jewish liberals. Jewish  sociologist Stephen M. Cohen said, “I think it’s good for Zionism to have the  full range of Jewish opinion and those of our adversaries represented.” Former  director of the Jewish Community Council of Greater Washington, Rabbi Sid  Schwartz, lambasted Hillel for its pro-Israel stand, stating, “we have become a  community that is scared of the truth, and we have allowed intimidation and  censorship to take the place of civility and respect for divergent  views.”The reality is that this has nothing to with freedom of  expression. It is about the relentless surge of anti-Semitism which has assumed  the form of anti-Zionism. Ramaz students, like all Diaspora Jews, are bombarded  by hostile anti-Israeli onslaughts.Khalidi’s works are part of an  enormous body of anti-Israel literature which everyone can easily access without  providing such an inveterate enemy of Israel with a Jewish platform.A  recent Gallup poll disclosed that, notwithstanding the fact that the current US  administration has often been at loggerheads with Israel and despite emerging  strains at the far-left fringes of the Democratic Party, support for Israel is  at an all-time high – with 72 percent of Americans expressing a favorable view  of the Jewish state. This is reflected in bipartisan congressional support,  which restrains the administration.But if the Jewish community is to  bring Jewish renegades into the Jewish tent and invite those committed to  promoting BDS and delegitimizing Israel to share its platforms, it will be  sending ominous signals and paving the way for the erosion of the American  public’s current positive attitude towards Israel.The campaign to bring  these renegade elements into the Jewish mainstream is being orchestrated by a  small, determined, noisy and well-organized minority.The leadership of  the major Jewish organizations must not remain silent. They must stand up and be  counted on this issue. Otherwise, they will fail in their leadership  responsibilities and resurrect the image of the “trembling Israelite” leaders of  the Roosevelt era. The vast majority of committed Jews remains strongly  supportive of Israel and will back its leadership if it stands up and firmly  rejects the legitimization of Jewish renegades.The writer’s website can  be viewed at www.wordfromjerusalem.com.
He may be contacted at  ileibler@leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Candidly speaking: The Obama administration’s unprecedented outburst against Israel</title>
<date>7/10/2014</date>
<content>
The exceptionally vicious US condemnation of Israel with regard to housing  construction in the Jewish neighborhoods of Jerusalem is not merely misguided,  but also reflects irrational bias.Incidentally, this behavior also has  many ominous parallels to the inhumane incarceration of Jonathan Pollard,  despite pleas for the commutation of his sentence from all sectors of American  society.




The harsh outburst relates to a 2,600-unit housing project  planned as an extension of an exclusively Jewish neighborhood adjacent to the  suburb of Talpiot and Kibbutz Ramat Rahel, both within the Green Line. It  incorporates primarily barren land on which Ethiopian and Russian immigrants had  been housed temporarily in mobile homes. Highly significant – but a fact that is  ignored – is that nearly half of the construction was designated to provide  housing for Arabs. Construction permits were approved two years ago, but it was  the far-left group Peace Now that saw fit to highlight the issue in a press  release on the eve of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s meeting with US  President Barack Obama in a calculated effort to embarrass the prime minister  and provoke tension.The successive statements by both the White House  and State Department spokesmen must be considered among the most bitterly  prejudiced and unbalanced condemnations of Israel ever expressed by the US. They  make a mockery of repeated claims by the Obama administration that it considers  Israel to be a close ally.White House spokesman Josh Earnest stated,  “This development will only draw condemnation from the international community,  distance Israel from even its closest allies, poison the atmosphere, not only  with the Palestinians, but also with the very Arab governments with which Prime  Minister Netanyahu said he wanted to build relations.”US State  Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki took it even a step further and said that these  construction plans would “call into question Israel’s ultimate commitment to a  peaceful negotiated settlement with the Palestinians.” This outrageous remark  will be seen as an attempt by Obama to reassure Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas that he would still stand by the Palestinians, despite  condemnation of Abbas’ disgusting UN speech, which was also a slap in the face  of the US This was clearly a crafted position. The US is fully aware that the  location of this construction is in the heart of Jerusalem’s Jewish  neighborhoods and will always remain under Jewish sovereignty. It also  conveniently overlooks the fact that this particular project was to include Arab  housing.To compound matters, the administration also condemned the  legitimate purchase of seven residential homes by Jews in the Silwan  neighborhood of Jerusalem. In so doing the Obama administration is endorsing the  PA’s policy of preventing Jews from buying homes in Arab-populated areas of  Jerusalem. This, despite the fact that Arabs live freely among Jews in west  Jerusalem and throughout Israel. The US is therefore validating the “Judenrein”  ethnic cleansing policies of Abbas, who had the gall to accuse Israel of being  an apartheid state in his recent belligerent UN address.The US  statements unequivocally exhort other countries – including Israel’s “closest  allies” – to condemn Israel over this routine municipal construction which,  contrary to utterly uninformed allegations, in no way undermines a two-state  solution.Not surprisingly, they have already been echoed by individual  European countries and the European Union, which also called “into question  Israel’s commitment to a peaceful negotiated settlement.”They went so  far as to convey the message to moderate Arab states that Israel is “poisoning  the atmosphere,” discouraging them from reciprocating Netanyahu’s efforts to  reach out and develop a new relationship with them.The bitter attack on  Israel for construction in the Jewish neighborhoods of its own capital is unique  not only because of the disproportionate ferocity of this public condemnation of  an ally, but also when viewed in the broader context. Setting aside the Gaza war  and the histrionic attacks against Israel by Abbas at the UN General Assembly,  it is impossible to comprehend such a reaction against the backdrop of regional  events. Entire countries – Iraq and Syria – are imploding; literally millions  have been displaced from their homes and become refugees; over 200,000 were  murdered in Syria alone; barbaric decapitations of innocent people which are  publicly circulated on the Internet. Yet, it is against the background of this  maelstrom that the US sees fit to condemn and isolate its most devoted ally, the  sole democratic state in the region and the only place where chaos does not  prevail. Why? Because two years ago, the municipality of its capital, Jerusalem,  approved a housing project in a Jewish neighborhood (which would also provide  housing for Arab residents).The irrationality and severity of these  rebukes of Israel, encouraging other “friends” to join in the condemnation,  suggests that Obama remains obsessively determined to force Israel to adopt his  approach. And this, despite the events of recent months and his own admission in  his UN speech that he had hitherto erred in asserting that the  Israeli-Palestinian conflict was a major impediment to regional  stability.No responsible Israeli government could ever contemplate  acquiescing to such demands. We must never apologize for building homes in  Jewish Jerusalem and there is an element of insanity in the US condemning us for  doing so.Netanyahu speaks on this matter on behalf of the entire nation.  This is not the approach of a particular government. It reflects the consensus –  other than the extreme left-wing Meretz and marginal post-Zionist groups. This  is a time for us to stand up and be counted. Opposition leader MK Isaac Herzog  should speak up as a genuine Labor Zionist leader and state that his party is at  one with the government regarding construction in Jerusalem.Should he  fail to do so, he will be turning his back on the Labor Zionist ideals of  Israel’s founders and his Labor party will become a discredited, delusional  left-wing marginal group.The response of the American Jewish leadership  is also crucial. They have until now displayed a reticence to respond publicly  to biased statements on Israel expressed by Obama. But this will put them to the  test. If the leaders fail to speak out against such a vicious attack, which  effectively encourages other countries to join in exerting pressure on Israel,  it will be perceived as dramatic erosion of their political influence and their  community standing.The American Israel Public Affairs Committee should  now actively launch a public information campaign, speak out robustly about  Israel’s rights in Jerusalem and make a concerted effort to canvass support from  members of Congress.If Obama can behave in such a contemptuous manner  towards Israel five weeks before congressional elections, one is left with a  chilling feeling that we may see even more unfortunate initiatives during the  remaining term of office of this president who seeks to distance himself from  Israel as he simultaneously engages with rogue states and appears determined to  rehabilitate Iran.The author’s website can be viewed at  www.wordfromjerusalem.
com. He may be contacted at ileibler@ leibler.com.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center field: Jewish studies scholars shouldn’t whitewash campus Israel-bashing</title>
<date>7/10/2014</date>
<content>
I am confused.  Forty top Jewish Studies professors recently signed a petition “deplor[ing]” a  threat to “the kind of spirited academic exchange that is the lifeblood of the  university.” What so infuriated these academics? It wasn’t Israel-apartheid  weeks. It wasn’t epidemic classroom anti-Israel bias. It wasn’t the fears many  Jewish students have of being bullied this fall for supporting  Israel.No, the professors were criticizing a group called the Amcha  Initiative, the purpose of which is to “monitor centers for Middle Eastern  studies on American campuses.... Amcha has also circulated a list of more than  200 Middle Eastern studies faculty whom it urges Jewish students and others to  avoid because, it asserts, they espouse anti-Zionist and even anti-Semitic  viewpoints in their classrooms.”




As a lowly American historian, I am not  as smart as these petitioners. But does the big threat to academic freedom come  from a minor organization fighting campus anti-Semitism too passionately? Their  worries seem misplaced, like warning firefighters confronting a 12-alarm fire  that leaking hoses cause water damage.I share some of the petitioners’  concerns. The scholar’s mission is to seek the truth boldly, wherever it leads.  We need open classrooms and campuses, where issues are debated honestly,  substantively, civilly. Having devoted their smarts and their souls to making  Jewish Studies embody academic excellence, they must be devastated to see their  corner of the academic world threatened by bullying and boycotting. The charged  atmosphere around Israel risks clouding every lecture they give, every paper  they write, every student interaction they have.Both the attacks and  counterattacks have a “chilling effect.”Unfortunately, my colleagues’  unfair allegations against a minor player obscured the real problem and culprits  – the many anti-Israel attackers, not the few counterattackers. Their skewed  vision and perverse priorities failed our students who need their  leadership.Amcha appears to be mostly a one-woman show.Tammi  Rossman-Benjamin, a Hebrew language teacher at the University of California,  Santa Cruz endured anti-Israel hostility that occasionally degenerated into  anti-Semitism. Feeling abandoned by colleagues, she now fights the campus  culture of contempt that all too regularly targets Israel.We need  balance. Few campuses are burning.Some defenders are too quick to brand  Israel’s critics as anti-Semitic. But totalitarian Israel-bashing has become too  trendy on many campuses. Hysterics exaggerate the troubles; fools ignore  them.The petition unfairly accuses Amcha of “launch[ing] a boycott  initiative of its own.” Amcha outed professors who advocate boycotting Israel.  As of last week, the list was posted without commentary.Rossman-Benjamin  told reporters that students “may want to check which faculty members from the  university are signatories before registering.”That’s “buyer beware,”  not boycotting.The petition claims Amcha’s “technique of monitoring  lectures, symposia and conferences strains the basic principle of academic  freedom.” Really? In this age of consumerist students, tendentious colleagues  and intrusive Internet, academic life is all about monitoring, more elegantly  labeled assessing, rating, evaluating. Every word I utter, every word I write is  scrutinized, intellectually, politically and stylistically. And whereas once,  judgments circulated through informal networks of student and professorial  gossip, today, we “Rate my Professors” on a million blogs.Much of this  monitoring is healthy; some is libelous; much is sophomoric. Students have a  right to assess my teaching, sift for bias, and share those concerns. I don’t  fear the scrutiny.The Middle East Studies’ hostility to Israel is so  systemic many Jewish Studies professors helped establish Israel Studies as a  separate discipline. A colleague of mine who is critical of Israel nevertheless  denounces the “Whodunnitism” that reduces Middle East scholars into anti-Israel  prosecutors.The petitioners’ coy assertion that their universities offer  “a broad array of courses dealing with Israel and Palestinian affairs” ignores  the assaults against academic freedom anti-Israel professorial thugs commit  regularly.In hiding the real problem from the public and targeting  Amcha, the petitioners rendered invisible and let down those students – Jewish  and non-Jewish – who question skewed syllabi caricaturing Israel as a villain,  who feel intimidated when professors celebrate Palestinian terrorism, who squirm  when forced to enter class through an anti-Israel “apartheid” wall treating the  Arab-Israeli conflict as a racial conflict rather than a national  clash.These educators invalidated the pain of the two Berklee College of  Music students called “Zionazi whores” this summer, and the many students over  the years who have told me of being humiliated by professors for defending  Israel in class. A balanced letter could have acknowledged this pervasive  problem and criticized any Amcha excessiveness they disliked. The missive’s  one-sidedness – and the fact that this was the issue that finally mobilized  these heavy-hitters – reveals a stunning insensitivity to the problem’s true  dimensions.I wonder: Why this overheated letter demonizing Amcha rather  than a balanced letter tackling the bigger problem? Why not an open letter to  the university community, calling for calm, reassuring nervous students from all  camps, and condemning classroom indoctrination and intimidation? Why not launch  a serious initiative to counter educational malpractice, encouraging professors  of all disciplines to stop turning classroom podiums into political platforms?  Launching this initiative instead feels like a pathetic attempt to curry favor,  to appear politically correct on the eve of what may be a stormy  year.Rather than teaching the university community how to be good,  open-minded scholars while having passionate political beliefs if they wish,  rather than showing students how to defy academic trendiness, they preferred  this empty posture – which might appear courageous in faculty lounges, but  isn’t. Pretending the anti-Israel pile-on doesn’t exist enables the  bullies.Fortunately, an easy remedy exists. The 40 profs are already  networking with one another. I challenge them to issue a follow-up petition that  shows the way toward combining civility, objectivity and political passion. If  these caring deep thinkers can find the right formula, they will be doing a  service for all of us, on campus and off.The author is professor of  history at McGill University and will be a visiting professor at the IDC  Herzliya this fall. The author of eight books on American history, his latest,,  Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight Against Zionism as Racism, was published by  Oxford University Press.
CENTER FIELD • By GIL TROY STUDENTS CALL for the  boycott of Israel. (Reuters
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center Field: Netanyahu, remember Zionist Can-do-ism rejects Status-quo-ism</title>
<date>14/1/2014</date>
<content>
I had an unnerving experience last Thursday. Scanning Haaretz’s editorial  page, bracing for my daily dose of hysterical Israel-bashing and false  “apartheid” libels, I agreed with the three major points argued.





Yes, “price-tag” attacks are despicable.Yes, the  government’s approach toward African migrants is unacceptable. And, yes,  Israel’s passivity regarding peace is lamentable.The day’s editorial,  “Fight the ‘price tag’ attacks,” correctly demanded a crackdown on hooligans  harassing innocent Palestinians.Of course, being Haaretz, it overlooked  Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon’s denunciation of price-tag attacks as  “terrorist” acts.Similarly, I agreed with the title of Ravit Hecht’s  op-ed about African migrants, “A Disgrace to Jewish Ethics.” Unfortunately, in  blasting “xenophobia,” “dehumanization” and “paranoia-ridden racists,” her  rhetoric turned “Haaretzificacious” – a word I coined to mean “unnecessarily  shrill, exaggerated attacks on Israel or Zionism.”Still, the  government’s approach to African migrant workers violates Jewish, Zionist and  democratic ethics. The ugly word “infiltrators” should be banned from our  lexicon when discussing desperate human beings seeking better lives. And I  reject Interior Minister Gideon Sa’ar’s cowardly claim that “having 50,000  infiltrators from Africa is dangerous” – are we that fragile? The government  finally, belatedly, started managing the problem by building a southern fence.  Nations have the right to control their borders. Israel shares the challenge of  illegal workers with other democracies, including the US, regarding what to do  with individuals who cannot be shipped back to their own countries like cargo en  masse. Israel should acknowledge that many of these migrants take jobs Israelis  should be willing to do, but often disdain.I understand the fears  regarding the crime-ridden, chaotic immigrant neighborhoods.But that  does not justify Sa’ar’s hysteria. Hearing a leader of a country with 8,132,000  citizens – including over 6 million Jews – panic about a community that  constitutes barely half a percent of his population is too “galuty” – Diasporic  – for me.By contrast, in 1975, when Vietnamese Boat People wandered the  seas, Israel’s new prime minister, Menachem Begin, remembered how 900 Jews on  the St. Louis wandered the seas “crying out for refuge. They were refused...  Therefore, it was natural that my first act as prime minister was to give those  people a haven in the land of Israel.”Rather than demonizing or  deporting these migrants, we should exploit our mutual interests: they want good  lives and we want good workers. Let’s make their neighborhoods laboratories to  demonstrate democracy’s redemptive power. Let’s replicate the legendary hi-tech  entrepreneur Yossi Vardi’s Bialik-Rogozin school project, which transformed a  dangerous, dysfunctional Tel Aviv school filled with children from dozens of  countries into a safe, supportive learning community for future Israelis.  Similarly, Israel should help these migrants find work, develop skills, educate  their children, build constructive lives.With the flood of migrants now  stemmed thanks to the fence, Israel should grant remaining migrants three-year  temporary visas, while creating a long-term absorption track for refugees who  choose to remain and an easy exit for those returning home. Israel could lead  Western democracies to a new, more enlightened policy of tough borders but soft  landings – keeping outsiders out without crushing those who have made it in. If  done properly, these migrants can be law-abiding, ambitious and productive  workers – as my Polish-born great-grandfather was in America – not “dangerous  infiltrators.”Our leaders too often forget that Zionism once entailed  revolutionary activism, not status-quo-ism, improving reality with idealistic  visions balanced by pragmatic cando realism. Zionism verified Einstein’s (Arik,  not Albert) theorem: “You and I can change the world” was a policy guideline,  not a soothing cliché.Eulogizing Ariel Sharon, George W.Bush’s  adviser, Elliot Abrams, wisely observed: “Bush liked Sharon for many of the same  reasons he liked Tony Blair or John Howard in Australia: They were people who  got themselves elected not to enjoy life, but to accomplish things.”That  need to lead explains my third point of agreement with last week’s Haaretz  op-eds. Both Ari Shavit and Roy Isacowitz chided the government’s drift as John  Kerry brings his peace processes. Shavit said, “Israel must be the one to reach  out in peace, even if the chances are high that Israel’s outstretched arm will  be rejected.”Isacowitz called Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s  statement that he has “no solution” to the Palestinian problem “an astounding  admission.”Psychologists teach that depressed people often lack dream  recall. Israel cannot afford to act depressed, alternately aggressive then  listless, bullying weak migrants then bullied by Americans into a peace treaty.  Israel is too great a country to be dragged into peace negotiations looking like  a reluctant kindergartner forced to shake hands with a wilder playmate. Israel’s  leaders must start dreaming again – and take control – applying that Zionist  cando- ism mixing idealism and pragmatism that has long sustained this unlikely  little miracle democracy in such a nasty neighborhood.Taking decisive  action against the pricetag terrorists while solving the migrant issue  creatively can advance the peace process, by rebuilding Israelis’ confidence in  our power to improve reality while nurturing trust in this government to reform  effectively. Power is a muscle. As the government flexes it successfully, it  will grow – and become generally useful. Israel does not need a prime minister  governing like a Chicago ward heeler, simply appeasing coalition members. Israel  needs a leader using his “bully pulpit” to inspire Israelis while laying  groundwork the adjustments a compromise will require.Israel’s leader  must lead. Netanyahu should lead with poetry, creativity and vision. He should  lead by fighting terrorists, domestic and foreign. He should lead by  transforming the “infiltrator” mess into a migrant model. And he should lead by  balancing inspiring peace rhetoric with practical, security-sensitive proposals.  Ultimately, Israel must try solving the Palestinian problem – because we crave  peace, not because Kerry craves the Nobel Peace Prize.
The writer is  professor of history at McGill University and the author, most recently, of  Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight Against Zionism as Racism, published by  Oxford University Press.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Center field: The Jerusalemites’ dilemma – How to stop terrorists from clouding the commons?</title>
<date>23/12/2014</date>
<content>
In 1986, when The New Republic was a must-read (before Silicon Valley  Philistines ruined it), it posed the Jeweler’s Dilemma: You own a jewelry store  downtown. Fearing robberies, you install a buzzer. A young black male appears.  Do you buzz him in? Are you a racist if you don’t? Today, as my family and I  wander freely around Jerusalem, a safe city in a safe country with a remarkably  low mortality rate, I think about the Jerusalemite’s Dilemma: Although all Arabs  are not terrorists; almost all terrorists targeting Jews are Arabs.How  do we protect ourselves while also protecting the trust a functional,  multicultural city requires? How do we manage when ethnic profiling might save  us by prematurely judging a potential attacker, but the passive bigotry of  group-specific fear is wrong and encourages more violence by further polluting  the atmosphere? The videotape of the December 3 supermarket stabbing in Mishor  Adumim illustrated the problem. Two men and a teenager stand unnaturally close  together, as often happens when people shop in the same  section.




Suddenly, the 16-year-old erupts, stabbing the two. Afterward,  my 12-year-old daughter articulated the dilemma in the heartbreakingly honest  way of the young, saying: “I don’t hate all Arabs but I do hate all the Arabs  who want to kill me.”This is the terrorists’ perverse calculus, with its  chilling effect. Terrorists cloud the commons, injecting fear, sowing suspicion,  spreading distrust. The number of Israelis hurt or killed recently by terrorists  is statistically insignificant, but the fear is widespread. The risk is shared  broadly, but an attack’s burden falls completely, horrifically, on the few  unlucky enough to get hit. All of us then suffer from the clouding, the  darkening, of common activities – shopping, waiting for a bus, walking the  streets, living our lives.As a native New Yorker who jogs daily in  Jerusalem’s Old City, I teach my children lessons I learned as a kid who looked  like an easy mark growing up in crime-infested New York. Look alert and be  alert, with an exaggerated personal space bubble no matter who passes you, black  or white, Jew or Arab. Anyone who comes too close arouses awareness – note, not  suspicion or hostility, simply mindfulness.That’s my first response to  my daughter. Resisting terrorism entails maintaining routines, including  treating everyone around us equally as individuals. Terrorists want to spread  the cancer of suspicion. They want us scrutinizing Arabs rudely and for Arabs to  then be offended, alienated, radicalized.We also must redouble efforts  to improve Arab-Jewish relations in Jerusalem, demanding equal rights,  opportunities and treatment for all citizens. Israel’s leaders must improve Arab  conditions. Yes, these words are easy to write, hard to achieve.Both  sides are responsible. Israeli Jewish efforts are often damned, regardless of  what we do. Israelis run the Light Rail into Arab neighborhoods and are called  imperialists; had the Light Rail avoided Arab neighborhoods – as the Washington,  DC, Metro when built avoided many black neighborhoods – we would have been  called segregationists. The separate Arab and Jewish school systems the Arab  population demands earn the absurd “apartheid” accusation; an integrated  Arab-Jewish school system would have been called colonialist.Arab  Jerusalemites should end their foolish political boycott and start exercising  political rights to expand their resources, just as all Palestinians should end  their counterproductive, bigoted, “anti-normalization” boycott, suspending all  formal interactions with Israelis, so we can build mutual ties and friendships,  even as our leaders stumble about.I personally repudiate the criminals  who torched the Hand-in-Hand Arab-Jewish school in Jerusalem. I praise my  children’s school, Hartman High School – and my oldest son – for rushing there  in a solidarity prayer vigil the next day, where students sang “Jews and Arabs  refuse to be enemies.” We divided our family’s latest charitable contribution  50-50, half to the Har Nof widows and half to rebuilding the school.I  will continue supporting Tag Meir, the Left-to-Right coalition of groups  opposing anti-Arab “price tags” attacks. I will continue cheering honest leaders  like President Reuven Rivlin, who challenges Israeli Jews to accept, respect and  bond with Arabs as fellow citizens.And I boast about initiatives like  the six-part training seminar in teaching advanced math and science that the  Israel Center for Excellence through Education just launched for 20 middle  school teachers – with elementary school teacher training planned  soon.Alas, these beautiful stories rarely make the papers. If  pseudo-events are false PR events staged for the media; perdu-events, from the  French word for concealed or lost, are actual moments that few know about  because reporters overlook them. These inconvenient truths don’t fit the growing  narrative of supposed Israeli intolerance in “Netanyahu’s Israel” which allows  so many Europeans and Americans to forget their own societies’ racism and  exaggerate Israeli intolerance.Last week, one perdu-event was the Israel  premier of a lovely documentary East Jerusalem/West Jerusalem, depicting the  Israeli-Palestinian music-making and bonding the singer-peacemaker David Broza  facilitated in Jerusalem two years ago. One friend saw me and blurted out, “What  are you doing here?” True, most of the attendees were to my Left, looking primed  for a Meretz meeting. True, the film overlooks Palestinian anti-normalization.  But my anti-terrorism makes me pro-civil liberties (and vice versa). I can be  anti-Islamist and anti-Hamas yet respect Arabs. I can yearn for warm individual  intercommunal interactions while resisting the fanatics’ toxic groupthink. And I  defy anyone to watch that movie and not break out into periodic smiles as Jews  and Palestinians make magic through music.Wherever we stand politically,  we need movies like that – and bonding moments that Hand-in-Hand and Israel’s  Center for Excellence provide. We should exit our fortresses, engage with each  other, respect one another. That human bonding is what the terrorists fear – so  that’s what we democrats should deliver.The author is professor of  history at McGill University and a Visiting Professor at the Interdisciplinary  Center in Herzliya.His latest book, Moynihan’s Moment: America’s Fight  Against Zionism as Racism, just received the 2014 J.I.Segal Non-fiction  Award on a Jewish Theme.
Watch the new Moynihan’s Moment video!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column one: The storm over the teacup</title>
<date>27/11/2014</date>
<content>
Following last Tuesday’s jihadist massacre of four rabbis and a police officer  at the Bnei Torah Kehillat Yaakov synagogue in Jerusalem, Prime Minister  Binyamin Netanyahu ordered law enforcement bodies to act immediately to destroy  the homes of the two terrorist murderers who carried out that attack. He also  directed them to destroy the homes of the terrorists who carried out the three  other recent attacks in Jerusalem.The following day, police destroyed  the home of one terrorist murderer. Two more homes were supposed to be destroyed  in short order.




But then the EU-funded radical leftist NGO Hamoked –  Center for the Defense of the Individual petitioned the Supreme Court, sitting  as the High Court of Justice, opposing the orders.Wednesday the court  issued an injunction prohibiting state authorities from carrying out the house  demolition orders.In directing law enforcement officials to carry out  the home demolitions, Netanyahu argued that the move serves as a deterrent to  future would-be terrorists. Whether or not he is correct is a matter of debate.  But certainly the Supreme Court can’t determine the effectiveness of the move  better than the IDF can. And the IDF’s official position is that destroying the  homes of terrorists deters potential terrorists from attacking.And yet,  rather than recognize the limitations of their own wisdom, Supreme Court  justices acted on the behalf of an EU-funded radical organization that  represents no significant constituency in Israel, and overruled the  democratically elected government, curtailing its power to take the measures it  deems necessary to protect the public.This of course was just the latest  move by the court to arrogate to itself the powers duly conferred on the  public’s elected representatives in the government and the Knesset.In  September, the court ruled on another petition brought before it by radical  left-wing NGOs funded by the EU and other foreign actors.In its jaw  dropping decision to strike down the “Infiltrators Law” amendment to the 1954  Prevention of Infiltration Law, and order the closure of the state’s holding  facilities for illegal aliens from Africa, the court effectively denied the  people’s elected representatives the power to determine Israel’s immigration  policies. In so doing, the court hollowed out the public’s right to  self-determination.It also diminished Israel’s democratic system of  government.A body politic barred from determining who may dwell within  its boundaries is not a free, democratic society.The court also weakened  Israel’s long-term viability as the Jewish state. A Jewish state unable to  prevent the dilution of its Jewish majority through the illegal mass immigration  of predominantly Muslim Africans is a Jewish state with a dubious  future.This of course brings us to the current hullabaloo about the  draft legislation of the Nation-State Law.Supporters of the draft  legislation that seeks to give a constitutional anchor to Israel’s identity as  the nation-state of the Jewish people argue that the law will weaken the court’s  power to undermine Israel’s Jewish identity.Extolling the bill, Economy  Minister and head of the Bayit Yehudi party Naftali Bennett said Sunday, “The  Nation-State Law... will save residents of south Tel Aviv from the infiltrators  [from Africa, who have become a dominant force in the area].When the law  to block infiltrators is brought before the Supreme Court next time, the court  will have to consider the fact that Israel is the national home of the Jewish  people... This is an important development for residents of south Tel Aviv and  for the State of Israel as a whole.”MK Yariv Levin, one of the drafters  of the legislation, said, “Today we took an historic step in restoring Israel to  its Zionist roots, after years of constant erosion of Zionist norms on which the  state was founded by the legal system.”The problem with assessments like  these, which inform the political Right’s dedication to the bill, is that they  have no basis in reality. The proposed law changes nothing about the legal  status of Israel or its Jewish character. All of the substantive determinations  made in the bill are already anchored in existing laws, including in some cases,  laws with constitutional standing.In its judgments over the past 20  years, the court’s justices have had no qualms whatsoever about ignoring laws,  including laws with constitutional standing, in order to advance their  post-Zionist political agenda.For instance, as Sefi Keller explained  this week in Mida online magazine, both justices Aharon Barak and Mishael  Cheshin disregarded the plain language of Basic Law: Knesset in their  rulings.That law prohibits anti-Zionist parties from running for  Knesset. Both justices ruled in separate instances that the openly anti-Zionist  Balad party could run.There is no reason to assume that a new basic law  insisting that the justices respect Israel’s Jewish character will have any  impact on them. Indeed, their partners at the State Prosecution have already  told the media that if the law is passed, the Supreme Court will overturn it  (when asked to do so by EU-funded NGOs).Attorney-General Yehuda  Weinstein announced his opposition to the bill ahead of the government’s vote  Sunday. Weinstein has a track record of refusing to defend the government to the  court when he doesn’t like the government’s position.The unavoidable  fact is that the only way to curb the power of the court is to take direct  action against the sources of its arrogated powers. The Knesset must amend Basic  Law: Human Dignity and Liberty, the basis for the Supreme Court’s post-Zionist  actions.It must change the selection process for justices.It  must end the anomalous and anti-democratic situation in which the state  prosecutors and attorney- general are above elected leaders.It must end  the devastating trend in which every senior government appointment, and many  Knesset decisions, must receive prior approval from a judge or from a committee  led by judges.For many on the Right the Nation State bill was supposed  to be the first step on this road. The bill itself was first presented as a  consensus measure whose purpose was to fight the international movement to  delegitimize Israel’s right to exist.Four years ago, the bill was  drafted jointly by Likud MK Ze’ev Elkin and Kadima MK Avi Dichter. Dichter was  acting with authority from then-opposition leader and Kadima leader Tzipi Livni.  More than a dozen other members of her party co-sponsored it.The  coalition agreement for the current government, which both Livni, as the head of  Hatnua party, and Yair Lapid, as head of Yesh Atid party, agreed to, stipulates  that the government would pass the bill. Passing the bill was not considered  controversial.And yet, once the bill was scheduled to be debated last  week by the Ministerial Committee for Legislation which Livni chairs as justice  minister, she turned rejecting the bill she had previously sponsored and agreed  to pass into the be-all and end-all of her tenure in office.In multiple  statements, Livni called the bill she committed her party to supporting just  last year, “anti-Zionist,” “anti-Jewish” and “anti-democratic.”Livni’s  partner in the grandstanding, Lapid, has similarly attacked the  legislation.It is worth recalling that just a week before they became  impassioned champions of democracy, both Lapid and Livni voted in favor of a  bill that seeks to close the largest-circulation paper in the country. Their  support of the bill owed entirely to their opposition to Yisrael Hayom’s  political line.In other words, these two valiant defenders of democracy  support censorship.But far worse than their hypocrisy and their cheap  opportunism is the fact that in opposing this bill – that will change nothing in  the way Israel is governed – the two ministers and coalition partners are doing  massive damage to the country.By attacking a bill that does nothing but  re-state the fact that Israel is the nation-state of the Jewish people as  “anti-democratic,” Lapid and Livni are joining the chorus of Israel-bashers  worldwide who claim that there is something inherently evil about Jewish  self-determination.Livni and Lapid are advancing the growing campaign by  Jew-haters to demonize Israel as illegitimate, and Zionism is racist. By  castigating this anodyne, redundant law they previously supported as  anti-democratic, they are saying that there is a contradiction between being a  Jewish state and being a democracy.In all likelihood, their support for  the bill owes to the growing herd mentality of the Israeli Left.Earlier  this month Haaretz, the post-Zionism trumpet, initiated a campaign to  demonize the Nation State bill. The paper’s writers said the legislation will  destroy Zionism, lead to Nazism, lead to apartheid, and lead to apartheid and  Nazism.Rather than dismiss these idiotic claims, Livni, Lapid, their  backbenchers and large swathes of the media followed Haaretz over the cliff,  vapidly parroting its slanderous and anti-Semitic claims.For Livni,  whose party faces electoral destruction in the coming election, embracing the  anti-Zionist Left may make political sense. She may pass the electoral threshold  by running to the left of Meretz.Lapid is a different matter. His  party’s public support has also collapsed. But as the leader of a party that ran  as a middle class centrist party, it is hard to see how embracing the position  of Students for Justice in Palestine will help Yesh Atid recapture the  center.Most Israelis are Zionists and don’t understand what all the  excitement is about.Whatever Lapid’s considerations may be, what is  clear enough is that his behavior, like that of Livni, and indeed like the  behavior of the politicians on the Right who insist that support for the  unnecessary bill is a new litmus test for Zionism, is a clear demonstration of  the pathologies of Israeli politics.The Right, like the majority of the  public that supports it and votes for it, recognizes that the greatest danger to  Israel’s democratic system and status as a Jewish state is the radicalized legal  system. But today the Right lacks the power to pass the legislation required to  curb the power of Israel’s unelected legal rulers.Rather than doing the  hard work of running a continuous, relentless campaign to accrue the requisite  power to reform the system, politicians on the Right have embraced an  unnecessary bill that will do nothing to protect Israel's future.On the other hand, their counterparts on the Left have shown that  the Israeli Left is today largely indistinguishable from the international Left  which rejects Israel’s right to exist and rejects the Jewish people’s right to  sovereignty and freedom in its homeland. With Haaretz acting as the conduit  between the BDS movement and government ministers, politicians on the Left have  become unmoored from the basic requirements of national life.
In other  words, the current maelstrom over the draft Nation State bill shows that  Israel’s political Right is far weaker than it needs to be and that Israel’s  political Left is far more destructive than it ought to  be.

www.CarolineGlick.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Column One: Why Rouhani loves NY</title>
<date>18/9/2014</date>
<content>
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s trip to New York next week will be a welcome relief for the Iranian leader. Finally, he’ll be somewhere where he’s appreciated, even loved.Ahead of his trip to America, the US media continued its practice of presenting Rouhani as a moderate, and a natural ally for the US. NBC News’ Anne Curry interviewed Rouhani in Tehran, focusing her attention on his dim view of Islamic State.




Rouhani told Curry, “From the viewpoint of the Islamic tenets and culture, killing an innocent people equals the killing of the whole humanity. And therefore, the killing and beheading of innocent people in fact is a matter of shame for them and it’s the matter of concern and sorrow for all the human and all the mankind.”The US media and political establishment’s willingness to take Rouhani at his word when he says that he’s a moderate is one of the reasons that Strategic Affairs Minister Yuval Steinitz was in such a desolate mood on Wednesday.During a briefing with the foreign media, Steinitz described the state of negotiations between the US and its negotiating partners – Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany – and Iran regarding its illicit nuclear weapons program.The briefing followed the latest round of the biennial Israeli-US strategic dialogue. Steinitz led the Israeli delegation to the talks, which focused on Iran, the week before nuclear talks were scheduled to be renewed.One of Steinitz’s chief concerns was the US’s insistence that Rouhani is a moderate.In his words, “The only thing that has changed [since Rouhani replaced president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad] is the tone. The only difference is that the world was unwilling to hear from Ahmadinejad and [his nuclear negotiator Saeed] Jalili, what it is willing to listen to from Rouhani and [Iranian Foreign Minister Javad] Zarif.”Unlike the Americans, the Iranian people are through with the fiction that Rouhani is a moderate, which is why he no doubt will be happier in New York than in Tehran.Rouhani’s trip to New York coincides with his one-year anniversary in office. Since he took power, a thousand Iranians have been executed by the regime. Forty-five people were executed in just the past two weeks.According to Iranian scholar Majid Rafizadeh, the public’s tolerance for regime violence has reached a breaking point.In an article in the Frontpage Magazine online journal, Rafizadeh described how 3,000 people descended on regime executioners as they were poised to kill a youth in Mahmoudabad in northern Iran. The protest forced them to call off the show.
They murdered the young man the next day, when no one was looking.As Iran scholar Dr. Michael Ledeen has explained, the rise in regime brutality is directly proportional to the threat it perceives from the public.And the regime has good reason to be worried.Anti-regime protests and strikes occur countrywide, every day.For instance, from September 9-14, MEK, an Iranian opposition group, documented public protests against security forces and attacks on regime agents in Tehran, Zanzan, Bane, Qom, Karaj and Bandar Abbas.These actions ran the gamut from a strike by a thousand gas workers in the Aslaviyah gas fields who protested searches of their dormitory rooms by regime agents, to two separate assaults on military vehicles in Zanzan, to youth responding violently in cities throughout the country when regime agents tried to enforce Islamic dress codes on women and girls.Under the same Rouhani who waxed so poetically against beheadings when speaking to an overeager NBC reporter, not only have state executions have massively intensified. Public floggings, public hand amputations and other public demonstrations of regime brutality have also expanded to levels unseen in recent years.Rouhani promised to protect women’s rights. Yet since he took office, women’s rights have been severely curtailed.Last month, the Revolutionary Guards barred women from working as waitresses. In July, Tehran’s mayor barred women from sharing workspace with men. These moves and others like them, aimed at enforcing gender apartheid in all public places in the country, force millions of women into poverty. The official unemployment level for women is already hovering around 20 percent.Then there are Iran’s other social ills, for instance drug addiction.Iran has the highest level of drug addiction in the world. According to Babak Dinparast, a senior Iranian drug enforcement official, some 3.5 million Iranians, or 4.4% of the population, are drug users.In April, Dinparast made the stunning claim that 53% of drug users are government employees.According to the Iranian parliament’s research institute, the average productive hours of Iranian workers is 22 minutes a day.In Transparency International’s ranking of administrative and economic corruption, Iran ranks 144th out of 177 countries.In other words, Iran is coming apart at the seams. The people cannot stand the regime. The regime, incompetent and unwilling to tackle any of Iran’s problems, responds to the public’s outrage with massive, brutal repression.If left to its own devices, in all likelihood, the Iranian regime would have been toppled five years ago when it falsified the results of the 2009 presidential elections, and so fomented the Green Revolution But the people of Iran didn’t bet on the regime’s ace in the hole: the Obama administration.The same Obama administration that supported the overthrow of US allies in the war on Islamic jihad – Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak and Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi – stood by the Iranian regime as it massacred its people in the streets of Iranian cities for daring to demand their freedom.If the 2009 Green Revolution was the gravest threat the regime had faced since the 1979 revolution brought it to power, today the regime is also imperiled.On Monday, Iran’s dictator Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was released from the hospital after undergoing prostate surgery. Several strategic analyses published since then claim that his days are numbered and that as a consequence, the regime faces a period of profound uncertainty and instability.The Iranian people are watching all of this, and waiting.As was the case in 2009, the disaffected Iranians, who hate their regime and want good relations with the US and the West, remain the greatest threat to the regime.Beyond its borders, Iran is also under stress. With its Revolutionary Guard and Hezbollah forces committed to Syria in defense of Bashar Assad, Iran finds its position in Iraq threatened by the rising power of Islamic State.Yet, as happened in 2009, in the midst of this gathering storm, the Obama administration is rushing to the mullahs’ rescue, begging Iran to support US efforts to fight Islamic State, indeed claiming that securing Iran’s support and cooperation is a necessary precondition for the mission’s success.To say that this US policy is madness is an understatement. As Michael Weiss documented in Foreign Policy in June, Iran and its puppet, the Syrian regime, played central roles in facilitating the development and empowerment of Islamic State both in Syria and Iraq. A defector from the Syrian Military Intelligence Directorate reported in January that the regime helped form Islamic State.First, it sprang Sunni jihadist leaders from Sednaya prison in 2011. Then, it facilitated in the creation of the armed brigades that became Islamic State.The idea was that through Islamic State, it could tarnish the reputation of all of its opponents by claiming they were all jihadists.US military officers with deep knowledge of Iran’s role in Iraq told Weiss that Islamic State’s leadership entered Iraq from Iran.A key al-Qaida financier, Olimzhon Adkhamovich Sadikov, was charged in February by the US Treasury Department with “provid[ing] logistical support and funding to al-Qaida’s Iran-based network.”US Army Col. Rick Welch, who served as the military liaison to both the Sunni tribes and the Shi’ite militia in Iraq during the 2007-2008 US military surge, told Weiss that the assessment of Iraqi Sunnis and Shi’ites alike was that “Iran was funding any group that would keep Iraq in chaos.”Iran sought chaos in order to prevent the establishment of a stable Iraqi government allied with the US while incrementally establishing Iranian control over the country.Iran’s actions in Iraq and Syria, in other words, have for the past decade been focused on expanding Iranian power at the expense of the US and the Iraqi and Syrian people.This behavior of course is in line with Iran’s global strategy. From its support for Hamas to its control over Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad, from developing a strategic alliance with Venezuela to expanding its presence throughout South and Central America, through its closely cultivated relationship with Russia, Iran’s every move involves expanding its power and influence at America’s expense.And yet, despite this, the Obama administration has made strengthening the Iranian regime and appeasing it the centerpiece of its Middle East policy.President Barack Obama told Jeffrey Goldberg in March that Iran is a rational actor that the US can do business with.He said, “If you look at Iranian behavior, they are strategic, and they’re not impulsive. They have a worldview, and they see their interests, and they respond to costs and benefits.”As Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry apparently now perceive things, Iran opposes Islamic State, and therefore it will play a supportive role in the US campaign against Islamic State. Moreover, by participating in the campaign, Iran will demonstrate its good faith and so make it possible for the US to cut a deal with the mullahs that will legitimize their illicit uranium enrichment – because really, how big a threat can a country that opposes Islamic State be?As for Iran, it sees its interest as having the US destroy Islamic State, and if possible, having the US pay Iran for the privilege of fighting Iran’s war – against the foe Iran did so much to create.And this brings us back to Steinitz’s gloomy assessment of the talks with Iran. Steinitz warned against the growing prospect of the US caving in to Iran’s nuclear demands as a payoff for Iranian support against Islamic State.In his words, “Some people might think, ‘Let’s clean the table, let’s close the [nuclear] file,” in order to get Iran on board against Islamic State.Unfortunately for Steinitz, and for the rest of the world, including the US, the Obama administration seems bent on proving him right.Today the Iranian regime is weaker than it has been since it violently repressed the Green Revolution.And that is why Rouhani is happy to be coming to New York.He is certain that now, as then, the Obama administration will save the regime. This, even as the mullahs advance their goal of becoming the hegemons of the Middle East at the US’s expense, and completing their nuclear weapons program, which will secure the regime for decades to come, and threaten America directly.
Caroline B. Glick is the author of The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Conflict over Israel’s cuisine</title>
<date>29/10/2014</date>
<content>
The Jewish Chronicle first reported this Palestinian gastro-political imbroglio  story a week ago: “The Conflict Kitchen (a Pittsburgh based federally funded  public art project/restaurant) ...served up a discussion Tuesday afternoon  billed as focusing on ‘current events in Palestine,’ but quickly shifted to  wholesale condemnation of Israel.”Conflict Kitchen’s materials, speakers  and planned activities all add up to the creation of a publicly funded  anti-Israel epicenter for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement in the  middle of Pittsburgh’s academic community.




The Jewish Federation of  Greater Pittsburgh was targeted by a major city newspaper’s editorial board, a  well-known culinary blog and various anti-Zionist personalities on Twitter for  statements it made opposing the project’s anti-Israel political  agenda.Contrary to these media reports, the Jewish Federation’s  objection is to the literature and events made available to Conflict Kitchen  customers, not their choice of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as their current  culinary-political iteration. Before reading on and passing judgment, survey  Conflict Kitchen’s publication, provided with every meal. After finishing, ask:  Do you have a problem with the statements made in this pamphlet? If your mission  is to commingle cuisine and politics, how can one mention Palestinian hummus  without mentioning the Palestinian Hamas? Conflict Kitchen’s prejudiced message  and hand-outs, exclusionary practices and unsubstantiated charges against  Israelis and Israel undercut the need for free, robust and unbiased academic  discussions around the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.University of  Pittsburgh students’ calls for balance and an end to incitement have fallen on  deaf ears. Some outlandish accusations that highlight the current one-sided,  inaccurate portrayal of the conflict contained in their literature include: •  The outrageous claim that the IDF threatens to “shoot the tires out” of any  trucks that delivers water to Palestinians.• The false statement that  “Israel doesn’t want any non-Jews to become citizens.”This offer was  made to all residents of east Jerusalem and was almost categorically  rejected.• The libelous fallacy that Israel “essentially picked the  leaders of the PA, because everyone who wasn’t corrupt and was fit to lead the  PA had either been assassinated, imprisoned or was in exile.”The  material that Conflict Kitchen distributes not only attributes all Palestinian  suffering to Israel and the United States, it also presents personal  opinions/anecdotes/ hearsay as fact to manipulate under-informed Americans. The  pamphlet presents the Palestinian people as a whole as liberal, progressive and  passive, while completely erasing the countless acts of terrorism,  fundamentalist religiosity and incitement of many Palestinian terrorist  groups.The idea that “Occupied Palestinian Territory” is a country that  the US is in conflict with paints a distorted and offensive narrative that  ignores consistent American efforts over the past 30 years to end the conflict  and empower and unite the Palestinian people. Furthermore, Conflict Kitchen  paints Israelis as deeply and comprehensively hateful toward Palestinians, while  ignoring the deep ideological diversity among the Israeli people and the  enormous efforts by both government officials and private citizens in the past  and present to bring about positive change and eventual independence in the  territories.Conflict Kitchen’s publications and programs give zero  context regarding the source of the conflict, the complexity of finding a  resolution, Palestinian refusal to negotiate and the strong Hamas support for  not only ending occupation through violent means (“resistance”) but the  destruction of Israel proper as well. It implies apartheid, explicitly charges  collective punishment and makes disappear the genocidal tendencies of more  extreme Palestinian ideologies.The Kitchen’s guest speakers have  deliberately denigrated Israeli ethnic and national identity through their  explicit and divisive hate speech. One speaker, Professor Ken Boas, chair of the  Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions-USA, openly called on his colleagues  at the lunch to support the academic boycott against Israel and presented false  truths about Arab Israeli participation in Israeli institutions, such as the lie  that non-Jews are not allowed to serve in the Israeli army.The Druse,  Bedouin and other Israeli Arab that serve in the IDF would disagree with  him.One lunch included Laila el-Haddad, who openly calls for boycotting  Israeli food products. Students for Justice in Palestine and the Pittsburgh  Palestine Solidarity Committee, future programmatic partners, are two anti-peace  organizations that demonize Jews and Israel supporters on campus with their  harmful rhetoric and aggressive propaganda campaigns. These events are  political, not educational, in nature.The Conflict Kitchen’s director,  Professor Jon Rubin, has explicitly stated that he does not see the rationale  for inviting Israeli affinity groups (beyond those on the fringe) or members of  Pittsburgh’s organized Jewish community to his table.Every wrapper that  the Kitchen distributes with its meals is an unfounded indictment against  Israel, Israelis and the Jewish Diaspora that supports it. There are individuals  who support peace and those that support continuing the Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.The toxic menu at Conflict Kitchen leaves a bitter taste on the  palate of pursuers of peace.
Gregg Roman is the director of the Community  Relations Council of the Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Dependence days: In the shadow of Kishinev</title>
<date>4/5/2014</date>
<content>
On Easter of 1903, the Jewish community of Kishinev, a city in the Bessarabian  province of Russia, was forced to endure a pogrom in which a mob murdered 49  Jews and wounded thousands.The violence, which had the backing of the  czar’s government and the police, took place as 5,000 Russian soldiers stood by  in the city and did nothing. Over 700 houses were damaged or destroyed and 600  businesses or shops were looted.




The brutality of the slaughter shocked  the world and galvanized the Jews of Eastern Europe to either organize  self-defense groups or leave their homes for Israel or the United States.  American president Theodore Roosevelt sent a note of concern to Czar Nicholas,  who refused to accept it. While world pressure led to a trial of some of the  perpetrators of the pogrom, they were given lenient sentences. Pogroms would  break out in Kishinev again only two years later.The Jewish Historical  Commission of Odessa sent Hayim Nahman Bialik – who would later become known as  the poet of the Jewish national renaissance and a hero of the Zionist movement –  to Kishinev in the wake of the pogrom. The Odessa organization wanted Bialik to  collect eyewitness accounts of the violence, to photograph the survivors, the  dead and the damage, and to gather documents that could be used in a Russian  court against the pogrom’s instigators.Bialik, originally from Zhitomir,  was uniquely qualified to report on the Kishinev pogrom. His literary talent was  evident to many of Russia’s Jewish intellectuals, such as the cultural Zionist  Ahad Ha’am, who took Bialik under their wing and collaborated with him on  essays, translations and editing in their work.Bialik’s traditional  religious background also provided him with a special sensitivity to the life of  the common Jew in Eastern Europe. Bialik was the perfect candidate for this  mission.Before departing Bialik penned “On the Slaughter.” The  poem called for God to either exercise immediate justice or destroy the world.  The title of the poem is the concluding phrase of the blessing used in ritual  slaughter.This blessing was also said by martyrs in the Middle Ages in  Spain and Germany who killed each other rather than submit to forced conversion  to Christianity.Although Bialik protests God’s inaction to save the Jews  of Kishinev, the language of the Hebrew poem places the slaughter in the Russian  city in the historical context of Jewish martyrdom throughout  history.After returning from Kishinev, Bialik wrote a longer lament and  protest against the slaughter in the city. In his 1904 poem, “In the City of  Slaughter,” Bialik composed a fierce denunciation of the Jews’ passivity in the  face of the massacre. In this poem Bialik also protested the absence of justice  and the indifference of nature to the fate of those whom the Russians murdered  and maimed. “The sun shone,” wrote Bialik, “the acacia blossomed, and the  slaughterer slaughtered.”In Bialik’s condemnation of the Jews of  Kishinev, the poet invokes the story of Hanukkah to contrast the meekness of the  Jews of the shtetl to the heroism of the Maccabees of old. Bialik bemoans that  “the sons of the Maccabees” were “concealed and cowering” during the pogrom. The  “heirs of the Hasmoneans” let themselves be slaughtered by Russian peasants and  watched as their wives and daughters were raped. The Jewish survivors of the  pogrom went to the synagogue, thanked God for keeping them alive, and asked the  rabbi of the town if their defiled wives were permitted to them. Bialik’s  scathing rebuke is a Zionist rebuke, a rejection of the passivity of a  traditional theology that inculcated within Jews a withdrawal from history in  the hope of the coming of a Messiah chosen by God alone.More than a  century has passed since Bialik’s condemnation of the passivity of the Jews of  Kishinev. The Germans and their collaborators throughout Europe murdered  millions of Jews. In the shadow of the liberation of Auschwitz, a Jewish state  was born. Israel is a robust democracy celebrating its independence, an island  of freedom in a sea of autocracies, dictatorships and monarchies. Every Israeli  has the right to be proud of the accomplishments of a small nation that has  fought wars to survive and that has absorbed Jewish refugees from all over the  world. The Jewish state has contributed vital medical and computer technologies  to the world and has created a formidable literature in a revived Hebrew. While  there are those who will label Israel an “apartheid” or “imperialist” state, we  all know the truth that must be shouted from the hilltops. Israel is alive and  well and epitomizes the struggle against empires and tyrants.With all  that said, there is still a troubling vestige of Bialik’s Kishinev in Israel and  the Jewish world today.Many of the “sons of the Maccabees” are not  cowering in the corners but are defending themselves and their state – but not  all. In Israel today there is an ultra-Orthodox Jewish community that seems not  to have learned the lesson of Kishinev. While I commend the study of Torah and  Talmud as a way to maintain Jewish life and Judaism in the Jewish state, there  is just no way that the 80,000 young men who are exempt from service in the IDF  represent the elite of Torah scholars who will lead the Jewish people into the  future.As an American who never served in the IDF, I cannot condemn the  haredi community for not serving the State of Israel. But many Israelis must be  wondering why there is a growing subculture – a state within a state – that does  not subscribe to the underlying political philosophy and culture of the state in  which they live. The spirit of dependence of Bialik’s Kishinev is very much  alive today. I always thought that Zionism was supposed to encourage  self-reliance and an end to the traditional “halukah” system of patronage of  Jews from abroad to support yeshiva students. Alas, the halukah system is still  with us and very much alive.It would be unfair, however, to blame the  haredi (ultra-Orthodox) community alone for the state of dependence that  diminishes the sovereignty of Israel.Israeli dependence on the United  States of America – a “special relationship” that has endured for more than 50  years – is becoming a liability and even a danger.When the current  American administration attempts to stop Jews from living in any area of  Jerusalem – and when the possibility of dividing Jerusalem is still on the  negotiating table – this differs little from Czar Nicholas I confining Jews to  the Pale of Settlement in Russia two centuries ago.The Green Line, once  representing the Jewish power to live within borders that were the result of  victory in war, has eroded into not just Abba Eban’s “Auschwitz borders” but  into “Czarist borders.” The current American administration and their supporters  among Jews in America would never embrace imperialism in their relationship with  any country in the Middle East – except for Israel. How ironic that more and  more America’s involvement in Israel resembles the colonial British in India and  the French in Algeria. The right of Jews to live in territory captured and  liberated by Israel in 1967 is not only a religious issue but an important issue  of Israel’s integrity as a sovereign nation. As long as American administrations  can tell Jews where to live and not to live, they diminish Israel’s integrity as  a sovereign and independent nation.
Welcome to the new colonialism, the  new imperialism and the vestige of Bialik’s Kishinev. As I wish a happy birthday  to the only Jewish state in the world, I lament that there is still Galut in  Geulah and exile on J Street.

The author is rabbi of Beth Ami  Congregation In Boca Raton, Florida.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘Don’t Hear O Israel!’</title>
<date>26/8/2014</date>
<content>
At this moment a black Swastika adorns Paris’s Statue de la République – the  sacrosanct symbol of the French Republic – which for the past few weeks has also  been covered with Palestinian, Algerian, Turkish and Islamic State flags in  protest against Israel’s Operation Protective Edge to prevent Hamas missile  attacks and terrorist infiltration into mainland Israel.Since the  operation began on July 8, thousands of pro-Palestinian protesters have flooded  the streets of Western Europe, especially my native Paris, torching Jewish  shops, a community center and eight synagogues while chanting “Death to Jews!”  and “Burn the Jews!” These episodes add to the record-breaking 169 anti-Semitic  incidents officially recorded in the first quarter of 2014, a 40 percent  increase over 2013. Israeli politicians have taken such incidents seriously,  even convening an emergency session of the Knesset on July 28.




While  appalled by the resurgence of anti-Semitism, some in Israel and abroad warn the  Israeli government that the Gaza situation could lead to an increase in  anti-Semitic attacks in Europe, assuming that if Israel stopped its operation in  Gaza, anti-Jewish violence would recede to the fringe. Yet the assumption that  the frequency and virulence of anti-Jewish violence since the second intifada  directly correlates to Israel’s political decisions and military actions has  proven false.Therefore, the Israeli government should not let foreign,  anti-Israel grassroots criticism influence its national security policy, no  matter how widespread, violent and threatening it becomes for Diaspora  Jewry.What ultimately endangers the Jews of Western Europe is not the  Operation Protective Edge nor the Middle East conflict but the resurgence of a  European strain of anti-Semitism – ironically salient among a significant  proportion of second- and third-generation Muslims – which has used anti-Zionism  as a rhetorical façade for decades. As the French philosopher Vladimir  Jankélévitch noted in 1978, anti-Zionism became a magical formula enabling one  to be “democratically anti-Semitic.”In Spinoza’s philosophical terms,  Israel and Zionism are demonized not because they are bad but because they are  hated. Today, French and Western Jews are experiencing the “Israeli moment” of a  1,000-year history of European anti-Semitism, a phenomenon that Tel Aviv  University Professor Yossi Shain and I labeled the “Israelization of  anti-Semitism.” It is this widespread and grassroots Israelization of  Jew-hatred, which converted the 19th century “Jewish question” into the 21st  century “Israeli question,” that explains today’s demonstrations of hatred, not  Israel’s recent military operation that led to the death of over 1,600 people in  Gaza, most of them civilians.If these protests were truly predicated  upon Israel’s concrete actions and not on a resurfacing anti-Jewish passion,  more of those well-intentioned souls would have taken to the streets against the  Syrian government’s massacre of 160,000 civilians, including 1,800 Palestinians  since 2011 or Russia’s killing of 150,000- 200,000 Muslim Chechens between 1994  and 2003.Second, the explosion of anti-Zionism and the ever thinner  distinction between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism is not, as French politicians  reassure themselves, a mere “importation of the Middle East conflict” but the  expression of a full-blown Western European identity crisis. Particularly in  France, anti-Zionism stems from a selective identification with the Palestinian  cause – and among the most radicals with the Islamist and jihadist Hamas – that  serve as an “identity of substitution” for young disaffected youth that are  (legitimately) angry at the blindness and failure of the French republican  establishment and French elites.In the words of journalist Gil Michaili,  anti-Zionism is the “cement of beur [French North African] identity,” powerfully  uniting the otherwise heterogeneous populations of Muslim North African descent.  As French sociologist Vincent Tiberj showed in 2005 in an extensive public  survey of young people of North African, African and Turkish Muslim origin,  anti-Jewish and anti-Israel prejudice among them was 10 to 15 points higher than  in the general French population of the same age group and has turned into a  distinctive identity feature.Furthermore, anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism  have become a way to channel anti-government, anti-establishment and anti-elite  frustration. Shouts like “Jews, go home!”, “Jews, France is not yours!” already  erupted in Paris on January 26, 2014, during a mass anti-government  demonstration whose goal was President Francois Hollande’s resignation and not  Israel’s “racist,” “apartheid” and “genocidal” politics. Finally, the  anti-Israel protests must be seen through the prism of a growing culture of  urban violence and removal of the anti-racist taboo dominant in Western Europe  through the 1980s.Apart from supporting aliya, Israel’s government can  do little to eliminate the threats facing European Jews.Those acts of  violence ultimately stem from a failure of the EU project and a failure of  European states’ politics of identity, integration and memory. In the grim  prediction of French columnist Ivan Roufiol this past month, “France could be  confronted, in turn, to the same challenges that Hamas imposes upon Israel. The  Salafism that spreads across the disaffected banlieues make possible similar  intifadas.”
The author is a Research Fellow at INSS.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Drawing the line on J Street</title>
<date>12/5/2014</date>
<content>
The Conference of Presidents’s  rejection of J Street’s membership application was the right decision. During  the nearly yearlong after J Street applied for membership in the Conference,  there was no change in J Street’s outspoken criticism of Israel. Clearly  acceptance of membership would have led to a legitimization of J Street’s  positions and actions, and in our view to significant long-term damage to the  pro-Israel movement in America.Even many of the Conference members that  supported J Street’s membership application openly stated that they disagreed  with many of J Street’s statements and actions. Their arguments in favor came  down to the fact that J Street has many members, including young members, and  that the Conference should have a “big tent.” In our view, membership numbers  have little relevance. If the Neturei Karta had many members, including young  members, should it be considered for membership? I think not. As it relates to a  big-tent approach, where is the line drawn? Can anyone with many members join  the tent? All the critics can cite is J Street’s support for a two-state  solution.




However, their rejection had nothing to do with J Street’s  apparent support for a two-state solution, and everything to do with its  statements and actions on the issues of the day.Alan Dershowitz is an  ardent supporter of a two-state solution and yet he wrote that he could not find  anything pro-Israel in the statements and actions of J Street. J Street  initiated one major Congressional letter and it was a letter only critical of  Israel and its actions in Gaza. When the Goldstone Report was published and  Israel and the US Jewish community were outraged at the falsehoods and slander  of the report, J Street was attempting to get former South Africa judge Richard  Goldstone, who headed the UN’s fact-finding mission on the Gaza conflict,  appointments with members of Congress. Eventually Goldstone himself disavowed  his own report, and yet J Street stood by it. If J Street had been a member of  the Conference at that time its actions would have caused significant  damage.J Street vocally called on the US administration not to veto a UN  Security Council resolution critical of Israel. The Conference of Presidents  supported a veto and fortunately the Obama administration did not listen to J  Street and vetoed the resolution.Just a few days before the Conference  of President’s vote on J Street, it became public that US Secretary of State  John Kerry had been quoted as saying Israel could become an apartheid country,  and that J Street defended Kerry’s remark. Abe Foxman of the ADL, who supported  J Street membership, condemned Kerry’s remark and observed that even Secretary  Kerry himself later expressed regret for the use of the term apartheid – but not  J Street.One of the most critical issues today is preventing Iran from  obtaining nuclear weapons. Alan Dershowitz points out that J Street has opposed  strengthening sanctions, and even opposes a US military strike if the Obama  administration feels it is the only way to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear  weapon. J Street called for Israel to end its military incursion into Gaza, when  Israel could find no other way to protect its citizens from missiles. The Obama  administration stood with Israel and supported it when the IDF went into Gaza –  but not J Street.The importance of the vote by the Conference of  Presidents is it avoided a situation in which AIPAC would be lobbying Congress  to support issues that would be beneficial of Israel and J Street would lobby in  the opposite direction. Such a situation would confuse members of the House and  Senate as to the position of the Jewish community. If J Street would have been  invited to join the Conference of Presidents, it would give the impression that  it is an accepted voice within the national leadership of the Jewish community.  I believe that this would, over time, be devastating to Congressional support  for Israel and ultimately the security of Israel.We decided to be  outspoken in our position because of what we saw as the critical nature of the  vote. J Street has, in essence, attempted to destroy the ideal of what it means  to be pro-Israel.Pro-Israel means standing up for and with Israel on the  most critical issues facing its survival and security.J Street has  failed that test. The vote of the Conference of Presidents was a resounding  affirmation that J Street’s actions should not be legitimized by membership. The  Conference decided correctly.
The author, an attorney, is president of  the National Council of Young Israel, which is a member of the Conference of  Presidents.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Educating young people to be a voice for Israel</title>
<date>26/5/2014</date>
<content>
Last week, I  had the honor of participating in the 2014 Keren Hayesod Forum, which brought  dozens of the next generation of Jewish leaders from around the world to Israel.  The goal of the forum was to educate these young people on how to be a voice for  Israel in our communities, and how to foster a deep and lasting connection to  Israel’s land and her people.Truthfully, I have been to dozens of  events, programs and tours with the same objective, and all too often I end up  feeling like the hasbara (public diplomacy) education taking place simply isn’t  accomplishing what it is supposed to. I have heard all of the arguments  presented to the young generation for supporting Israel, and although they are  correct and worthwhile, they are also repetitive and overused.




My peers  were raised on heart-wrenching stories from the Holocaust. We know the miracles  surrounding the birth of modern Israel, and that Israel is an embattled nation  and the only true democracy in the Middle East. We are well aware of the fact  that Israel is falsely accused of being the aggressor in conflicts, of being an  “apartheid” regime, and a host of other imagined sins. Yet we no longer want the  world to look at Israel just as an embattled country that must always fight for  survival, a country that her supporters must constantly stand up for in the face  of adversity. We want the world to learn to see Israel as the strong and  righteous country that she is.In short, we’re searching for some new  fuel – and that is exactly what we received from the Keren Hayesod 2014  Forum.During a three-day trip that passed in the blink of an eye, we  studied the past while focusing our eyes toward the future, and were exposed to  the outstanding and groundbreaking technology coming out of the Holy Land. We  traveled the country from north to south and met with numerous spiritual  leaders, Knesset ministers, and individuals who defied statistics and beat the  odds to achieve success. We even had a private audience with Prime Minister  Binyamin Netanyahu.I was pleasantly surprised to hear the advice that  the prime minister gave to our group of leaders on how we can strengthen the  State of Israel and her people. He presented us with three responsibilities  which he proposed we take on ourselves: 1) Invest in Israel; 2) Spread the truth  about Israel; 3) Create a bridge for more people to walk over and make  aliya.Israeli hi-tech guru Yossi Vardi accompanied us throughout the  trip, and introduced us to Israeli companies producing the type of amazing, and  in many cases lifesaving technological advancements that we grew up watching in  science fiction films. We were welcomed by President Shimon Peres in his  Jerusalem home, where he outlined his vision for the future, and instilled in us  all two core concepts: A good leader does not rule, a good leader serves;  interests divide people, visions unite people.For the first time in  modern history, I felt like we have reached a milestone. Israel’s messengers are  now confident telling the world not only to donate to Israel, but to invest in  Israel. We are no longer a country that is solely identified by poverty and the  constant threat of terrorism, but by success and triumph as well. Just as the  statistics regarding the drop of terror attacks in Israel speak for themselves,  so too does the rising number of Israeli Nobel Prize recipients and patents on  new technology. With the help of our friends around the world, Israel is  on the path of ushering in a new reality, and it is even better than Ben-Gurion  could have ever imagined! As the senior vice president of the International  Fellowship of Christians and Jews – one of the largest philanthropic  organizations in Israel – I am often exposed to the grim statistics of poverty  and need in the Holy Land and the desperate faces that go along with them. Yet  indeed, just as the prophets promised, the times are changing. “There is hope  for your future, said the Lord, and the children will return to their land”  (Jeremiah 31:17).During the three-day 2014 Keren Hayesod Forum, I have  seen the hope that our forefathers spoke about 2,000 years ago, and, indeed, I  can also see that our future looks bright.The author is senior vice  president of the International Fellowship of Christians and  Jews.
www.ifcj.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Electrical storm</title>
<date>26/2/2014</date>
<content>
While it is trendy overseas to condemn Israel on miscellaneous trumped-up  charges – including apartheid, wholesale oppression, dispossession, malicious  deprivation and much more in the same fallacious vein – few are aware that the  Palestinians who are supposedly being oppressed enjoy free electricity courtesy  of average Israelis.The two Palestinian jurisdictions – under Ramallah’s  and Gaza City’s control, respectively – have racked up unpaid electricity bills  whose total approaches NIS 1.4 billion ($400 million). This debt increases by  between NIS 70m. and 90m. each month.




There are no qualms about this in  Ramallah or Gaza City. The authorities there are quite content to have ordinary  Israelis pay their tab.The Palestinians’ serial refusal to honor  financial obligations – in many spheres, not only vis-à-vis the Israel Electric  Corporation – is no secret, yet as the arrears accumulate, the problem becomes  harder to ignore.This in essence is what IEC chairman Yiftah Ron-Tal  told the Knesset Finance Committee on Tuesday.“The IEC shouldn’t have to  sustain the losses caused by the PA’s nonpayment of amounts outstanding,” he  stressed. “Were private consumers to blithely ignore their utility bills, they’d  be disconnected. But our hands are tied… We are plainly not allowed to  disconnect the Palestinians from current for which they impudently don’t bother  paying.”The IEC may petition the High Court of Justice to order the  government to allow it to cut the power to those who will not pay their bills,  Ron-Tal warned.Every Israeli’s electricity bill will increase if such  lawlessness continues, Ron-Tal said. Unless urgent steps are taken to insure  immediate reimbursement of the IEC, as well as regular and reliable future  payment, the already troubled IEC’s credit rating will likely be downgraded,  something that will also cost Israeli consumers, he said.It is  unconscionable “to increase the charges levied on ordinary Israelis because of  accrued debts arising from consumption in areas under the PA jurisdiction,”  Ron-Tal said. The only thing the IEC can do at this point is to refuse any  demands for increased power from the Palestinian Authority and the East  Jerusalem Electric Company (which gets its electricity from the IEC and whose  installations are inside the Green Line).In the past, decisions were  announced to deduct payments from PA funds in Israel, but international pressure  often caused the government to back down.Having the Treasury compensate  the IEC in part or entirely is no solution. This would be taxpayers’ money  shelled out via an indirect route; yet again Israeli citizens would be paying  debt run up by Palestinians.The government cannot continue playing nice  to avoid damaging our international image at the expense of the economy. We  cannot subsidize the PA’s unbridled fiscal delinquency, even if the upshot is  bad press and the usual mud-slinging that Israel faces abroad.The IEC  has assorted punitive paths available to it.It can cause brownouts  throughout Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Strip that would not leave these areas  entirely without current but would significantly reduce the power available  there.As the supplier, Israel clearly possesses a range of options to  make sure its resources and population are not cynically exploited, especially  by forces that lose no opportunity to ingrain enmity to the Jewish  state.To then expect that state to keep footing PA bills is akin to  extortion.If, however, Israel dares to refuse to keep bankrolling  Ramallah/Gaza, we can expect to be threatened with another campaign of  vilification. Israel must show the PA that it will not be cowed by  shakedowns.At the same time, every effort must be undertaken to keep the  PA to its financial commitments.
The current situation is untenable. The  government needs to make it clear that it will not suffer financial loss and  inflict pain on its citizens just to avoid yet another demonization drive by the  Palestinians and their supporters. The more Israel appears to fear slander, the  more potent the weapon of slander becomes in the ongoing anti-Israel offensive.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering Peace: Netanyahu’s options</title>
<date>16/4/2014</date>
<content>
So if the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations have reached a dead end, both sides  will independently consider their options and make decisions that will advance  their own interests.The Palestinians seem to be set on a course of  turning the issue of ending the Israeli occupation and materializing their state  over to the international community.




They will most likely continue to  seek full state membership in UN institutions, international conventions and  most probably the International Criminal Court.They will utilize civil  society all around the world to adopt their position and seek to delegitimize  the Israeli occupation. As the underdog they are most likely to  succeed.The international community no longer needs to be convinced that  the Palestinian people deserve a state of their own and that the Israeli  occupation of their state and the denial of their freedom by Israel are bad and  must be opposed. The Palestinian leadership knows that as long as they control  violence they are on a winning path. It is a long road and it will probably be  filled with suffering, but they are on the path toward fulfilling their  goals.Israel has the ability to “cut to the chase” and to understand  that in order to protect its own interests the best thing to do is to find the  path toward agreement with the Palestinians on ending the occupation and signing  a peace deal with the Palestinians. But that seems very unlikely  now.Israel’s continued settlement expansion – even this past weekend  enlarging the area of the Gush Etzion settlement bloc – is a clear message to  the Palestinians and to the international community that Israel has no intention  of allowing the Palestinians to have their own state. Israel has apparently made  its choice: it prefers settlements to any chance of peace with its neighbors.  And because the people of Israel have bought the propaganda that there is no  Palestinian partner, they have become convinced that peace is not possible and  therefore do not take to the streets – because you don’t demonstrate for  something that you do not believe is possible.The Netanyahu government  will have to decide its policy vis-à-vis the Palestinians.Let’s look at  the alternatives: 1. Keep the coalition, forget about negotiations and peace –  this is the do-nothing option. It requires that Israel continue to claim it is  genuinely interested in negotiations with the Palestinians. Prime Minister  Binyamin Netanyahu must convince the Israeli public that he is sincere and that  the real problem is that Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is not a  partner and that it is the Palestinians who don’t want negotiations and peace.  He has pretty much already achieved this goal.Israel’s propaganda  machine will work overtime (and succeed) to convince the Israeli public and  Israel’s friends in the US Congress that Palestinians appealing to the  international community to release them from Israel’s control is essentially  their continued attempt to destroy the State of Israel. Not many people or  governments around the world will be convinced, but the US will be on Israel’s  side.2. Option two is the same as above, with the added steps of  retaliation against the Palestinians in attempts to bring them to their knees.  Since Israel has total control over the entire West Bank and its economy,  bringing the Palestinians to their knees is no great  challenge.Withholding the PA’s tax revenues, which Israel collects on  its behalf, will mean depriving the PA of some 30 percent of its their budget.  With the PA already deeply in debt to banks and to its private sector, it is  clear that it will not be able to pay its bills, including the salaries of the  many tens of thousands of Palestinians who work directly or indirectly for the  PA.The Arab League agreed to compensate for the losses incurred due to  Israel withholding the tax money, but there is no great confidence that the PA  will ever see that money. The payment record of the Arab states to Palestine is  not so positive. In a matter of a few short months the PA will collapse  financially and will not have the ability to provide for education, health care,  welfare, security services, courts, cleaning the streets, electricity and water,  telecommunications. It will not take much more than that to bring about a  collapse of some of the Palestinian banks and the Palestinian stock exchange.  Importers will not be able to get letters of credit. Factories will not have the  ability to purchase raw materials.Israel could also withdraw workers’  permits and not allow Palestinians to work in Israel. There are some 55,000  Palestinians from the West Bank employed in Israel. Israel could prevent  Palestinian goods headed for export from crossing into Israel. The ports belong  to Israel, which could easily close them to Palestinian businesses.Would  Palestinian financial collapse serve Israel’s interests? 3. Israel could take  its revenge on the Palestinian leaders instead of the Palestinian business  people. Israel could take away the ability of the Palestinian leaders to move  around. Israel could close the borders to them, not allowing them to leave the  West Bank. Any Palestinian leaders who cause too much trouble could be put under  administrative detention and held for long periods of time in Israeli prisons.  Israel has the technology to shut down the telephones of Palestinian leaders,  shut down their Internet connections and disrupt their ability to communicate  with the world. It won’t prevent them from communicating, but it would make it a  lot more difficult.In short, Israel could do real harm to the PA and its  leaders, if it wanted to.4. Israel could implement the Bennett plan of  annexing Area C of the West Bank; 62% of the West Bank. All of the Israeli  citizens living in the West Bank live in Area C, while only a few of the  Palestinians in the West Bank do. Simply declare that Israeli law is extended to  all of Area C. There is no need for fanfare and ceremonies.The  difference on the ground will be non-discernible – Israel is already in full  control and Israelis there for the most part live under Israeli law. The Israel  Police function there, the tax system is Israeli. No big deal.Israel did  it in east Jerusalem and also in the Golan Heights and the sky didn’t  fall.Israel could continue to build “transportation contiguity” for the  Palestinians in areas A and B so that they will not enter roads in Area C, which  will be only for Israelis and the few Palestinians who live there (and that way  can also push back any attempts to call it apartheid, because Palestinians who  live there can use those roads too).I have no doubt that creative  Israeli minds are already busy coming up with all kinds of brilliant plans and  ideas to prevent the Palestinians from breaking loose from Israel’s grip on  their lives.The bottom line is that none of them will work. No Israeli  plans and policies will ever remove the burning desire of the Palestinian people  to be free and to live in a state of their own. Those who believe that we can  convince them to give up their national aspirations, or that we can buy them  with jobs, money or promises of economic prosperity have simply lost touch with  reality.In the end, in order to save itself, Israel will end its control  over the Palestinian people and the state of Palestine will be recognized by  Israel. The price of doing it today is a lot less than it will be in the  future.
The author is the co-chairman of IPCRI, the Israel Palestine  Center for Research and Information, a columnist for The Jerusalem Post and the  initiator and negotiator of the secret back channel for the release of Gilad  Schalit. His new book Freeing Gilad: the Secret Back Channel has been published  by Kinneret Zmora Bitan in Hebrew and The Negotiator: Freeing Gilad Schalit from  Hamas from The Toby Press.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>ENCOUNTERING PEACE: Our future is in our hands</title>
<date>3/12/2014</date>
<content>
So it begins. Elections are once again here and the people of Israel once again  have a chance to raise their voice and determine the future of this land and its  people. What are these elections about? They are about deciding whether Israel  will aggressively launch a peace initiative to finally put an end to the  Israeli- Palestinian conflict on the basis of two states for two peoples, or if  Israel will aggressively face off against the entire world refusing to recognize  the inevitable imperative of partition, ending its control over the Palestinian  people. It is choice between facing a tsunami of boycotts and sanctions or  emerging as a regional leader and partner in the development of the region in  the common struggle against Islamic extremism. It is a choice between a  bi-national reality in a one-state disaster, living a new form of apartheid with  one government and two systems of control – one for Israelis and one for  Palestinians, or marching forward in building a partnership with our neighbors  that would end Israeli control over millions of Palestinians who refuse to  accept Israeli domination and control.There have perhaps never been  clearer choices for the Israeli electorate than there are today. One camp, the  right-wing religious camp, refuses to recognize that more than 20 percent of  Israel’s citizens are Palestinian Arabs who have no less a right to full  equality and democracy than the other 80% of Jewish Israelis. That same camp  sanctifies land and history above sanctifying life and the future. The  center-left camp sees all Israelis as partners in the identity of the state,  Jews and Arabs, as equal citizens with a commitment, finally, to include  representatives of the Palestinian Israeli citizens as part of the future  government. The center-left knows that nothing is more important to the future  of Israel, to the Zionist movement and the Jewish people than making peace with  our Palestinian neighbors on the basis of two states for two peoples. No other  issue comes close to the importance of ending Israel’s control over the  Palestinian people and allowing them to be recognized in a sovereign state next  to Israel. The economy, the drafting of yeshiva students, the cost of  apartments, the cost of living, newspaper ownership, and more – none of this  comes close to the importance of finally bringing Israel into genuine  negotiations with the Palestinians that will put an end to the conflict, an end  to claims and real peace.




I have written so many times over the past  years that we know what an Israeli-Palestinian agreement looks like. We know  what compromises are possible. We also know what lessons we must learn from the  past failures of the peace process. We know that partnerships have to be built  and fostered. We know that security arrangements must be the highest priority  and that no third-party troops can replace the essential security  responsibilities of the Israelis and Palestinians themselves.We should  know that no real peace can be built based on walls, fences and barbed wire and  that genuine peace must be built on cooperation across borders.We should  also understand that one of the highest priorities should be to rapidly develop  the Palestinian economy, ensuring that our neighbors are happy and prosperous so  that they will also be peaceful. This is our interest and we have nothing to be  ashamed of stating that it makes absolutely no sense for us as Israelis to want  to have unhappy neighbors. It makes no sense at all for us to want them to  suffer.It is time for the electorate to understand the amazing wealth of  power that Israel holds to actually make peace become a reality. Israelis should  understand that we totally dominate the lives of the Palestinians and have close  to total control regarding our ability to close them in, limit their access and  movement, to make their lives difficult, almost unbearable, and of course, the  opposite too.Our prime minister, who is running for reelection, has no  desire to make peace with the Palestinians, because he is simply not willing to  pay the price. For Netanyahu the peace card was a public relations  stunt.He does not fool the world anymore and he should not fool the  Israeli people anymore either. He wants you to be scared and to live in fear –  fear of the Palestinians, fear of Islamic State, fear of Iran, fear of Obama,  fear of anyone who suggests that Israel must allow the Palestinians to have 22  percent of the land of Israel.He has been leading Israel into direct  confrontation with the entire world. He has been leading Israel into the next  intifada. He is allowing right-wing fanatics to provoke violence on the  religious front in order to transform a political-territorial identity conflict,  which is resolvable, into a religious-messianic conflict which can never be  resolved.No Netanyahu, the whole world is not against us – it is against  you and what you stand for. The world is against you denying the Palestinian  people what we Jews have fought for and have won – independence, a territorial  expression of our identity, dignity, sovereignty – the ability to have a piece  of land we call our own. Another term for Israel under Netanyahu means  confrontation with the world, more Palestinian violence against us all,  anti-Israel and anti-Semitic barrages against Jews wherever they are. Another  Netanyahu government is too much for the people of Israel to suffer and too much  for the Jews of the world to have to absorb.
This is the time of  opportunity. The election campaigns will most likely be ugly, cheap, full of  mud-slinging and very little real debate on the issues. Most likely the Israeli  people will not be challenged with grand visions and people will vote much more  against something than for something. The most important thing is that they  vote. Every citizen must use their right, their obligation to make that critical  choice. Every citizen, Jew and Arab, must not think that their vote is not  important, or that by voting they are not making a choice. There is too much at  stake. Whatever choices are made – we will all be impacted. I am glad we are  going to elections – despite the costs. There are good reasons for hope – we are  a people who have survived through history. Now we must survive the bad choices  we have made in the past and hopefully make better ones now.

The author  is the co-chairman of IPCRI, the Israel Palestine Creative Regional Initiatives,  a columnist for The Jerusalem Post and the initiator and negotiator of the  secret back channel for the release of Gilad Schalit. His new book Freeing  Gilad: the Secret Back Channel has been published by Kinneret Zmora Bitan in  Hebrew and as The Negotiator: Freeing Gilad Schalit from Hamas by The Toby  Press.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Encountering peace: People of Israel – wake up!</title>
<date>30/4/2014</date>
<content>
John Kerry said the “A word” and was then forced to apologize.I don’t  have to apologize.




I repeat Kerry’s exact words and believe in every  single one of them: “A unitary state winds up either being an apartheid state  with second-class citizens – or it ends up being a state that destroys the  capacity of Israel to be a Jewish state.”If the two-state solution is  dead, as it seems it might be, Israel will become a unitary state with two  populations, one with privileges and political rights and the other living in  Bantustans, surrounded, isolated from each other, with no real control over  their lives, denied their political rights. If Israel does not end its  occupation over the Palestinian people, sooner, not later, Israel will become a  new form of apartheid.No, not apartheid like South Africa was, but a new  type of political discrimination, forced separation, with separate legal  systems, separate roads and more. One society will be the masters and the other  the servants. To a large extent this already describes the reality. We already  have a unitary state reality, and it has existed for 46 years. With no real hope  for political change that will bring about the end of the Israeli occupation  over the Palestinian people, this can no longer be thought of as a temporary  situation over disputed territories. With annexation or without it, Israel is  and has been in full control over the territories for the past 46  years.I want to be very clear: the failure of the most recent chapter in  Israeli negotiations is the primary responsibility of Prime Minister Binyamin  Netanyahu and not Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. The failure is  not about the refusal of Abbas to recognize Israel as the nation-state of the  Jewish people. That is the trap that Netanyahu placed for Abbas to fall into.  Abbas fell into the trap, stating that he will never recognize Israel as the  nation-state of the Jewish people. He should have simply stated that this was  not an issue that he would not answer.The citizens of the State of  Israel have to decide for themselves what is their state’s identity. Abbas’s  responsibility is to say that he as the representative of the Palestinian people  recognizes the State of Israel and its right to live in peace and security and  that his goal in negotiations is to reach a comprehensive peace agreement which  will bring about the end of the conflict and of all claims.The people of  Israel do not need or require the Palestinians to define Israel’s identity. This  was a propaganda trick and trap of Netanyahu’s, who only wanted the negotiations  to fail and to be able to blame Abbas for the failure.Netanyahu has  consistently refused to meet Abbas face to face.He knows very well that  in such a meeting he would be talking to a man who has constantly preached peace  for his people and who has denounced terrorism and violence.Abbas  dismantled the infrastructure of Hamas terrorism in the West Bank and even today  continues to fight against it in full cooperation with the Israeli  security.Even if the reconciliation process between the PLO and Hamas  progresses, Abbas says that he and his government will continue to combat  terrorism. Netanyahu has failed to issue one peace plan, one serious offer, a  map that would put a border between the two states.Netanyahu’s  government, in fact no government of Israel, has ever officially supported the  two-states solution. Never has there been a decision of a government of Israel  setting the two-states solution as official policy.I love Israel very  much and I am proud to be an Israeli. These words I am writing pain me very  much.There is no solution to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict except  for two states for two peoples. There is no acceptable two-state solution that  will end the conflict that does not allow the Palestinians to have their state,  without Israeli control, domination and occupation on 22 percent of the land  between the River and the Sea. There is no solution to that conflict that does  not have two capitals in Jerusalem in one open (physically) undivided city.  There is no chance of peace without allowing the Palestinian refugees to  determine their future in the framework of agreements that will include return  to Palestine (their state) and some limited, symbolic, agreed-to return to  Israel proper (and a lot of additional options of other countries willing to  accept them).The really sad news for Israel is that in the end the  Palestinians will win and Israel will lose. I have no doubt about that. With all  of the just claims that Israel can make for its existence and legitimacy, there  are no just claims that it can make for denying the Palestinian people their  basic political rights.The justice of Palestinian freedom and liberation  far outweigh any claims that Israel can make for continuing the  occupation.That is why Israel will lose and the Palestinians will win.  We cannot even justify to ourselves why we deny the Palestinian people their  freedom. Their cause is just and if we weren’t their enemy, with Jewish values  in our hearts and our inclination as a people to fight for justice we would be  supporting them wholeheartedly in their just cause.But we are their  enemy so we create answers and justifications for our unjust behavior: they  aren’t a people, the occupation isn’t an occupation, settlements are not illegal  – it is not illegal to build on our ancient homeland, they have autonomy, they  control themselves, only 2% of them live in area “C”, etc., etc. No one serious  seriously buys our excuses any more.Netanyahu continues to confiscate  their land, he continues to arrest and imprison them every single day, he  continues to demolish homes, to destroy water wells, to control their economy,  to threaten them with withholding their taxes which belong to them. Netanyahu  has destroyed any chance of peace.Netanyahu is leading Israel to pariah  state status. Israel cannot win at this and Israel will not win at  this.Peace is possible, there is a partner for real peace on the other  side. Netanyahu is right when he says that Abbas is not a partner to continue  negotiations for the sake of negotiations. No, he is not a partner to agree to  live without the same basic political rights that Israel demands for itself. It  is time to say no to false negotiations – talking for the purpose of talking,  that chapter has ended. That is what Netanyahu wants, but that is no longer  possible. Now it the time to face reality, time to look into the  mirror.
People of Israel – wake up! The author is co-chairman of IPCRI,  the Israel Palestine Center for Research and Information, a columnist for The  Jerusalem Post and the initiator and negotiator of the secret back channel for  the release of Gilad Schalit. His new book Freeing Gilad: the Secret Back  Channel has been published by Kinneret Zmora Bitan in Hebrew and The Negotiator:  Freeing Gilad Schalit from Hamas from The Toby Press.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ex-Australian FM Carr stabs Israel in the back</title>
<date>10/11/2014</date>
<content>
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA – Few people outside of Australia will have heard of Bob  Carr, a former Australian foreign minister and premier of New South Wales,  Australia’s most populous state. And few will care, especially now that Carr is  out of office, mostly washed up, and desperate to sell books. But as an American  who is married to an Australian, whose children are Australian citizens and who  visits this beautiful country annually, I care deeply when the decency of  Australia is maligned by the likes of Carr. His vicious assault on Israel  demands a response.In April of this year Carr made his bid for continued  relevance by signing on to a version of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion in a  bizarre claim that Melbourne’s Jewish lobby controls Australia’s Middle East  policy. To be sure, a distressed former political figure scapegoating the Jews  with claims of Jewish control of governments to get into the news is nothing  new. And it usually works. Carr’s book, Diary of a Foreign Minister, which, like  himself, would have been relegated to obscurity otherwise, sold a couple more  copies through the press coverage he received with his claims of a Jewish  conspiracy. Still, it’s sad to see a once-influential man reduced to employing  crude anti-Semitism to remain relevant.




But not content to impugn the  Jews of Melbourne with the scandalous charge of dual loyalty, Carr has just come  out with his newest allegation: Israel is an apartheid state committed to  disenfranchising the Palestinians, as evidenced by its expansion of settlements.  It is for this reason, Carr claims, that he is turning on Israel and becoming a  supporter of Palestine instead.In this, too, Carr is wholly  unoriginal.If you’re going to savage the Jewish state, surely you can do  so by saying something novel? But is this all we get – the over-roasted chestnut  of Israel as pre-Mandela South Africa.But in his obsession with Jewish  world domination there are things that Carr omits.He omits the fact that  the land ceded by Israel to the Palestinians in peace deals has been transformed  – every time – into terrorist enclaves.He omits the fact that Hamas is a  genocidal organization committed in its charter to Israel’s destruction and the  murder of Jews worldwide.He omits the fact that the Palestinian  Authority is now a dictatorship run by Mahmoud Abbas, who has not gone to  elections in more than a decade. He omits the fact that Abbas runs a  kleptocracy, enriching his sons Tarik and Yasser who illegally control the  construction and cigarette trade, among other lucrative industries.He  omits the fact that Nelson Mandela was a true apostle of peace who languished in  jail for 27 years while Yasser Arafat is the father of international terrorism  and made his name by blowing up children.He omits the fact that Arab  citizens of Israel enjoy more rights than Arabs anywhere in the Middle East. In  his charges of Jewish racism he omits the fact that Arabs serve at the highest  levels of Israeli officialdom, including the Supreme Court, something  unthinkable in an apartheid regime. He omits the fact that Israeli hospitals  treated Abbas’ wife and the daughter of the current Hamas leader. He omits the  fact that the single greatest threat to world civilization today is not the Jews  and the puny State of Israel, but radical Islamic terrorism which is producing  monsters like Islamic State, Hamas and Boko Haram.Oh, Bob, if it were  only the case that Australia’s biggest worry was Melbourne’s Jews – a community  famous for its philanthropy, civic responsibilities and patriotism.All  this Carr omits as he assails the Jews as apartheid racists. And in so doing  Carr not only shows his cards but offends the brave black population of South  Africa, who are models of reconciliation and forgiveness.Sorry, Mr.  Carr, but the Jews are the indigenous people of Israel. It is not I who says it  but your own Bible. Read the New Testament and try and find mention of a single  Arab resident of ancient Israel. The Jews were the land’s inhabitants and they  were displaced by a European colonial occupier called Rome.They were  forcibly removed from their land and displaced for 2,000 years, while a small  remnant always remained. The Jews prayed thrice daily to return to their land.  And when finally granted the political opportunity, they came and drained the  swamps, irrigated the sands and made the land so much more inhabitable for Arab  brethren that had migrated there in the interim.The Jews were happy to  share the land, but it was a sentiment that was sadly rejected by the Arabs.  They rejected the 1936 Peel Commission Partition. The rejected the 1947 UN  partition plan. They rejected Israel’s offers to return all conquered 1967 lands  with their famous “three Nos” in Khartoum: No peace, No recognition, No  negotiation. And they turned the Oslo peace accords – which granted Arafat  political autonomy over 95 percent of the Palestinian population – into a  murder- fest by launching a never-ending terror war against Israel’s buses,  schools and cafes.Rather than Western statesmen like Carr demanding from  the Palestinians to stop the never-ending incitement against the Jews and the  promises to push them into the sea, rather than calling out Mahmoud Abbas for  his monstrous lies about an Israeli genocide in Gaza, rather than objecting to  the rampant assassination of Palestinian gay men by Hamas and the honor killings  of innocent women, Carr would defend this barbarity by pointing the finger at  the Middle East’s only democracy.Australians are some of the warmest,  most tolerant and peace-loving people on earth. Australia is a model of social  harmony and ethnic integration.Australia took in scores of Holocaust  survivors who fled Hitler’s ovens after World War II. Australians love and  support Israel. I know that they will reject pathetic attempts at Jewish  character assassination leveled by desperate former politicos like Bob  Carr.
The author, “America’s rabbi,” is the international best-selling  author of 30 books, winner of The London Times Preacher of the Year Competition,  and recipient of the American Jewish Press Association’s Highest Award for  Excellence in Commentary. He has just published Kosher Lust: Love is Not the  Answer. Follow him on Twitter @ RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Exposing the boycott</title>
<date>19/2/2014</date>
<content>
Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest bank, shows signs of mild embarrassment in the  wake of reports it consigned Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim, to a list of  firms deemed too “ethically questionable” for investment by ostensibly ethically  minded investors.Bank Hapoalim indeed featured on the list, but Deutsche  Bank later averred this was merely a recommendation by an outside consultant  from Denmark.




It needs be stressed that the actual damage to Bank  Hapoalim is likely to be minimal at most. If anything, the impact on Deutsche  Bank’s image will be greater. It goes beyond the specter of a German financial  giant boycotting a Jewish concern. Deutsche Bank has a particularly dark past,  even for a veteran German corporation.It underwrote the construction and  operation of Auschwitz, a fact it kept under wraps until 1999. Much as today’s  bank executives may righteously dissociate themselves from their institution’s  past, the symbolism cannot be dodged. Already back in 1933, Deutsche Bank  dismissed its Jewish employees. It was very active in what was dubbed ”the  Aryanization of Jewish businesses.” It was the Gestapo’s chief  financier.That may in part explain the eagerness to promote such  initiatives as the “moral investment plan” that blacklists Hapoalim. The morally  superior facade may in itself provide a form of psychosocial uplift.Be  that as it may, there is effrontery in the notion of a bank with the most  sinister of histories presuming to pass judgment on a Jewish bank for no other  reason than that it has branches that operate beyond the non-border that is the  1949 armistice line (a.k.a. the Green Line). That suffices to lump Bank Hapoalim  with some of the most unsavory arms dealers, etc.Worse yet, Deutsche  Bank is not alone, although there is particular odium in this particular  organization’s alacrity to conform to the edicts of Europe’s de rigueur  political correctness.Denmark’s largest bank, Danske Bank, also placed  Hapoalim on its blacklist, though Danske has never invested in Hapoalim. The  Swedish-based Nordea Bank has approached Bank Leumi and Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot  with inquiries about their across-the-Green-Line presences.Norwegian  pension funds have likewise announced they will not invest in given Israeli  companies.More than any of this affects the financial well-being of  Israeli banking, however, it unmasks the underside of European sanctimony. The  fact that a situation, which has existed for nearly half-a-century, has suddenly  and contagiously begun to seemingly outrage so many in Europe, raises moral  questions – more about the organizers of the apparently obligatory outrage than  about the situation in the Middle East.Israel is by no yardstick an  imperialist ogre but rather a tiny and vulnerable country that is forced to  defend itself.At most the territories Israel controls are disputed and  not occupied in the traditional sense. The essence of the current negotiations  between Israel and the Palestinians is to determine the future of those  territories.The companies that attempt to boycott Israel refuse to  recognize these efforts, and close their eyes to the true occupiers – all the  way from Turkey and Morocco to China.The double standard and  demonization unleashed against Israel attest to something that runs deeper than  the holier-than-thou criteria for not doing business with the Jewish  state.Israel has been singled out for abuse and slander. This allows it  to be vituperated as no other state; there is never any scrutiny before  ultra-liberal Israel is castigated as a fascist and racist promoter of all sins  – from apartheid to all-inclusive “crimes against humanity.” Any sort of mud may  be slung at Israel collectively, just as it once was slung in Europe against  hapless Jews individually.It is difficult to escape the conclusion that,  to say the least, Israel is being delegitimized by latter-day Judeophobes who  cynically deny their Judeophobia.Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu noted  this week that “in the past anti-Semites boycotted Jewish businesses and today  they call for the boycott of the Jewish state, and by the way, only the Jewish  state. It is important that the boycotters be exposed for what they are – they  are classical anti-Semites in modern garb.”
To borrow his phrase, it is  indeed time to “delegitimize the delegitimizers."
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Force-feeding hunger-striking prisoners – another view</title>
<date>16/6/2014</date>
<content>
The leadership of the Israel Medical Association, and a number of civil rights  organizations, have forbidden physicians to feed hunger-striking prisoners  without their consent, under threat of potential trial for human rights  violations. I would like to take strong issue with this position.My  contention is in line with the decision of District Court Judge Sara Sirota who  ruled in 2005 that the Israeli Supreme Court and legislature have ruled that in  the case of a conflict between the right to life and that to dignity, the right  to life and health is given priority.




In this ruling she quoted the  ruling by Supreme Court Justice Moshe Beisky who said in a precedent-setting  judgment that in our culture we cannot abide by the rigid rules against  treatment of a patient without consent if non-treatment will result in certain  permanent injury or death.The United States Supreme Court, too, stated,  “We do not think a state is required to remain neutral in the face of an  informed and voluntary decision by a physically able adult to starve to death,”  and just a few weeks ago an American federal court judge permitted force-feeding  of a prisoner, stating that “we cannot allow him to die.”In the face of  hunger-striking prisoners there are three potential approaches: 1. Permit them  to continue to fast until permanent disability or death – this approach was  taken by Margaret Thatcher in the face of hunger-striking Irish prisoners, by  the apartheid regime of South Africa toward black prisoners, and by the Turkish  government towards Kurdish hunger- strikers. Hundreds of prisoners died in these  countries. Shall Israel follow the lead of these countries? Are these  appropriate role models for our society? 2. Acquiesce to the demands of the  strikers – such action makes hunger striking the ultimate weapon of prisoners to  achieve almost any demands, leading to total anarchy in the prisons.3.  Imposing feeding of the prisoners against their will. The opponents refer to  this kind of feeding as “torture.” But many of us physicians have personally  undergone placement of nasogastric tubes as part of our training. It is not a  pleasant experience, but by any objective criterion prolonged fasting until  death unquestionably imposes much greater suffering.Professor George  Annas, of Boston, one of the world’s experts on medicine and law, has written,  “We restrict the rights of prisoners in many ways. Force-feeding them rather  than permitting them to starve themselves to death is probably one of the most  benign.”These considerations are relevant in every democratic country.  But I believe that it is permissible, and perhaps mandatory, for each country to  act according to its unique culture. Unlike many countries, including the United  States, we do not impose death sentences even for the most heinous crimes, and  appropriately so. Our law entitled “Do not stand idly by your neighbor’s blood”  mandating every citizen to come to the aid of even a stranger in danger, does  not exist in the United States. There the culture of individualism is  predominant whereas we are more of a communitarian culture. The death of any  individual adversely affects us all.What are my practical suggestions?  We should definitely permit prisoners to engage in hunger strikes to protest  their grievances, since at times that may be their only way to bring their  situation to the public. But we must make it clear to them up front that under  no circumstances will we allow them to endanger their lives and health; that  when they reach a stage of danger to themselves they will be hospitalized and  fed even against their express will.I believe that this approach  represents a humane, ethical and Jewish approach which respects human life in  the spirit of our culture.
The author is professor (emeritus-active) of  medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,  Beersheba.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>For such a time as this</title>
<date>26/6/2014</date>
<content>
As I write these words, one week ago this morning, at this very hour, I was sitting in Bethlehem’s Palestinian Authority police headquarters. I had been sent to a separate room, an adjacent office to the one where phone and passport had been taken and remained. In spite of my objections, in spite of the PA interrogator’s pledge of hospitality, personal texts were being read. Under the watchful eye of a de facto guard, I crossed my legs, shut my eyes, relaxed with deep breaths and wordlessly prayed. It was Thursday morning, 19 June 2014. For the past six months I have been living in Beit Jala. It is a mostly Christian community in the Bethlehem District. The Church of the Nativity was a fifteen minute walk from my room. Like the little town of Bethlehem, Beit Jala is on the other side of Israel’s security barrier. According to Oslo agreements, it is part of Area A, under governmental control of the Palestinian Authority. Still, it is common to see Westerners on the street. Bethlehem is visited by more than a million tourists every year. Most, I think, do not understand they have left the umbrella of Israel’s sovereign protection. With the exception of a few risk-takers, none of these visitors are Israeli. It is against the law for them to be in the Bethlehem district. Large red signs are posted at area entrances. They read, “This road leads to Area ‘A.’ Entrance for Israeli citizens is forbidden. [It is] dangerous to your lives and is against Israeli law.” Surprising to many of my friends, I felt safe. Until last Thursday morning.




I was headed out the door to catch a bus for a meeting in Jerusalem. Five men from the Palestinian Authority were waiting. Their English-speaking member identified who they were and asked, “Are you Brian Schrauger? I need to see your passport.” Looking at it, keeping it, he continued, “We need to talk with you about what you are doing here. We need to talk at headquarters.”My wonderful Palestinian hosts stood by, eyes wide. They are like family. They gave me a home when I did not have a home; they gave me their hearts when I was alone; they embraced me as one of their own. And they did all this with full knowledge of what I wrote in social media, what I published in conventional press. They do not especially care for Israel. But they cared for me. Regardless my advocacy for the democratic Jewish State, they made me one of their own. They never said the words, but they loved me. The feeling is mutual; I loved, and love, them. Others in Bethlehem talk about love but never by itself. Love is always wedded with words like occupation, apartheid, nonviolence, justice and reconciliation. In particular, these are fellow evangelical Christians who sponsor and promote “Christ at the Checkpoint, (CatC)” conferences. According to my Palestinian Authority interrogator, Osama, I was in his office because of complaints from unnamed people associated with CatC, both locals and “internationals.”What is CatC? With pitch-perfect Western evangelical language, three CatC conferences have sold an updated version of Replacement Theology. They are making their pitch to the children of today’s Christian Zionists. Combined with a construct known as Liberation Theology, CatC teaching has its roots deep in the soil of books by England’s Reverend Stephen Sizer and by the founder of Jerusalem’s Sabeel Ecumenical Liberation Theology Center, Father Naim Ateek. As a result, CatC has abandoned historic evangelicalism’s focus on moral redemption at God’s initiative. In its place, the focus is on social-political redemption at human initiative, in this case social justice for Palestinians suffering, they allege, under the jack-booted heal of an Israeli occupying and apartheid state cheered on and enabled by Christian Zionists, people portrayed as duplicitous, naïve and ruthless in CatC’s movie, With God on Our Side, produced by Porter Speakman. Flagship evangelical schools have joined the chorus of this new gospel. Professor Gary Burge of Wheaton College is the movement’s leading U.S. theologian. Faculty at Fuller Theological Seminary have issued an open letter to U.S. Christian Zionists calling on them to repent of their “sinful” view which, for its part, also “produces sin.”Just inside the walled PA compound in Bethlehem, while walking up the stairs, Osama turned and said, “You are here because of things you write.” Later, after I was invited to return from the office to which I was sent with a guard, Osama told me that he was not happy with things I write. They lack balance, he explained. Inquiring if I am a “real” Christian, Osama lectured me on the Christian mandate to love everyone. He did not like it when I asked if that meant we must like everybody or and endorse what everybody says. If he had agreed, he would have condemned his own conduct. He ignored the question.You have upset a lot of people, Osama continued. There have been a lot of complaints. Replying to my exclamation, “Really? Who?,” Osama volunteered that complaints had come "from Christ at the Checkpoint people, both here and internationals.”When I heard these words, names ran through my mind. I attended the last CatC conference three months ago. Tweeting throughout and reporting for The Jewish Press, I became known. Since then, I had written opinion essays and tackled CatC leadership in public social media. The list of probable suspects who complained is small, six maybe seven people. Later two third-party sources indicated that yes, among these few there are those who “said things” making them likely sources for complaints the PA received. Unfortunately, there is no proof. Not yet.The reason for my invitation to the PA’s walled compound soon became clear. “A lot of people know you are here. They know exactly where you are. Ninety-nine percent of Palestinians are wonderful, peaceful people. But there is that one percent…” The sentence was left hanging. It is not safe; you really should leave, I was told. Several times. As I was taken to a heavily gated exit to walk home alone, Osama returned my phone and passport. Be careful, he admonished.Perambulating back, passing familiar shops and faces, I realized I agree with Osama. The vast majority of Palestinian citizens are wonderful people. They are wonderful people trapped by those who claim to speak for them; they are wonderful people muted by unofficial censorship from official authorities. It is not safe to speak out against prevailing views by those in charge. Or against those who know how to manipulate them, people like Christ at the Checkpoint’s anti-Israel brand of Christian leadership.Several hours later, bulging suitcase in tow, I was driven of town. Yes, it was a shock. Yes, there was, and is, adjustment. Motivation to carry on came in part from Reverend Stephen Sizer, an international leader of CatC. Forty-eight hours after leaving my adopted Palestinian home and family, he sent a public message. “Did you enjoy PA hospitality?” he tweeted, copying the blog with which he is associated, HurryUpHarriet.com. “Was it better than IOF – Israel Occupation Force – accommodations?” that blog quickly followed up.
With a rising tide of voices, here and around the world, I call on all to look and see beneath the mask of Christianized duplicity coming out of Bethlehem. And England. And the USA. For such a time as this.

Brian Schrauger is a regular contributor to the Jerusalem Post and its Christian Edition. He has just begun a JPost blog. Its name is Such A Time. Follow him on Twitter @BrianSchrauger
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>From ScarJo to UNESCO: Confronting the holy war against lovers of Zion</title>
<date>3/2/2014</date>
<content>
Is anyone really surprised that the UK-based mega-charity Oxfam forced Scarlett Johansson to walk the gangplank for taking a gig with an Israeli shpritz occupier of the West Bank? After all, what’s more important, using one of the most talented and beautiful actresses in the world to raise awareness and money to feed the planet’s poor, or maintaining BDS’ holy war against the Jewish occupiers of the Holy Land? Never mind that SodaStream treats Jewish and Arab workers equally and forcing its plant closure would hurt Palestinians. The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions global campaign never was about helping Palestinians – only bullying and punishing Israelis. BDS’s ultimate goal is to dump the Jewish state onto the garbage heap of history alongside its alleged spiritual soulmate – the late apartheid regime of South Africa.Oxfam’s extreme anti-Israel animus is longstanding and runs deep. It’s humanitarian concerns end at Israel’s borders. Oxfam blames Israel for all Palestinian problems, and even refused to condemn suicide bombers that targeted Israeli civilians.




Recently, we at the Simon Wiesenthal Center felt the sting of a related campaign in a pivotal diplomatic venue, one that seeks not only to deny Israel its future but also to erase the Jewish people’s past.On January 14, as we prepared to install “Book, Land, People: The 3,500 Year Relationship of the Jewish People to the Holy Land” at UNESCO world headquarters, our exhibition – co-organized with UNESCO – was literally thrown out of the hall. The Arab group representing 22 members at UNESCO registered an official protest, expressing “its deep concern and strong disapproval.”The reasons for the Arab protest are illuminating. It wasn’t about historic truth. Indeed, they couldn’t attack the brilliant narrative of the exhibition, authored by renowned Hebrew University Professor Robert Wistrich and vetted by no less than three academic reviews brought in by UNESCO.No, UNESCO’s Arab Group rejected the very idea of such an historical exhibition: “The very subject of the exhibition is eminently political ... The opponents to peace in Israel have made this issue their warhorse, and the publicity ... can only harm the ongoing peace negotiations, the constant efforts of [US] Secretary of State John Kerry, and UNESCO’s neutrality and objectivity.”In other words, not only are Israel’s future borders, Jerusalem and the “right of return” up for grabs on the negotiating table, so is Jewish history. The Palestinian Authority’s serial denial of any connection of the Jewish people to its land apparently now extends to the full Arab League.And it gets worse.A week before the Arab protest, I received this answer from the US State Department to our request that the US co-sponsor our exhibition along with Israel, Canada and Montenegro. While offering to host the opening ceremony in Paris, the letter stated, “At this sensitive juncture in the ongoing Middle East peace process, and after thoughtful consideration with review at the highest levels, we have made the decision that the United States will not be able to co-sponsor the current exhibit during its display at UNESCO headquarters.”Protests from US Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power as well as Canada’s Foreign Minister John Baird, along with a deluge of protests from around the world, have led UNESCO to reinstate the Wiesenthal Center exhibition this June. But larger challenges remain.World Jewry cannot allow our history and values to be debased and corrupted by diplomatic machinations.We must not allow the enemies of our people to recast Jewish history as only beginning with the foisting of European Holocaust survivors on Palestine after World War II.To safeguard our past we will need allies to speak up.For starters, we should turn to the nations of Europe who commemorated International Holocaust Memorial Day on January 27 in ceremonies at Auschwitz and other countries who joined in memorial services around the world with this message: “We appreciate the heartfelt sentiment you expressed for dead Jews. Now we need you to show respect for and solidarity with live ones.”Per capita there are no more charitable people than the Jews. But before we write the next check to feed the poor or underwrite a university chair, let’s make sure we aren’t also underwriting our enemies’ agenda. Our self-respect and very survival is a stake. For it is we Jews who taught the world that a people will no past, has no future.
The author, a rabbi, is the associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Grapevine: A local version of ‘Annie Get Your Gun’</title>
<date>2/9/2014</date>
<content>
Remember that song “Anything You Can Do  I Can Do Better” in the musical Annie Get Your Gun? Well it seems that’s the  theme song of former president Shimon Peres, who is repeatedly upstaging  President Reuven Rivlin.Last Thursday, Rivlin participated in an event  jointly organized by Ethics in Sport and the Israel Football Association, in  which Arab and Jewish youngsters put differences aside and got on with the  game.




Several parents, including Arab mothers in traditional garb, were  on hand to cheer on their offspring. Rivlin happily and literally kicked off the  game, and looked as if he enjoyed every minute of his foray into the  field.Violence, racism and hatred, he said, were the greatest enemies of  sport. His big dream was that sport would be clean of both physical and verbal  violence, and from political violence in particular. Just as sport is blind to  color, nationality and religion, sports fans should be equally blind, he  said.Aiming for utopian heights, Rivlin voiced the hope that the day  would come when colored players would not be ridiculed, and Arab players would  not be humiliated.Just a few days later, this past Monday, Peres opened  the annual Peace Soccer Schools program sponsored by the Peres Center for Peace.  Some 80 Israeli and Palestinian youngsters from Sderot and Sha’ar Hanegev, and  Yatta in the West Bank, got together for a practice match at the Kibbutz Dorot  soccer field in the jurisdiction of the Sha’ar Hanegev Regional Council. Leading  the practice session were Moshe Musfi from Kibbutz Nir Am, Issa Abu Hamid from  Yatta and Meir Azran from Sderot.Unlike Rivlin, Peres did not indulge in  any fancy footwork, but instead opted to be the whistle-blower and get the  session in motion.While it is true the Peres Center for Peace has for  several years been organizing and promoting such games in Israel and beyond, the  timing this year could have been delayed by a few weeks in order to give Rivlin  his 100 days of grace.Peres told the young players: “You, children from  southern Israel who play soccer with Palestinian children, symbolize the hope  for peace and the hope for all of us to overcome any challenges. You have all  had a very difficult summer and today you are opening a new year, which I hope  will be a year of sport and dialogue. On this pitch there is a soccer school,  which is also a school of peace for all peoples.”Alon Shuster, head of  the Sha’ar Hanegev Regional Council, also addressed the youngsters; noting they  were children raised in a conflict situation, he said it was also possible to  live differently. Abu Hamid voiced his excitement at being the coach of a joint  team. Similar games are planned for children from other schools throughout the  year.On the same day the peace game was held at Kibbutz Dorot, Peres’s  good friend and avid soccer fan Pope Francis gave his blessing to the  interreligious match for peace that was held at Rome’s Olympic Stadium and  featured some 50 international past and present star players of Christian,  Jewish, Muslim, Hindu and Buddhist faiths – including Israel’s Yossi Benayoun  and Tomer Hemed. Needless to say, there was a good representation from  Argentina, the pope’s native country – including Javier Zanetti, who initiated  the game when he met with the pope a year ago, and Diego Maradona. The pope did  not attend the match, but met with all the players beforehand.■ IT  HARDLY comes as a surprise that Efrat Duvdevani is replacing Ido Sharir as the  director-general of the Peres Center for Peace. Duvdevani was the  director-general of the President’s Office during Peres’s seven-year term as  president, and before that was director-general of the Negev and Galilee  Development Ministry when it was headed by Peres. One of the permanent members  of the Peres team regardless of what position he holds, she followed him from  the ministry to the presidential mansion to the Peres Center for  Peace.Duvdevani previously worked with Yitzhak Rabin in the Prime  Minister’s Office, and following his assassination stayed on to work with Peres;  she has been a member of his team ever since. When Peres moves from one position  to another and does not have a place in his new domain for any member of his  team, he finds important jobs for them in institutions which in one way or  another, have Peres’s fingerprints on them. The connection is never really  broken, and his team is like an extended family.Before his appointment  as director-general of the Peres Center for Peace, Sharir, who is now taking up  the role of director-general at the Science, Technology and Space Ministry,  served as chief of staff (in the civilian sense) to president Peres, overseeing  more than 40 global diplomatic missions, in addition to playing a key role in  activating the president’s Middle East peace agenda and coordinating meetings in  Israel and abroad with influential American, European and Arab leaders.  Duvdevani was part of this team effort, which was continued when Peres moved  from Jerusalem to Jaffa, and can easily take over where Sharir leaves  off.■ ADVANCED AGE has neither stopped nor slowed down Peres, who is  planning to visit the Netherlands again this winter.Peres – who visited  the Netherlands last October and was one of the first official guests of King  Willem-Alexander, who had only recently risen to the throne – shared plans for  his forthcoming visit with Dutch Ambassador Caspar Veldkamp, when the latter  visited the Peres Center for Peace last week. They also discussed the Peres  Center’s future plans for the promotion of peace and development in the Middle  East. Several of the center’s projects have in recent years been financially  supported by the Netherlands.According to Veldkamp, Peres, in his  various positions throughout the years, has always maintained close relations  with the Netherlands. Veldkamp expressed admiration for the former president’s  ability to keep “pointing to a horizon of peace and prosperity,” even in the  most dire situations.■ WHILE MEMBERS of the judiciary were conspicuous  in their absence at Israel Bar Association festivities to kick off the new legal  year, Supreme Court President Asher D. Grunis was the exception – showing up at  the association’s Jerusalem branch in deference to the presence of President  Rivlin, who was one of the keynote speakers.Rivlin, who frequently  speaks out against violence, baseless hatred and racism, warned that Israel is  sitting on a volcano that is on the verge of erupting, because the political  elite remains largely silent in the face of racism and politicians tend to use  democratic principles as a tool for incitement.Rivlin observed that  everyone talks about these problems, but very few take responsibility for them.  The court, he said, is the final station for treating this phenomenon, and marks  the red line between observance and violation of culture, morals and  values.Rivlin deplored the increase in incitement and violent incidents  throughout the country, and said graffiti calling for death to the Arabs was not  something born overnight, but was uttered daily in a loud, clear voice, and must  be stopped. The battle for Israel should not only be fought on its security  front lines, he said, but also on the home front, to prevent further internecine  strife.Former foreign and defense minister Moshe Arens, who like Rivlin  is a former Likud MK and is also a former ambassador to the US, frequently  writes and speaks out against racism and extremism. He says the Arab community,  which has been integrated in fields such as medicine, pharmaceuticals and law,  must become fully integrated in all sectors because it has an important role to  play in the development of Israeli society, and is an integral part of the  overall population.■ IT’S A given that the number of invitees to an  event – be it a Friday night dinner, communal gala or anything in between –  never remains intact. Some of the invitees can’t make it; some drop out at the  last minute; new names initially overlooked are added.Indeed, when Dr.  Gabriel Sivan and his wife, Viva, were putting together the guest list for his  80th birthday party, they never anticipated that so many of the invitees would  respond favorably. As a result, they had to move the party from their Jerusalem  home to a nearby synagogue hall. Viva Sivan, a lawyer and former member of the  Jerusalem City Council, catered the whole affair, which was a British supper in  the most generous and mouthwatering sense, with the most delicious scones this  columnist has ever eaten.Both husband and wife are natives of  Liverpool.There were several others from the Merseyside city in  attendance, who happily swapped anecdotes and referred to the honoree by his  original name of Godfrey Silverman. In fact, within the family circle and among  old friends he is still called Godfrey – just as Chaim Herzog was called Vivian  and Abba Eban, Aubrey.The real event was at and around the head table,  where festivities began with Sivan and his three sons, Pinhas, Aryeh and  Bezalel, who all have excellent singing voices, demonstrating the true meaning  of family harmony. The Sivan’s only daughter, Shira, remained seated with the  guests.Pinchas Sivan acted as master of ceremonies and called up various  people who had interacted with his father at different stages of his rich and  varied career.It turned out to be a very ecumenical affair, with  Orthodox, Conservative and Reform rabbis among the speakers. Sivan’s younger  brother, Vivian Silverman, the rabbi of Hove, spoke of their childhood and noted  that the yeshiva they had attended was opposite Penny Lane – long before being  made famous by The Beatles. Raymond Apple, also an Orthodox rabbi, had studied  with Sivan at Jews College and had been very happy to renew their friendship  after making aliya from Australia, where he had been chief rabbi of the Great  Synagogue of Sydney.Reform Rabbi Walter Zanger, who had been a US Army  chaplain in Vietnam and is currently a political analyst, spoke of the time he  had worked with Sivan at Encyclopedia Judaica. Conservative Rabbi Joshua Adler  worked with Sivan at the Jewish Bible Quarterly.In the early 1950s Sivan  had joined the Royal Air Force, where he learned Russian; he was also posted to  Germany. Someone else who had been in the RAF during the same period was Moshe  Kelman, a former dental health director at the Health Ministry.Kelman,  who is a natural stand-up comedian, gave a hilarious account of life in the RAF.  Like Sivan, he had also studied Russian, and said at the conclusion of his  anecdote that US President Barack Obama claimed no one (from the government) was  listening in to anyone’s phone calls – a claim Kelman dismissed as  poppycock.“Godfrey and I spent all our time listening to shortwave  communications by the Russians, Germans and Americans,” he  said.“Everyone listened to everyone.”Donya Meijer, who had been  at Oxford with Sivan and lost contact with him, renewed the friendship when they  met by chance on a bus in Jerusalem. Troubadour David Herman wrote a poem in  honor of Sivan. Pinchas Sivan spoke of the period the family had spent in South  Africa, which for him as a young child was a quite different, exhilarating  experience compared to that of his parents – who were adults, and who eventually  opted to return to Israel because they found the apartheid and police methods  appalling.Dr. Kenneth Collins, who like Sivan is an author, essayist and  cultural historian, knows Sivan from their common interest in the Israel branch  of the Jewish Historical Society of England, of which Sivan is currently  chairman. Collins said Sivan encapsulates the image of the Jewish king who  should write a Torah scroll and study it, because he is a constant student of  the process of Jewish history. Sivan has also been a community rabbi and a  broadcaster in Hebrew and English, and has quite a few other strings to his  bow.Coincidentally, while Sivan was celebrating his 80th birthday,  Britain’s Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis was celebrating the first anniversary of  his installation into office.The reason he is mentioned here is because  the chief rabbi happens to be the brother of Lynette Silverman, who is the wife  of Rabbi Vivian Silverman – who specially came to Israel to join the Sivan  branch of the family in their celebration.While some immigrant families  have to commute because not all their children are in Israel, the Sivans are  happy to report that not only are their four children and their spouses all  living in Israel, but so are their 16 grandchildren and their single  great-grandchild.■ SPEAKING TO children in Sderot at the opening of the  new school year on Monday, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu confessed that when  he was in school, he much preferred the recess periods to studying in the  classroom. It doesn’t seem to have done him any harm.■ BRAZIL, CHILE and  Peru, which recalled their ambassadors Henrique Da Silveira Sardenha Pinto,  Jorge Montero and Jose Luis Salinas Montes respectively for consultation  following the bombardment of Gaza by the Israel Air Force, approved the return  of their envoys to Tel Aviv and Herzliya Pituah following the announcement of a  cease-fire. Throughout Operation Protective Edge, Latin American countries came  out strongly against Israel for what they said was a disproportionate use of  military force; some heads of Latin American countries have uttered harsh  statements against Netanyahu.Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega has gone  so far as to say Netanyahu is possessed by the devil and needs Pope Francis to  exorcise it. This is actually a double insult, given that Netanyahu is  Jewish.Even if he was possessed by a devil that needed to be exorcised,  he would be more inclined to go to Netivot than Rome.■ TODAY , WEDNESDAY  , is Israel National Film Day, when movie theaters across the country will be  screening Israeli films that were released this year – and the truly good news  is that movie patrons will be charged only NIS 10 per ticket. The promotional  effort for Israel’s film industry was initiated by the Culture and Sport  Ministry in collaboration with brothers Leon and Moshe Edery, who are considered  the biggest investors in Israel’s motion picture industry in terms of funding,  production, distribution, film archive acquisitions and the construction of  Cinema Cities.Stars and other cast members as well as production people  from this year’s crop of Israeli films got together at the flagship Cinema City  at Glilot Junction on Monday with the Ederys and Culture and Sport Minister  Limor Livnat, to celebrate their joint creativity and prepare for the  launch.Among those present were Sasson Gabai, Yael Abecassiss, Oshri  Cohen, Dana Ivgi, Reshef Levy, Shlomo Baraba, Mali Levy, Menashe Noy, Michael  Moshonov, Yehuda Levi, Romi Aboulafia, Ruby Porat Shoval, Zev Revah, Levana  Finkelstein, Keren Mor and many others.The Edery brothers have come a  long way since their start in their hometown of Dimona, and have racked up  numerous achievements over the years. The ever-smiling Moshe Edery, sporting a  giant tub of popcorn, was asked if there was anything he still wanted to  achieve, and the answer was: “Yes, an Oscar.”While the Ederys have  shared in several Ophir Awards, the Oscar has so far eluded them – though they  have come close.■ WHEN MEMBERS of big families marry into other big  families, a family wedding becomes so large and unwieldy, the bride and groom  and their parents have a tough time working out the limited number of friends  for whom there may still be room in the wedding hall. That may happen when the  newly engaged Sophie Taub and Hanan Kupietzky have to sit down and figure out  the invitation list.The bride, who is the daughter of Ambassador to the  UK Daniel Taub and his wife, Zehava, has several siblings, not to mention  slightly more distant relatives including her maternal grandfather, Henry  Goldblum, and her paternal grandparents, Esther and Brian Taub.The groom  comes from a huge mesh of families. His parents, Allison and Ari Kupietzky, have  a sizable number of siblings, in-laws, nieces and nephews between them. His  paternal grandparents are Elke and Nachman Kupietzky, and his maternal  grandparents are Rabbi Harris and Judi Guedalia. His great-grandmother is Els  Bendheim, who last June traveled from Jerusalem to New York to celebrate the  wedding of another great-grandson, Gilad Bendheim, to Tzippy Quint, and while in  New York also celebrated her 90th birthday.The extended Bendheim family  is so big that Els Bendheim has a family celebration of some kind at least once  a month, and frequently more often.■ VETERAN NEWS reader Zvi Salton read  his last news bulletin on Israel Radio’s Reshet Bet on Friday, prior to his  retirement.Salton worked in radio for 40 years and his family was  on-hand in the studio to hear his swan song, and join in the surprise farewell  party organized by his colleagues.Salton’s Facebook page was quickly  revised for a past-tense listing of his place of employment.Salton is  also an actor who has appeared in films and stage productions, and is known as  one of the best of Israel’s poetry readers. His initial career ambitions were in  a different direction altogether. Born in Haifa, he studied physics at the  Technion- Israel Institute of Technology, from which he graduated in 1968; he  went on to do nuclear research in Dimona, but felt his true calling was in  radio. He later trained other broadcasters who came after him, and also  conducted courses for stage and screen actors.Several of his colleagues  paid on-air tributes to him on Yoav Ginai’s What Will Be program on Friday, and  on Sunday there were more tributes from Arye Golan and Nativ  Robinson.Golan voiced the hope that Salton’s voice would be heard on the  airwaves again, either on Reshet Bet or the new public broadcasting entity that  has yet to be established. It is not known at this stage whether Israel  Broadcasting Authority retirees who currently anchor programs will be permitted  to continue with the future public broadcasting network.But whoever is  in charge should bear in mind that listeners and viewers who have grown up with  certain radio and television personalities, and are themselves moving into  advanced age, will constitute a high percentage of future listeners and viewers  – and will want to hear familiar voices and see familiar faces of their own  generation.Among the retirees currently hosting or contributing to IBA  radio and television programs are Yitzhak Noy, Shmuel Shai, Moshe Timor, Yaakov  Ahimeir and Sari Raz. There are several others on the cusp of retirement, among  them some of the most popular voices on radio. There are also people who are not  part of the regular staff, such as Yehoram Gaon, who presents a current affairs  program on Fridays on Reshet Bet with which many listeners  identify.Gaon, a fixture on Israel’s cultural landscape, is 74 and still  appearing regularly on stage and screen.■ THE OUTPOURING of gifts and  affection for soldiers fighting in Gaza went a little haywire on occasion,  proving that some kind of national clearinghouse is needed to ensure nothing  goes to waste, and people who want to contribute can do so in the most  meaningful manner. Cooperation and coordination are the name of the game and  indeed, it seems to be working with regard to a care package project that first  and foremost includes a very special “thank you” T-shirt, plus underwear, socks  and energy bars.The project is a collaborative venture between Thank You  IDF, a year-round campaign run primarily by Abba and Pamela Clayman of  Jerusalem’s Old City, who together with friends and acquaintances provide an  extraordinary range of services for IDF soldiers, including hosting them in  their beautiful home on Shabbat and Jewish holidays. The Claymans have all the  necessary connections to the IDF, and working with them saved a lot of  frustration and red tape.Then there was David Kramer of the Nu Campaign,  a nonprofit that promotes worthwhile concepts through T-shirts.Laya  Lurie, yet another Jerusalemite, who together with her family is involved in  numerous social welfare projects for both the body and soul, came up with the  idea of printing a special passage from the Psalms inside the T-shirt – so that  it would be close to the soldier’s heart, and serve as a talisman in  battle.All three got together with a bunch of volunteers to print, pack  and distribute the T-shirts, which are being sold at NIS 100 for three, thereby  covering production and delivery costs, and enabling people who may not have  much money to nonetheless make a contribution. They keep one T-shirt for  themselves, and the other two go to a soldier.Sonja Kent, who  coordinated the packaging, says the response has been overwhelming and that  almost 7,000 T-shirts have been distributed thus far, along with thank you  letters and explanatory notes about the Psalm. The soldiers have been genuinely  appreciative to see how many people care, she says.The aim is to  distribute such T-shirts not only in wartime but throughout the year, so that in  the final analysis every IDF soldier will have one T-shirt containing a prayer  for his or her safety – knowing that just as it is the duty of the IDF to defend  the nation, it is the nation’s duty to care for each and every  soldier.
greerfc@gmail.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Harper’s vital validation</title>
<date>23/1/2014</date>
<content>
It was, of course, nice to have a close friend and supporter like Stephen Harper  visit Israel this week. But why was the Canadian prime minister’s visit so  important? What is it about Harper that is so uplifting and inspiring, and that  brought people out onto the streets of Jerusalem to salute him? Why did the  things he said – such as “through fire and water, Canada will stand by Israel,”  and “I refuse to single out Israel for criticism on the international stage” –  resonate so powerfully in the Israeli and Jewish mind? Why are Jewish  communities and pro-Israel circles everywhere still talking about the Harper  visit, and will be for years to come? The answer is that Harper’s words and  deeds serve to validate the legitimacy of Israel’s struggle in our own minds,  and serve as a challenge to the world regarding its complicity in the assault on  Israel.




To recap: In his momentous speech to the Knesset this week,  Harper articulated a moral worldview and an approach of principle that calls out  the hypocrisies, and shames the injustices, of what passes today as “politically  correct” policy regarding Israel. He savaged the campaign to boycott and isolate  Israel.“In the world of diplomacy,” Harper said, “with one, solitary,  Jewish state and scores of others, it is all too easy ‘to go along to get along’  and single out Israel.But such ‘going along to get along’ is not a  ‘balanced’ approach, nor a ‘sophisticated’ one; it is, quite simply, weak and  wrong.Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world where that  kind of moral relativism runs rampant. And in the garden of such moral  relativism, the seeds of much more sinister notions can be easily  planted.“As once Jewish businesses were boycotted, some civil-society  leaders today call for a boycott of Israel. On some campuses, intellectualized  arguments against Israeli policies thinly mask the underlying realities, such as  the shunning of Israeli academics and the harassment of Jewish  students.Most disgracefully of all, some openly call Israel an apartheid  state.“Think about that. Think about the twisted logic and outright  malice behind that: A state, based on freedom, democracy and the rule of law,  that was founded so Jews can flourish, as Jews, and seek shelter from the shadow  of the worst racist experiment in history, that is condemned, and that  condemnation is masked in the language of anti-racism. It is nothing short of  sickening.“In much of the Western world, the old hatred, crude  anti-Semitism, has been translated into more sophisticated language for use in  polite society. People who would never say they hate and blame the Jews for  their own failings or the problems of the world, instead declare their hatred of  Israel and blame the only Jewish state for the problems of the Middle East,” he  said.And in this ugly environment, Harper emphatically concluded,  “support today for the Jewish State of Israel is more than a moral imperative.  It is also of strategic importance, also a matter of our own long-term  interests.”This extraordinary speech acts on our consciousness on two  levels.First, it is incredibly important validation for Israelis, Jews  and supporters of Israel everywhere.After all, even the most profoundly  committed person with a long view of Jewish history and deep conviction in the  justice of Israel, can sometimes only wonder: Might we be wrong? Israel is  battered daily with vituperation and bombarded with venom by its enemies and by  fellow travelers in the West. It is only natural to feel hunted, besieged and  outcast. It is only natural to become riddled with a degree of  self-doubt.Comes Prime Minister Harper and says to Israelis and Jews:  Fret not. You may not be perfect, but the problem isn’t you. It’s the nasty way  others are judging you.Comes Harper and affirms: Israel doesn’t merit  the vicious and violent criticism it is being treated to. The anti-Israel  narrative is not supported by the facts on the ground; and this narrative is  just another iteration of the age-old hatred from which Jews have suffered for  two millennia.Comes Harper and declares: I am here to reinforce  you.And indeed, Canada’s friendship is enormously reinforcing and  comforting.Second, Stephen Harper’s bold words challenge the world to be  intellectually honest about Israel. Harper is confronting politicians and  diplomats with the question: Are you actively or passively complicit in the  crime of slandering and isolating Israel? Here is just one brilliant example of  the moral probity that Harper is holding up to the world. He was asked in press  conferences this week to comment on (i.e., criticize) Israeli settlements.  Harper shot back with this sharp and insightful response: “Why is it that  everywhere I go I am asked to single out Israel for criticism? When I’m in  Israel I’m asked to single out Israel, when I’m in the Palestinian Authority I’m  asked to single out Israel, and half the other places around the world you ask  me to single out Israel. I find it interesting [Harper means ‘outrageous’ and  ‘wrong’] that when I visited the Palestinian Authority no one asked me there to  single out the Palestinian Authority for any criticism in terms of governance or  human rights or anything else.”In standing up tall for truth this way,  Harper gives Israel hope that there are many decent people, including people in  positions of power, who will not bow to demonization or to the Orwellian  twisting of language and history that habitually pertains to the Jewish state  these days. He gives us hope that the tide against Israel can be turned  around.
Who knows? Perhaps Harper’s courageous leadership will prove  compelling and universally contagious.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hasbara, public diplomacy and propaganda</title>
<date>12/6/2014</date>
<content>
I am often asked, “Why doesn’t Israel do a better job in presenting its case?”  In other words, “Why does Israel fail so miserably with hasbara?” Hasbara  literally means “explanation,” but it has become the Israeli term for a broad  range of activities aimed at disseminating positive information about Israel,  and promoting positive attitudes toward it. Public advocacy and Israel advocacy  would be better terms, but hasbara is still widely used by the  public.




Hasbara is Israel’s main “soft-power” tool, aimed primarily at  external audiences, unlike the negatively perceived “propaganda,” which is  directly internally. It is the bad guys who engage in propaganda, promoting  their goals and narratives by fabricating facts, manipulating the media and  deceiving everyone into thinking that they are the good guys. Hasbara is what we - the good guys - do, in order to explain how good we really are, and expose how bad the bad guys are.For instance, explaining that Jews have been living in the  Holy Land for 3,000 years and have a right to their ancient homeland – this is  hasbara, but when Palestinians say that the Jews are foreigners and the Temple  never existed – this is propaganda.But it is usually not that  simple. Hasbara poses many challenges.The first is we rarely have an  argument over facts; we dispute interpretations and narratives. The second is  ignorance. Everyone thinks he understands Israel and the Middle East. Some know-it-alls have never even visited here. The third is bias against Israel. No  matter what we do, we will be victims of hypocrisy, distorted favoritism, double  standards and discrimination.The fourth is our complex strategic  environment. There’s no easy solution to the dispute with the  Palestinians – if there is one at all – for reasons ranging from religious  convictions to security considerations. Although we fight for our very  existence, as long as we are in a position of power and dominance, and the  Palestinians are seen as the underdogs, there’s no way we can be perceived  positively.The fifth is that our adversaries use deceptive  propaganda. That is extremely difficult to counter while acting within  democratic and Jewish moral principles. And lastly, we must admit that sometimes  the problem isn’t explaining the policy, but the policy itself.Nuances  of language reflect deep differences in narratives, which demonstrate the  challenges we face. The world refers to Judea and Samaria as the West Bank. The  lands in dispute are called the occupied territories, although they were never  owned by those who now claim them.The fact that checkpoints stop suicide  bombers doesn’t prevent them from being criticized as though they were an  arbitrary method of making Palestinian lives miserable.The security fence, which has dramatically reduced terror attacks, and which consists of 97  percent fence and 3% wall, is known worldwide as “the wall.” Riots with hundreds  of people hurling rocks, bricks and Molotov cocktails, are conveniently referred  to as “peaceful demonstrations.”With the baseless accusations of  apartheid and ethnic cleansing, our enemies cynically exploit popular ignorance  to demonize Israel.So how should we go about explaining  ourselves? How can we make our  international interaction more productive? The combination of the challenging reality, our  unique nature and our frustration over feeling disliked and misunderstood  hinders our ability to explain our policy in a palatable way. We get so carried  away in presenting our case that listening to us is sometimes exhausting,  depressing, boring and annoying.For  instance, we all believe  that Iran should never possess a nuclear weapon, which  would pose an  existential threat to Israel. But we sound like a broken record,  and  even our friends are tired of hearing it. The world literally sees  Iranian  leaders smiling and Israeli leaders frowning.Some of the greatest  hasbara failures are of our own making.We bolster acts of vandalism by  calling them “pricetags” and make them seem like a major threat to regional  stability, overshadowing daily violence and terror. I also find Israel’s  declarations on intended settlement construction provocative and pointless.  We’re not gaining points or teaching anyone a lesson. If you want to build –  build, don’t talk. Another banal, reactive policy is our habit of “responding”  to rocket fire by attacking “terror infrastructure” the next day, instead of  being proactive.New media has become a significant tool for  hasbara. Since this is perceived as the realm of the younger generation,  it is usually managed by junior staff with insufficient experience. This  sometimes results in amateurish and even childish posts on behalf of national  institutions, missing the point or presenting an attitude that is not  appropriate.I find some posts arrogant, pompous, superfluous and  gloating. When describing the threats to Israel, there is a tendency to  overdramatize. When describing our actions, there is an overtone of  vanity. The Israel Air Force, for instance, follows a policy of  highlighting lethality and tends to downplay touchy-feely issues. This may be  effective with some audiences but wrong for others.The secret is to  understand the target audience and shape the message accordingly. For instance,  I believe that the IDF is the most moral military in the world. But I also think  that our friends and allies are sick and tired of hearing us constantly  reiterate this.We should stop categorizing everything in black-and-white  terms and simply tell the Israeli story, as it is, with the good and the bad.  People don’t like to hear too many accusations, complaints and threats aimed at  the other side. Self-justification and self-glorification are just as  annoying.We must accept that we will never be popular and supported by  everyone, and that even when our friends criticize us, they are still our  friends. Not every criticism is delegitimization of Israel and not every  accusation is anti-Semitism.Having said all that, there are times when  we need to stand up for what is right and put up a fight.It is important  to emphasize that my observations refer mainly to diplomatic relations,  military-to-military cooperation and personal interactions. Dealing with  international and local media entails additional challenges and  considerations.Here are my top 10 hasbara tips: 1) Enough with Iran!  (Convey the point and move on). And for heaven’s sake, use the word  “existential” sparingly.2) Be timely and relevant. No one cares about  12-hour-old news, when the other side’s lies have become the perceived  reality.3) Determine the target audience and engage partners with  respect, professionally, and at eye level.4) Don’t talk too  much. Refrain from lecturing and preaching. Stick to facts and figures,  backed by documented proof.5) Operational organizations should focus  more on showing the “what” and “how” and leave the “why” to policy- makers. The  IDF does not need to justify every policy, only to implement it.6)  Balance threats and defense with softer issues. Sometimes it’s better to talk  about drip irrigation than Iranian nuclearization.7) Demonstrate  modesty. We’re not perfect. Talk about our weaknesses, flaws and  mistakes.8) Address internal challenges, not only external  threats.9) Demonstrate our values and morals by personal and  organizational example, not with slogans.10) Relax. Smile. The fate of  Israel is not going to be determined by one conversation.
The writer is a  former pilot in the IAF, founder of Cross-Cultural Strategies Ltd. and project  manager at CockpitRM.

www.CCSt.co.il
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Hate speech in South Africa</title>
<date>26/2/2014</date>
<content>
The SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) required by our 1996 Constitution to  protect human rights and avoid the abuses that were previously so regularly  violated during Apartheid, appears to be failing in its mandate.Tasked  with investigating cases of xenophobia, hate speech and recently a reported  racist attack on a black student at the University of Free State, its record of  meting out justice against the perpetrators is woefully inadequate and  ineffective.




Clearly its case load, with over 10,000 human rights  complaints annually, 80 percent of these of a racial nature, is too onerous for  any legal system to process and execute.“What is particularly  disconcerting is that despite efforts made by various individuals and  institutions, including the commission, to deal with incidents of racism at the  UFS, these incidents continue to occur,” SAHRC spokesman Isaac Mangena said in a  statement.The yawning disparity between the intended punishment, which  in this case would prohibit the two offending students, Cobus Muller and Charl  Blom, from being allowed to study at the university, and the alleged crime of  assault and of trying to run over Muzi Gwebu with their vehicle, clearly poses  no deterrent.The ineffectualness of the SAHRC could not have been more  clearly illustrated when a convicted perpetrator of hatespeech, Bongani Masusku,  found guilty by the SAHRC in 2009, was found “moderating” a panel of the  Parliamentary Portfolio Committee in the Good Hope Chamber of Parliament on  February 6.His mere presence in the discussion would have been insulting  enough to the victims of his hate-speech, but the respectability bestowed on him  by this parliamentary committee raises insensitivity to new levels and merely  makes a mockery of attempts to eliminate racism, hatred and intolerance in South  Africa.Bongani Masuku was investigated by the South African Human Rights  Commission (SAHRC) for a complaint of hate speech lodged by the South African  Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD) on March 26, 2009. The SAHRC ruled to uphold  the complaint, finding that statements Bongani Masuku had made did amount to  hate speech.COSATU spokesperson Patrick Craven in a joint press release  with the Palestinian Solidarity Committee said that the SAHRC erred in the hate  speech ruling against COSATU’s Bongani Masuku and that “South Africa[ns] are  shocked and appalled by the decision of the South African Human Rights  Commission (SAHRC).”Undermining the role of the SAHRC is the ruling  party, the ANC, and its sycophantic followers, COSATU, the SA Communist Party  and the ANC Youth League, when at events like the Third International Solidarity  Conference of South Africa’s ruling African National Congress, which met in  Pretoria, endorsed the call for a campaign of Boycotts, Divestment and Sanctions  (BDS) targeting Israel.These denunciations, to the cheers of assembled  delegates, have now become a regular feature of the ruling party.They  provide a convenient distraction from their inability to deal with problems  closer to home and resonate with heaping blame on an imperialist power,  perceived to be the cause of the suffering of hapless victims, the Palestinians,  like themselves.Masuku’s rhetoric is echoed by the likes of chairman of  the ANC, Baleka Mbete, who said that she herself had visited “Palestine,” where  she’d discovered that the situation is “far worse than apartheid South Africa,”  and by Fatima Hajaig, the former deputy minister of foreign affairs, who claimed  that “the control of America, just like the control of most Western countries,  is in the hands of Jewish money, and if Jewish money controls their country then  you cannot expect anything else.”On February 26 the Portfolio Committee  on International Relations and Cooperation, (National Assembly), are set to meet  to discuss the adoption of the now notorious committee report on the Solidarity  Conference in support of Palestine, Cuba and Western Sahara, framed by the  regular parade of anti-Jewish protagonists Bongani Masuku, Fatima Hajaig and  Marius Fransman.These resolutions call for Israel to be isolated from  the family of nations, for its banking system to be “suspended from the world  banking system” and for it to be criminalized by the International Court of  Justice. What these high-level South Africans are calling for is the destruction  of a legitimate state recognized by the United Nations, in flagrant violation of  international law.Under the guise of showing solidarity with the  Palestinians, which they are more than entitled to do, they have deliberately  ignored and assaulted the feelings and sensibilities of a loyal and hard-working  segment of the South African population.These cheap anti-Jewish tactics  will forever sully the governing parties’ commitment to inter-racial and  inter-community reconciliation, and its commitment to build a “rainbow  nation.”
In the meantime the criminal Bongani Masuku is unrepentant and  cosseted with the support of the ruling party!
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Here and there: ‘Mind the gap’</title>
<date>15/5/2014</date>
<content>
It came as a shock to learn recently that the highly successful Taglit-  Birthright currently faces a dearth of applicants.Started by two  outstanding philanthropists, Canada’s Charles Bronfman and the US’s Michael  Steinhardt, Birthright has attracted some 360,000 participants since its  inception in winter 1999. This 10-day free trip, geared toward those who have  never been to Israel or on an organized visit here, first showed a 17-percent  decline in applicants between 2011 and 2013.




Today, the program’s  organizers have decided to use a marketing company to reach out to those young  Jews with little or no Jewish affiliation, as well as those whose father is  Jewish but according to Halacha are not considered Jews.The first  question to be asked is why applications have decreased, while the second  question is whether this seeming withdrawal from identification with Israel is  also affecting the Diaspora as a whole.Birthright is a scheme that  attracts 18- to 25-year-olds. Perhaps a look at what has been happening on  campuses throughout the world in recent years will provide insight into why this  situation has arisen.Some 16 years ago I had the privilege of serving as  chair of the UK’s Hillel Foundation, working very closely with the Union of  Jewish students, whose head office was housed in the same building as Hillel. At  that time, Jewish students faced many challenges from their Arab and Muslim  counterparts.Hence, there was no running away from situations where  Israel was under attack. The Jewish students would stand up and be  counted, organizing many campaigns to educate and support students in their  fight against attempts to close down Jewish and Israeli societies, and generally  bash Israel. They were always ready to debate and speak out forcefully against  the constant drip, drip of virulent anti-Israel campaigners.During these  past 16 years, however, support for the Jewish student has diminished  considerably. What we have witnessed is that the majority of Jewish students are  not willing to become involved in fighting anti-Israel campaigns. This is  partly due to an ignorance of the facts relating to Israel, but is also a  reflection of the well-organized anti-Israel campaigns – in which a number of  Arab states have invested heavily in universities throughout the Western world,  including the financing of seats in Middle Eastern studies.One  illustration of this successful anti- Israel isolation came in 2002, when  then-minister Binyamin Netanyahu was unable to address a meeting organized by  the Hillel House at Montreal’s Concordia University because of Arab students’  protests. Yet in 2007, there was nothing to prevent Iran’s then-president  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad – a Holocaust denier who wished to “wipe Israel off the map”  – from addressing students at New York’s elite Columbia University.It is  disturbing to view previously staunch US campuses distancing themselves from  associating with Israel. The fact that there are Israeli academics who launch  “Israel Apartheid Week” on campus only adds to the dilemma in which the Jewish  student finds himself.One such academic, Israeli-born Ilan Pappé, once  employed by the University of Haifa and now at the UK’s Essex University, is a  frequent lecturer propagating anti-Israel rhetoric worldwide. Indeed, this past  March, he was a keynote speaker at the University of California, Berkeley’s  Israel Apartheid Week – a week (and on a number of campuses, one week turns into  two) dedicated solely to the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign against  Israel.This is the 10th year of Israel Apartheid Week, which in 2010 saw  Tel Aviv University professor Adi Ophir participating in the UK’s apartheid  week, where she vilified Israel’s name at both the School of Oriental and  African Studies and the London School of Economics.The BDS campaign is  taking its toll on the wider Jewish community and, sadly, even on its  leadership. The question arises as to whether there remains a sufficient  commitment to Israel to withstand an increasingly blatant campaign to  delegitimize the one Jewish state.Married to an architect, a member of  the Royal Institute of British Architects, it came as a shock to me to learn  that RIBA recently voted to demand that the Israel Association of United  Architects be removed from the International Union of Architects. My husband  immediately wrote to RIBA president Stephen Hodder, expressing outrage that the  association had entered the political arena and had selected, from all the  countries in the world, only Israel to seek its removal from the international  union.The reason given for this demand is that Israeli architects are  building in the so-called “occupied territories,” which is considered illegal.  My husband cited Turkey, which occupies part of Cyprus; China, which occupies  Tibet; and Russia, which is currently occupying the Crimea, asking whether RIBA  intended to take similar action against these countries. The response he  received was that RIBA was not asking for the boycott of the Israel Association  of Architects, but rather for their suspension from the International Union of  Architects.Meanwhile, my husband pointed out that Israel is somewhat  unique in this part of the world, offering complete freedom for all to practice  their religion. How different this is from other Middle Eastern  countries, even those we have peace treaties with such as Jordan, where the  constitution specifies that no Jew is allowed to become a citizen or own  property. Furthermore, there is no place of worship allowed for  Christians or Jews in Saudi Arabia. Such is the democracy and human rights of  some of our neighbors.While UK Education Minister Michael Gove condemned  RIBA’s action outright, it was interesting to note that UK newspaper The  Independent was quick to point out that 65 Jews and non-Jews fully supported  RIBA’s action, and that “Gove’s sensitivity to Jewish issues is not  new.”In the past, Anglo Jewry’s leadership would have immediately risen  to the defense of Israel, but sadly today the story is different. Hard as I  tried, I could not find a response from Anglo Jewry’s major representative body,  the Board of Deputies of British Jews. In fact, it was difficult to find a  worthwhile response from any Jewish group.This is synonymous with a  growing sense of distancing from Israel, which is happening not only among Anglo  Jewry but among communities worldwide, including the US – where, hitherto,  support and understanding of Israel was taken for granted.What is  painfully clear is that Israel is viewed as the world’s pariah. A personal  example of this is that 16 years ago – following our aliya, when we would return  to London to visit friends and family – there was always an interest in what was  going on here. Today, there is a clear reluctance to wanting to talk or ask  questions about Israel, and that speaks volumes!Sixty-nine years after the end  of World War II, guilty feelings that countries had towards the Jews have  dissipated. Yes, today anti-Semitism is once again rearing its ugly head, but we  also need to ask ourselves whether we have treated hasbara (public diplomacy)  seriously enough. We live in a world of the “word,” and of the TV/computer  screen, but for too long we in Israel have ignored the importance of presenting  Israel’s case.The attitude here has been that it does not matter what we  say, it is what we do that counts. This has proven to be a big mistake, for  while we do not do everything right, we still do not deserve to have become the  world’s No. 1 whipping boy.Diaspora leadership must take stock and  recognize its priorities. Students should be given maximum support in terms of  knowing and understanding Israel, as it is the student generation that will  determine the future political leadership and policy in their respective  countries.Our Jewish students must be equipped and encouraged to play  their part in Israel’s future. 
The writer is the chair of ESRA and has been  active in public affairs and status- of-women issues.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>How campus speech codes silence the pro-Israel community</title>
<date>31/12/2014</date>
<content>
The infamous Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) campaigns and “apartheid week” displays on college campuses are not the only threat to Jewish students. A much greater threat looms: the inability for students to publicly defend their beliefs. While universities claim to be havens of open debate and intellectual curiosity, they are in reality black holes of political correctness. On campus, only certain ideas are worthy of consideration and Zionism is definitely not one of them. This culture doesn’t just threaten members of the Jewish community, who are terrified to challenge those who accuse Israel of the most heinous crimes. Rather, it threatens all of us who value free speech and its ability to encourage criticism, debate, and original thought on college campuses. While speech codes are thought to be a thing of the 90s, the truth is that college students today are facing the most serious threats to their civil liberties. From “trigger warnings” to “free speech zones,” universities are slowly training students to become hypersensitive and incapable of deviating from ideologies that are in vogue. 
 
But unlike the 90s, universities are now controlling speech in a much more insidious manner. Speech codes today manifest in vague and poorly written policies that try to protect students against harassment, sexual assault, and bullying. Seemingly, these policies serve the best interest of students who face these issues on campus. But practically, they give university administrators the power to punish students for harmless speech protected by the First Amendment, while ignoring due process for the accused. 
It is shocking how many universities have such policies. Lehigh University, for example, defines harassment as “…unwelcome statements, jokes, gestures, pictures, touching, or other conducts that offend, demean, harass, or intimidate.” I suppose they weren’t planning to invite Sarah Silverman (or any other decent comedian) anytime soon. Georgetown University’s Code of Student Conduct includes punishable measures against incivility defined as behavior that “disrespects another individual.” Since when is being disrespectful a crime? In Minnesota, St. Olaf College has a policy that disallows “creating or posting material that is offensive” on a campus computer. In other words, no emailing political memes, cartoons, or opinion articles…all of which could potentially offend someone. 
 
Therein lies the real danger. How can we punish students or professors for saying something that might be understood as disrespectful? And should universities have the authority to decide what does and does not fall under these definitions on a case-by-case basis? For many students, the positions that conservatives take on social issues are offensive: anti-gay marriage, anti-abortion, etc. But that shouldn’t mean that these positions are illegitimate and that those who hold these opinions should be discriminated against. These policies, though, allow for exactly that.
 
The problem for Jewish students is that showing support for Israel on campus can be very offensive to anti-Israel students. Despite being the only progressive democracy in its region, many college students are absolutely convinced that Israel is to blame for all the problems of the Middle East. University departments, professors, and student groups are all actively pushing an anti-Israel agenda through divestment campaigns, apartheid week protests, and bigoted propaganda. They create a colonialist narrative that depicts Israelis as powerful white Westerners taking over an indigenous and vulnerable Arab population. As such, students regularly accuse Israel of crimes against humanity and label her supporters as promoters of those crimes. 
Emboldened by anti-free speech policies created by administrations and by a “PC” culture, students are outraged when their peers try and pollute their egalitarian learning environment with offensive ideas (i.e. a Jewish state). So when pro-Israel students openly defend Israel against her haters, breaking down the intellectually homogeneous bubble Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) and its followers try to create on campus, students are left with no other option but to silence their opponents. 


Examples of this are endless. In 2011, SJP at Rutgers barred Jewish protestors from their ‘free and open to the public’ event that equated genocide in the Holocaust to destruction in Gaza. While most guests entered for free, as advertised, those with Jewish garb were forced to pay an entrance fee or leave.
 
At UC Irvine, in an attempt to silence his message and demonize his character, anti-Israel students disrupted the then US ambassador to Israel, Michael Oren, during his speech on campus. The first one to do so shouted, “Michael Oren, propagating murder is not an expression of free speech” as he took the stage. Others joined in, cheering, booing, and screaming at him while he tried to address the audience. 
 
Perhaps one of the most egregious assaults on campus free speech happened in 2006 at San Francisco State University. Members of the College Republicans, in an anti-terrorism protest, stomped on the flags of Hamas and Hezbollah (both US-designated terrorist organizations). The student protestors were unaware that these flags contain the word “Allah” inscribed in Arabic. Offended by the protest, a student went to the administration complaining that the demonstration created a “hostile environment.” Officials agreed and soon after informed the president of College Republicans that the school would be taking disciplinary action. Were the College Republicans being insensitive to their peers? Perhaps. But insensitive speech is protected speech and cannot be criminalized by universities.
 
At my own school, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the newly formed pro-Israel organization Madison Israel Club (MIC) has already experienced the dangers of idea discrimination. A student leader in MIC recently submitted an opinion piece to the student newspaper discussing matters related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In it, the author argues that the core issues in the conflict, such as Hamas’ vile use of human shields, are often ignored in American media and on college campuses. 

Shortly after he emailed the op-ed to the newspaper, a student editor responded with some suggestions. She asked if she could change the sentence that read, “Hamas regularly uses its own civilians as human shields” to “[Hamas] has been implicated in using its own civilians as human shields” (emphasis added). Doing so, the editor claimed, would allow the author to make his point while not conclusively stating that Hamas has in fact used civilians as human shields. This fact, she wrote, “has no definitive proof.” 

 While her claim that there is no definitive proof that Hamas uses civilians as human shields is in itself troubling (there is overwhelming video and photographic evidence of this), perhaps what is most disturbing is her push to change the author’s message…in an opinion piece. Must all editorials be based entirely in objective, definitive, empirical evidence? If that were the standard, surely they would never be able to allow anti-Israel authors who accuse Israel of apartheid, ethnic cleansing, and genocide to publish anything, ever. 

I would argue that these anti-Israel claims are rooted in intolerance, perhaps even anti-Semitism. Still, they should not be silenced because of their offensive nature. Opinion articles are supposed to be full of controversy, bias, and information that may or may not be agreeable to readers. If we are concerned about egalitarianism then the answer is not to limit speech, it is to encourage it. It is not the place of college newspaper editors or university administrators to determine what kind of material college students can or cannot be exposed to.
 
The anti-speech movement on college campuses has implications far beyond the pro-Israel movement. It is a dangerous trend towards stifling debates and dismissing legitimate points of view. Ironically, the effort to create tolerance and equality by being overly cautious about what is said has only created an atmosphere of fear for those who have unpopular opinions. Administrators need to be training students to think critically and openly, rather than granting them the ability to filter ideas that may be unpleasant and punishing those who stir harmless controversy. The real education, after all, is not in the classroom. It is outside—where students consider, challenge, and debate their ideas. To destroy these critical opportunities is to destroy the educational process itself.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>How false choices define and weaken US Middle East policy</title>
<date>1/6/2014</date>
<content>
The US administration’s strategy of creating simplistic false choices for the  complex problems of the Middle East has strained the US-Israeli relationship,  and undermined American foreign policy goals in the region. This strategy has  lead to fruitless negotiations and weakened the traditional American role for  regional conflict management, whether it is in Iran or Syria, or between the  Israelis and Palestinian Arabs.False choices and straw-man arguments are  not only manipulative, but usually obfuscate a true debate about what is best  for American national interests, which should be based contextual facts. A false  choice or straw-man argument presents limited choices to avoid having to defend  a vulnerable argument against truly worthy alternatives.




What is a  straw-man argument? Here’s how it works. An opponent creates a fallacious and  often extreme argument to misrepresent the opposing viewpoint, then easily  shoots it down. Meanwhile, you are forced to remain on the  defensive.Closely related is the false-choice argument where you  deliberately create a situation to paint your opponent into a corner by claiming  only two choices, when in reality there are more realistic options. All rely on  misrepresentation, over-simplification, or subtle distortion According to The  Washington Post’s opinion writer Ruth Marcus, “a particular Obama specialty is  the false false choice. Set up two unacceptable extremes that no one is  seriously advocating and position yourself as the champion of the reasonable  middle ground between these unidentified straw men.”On Iran the  president and the administration has presented the public with a dangerous false  choice.They repeatedly claim that they would rather accept no nuclear  deal with Iran than a bad deal. According to this false-choice strategy, any  deal to which the US agrees must be a good deal – by definition.This is  what keeps Israeli leaders up at night. It also greatly troubles many Americans  who believe that a nuclear- capable Iran just weeks away from a nuclear weapon  is an American national security nightmare. It will endanger our soldiers,  increase the chance America will be drawn into battle, and ultimately put  American civilians in harm’s way by nuclear proliferation in the very dangerous  neighborhood of the ongoing Sunni- Shi’ite regional war.While 82  bipartisan members of the US Senate asked the president to increase the  possibility of future sanctions as a warning to Iran if negotiations collapse,  the president created another false choice between only his vision of diplomacy,  or a “march to war.” He created a straw man by claiming anyone who disagrees  with his approach is a warmonger, i.e. the straw man.In reality, almost  everyone wants a diplomatic solution, just not like the one the P5+1 accepted  which conceded far too much and emboldened the Iranians to ask for more  concessions.The problem is further compounded because the president’s  diplomatic solution already conceded the Iranian right to enrich, and  contradicted 11 UNSC resolutions between 2003-2010, to which even the Russians  and Chinese agreed.Another false choice is the seemingly uncontroversial  claim by Susan Rice that “Iran must not get a nuclear weapon.” The false choice  is then between Iran possessing a nuclear weapon or not having a nuclear weapon.  Who could be for the former? The problem is the administration’s definition of  “not having a nuclear weapon” would allow Iran advanced enrichment capabilities,  possession of nuclear fissile material, possession of ballistic weapons, while  ignoring 25 years of hidden proliferation and weaponization.The public  is totally unaware of this.To this administration, Iran does not possess  a nuclear weapon until the last screw is turned to activate it.In the  Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, Secretary of State John Kerry created a  straw-man argument where he has said if Israel does not concede and create a  Palestinian state it will become an “apartheid” state. Use of this word is not  only incorrect by definition, but is the equivalent of the “N word” in this part  of the world. This is a rhetorical device employed to create an extreme and  offensive choice to make one’s case.The onus was placed on Israel but in  reality the intransigent party is the Palestinians, who could have had a state  six times over the past 76 years.Another false choice is that  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is the best leader with whom  Israel will ever be able to conclude a peace agreement. Here the straw man is a  future Palestinian leader who will be much less accommodating and unwilling to  negotiate.Ignored is that Abbas is in the 10th year of his four-year  term, and reigns over a corrupt government which promotes anti-Semitism in all  of its officially supported outlets.The false choice of Israeli  acquiescence to Kerry’s pressure ignored the most logical alternative – conflict  management, which had been the primary tool of American foreign policy. In Syria  and Iraq, the false choice offered is between American boots on the ground or  the administration’s diplomacy. Unfortunately, the administration fails to  understand it is seen as a toothless superpower.Another false choice is  that if Israel simply removed its settlements in Judea and Samaria, the  Palestinians would embrace peace. As Ambassador Aaron David Miller, VP of the  Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars said, if you believe  settlements are the primary cause for the failure of the Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations, “I have a bridge over the mighty Jordan River to sell  you.”American foreign policy needs to return to its natural place as a  force for good in the world. Its absence on the world stage by leading from  behind makes the world a more dangerous place. An America that is engaged and  respected in the Middle East not only increases the peace but also makes America  safer at home.The administration needs to be reminded that Israel is an indispensable ally, which if it did not exist would profoundly hurt American  intelligence and security interests.The majority of Americans view  Israel in a favorable light and recognize that it not the Palestinian Arabs that  are the aggrieved party, but the intransigent one.
The author, an MD, is  the founder and director of MEPIN, the Middle East Political and Information  Network.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Indomitable spirit</title>
<date>4/5/2014</date>
<content>
Remembrance Day for the Fallen of Israel’s Wars and Victims of Terrorism began  on Sunday at sundown and ends at sundown Monday. During these 24 hours, we pay  tribute to the 23,169 casualties of war and terrorism who have fallen since  1860, the year marked as the advent of the modern Jewish Yishuv or settlement in  the Land of Israel.In truth, 1860 is an arbitrary date. The Jewish  people’s yearning to return to its historic homeland extends far back in history  to 70 CE, the time of the destruction of the Second Temple. And the Jewish  people’s prayers and hopes for an end to exile stored up over nearly two  millennia gave it unique strength.




When asked how the fledgling Jewish  state, born into a state of war, managed to overcome the combined armies of the  Arab states, Yigael Yadin, one of the founding fathers of the IDF, pointed to  the Jewish people’s pent up desire for a state of its own where it could live in  freedom and independence. Yadin likened the Jews’ longing to a “spring  compressed... to the utmost of its compressibility” over thousands of years of  exile, which “when finally released, it liberated.”Yadin’s metaphor goes  a long way toward explaining the rationale behind juxtaposing Remembrance Day to  Independence Day. The long-repressed energies of Diaspora Jewry were given a  constructive outlet with the establishment of the State of Israel. But there was  a price: Some made the ultimate sacrifice for the sake of Jewish  independence.Asa Kasher, author of the IDF’s code of ethics and a  bereaved father of an IDF soldier, emphasized a different aspect of the  connection between Remembrance Day and Independence Day on his Facebook  page.Referring to it as “the deepest of the state’s symbols,” setting  side by side the two national days of commemoration allows each day to borrow  from the other.On Independence Day, our joy is tempered by the knowledge  that many gave their lives so that we can live in liberty. And on Remembrance  Day the mourning of individuals is transformed from a private bereavement to a  collective recognition of the sacrifices of those who are no longer with us and  a collective affirmation that those sacrifices were not for nothing.Yet,  we have a tendency, as Israelis and as Zionists, to believe that after the  creation of the State of Israel, and especially after an impressive track record  of 66 years, our point has been made. We have become a nation among the nations.  We have at long last achieved what had for so long been denied us – a state of  our own. Our nationhood is today an undeniable fact.But this way of  thinking is a pleasant illusion, from which we are repeatedly woken up – when  volleys of Kassam missiles are fired at Jewish communities in the South; when  “moderate” Palestinian politicians glorify murderers of Jewish women and  children as “heroes;” when the Islamic Republic denies the Holocaust if only to  lay the groundwork for a repeat performance; or when Israel is likened to  apartheid-era South Africa to show that its legitimacy is no less in  question.As we honor those who sacrificed what was most precious and  prepare to celebrate the mind-boggling achievement made in just two-thirds of a  century of Jewish sovereignty, we must also be cognizant of the many challenges  that face us in coming weeks, months, and years.Our enemies in Gaza and  south Lebanon are graduating from the cruder and less accurate Kassam and  Katuysha rockets to increasingly more accurate, longer- range projectiles;  Palestinian incitement continues; the Iranians’ aspirations for nuclear weapon  capability are not being seriously checked by the international community; and  those who seek to delegitimize Israel show no signs of repenting.
But the  Jewish people’s indomitable spirit remains strong. Pent up and repressed for  thousands of years, the Jews’ yearning to live in freedom and liberty in their  historic homeland is far from spent. The spring compressed to the utmost of its  compressibility in the long years of exile continues to provide the Jewish  people with unfathomable reserves of strength.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the Fray: And I quote…</title>
<date>31/10/2014</date>
<content>
… for once we, in the terminally guilt ridden West, really can blame ourselves.
               – Pat Condell, in “Boo-hoo Palestine” 
This week I thought I would cut myself a  little slack – and at the same time offer what I consider to be a public  service, by providing The Jerusalem Post’s readership with a transcript of the  latest video put out by the inimitable Pat Condell, titled “Boohoo Palestine,”  interspersed with comments/ commentaries of my own.




Timely satireI hope  this will accomplish at least one of two things. On the one hand, it will serve  to introduce Condell to those Post readers yet unfamiliar with his superbly  crafted and scathing political satire. On the other hand, for those who are  familiar with him, it will afford a written online reference to the oral  brilliance of his latest offering.Anyone wishing to experience his most  recent dose of deadly, dead-pan humor, should Google “Condell + Boohoo  Palestine” to access his devastating demolition of that puerile, yet  perniciously persistent, idea of Palestinian statehood and its inevitable  intellectual auxiliary, the land-for-peace dogma.His pungent onslaught  could hardly have been better timed. His words have been thrown into sharper  relief, and lent starker relevance, by the outrageous and uncalled for abuse  this week, hurled at the prime minister by unidentified White House sources for  not embracing this fatal and futile folly with greater alacrity.As news  of Wednesday’s murderous attack on Yehudah Glick came in, they assumed an almost  poignantly prophetic quality.Irreverent, irreligious and outspoken Condell is listed as being “a writer, comedian and Internet personality.”  However, he is, above all, a supremely incisive and caustic political  satirist.From an Israeli point of view, it is of particular interest  that Condell is neither Jewish nor religious. He was born Roman Catholic,  schooled in the Church of England and has become stridently secular, if not  militantly, irreligious.He cannot be dismissed as a tribalistic  ethnocentric bigot or as a right-wing religious radical. Condell has not  always been a staunch supporter of Israel, or a strident opponent of the  Palestinians. On his own website he acknowledges: “I used to be a lot more  critical of Israel until I stopped looking at the situation emotionally and  looked at the facts.”He continues: “I now believe that the only obstacle  to a peaceful solution is Arab Muslim intransigence driven by crude religious  hatred, and that the Western world is collaborating with a monstrous lie. In  short, I support Israel, a civilized, pluralist democracy where all citizens,  Jewish and Arab, are equal. Don’t believe the ‘apartheid” propaganda.’” Condell’s video touches on many of the topics I’ve dealt with in recent weeks,  but with a dry, acerbic humor, conveyed with poker-faced seriousness that makes  his work so uniquely lucid and compelling – unless of course you are an  “unidentified source” in the White House.Nonexistent country for an  invented people Condell begins his masterful monologue by debunking the  authenticity of the claims of a separate Palestinian national identity: “Despite  the recent enthusiasm we have seen in the West for recognizing the nonexistent  country of Palestine, the much vaunted two-state solution is a fantasy that has  no chance of leading to peace, because the Palestinians, or to use the correct  term, ‘Arabs,’ have proven, beyond any doubt, that they are not negotiating in  good faith, that they can’t be trusted to keep their word and any agreement they  sign will be worthless. They initiate all the violence in the region and they  break every cease-fire, because they don’t want negotiations, or a two-state  solution, and they are not even keeping it a secret.”

This is an  eminently apt characterization of the realities not only today – but over the  past decades.Indeed, as I have detailed in numerous previous columns,  Condell could draw on a myriad of declarations made, and documents written, by  the Palestinians themselves and their Arab endorsers, openly admitting that the  “Palestinians” are not an identifiably separate people, distinct from the wider  Arab nation, and that “Palestine” is not an identifiably specified geographical  entity, to be separated from the wider Arab homeland.Candid confessions  abound that once the Jewish state (a.k.a. the Zionist entity) is duly  eliminated, both the “Palestinians” and “Palestine” are to be seamlessly  integrated into that nation and that homeland, respectively.The  two-stage ‘solution’ Condell continues: “They keep telling us they want a  one-state solution with no Israel and no Jews and they’ve pledged never to stop  fighting until that day comes – both Hamas and the supposedly moderate  Fatah. And we have no excuse for not listening. But we will find  one as usual, won’t we?  Any agreement they do sign will be a stepping stone to a  better vantage point from which to attack and destroy Israel, every Arab knows  this is true, so any future Palestinian state will be like Gaza is today, a  racist apartheid state devoid of Jews, on pain of death, and a launch pad for  daily rocket attacks on Israeli civilians until the Israelis finally lose  patience and retaliate, and the world condemns them as Nazis.”There can  be little doubt as to the accuracy of Condell’s charges regarding the obdurate  refusal to accept the existence of Israel. It is etched into the very text of  their founding documents. Thus, the Hamas Charter spews: “Israel will rise and  will remain erect until Islam eliminates it... Israel, by virtue of its being  Jewish and of having a Jewish population, defies Islam and the Muslims.” And the  supposedly moderate Fatah proclaims its goal to be the “Complete liberation of  Palestine, and eradication of Zionist economic, political, military and cultural  existence.”The wrong message: The truth He observes: “The pattern has  been set: Palestinian terrorism is always rewarded and that’s why it never  stops. And we in the West are helping to bankroll it, we can’t throw enough  money their way. So much money that the leaders of Hamas, supposedly former  refugees, are personal billionaires, while the people they claim to represent,  live in misery. Killing Jews for Allah is very lucrative, because it’s popular  with the rest of the world. If it wasn’t popular, it wouldn’t be lucrative. And  this despite the fact that Israel has never initiated violence against any of  its neighbors. It has only ever responded to it. The Israeli army takes more  care than any other to minimize civilian casualties and everybody knows this,  but it’s never a feature of any news report, because it sends the wrong message:  It tells the truth.”It was Israel’s diplomat supreme, Abba Eban, who  deftly depicted the sorry international reality of pervasive anti-Israel  mendacity, when he remarked wryly that if any Arab country “introduced a  resolution [in the UN General Assembly] declaring that the earth was flat – and  that Israel had flattened it – it would pass by a vote of 164 to 13 with 26  abstentions.”There are, or course rare – and brief – lapses of veracity  in the international media. One such moment occurred when in 2009, the  BBC afforded Col. Richard Kemp, former commander of the British forces in  Afghanistan, the chance to convey the truth as to the ethical conduct of the IDF  in battle, strongly endorsing Condell’s reference to its extraordinary efforts  to minimize casualties among enemy civilians.Kemp asserted emphatically:  “I don’t think there has ever been a time in the history of warfare when any  army has made more efforts to reduce civilian casualties and deaths of innocent  people than the IDF is doing today....“ Sadly however, one swallow does not make  a spring.The poison at the heart? Condell diagnosed the pervasive  Judeophobic venom as the root cause of the Israel-Arab conflict: “But despite  the media’s criminal dishonesty and bias, many people are now beginning to see  for themselves – even if they can’t quite bring themselves to admit it, yet –  that Arab Muslim Jew-hatred is the root cause of this problem, it’s the poison  at the heart of it. Until it’s confronted and dealt with, honestly and  effectively, by the rest of us, including especially the media, the two-state  solution will remain a self-congratulatory fantasy of stupid Western  politicians.”Large doses of this Judeophobic – indeed, Judeocidal –  venom are on display in much of Palestinian public life, nearly all of which, to  some degree or other, reflects the sentiments expressed in the Hamas Charter  that puts the Day of Redemption on hold “until Muslims will fight the Jews (and  kill them); until the Jews hide behind rocks and trees, which will cry: ‘O  Muslim! There is a Jew hiding behind me, come on and kill him!’” Such bellicose  attitudes are not confined to the Islamist extremists. Indeed, they have been  prominent in the recent rants of the West’s favorite Palestinian, the allegedly  moderate Mahmoud Abbas, who charges that Jewish presence on the Temple Mount  defiles the holy places of the Muslims, urging the public to prevent this “by  all means.”Enmity driven by envy? In his depiction of the Arabs and  their animosity toward the Jews, Condell is a little more abrasive and more  sweeping in his generalizations than I would perhaps be.There is,  however, little doubt that his pithy turn of phrase and merciless diagnosis have  a persuasive ring of truth to them, even though exceptions may abound.He  sallies forth: “But something else that really doesn’t help the emotional  temperature of the situation is the fact that the Arabs are clearly jealous of  Jews – and with good reason. They can see the disproportionate contribution Jews  have made to human advancement, in contrast to their own contribution, which is  virtually nil. And they can see what a civilized and prosperous society  the Jews have created in their midst, in contrast to their own racist and  misogynistic and deeply ignorant society, with its childish honor-shame culture,  which has no honor and of which they ought to be ashamed. Also the Jews have  given the Arabs a tidy spanking several times when attacked unprovoked, despite  being heavily outnumbered. It seems that everything the Jews do, they do better.  No wonder the Arabs are jealous. It must infuriate them but the very people  their infallible religion depicts as inferior, as apes and pigs, have turned out  to be clearly superior. That has got to hurt.”As I said, abrasive and  sweeping – but, substantively, not easy to dispute.Soft racism of low  expectations? Toward the end of his biting barrage, Condell raises the issue of  the soft racism of low expectations. Accusingly, he focuses on the double  standards and the doublespeak with which much of the international community  treats the Arab world, and the debilitating effect this is having on it: “And it  must infuriate them to know that the world is openly patronizing them by giving  them all this unwarranted attention and money. We all know they don’t deserve  it, and if they were measured by the standards we apply to everyone else, they  wouldn’t get it. But we hold Arabs to lower standards, we expect less of them,  because we are racists and they are so stupid and self-indulgent. They milk it  for all its worth and they end up expecting less of themselves, a lot less,  which is exactly what they get. And that’s what we all get when they show yet  again that they can’t be trusted, by breaking yet another cease-fire, by  attacking innocent women and children in the most cowardly way, and are not held  to account for it, but on the contrary are rewarded yet again.”The  question now is will his strident wakeup call be heeded, before it is too late  (before al-Qaida, Islamic State, the Nusra Front, Islamic Jihad, Hamas,  Hezbollah, Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis, to name but a few, loom evermore  ominous)...Finally, well-merited guilt Condell concludes with a barbed  condemnation of the prevailing international hypocrisy: “That’s why this  conflict is self-perpetuating; that’s why the two-state solution is a fantasy;  and for once we in the terminally guilt ridden West really can blame  ourselves.”

Well said, Pat – I couldn’t put it any better.
Martin  Sherman (www.martinsherman.org) is the founder and executive director of the  Israel Institute for Strategic Studies. (www.strategicisrael.org)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the Fray: Bennett at Saban: What he should – and shouldn’t – have said</title>
<date>11/12/2014</date>
<content>
You know, I just think you live in another reality. It’s what Steve Jobs called  distorted reality thinking. 
– Martin Indyk to Naftali Bennett, at the 2014 Saban  Forum.How many missiles need to fall on Ashkelon until you’ll wake up?  How many? How many people need to die in our country until you wake up from this  illusion? 
– Naftali Bennett to Martin Indyk, at the 2014 Saban  Forum.




Last weekend, the 11th annual Saban Forum convened in Washington,  with its usual bevy of high-profile participants, to discuss the developments in  the Middle East, Israel-US relations and the Arab-Israeli  conflict.Hardly hospitable milieu Funded by Democratic benefactor Haim  Saban, and hosted by the liberal-leaning Brookings Institution, the tenor of the  Forum is usually left-wing on Mideast affairs, with a strong bent in favor of  the two-state principle and the land-for-peace doctrine.This year’s  lineup included former US secretary of state for the Obama administration  Hillary Clinton; the current US Secretary of State for the Obama administration,  John Kerry; Labor Party head Isaac “Bugie” Herzog; Martin Indyk, Brookings vice  president, until recently Kerry’s special envoy for the Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations; and Jeffrey Goldberg, the Obama-philic columnist seen widely as a  mouth piece for the White House.Clearly the Forum was hardly the most  hospitable milieu for someone like Economy Minister Naftali Bennett, generally  considered one of most hawkish/right-wing members of the government. As Bennett  quipped, if he conducted “a poll here, probably Zehava Gal-On [head of the  far-left Meretz party] would be prime minister and maybe Tzipi Livni No.  2.”The disparity between Bennett and the overall ambiance of the Forum  was highlighted by the fact that his participation in the event comprised a  lengthy “conversation” (“confrontation” might be more appropriate) with the  Saban Center’s Indyk.In early May, Indyk, whose views on the  Israel-Palestinian conflict and ways to solve it are wildly incompatible with  those of Bennett, accused proponents of settlements within the government (who  clearly include Bennett and his Bayit Yehudi party) of “sabotaging” the  negotiations he (Indyk) was charged with conducting.A spirited  performance It was in this clearly confrontational environment that Bennett was  called upon to articulate his views on how Israel should chart its  future.To his credit, he gave a spirited performance, deftly parrying  and resolutely rebutting most of Indyk’s adversarial jibes. He conducted himself  with confidence, assertively countering and contradicting many of his  interlocutor’s claims. Bennett did well in exposing the grave, counterproductive  defects of the land-for-peace doctrine, the disastrous consequences it has had  in the past, and will have in the future if pursued any further.He  remained unintimidated by threats of demographic disaster and economic  sanctions. He pointed out that the demographic statistics are far less daunting  than commonly touted, enumerated the great contributions Israeli ingenuity and  innovation has made to humanity and why it is a sought after partner  economically, despite the unresolved conflict with the  Palestinians.Bennett’s defiant demeanor in his rejection of conventional  wisdom regarding the Israeli-Palestinian impasse was a welcome and refreshing  change compared to the mealy-mouthed ambiguity and demeaning self-recrimination  we have become accustomed to from many Israeli politicians. He made the telling  point that by paying lip service to the unrealistic, and unattainable, two-state  principle, Israel is undermining its own credibility – since it is unable to  undertake measures, on the one hand, and unable to refrain from measures, on the  other, to make its implementation feasible. In this regard he, correctly,  observed: “... we’re in the pit we’re in precisely because we’re  inconsistent.”Ascending force in Israeli politics Judging from the  approving responses received from several right-wing pundits – and from the  dismay of detractors – Bennett’s appearance is likely to enhance his electoral  potential in the coming election.Bennett and his Bayit Yehudi party are  a distinctly ascendant force in Israeli politics. However, it is precisely  because of his growing influence that Bennett’s political proclamations need to  be carefully scrutinized and his political prescriptions critically examined for  any inconsistencies of the kind he correctly identifies in the  two-state/land-forpeace proposal.After all if the Israeli Right is to  produce a cogent and convincing alternative to the dominant two-state paradigm  (or its default option of an un-Jewish one-state-of-all-itscitizens), it must be  thoroughly thought through, and the consequences of its implementation  realistically assessed.This is essential if it is to avoid being  entangled in the selfsame contradictions between lip service to ideas that are  either unattainable in the short run, or unsustainable in the long run, and the  measures required to implement them.Defects and omissions In this  regard, I have in the past expressed my grave reservations as to some of the  ideas Bennett raised in his Saban Forum “conversation,” which if adopted will  almost certainly lead Israel into a perilous cul-de-sac, attenuating little, if  any, of the dangers entailed in present proposals and, in fact, exacerbating  many of them.I cannot provide a detailed critique of the entire Bennett-  Indyk exchange (almost 15,000 words). However, I should like to touch on some  major defects and omissions in Bennett’s policy proposal – on some of the things  that should not be said, and some which should be, but were  not.Bennett’s blueprint involves basically four elements which he set  out in a November New York Times op-ed titled “For Israel, Two-State Is No  Solution.” Indyk summarized them: “... upgrading Palestinian autonomy; upgrading  the infrastructure in the West Bank; upgrading economic relations between Israel  and the Palestinian Authority; and the kicker, annexing Area C while offering  the Palestinians in Area C [Israeli] citizenship.”Sadly, none of these  elements – neither on their own nor in combination – can contribute toward  long-term stability in Israel’s relations with the Palestinians, or diminish any  of Israel’s current security problems and diplomatic predicaments.Same  political pain As the response from Indyk and the Forum’s sponsor Haim Saban  indicated, the political pain in terms of international sanctions and censure  involved in the annexation of Area C alone will almost certainly be no less than  that involved in annexing the entire area of Judea-Samaria – i.e. including Area  A and B.True, Bennett did admit that he could not implement his plan  immediately: “I’m not tomorrow going to annex Area C. It might take 20 years, it  might take 40 years.”True, he did acknowledge that he was “not  suggesting that... one day... we just do that. There’s a process of changing the  global view... And it takes time. It’s an uphill battle.”I, of course,  strongly endorse the view that Israel needs to dramatically upgrade its public  diplomacy efforts across the world, and to invest massively in changing  international perceptions of the conflict. However, I am at a loss as to how it  would successfully promote a Bennett- like prescription, no matter how great the  connecting highways and available infrastructure. For, after 20 to 40 years, all  it envisages for 90 percent of the Arab residents of Judea-Samaria is being  confined to 40% of the area, scattered across a myriad of disconnected enclaves  and corridors, in a state of unenfranchised, open-ended stateless political  suspension.But more on that a little later Dubious demographics Much of  the rationale of Bennett’s proposal hinges on the prevailing demographic  distribution and the relatively small (about 100,000) Arab population, resident  in Area C, to whom he suggests offering Israeli citizenship – in order to  obviate any allegations of “apartheid.”However, unless Israel can  demarcate and secure the borders of Area C, there will be no way of preventing  massive migration from Areas A and B into Area C. As I have been at pains to  underscore in the past, a cursory glance at a map of Area C will quickly bring  home the implausibility of such a task – made even more insurmountable by the  fact that Bennett is on record as recommending the abolition of roadblocks, and  endorsing total freedom of movement for the Arab residents of  Judea-Samaria.This, of course, will dramatically disrupt the optimistic  demographic balance in Area C, particularly if the process is seen as being  drawn out over decades, even if (perhaps, especially if) the “intruders” are  precluded from being given Israeli citizenship.For as I have frequently  pointed out, it is not only electoral arithmetic that will determine the  realities of life in the country, but the sociocultural fabric of the  population, which to a great degree will be determined by the presence of a  large Arab population, enfranchised or otherwise.Governance of Areas B  & C Extending Israeli sovereignty to Area C begs the question of who will  govern the remaining Areas A & B.It is highly implausible that any  Palestinian individual or entity of adequate authority will agree to take  responsibility for the governance of these areas following an Israeli annexation  of Area C (comprising 60% of Judea-Samaria).For this would inevitably be  construed as traitorous acknowledgment of the Israeli annexation and its  implicit acceptance.But even in the unlikely event that some  yet-to-be-identified Palestinian could be found, pliable enough to swallow  Israeli annexation of most of Judea-Samaria, Bennett’s formula for enhanced  autonomy of the Palestinian-Arabs in Areas A and B still appears highly  problematic.So when he declares: “I don’t want to govern  them...I don’t want to take care of their schools. They’re doing their  own job there,” is he really endorsing the wild Judeophic incitement in the  current curricula? Does he see this as part of the long-term arrangement with  the Palestinians, or does he in fact want to interfere in the formulation of  what is taught in their schools? The same can be said for the management of  shared water resources, sewage treatment and other pollutants, control of  contagious diseases, roadworthiness of vehicles on “shared  highways”...No, extended autonomy has always been a pipe dream and a  prescription for further friction.The gravest error Perhaps the gravest  error in Bennett’s approach is his suggestion that by enhancing the standard of  living of the Palestinian Arabs, he will somehow diminish the tension and  hostility toward Israel.It is difficult to overstate how unfounded – and  counterproductive – this contention is. Sadly, I do not have enough space to  elaborate on why this is so, but perhaps the best way to illustrate why enhanced  affluence will not induce enhanced tranquility is to quote Bennett himself in  responding to Indyk. He – correctly – remarked: “What we’re seeing in the Muslim  world is very affluent Muslims... who are going to ISIS and cutting off  heads...”Indeed, they are.The entire concept that Israel has any  practical interest or moral obligation to support or promote the Palestinian  economy is totally without foundation – either ethical or  pragmatic.Indeed, Israel should be doing precisely the  opposite.On the one hand, it should create strong disincentives for  Palestinian-Arabs to stay, by letting the unsustainable Palestinian economy  implode under the weight of its pervasive corruption and bloated bureaucracy. On  the other hand, it should provide strong incentives for them to leave, by  offering individual Palestinians generous relocation grants to extricate  themselves from the sorry fate their failed “leadership” has brought  them.Call the enemy the enemy Bennett’s Saban Forum performance was far  more convincing on what should not be done, than on what should be done; on what  must be avoided, than on what must be undertaken.Perhaps his major  failing can be traced to his reluctance, common to nearly all Israeli political  leaders, to designate the Palestinian-Arab collective as what it really is – and  what they designate themselves: the enemy – implacable and obdurate.This  reticence is perhaps rooted in a desire to mollify Western audiences. It is,  however, entirely misplaced and results repeatedly in unrealistic Israeli policy  proposals, which assume that somehow, the Palestinians-Arabs will become either  future peace partners, or loyal (at least, docile) residents/citizens under  benign Jewish rule.If Bennett is to become an effective leader who can  steer the nation to a secure future, this is a reticence he must  shed.
Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.org) is the founder and executive  director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies www.strategicisrael.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the fray: Kerry and the ‘A-word’… actually, both A-words</title>
<date>1/5/2014</date>
<content>
A two-state solution will be  clearly underscored as the only real alternative. Because a unitary state winds  up either being an apartheid state – or… a state that destroys the capacity of  Israel to be a Jewish state. Once you put that frame in your mind… which is the  bottom line, you understand how imperative it is to get to the two-state  solution.
– John Kerry before the Trilateral Commission, cited by The  Daily Beast, April 27 John Kerry’s recent use of the term “Apartheid” in  reference to Israel’s future was an anti-Semitic act.
– Caroline  B. Glick, The Jerusalem Post, April 29




From the outset John Kerry was an  ill-advised choice for the position of secretary of state. His history of  embarrassing gaffes made his appointment as America’s top diplomat clearly  imprudent and inappropriate.Rage, reproach and ridiculeBut for some  reason, none of these prior lapses unleashed the same maelstrom of rage,  reproach and ridicule as his leaked prognosis that, unless it hastens to embrace  “the two-state solution,” Israel may become an “apartheid state.”Kerry  has, of course, been responsible for measures far more substantially detrimental  to Israel than his facile forecast as to its future – such as the abhorrent  release of convicted terrorists as a grotesque gesture to coax the Palestinians  to the negotiating table. Yet, somehow it was his brandishing the specter of  anticipated apartheid that precipitated an unprecedented assault on his  competence and character, and even calls for his resignation Thus in a withering  review of Kerry’s performance, acerbically titled, “Kerry challenging Biden for  ‘most gaffe-prone’” (April 29), Washington Post blogger Jennifer Rubin wrote:  “When ultra-conservative Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and super-liberal Barbara Boxer  (D-Calif.) are both blasting you, you know you’ve blown it… In a sense, Kerry’s  latest debacle can’t really undermine his standing any further. His buffoon-like  gaffes... already have made him the subject of derision.”Rubin concludes  her column with the caustic comment: "Kerry over and over again has proven  himself to be, if not the worst secretary of state, then certainly the most  error-prone."‘Apartheid’ & ‘anti-Semitism’ - Countervailing A-words?“Apartheid” is an emotive  “A-word” and Kerry’s use of it was pounced on by both friends and foes of  Israel.A headline on The Washington Free Beacon website, “Palestinians  Echo Kerry on ‘Apartheid’: Kerry comments influencing region, harming Israel”  summed up the situation its usage has created.Picking up on Kerry’s cue,  chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat charged that Israel had used “every  possible tool in order to consolidate its apartheid regime.” Echoing previous  threats against Israel, alluded to by the secretary of state, Erekat railed that  Israel had chosen apartheid over peace: “We believe that the international  community must clarify to Israel that its choice of settlements and apartheid  over peace will have political, legal, and financial  ramifications.”Pro-Israel pundits, such as Commentary’s Jonathan Tobin,  responded robustly (April 28) that Kerry had “exploded the notion that he is an  evenhanded broker since he is, as he has done previously, effectively  rationalizing, if not justifying, the next intifada as well as the continued  efforts of the BDS movement against Israel.In Tobin’s assessment “Rather  than a mere expression of frustration, as Kerry’s apologists will insist, the  use of the “A word does more to doom the already dim chances of peace. As such,  Kerry’s already dubious utility as a peace process facilitator is officially at  an end.”Others unsheathed their own countervailing, equally emotive  A-word, “anti-Semitism” Most scathing in this regard was the Post’s Caroline  Glick. In her latest mid-week column she launched into a searing assault on  Kerry, condemning his “use of the term ‘Apartheid’ in reference to Israel’s  future” as an “anti-Semitic act.”Glick continued turning up the heat,  asserting: “Kerry’s ‘Apartheid’ remarks are a watershed event. They represent  the first time a sitting US secretary of state has publicly endorsed an  anti-Semitic caricature of Jews and the Jewish state… Kerry is adopting a  full-throated and comprehensive anti-Semitic position.”Remarkably  unremarkable remark?Truth be told, in some respects it is a little difficult to  understand why Kerry’s uncalled for remarks should have generated such intense  response.Although Kerry is hardly a figure deserving of our empathy, I  can well imagine the shocked surprise he must has have felt at the force of the  reactions they evoked. For as some of his defenders/apologists point out, not  only were they remarkably unremarkable, but several senior Israeli leaders have  used almost identical language in the past.Glick herself, who  significantly titled her previously cited critique “John Kerry’s Jewish best  friends,” acknowledged that Israeli politicians such as Tzipi Livni, Ehud Olmert  and Ehud Barak have also enunciated very similar positions. Although she  suggests that “Livni, Olmert, Barak and others probably don’t share Kerry’s  anti-Semitic sensitivities… their behavior enables foreigners like Kerry to  embrace anti-Semitic positions.”According to Glick, “their actions are  most likely informed by their egotistical obsessions with power.Like  Barak in Netanyahu’s previous government, today Livni provides Kerry and [US  envoy Martin] Indyk with “Israeli” cover for their anti-Israeli policies…,”  which some readers might find reminiscent of, and resonant with, several points  I raised in my column last week, “Mainstreaming treason.”Beyond personal  prejudiceAlthough some might find Glick’s caustic rhetoric a little over the  top, there can be little doubt of the essential validity and gravity of the  issues she raises. Indeed, the situation may well be even more serious than she  depicts.Putting aside speculation as to Kerry’s personal predilections,  the very articulation of his opinions is indicative of a deeper, more disturbing  malaise. For beyond exposing his prejudices, his remarks illustrate how the  discourse on the “Palestinian issue” has become distorted and discriminatory  against the Jews – i.e., how its underlying assumptions and its very structure  have become blatantly biased and, well… anti-Semitic.Indeed, inherent  anti-Semitism has become so deeply inculcated into the culture and conduct of  that discourse it is difficult to imagine it today without its axiomatic  anti-Semitic animus.This is a contention that will doubtless elicit  howls of protest from those on what is generically known as “the Left,” who  habitually counter it with the threadbare mantra: “Not all criticism of Israel  is anti-Semitism.”This is as facilely true as it is inanely  irrelevant.For while clearly not every criticism of Israeli policies can  be dismissed as anti-Semitism, the enduring application of blatant double  standards in assessing the conduct of the nation-state of the Jews – and that  nation-state alone – makes anti-Semitism an increasingly unavoidable  explanation.Blatantly Judeophobic policyFor in essence, according to  the approach taken by Kerry and others, and which hitherto has dominated that  discourse, the Jews are being told that they can only legitimize the existence  of their nation-state if they agree to expose it to mortal danger. They are  being told that for their own right to political independence to be embraced by  the democratic nations of the world, they must consent to the establishment of  (yet another) Muslim tyranny, unswervingly dedicated to its destruction, and  surrender to it areas vital to its national security and survival.But  that’s not all.In making these demands of the Jews, two things are  ignored – or purposefully disregarded: (a) The historical context of how the  current situation came about; (b) the current realities that dictate Israeli  policy in contending with it.As for the historical context, what is  constantly overlooked is that the territories currently being demanded for the  establishment of said Muslim tyranny did not fall under Israeli control as the  result of any avaricious territorial impulse or colonial expansionist desire.  Rather, it was the result of a defensive war, forced upon it without any  provocation (apart from its very existence), that succeeded in repulsing an  unprovoked genocidal – or rather Judeocidal – offensive against the Jewish  state, despite Israeli appeals to the aggressors to desist from their openly  declared murderous intentions.Enmity, not ethnicityHaving repulsed the  Arab attempt to annihilate it, the Jewish state, understandably, was not eager  to once again expose itself to the vulnerabilities that had made attacking it  such a tempting prospect, by handing back the strategically vital territory from  which it was attacked, without assurances as to its security.As such  assurances were not forthcoming, Israel was forced to retain the territory and  administer the Arab residents who remained in it. Moreover, in light of the  critical strategic and historical significance of the territory that had come  under its control, Israel justifiably intended to retain some portions of it,  and settle its own citizens in those parts of their ancient homeland,  legitimately regained in an undisputed act of self-defense.This clearly  led to the need for it to differentiate between populations that were inherently  hostile to it, and those which were not, and resulted in divergent  administrative/legal systems for Israeli citizens and for non-Israeli  Palestinian-Arabs – precipitating accusations of “apartheid” and comparisons  with the former racist regime in South Africa.Such accusations and  comparisons are unfounded and inappropriate. For this seemingly discriminatory  policy is not driven by any belief in racial superiority but a well-founded  concern for security. They are not a response to Palestinian ethnicity but to  Palestinian enmity. They are not a product of what the Palestinians are, but of  what they do – or support doing.Reverse racismIt is the demand to  desist from such differentiation that is a reflection of racism.It is a  reverse racism that pervades the subtext of the discourse on Israeli policy  toward the Palestinians: The victims of racist hatred are condemned as racist  for fending off their racist attackers.After all, security barriers are  not erected, roadblocks are not put in place, travel restrictions are not  enforced as a racist response to Palestinian ethnic identity, but as a rational  reaction to Palestinian political enmity. To believe otherwise is to fall prey  to what Binyamin Netanyahu once called the “reversal of causality.” The blockade  of Gaza is a consequence, not a cause, of Hamas’s violence; the “West Bank”  security barrier is the result of, not the reason for, Palestinian  terrorism.If pregnant women and ambulances were not used to smuggle  explosives into Israeli cities, there would be no need for checkpoints and  roadblocks. If Palestinian gunmen would not open fire from vehicles on Israeli  families passing by, there would be no need to restrict the movement of  Palestinians on certain roads. If Palestinians did not ambush Israeli cars  traveling though Palestinian towns, there would be no need to construct special  roads for Israelis to bypass those towns.Expecting Jews to die meeklyTo  try and delegitimize these measures as “apartheid” policy embodies the implicit  delegitimization of the right of Jews to defend themselves. As such, it  comprises the implicit expectation that Jews should consent to die  meekly.For no matter what measures Israel adopts to protect its citizens  from those undisguisedly trying to murder and maim them – because they are Jews  – they are widely condemned as “racist,” “disproportionate violence” or even  “war crimes/crimes against humanity.”It matters not whether these  measures are administrative decisions or security operations; defensive  responses or anticipatory initiatives; punitive retaliations or preemptive  strikes. It matters not whether they entail the emplacement of physical barriers  to block the infiltration of indiscriminate murderers; the imposition of  restrictions to impede their lethal movements; the execution of preventive  arrests to foil their deadly intentions....And how can the expectation  that Jews die meekly be characterized other than “anti-Semitism” – or more  precisely, “Judeophobic racism?” The real racismThe attitude that shedding  Jewish blood is more acceptable than the measures required to prevent it appears  to be becoming increasingly internalized into the discourse on the  Israel-Palestinian conflict.It is this attitude that is the real racism  – structural and systemic anti-Semitism – that colors the conduct and the  culture of the discourse on the “Palestinian issue.” It is this racism that  underlies Kerry’s recent remarks – and which is more insidious and invidious  than them by far.Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder  and executive director of the Israel Institute for Strategic  Studies.
www.strategicisrael.org
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the Fray: My prediction – coming true with chilling precision</title>
<date>30/1/2014</date>
<content>
On Saturday night, the boycott of Israel gained an impressive new level of  mainstream recognition in this country. Channel 2 News, easily the most  watched, most influential news show here, ran a heavily promoted piece... on the  boycott in its 8 p.m. primetime program. The piece was remarkable not  only for its length and prominence, but even more so because it did not demonize  the boycott movement, it didn’t blame the boycott on anti-Semitism. Instead,  top-drawer reporter Dana Weiss treated the boycott as an established, rapidly  growing presence that sprang up because of Israel’s settlement policy and whose  only remedy is that policy’s reversal. – Larry Derfner, Boycott goes primetime  in Israel, January 19.




There is, in fact, a groundswell of “elite” (read:  Leftist) opinion building in favor of unilateral Israeli withdrawal in the West  Bank. – David Weinberg, The Impatient Israeli Political Left, January  28.Last June, I published a column, “My prediction: Please help prove it  wrong,” in which I warned that “A determined domestic thrust is under way to  compress Israel back into its precarious pre-1967 frontiers, imperiling the  viability of Jewish sovereignty.”Three emerging threats Elaborating on  my “strong premonition of dire things to come,” I predicted the emergence of  three pernicious and interconnected processes, now materializing with alarming  speed before our very eyes.1. I forecast that the issue of anti-Israel  sanctions would be raised with increasing intensity and frequency in the public  discourse, and the threat, allegedly because of continued construction (indeed,  existence) of Jewish communities across the pre-1967 lines (a.k.a.,  pejoratively, “settlements”), would be featured with increasing prominence in  the mainstream media.2. I then cautioned that, as a result of this, soon  a wide-ranging campaign would be launched against the “settlers,” singling them  out as the fundamental cause of the sanctions and casting blame on them for  inflicting international isolation and economic pain on the rest of the  country.3. I warned that, as it becomes ever-more apparent that the  impasse between Israel and Palestinian Arabs cannot be resolved consensually,  Israel’s leaders will begin to capitulate under the perceived pressure of  sanctions and embrace the idea of unilateral withdrawal from Judea-Samaria.  Since coercive eviction of large numbers of Jews resident in the evacuated areas  would be operationally infeasible and politically untenable, I foresaw the  adoption of a policy of “benign” abandonment. This would mean that Jewish  residents/communities would be left to the tender mercies of some prospective  Palestinian regime.Writing on the wall? The following are selected  predictive excerpts from my June column, which as I shall show later, are being  borne out with eerie – and infuriating – accuracy: “As the growing specter of  international… sanctions looms ever larger… public concern will be harnessed to  fan the flames of resentment toward the designated cause of these potential  punitive measures – the continued Jewish presence across the 1967 Green Line"… a  well-orchestrated campaign to discredit the residents of the Jewish communities  of Judea-Samaria will begin. They will be portrayed as the source of economic  burden and physical danger to the rest of the population living within the  pre-1967 frontiers…“In parallel, a drive will be launched… to accustom the  public to the notion of ‘constructive unilateralism’ [i.e. unilateral withdrawal  from virtually all of Judea-Samaria – M.S.] and to persuade it of its  acceptability, indeed, inevitability… "Conferences will be staged with compliant,  high-profile participants to impart ‘intellectual depth’ to this shallow,  capricious concept; opinion polls will be conducted, with questions carefully  crafted to elicit responses that can be portrayed as reflecting widespread  public endorsement; opinion pieces will be published/posted and primetime  interviews granted in mainstream media channels… with sympathetic editorial  policies, to build up pressure on politicians and policy-makers.”As for  the fate of the Jewish residents in communities across the Green Line, I made  the following prognoses “… [they] will have to decide: Either accept a modest  relocation compensation package or remain where they are, to live under the rule  of whatever regime will assume power in the region.”All coming true…  January was a bad month for common sense, and augured ill for Israel’s future.  It was a month which brought an avalanche of corroboration of the dire  prophesies I have been making for almost two years in various forums and which I  condensed in my column last June.It is seldom that I agree with anything  Larry Derfner (whose controversial column in The Jerusalem Post was terminated  following his alleged support for Palestinian terrorists’ rights to massacre  Israeli civilians) writes. But this time (see introductory excerpt) Derfner hit  the nail squarely on the head. The boycott has indeed gone primetime in  Israel.As if reacting to a well-rehearsed cue, the program unfolded as a  carefully choreographed campaign to panic the public and political leadership  into believing that unless Israel relinquishes control over virtually all of  Judea-Samaria, it will face economic ruin and international ostracism, like  South Africa during the apartheid era.The Channel 2 program Derfner  refers to was a classic case study in the use of the mainstream media for  political manipulation. Presented by the comely Dana Weiss, the program painted  a dour picture of the prospects for Israel’s economy if settlements across the  pre- 1967 Green Line continued to exist.Treacherous Tzipi Significantly,  the only political leader interviewed by Weiss (apart from a brief, somewhat  disparaging, glimpse of Deputy Foreign Minister Ze’ev Elkin), was Justice  Minister Tzipi Livni.Livni is a remarkable phenomenon in Israeli  politics.She has demonstrated that, both in her capacity as a party  leader and as a government minister, no outcome is too disastrous for her to  attain, and apparently no failure is abject enough to disqualify her from  holding positions of influence in public life – but that is a subject for  another column.The dialogue in the interview is edifying, if  unsurprising.Livni: If there is one thing that the world does not  understand it is the settlements. What will happen…?
Weiss (inviting the false  apartheid analogy): South Africa?
 Livni (taking the proffered cue, while emotive  scenes of Black anti-apartheid demonstrators are screened in the background):  Yes! I spoke with some Jews living in South Africa. They said, “We thought we  had time. We thought we could deal with it – that we don’t need the world at all  costs. It happens suddenly – all at once”
 Weiss (offering a generous opening to  display political “foresight”): Did you say “Wake up, guys”? 
Livni  (predictably): I yell it. “Wake up!” Toward the end of the program Livni  reappears, to point an accusatory finger at those who used to be her  constituency, while she was building her political career as a hard-line Greater  Israel hawk in the Likud: “We have a group whose ideology is Greater Israel…  they cannot impose this isolation on us!" Their obstinacy, their proclamations…  Every additional statement, every additional house built… is another stone on  the wall of isolation that they are building for us!” Ah, the vagaries of  Israeli politics. You never know when the individual you voted for will turn on  you…Weiss concludes the program on an ominous note, warning that “the looming  specter of the approaching boycott is getting ever closer. We can only hope that  this time a miracle will occur and we will wake up before it will be too  late.”In other words: We must disown the “settlers,” comply with  Palestinian demands and withdraw from Judea-Samaria – posthaste.National  numskull pontificates True to my warning that “conferences will be staged with  compliant, high-profile participants…” to advance the sanctions scaremongering  and promote the idea of unilateral withdrawal-cum-settler abandonment, the  Institute for National Security Studies (INSS) held its annual conference this  week in Tel Aviv. As usual, Yair Lapid, the numskull who, courtesy of the  gullibility and imprudence of the Israeli voter, holds the title of the nation’s  finance minister, was a keynote speaker.Like Livni, he lent legitimacy  to the apartheid analogy used so frequently against Israel, stating: “The  apartheid regime in South Africa did not notice the starting point of the  boycott. We are now at the tipping point in the context of the boycott.”  According to Lapid, if Israel is blamed for failure to reach an agreement with  the Palestinians, the EU is considering canceling its association agreement with  Jerusalem.Displaying that his grasp of international politics is as  sparse as his knowledge of macroeconomics, he pontificated: “If negotiations  with the Palestinians will stall or blow up and we will enter the reality of a  European boycott… the cost of living will rise, budgets for education, health,  welfare and security will be cut, many international markets will be closed to  us… [which will] substantially hurt the pocket of every Israeli.”So now  all the Palestinians have to do is show sufficient intransigence to ensure the  failure of the talks, in order to inflict massive harm on the Israeli  economy.They sure must appreciate the heads up. Way to go,  Yair.See what I mean by numskull? Spurious scaremongering Although Lapid  claimed that “…we know… canceling the association agreement with the EU… is  already on the table,” the Post reported that “The EU delegation to Israel  denied such drastic steps were being considered, saying, ‘There has been  absolutely no consideration in the EU of the abrogation of the association  agreement. It is not in the cards.’” This highlights an additional aspect of the  perception of the risk of sanctions which I discussed in another column, titled  “Sanctions: Don’t blame the EU,” published shortly after the one referred to  earlier.In it I made the point that there is “an array of domestic  elements in Israel that are pleased as punch” at the prospect of an EU boycott,  since the threat thereof helps promote their anti-settler advocacy, and they  thus have a vested interest in increasing the intensity of the danger as  perceived by the public.In light of the EU denial, it would be far from  implausible to assign such motivations to Lapid’s threatening  declarations.Unilateralism’s heinous corollary The specter of  settlement-induced sanctions and the emerging recognition that no consensual  arrangement with the Palestinians is likely, has, as forecast, led to  increasingly frequent endorsement of unilateral withdrawal from virtually all of  Judea-Samaria.At this week’s INSS conference, unilateralism was one of  the main themes raised – arguably the central one. In recent weeks, influential  voices have joined the chorus endorsing this ill-conceived concept, including  former ambassador to the US Michael Oren and former Likud minister Dan Meridor.  With generous funding and institutional backing, it is forcing its way into the  discourse as a viable policy option, however perilous it may be.But  unilateral withdrawal comes with an even more heinous corollary, the abandonment  of Jews in the areas withdrawn from unilaterally. As mentioned, since coercive  eviction is unlikely to be feasible, operationally or politically, the option of  leaving Jews in the existing communities is, again as predicted, becoming an  option that is being discussed – however grotesque a distortion of the Zionist  ideal it may be.It is in this context that Prime Minister Binyamin  Netanyahu’s trial balloon this week should be assessed, when he raised the  possibility of leaving Jewish settlers under Palestinian rule.More cause  for concern was an opinion piece this week by veteran journalist Dan Margalit,  which carried the approving title “Benefits outweigh the damage” and ended with  the chilling words, “Every capital in the world now realizes Netanyahu is  seriously considering the idea of keeping [i.e. leaving] some settlements in  Palestine.”Massive political tsunami building A massive political  tsunami is building that is threatening to wash away almost half a century of  Zionist endeavor and enterprise.Although the writing has been on the  wall for a considerable time, the Israeli Right has failed to mobilize  effectively to confront, contend and counter it. It has continued to behave much  as business as usual, at times offering alternatives that make the two-state  option look decidedly inviting.In its failure to rise to the challenge  it will bear much the same historic blame for the consequences as do its  left-wing adversaries.
Martin Sherman (www.martinsherman.net) is the founder and executive director of  the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies. (www.strategic-israel.org)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Into the Fray: Parade of the pretentious, the preposterous and the puerile</title>
<date>12/6/2014</date>
<content>
‘What happened yesterday, when four senior ministers gave public addresses one  after the other with each proposing a different political solution, was a  grotesque performance.”– Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman on Sunday evening  session at the 14th Herzliya Conference, “Israeli Leaders Debate Peace,” June  9.




I was thinking of headlining this column “Depressing, disturbing,  disarray,” a title that I believe Liberman, would warmly endorse – given his  censure of the abysmal appearances of four government ministers (and the head of  the Opposition) at this year’s Herzliya Conference, earlier this week.I  have, of course, serious differences with Liberman on several issues, including  some of those on which he excoriates his colleagues. I must confess, however,  that watching the cavalcade of almost comic caricature his colleagues provided  the Israeli public, I found myself strongly identifying with his acerbic  assessment of their performance.‘Israeli Leaders Debate Peace’ At the  plenary session of the conference on Sunday evening, a succession of five senior  Israeli politicians took the podium to present their prescriptions for what  should be done now, in the wake of the collapse of the US Secretary of State  John Kerry-sponsored “peace initiative.” Of the five, four were leaders of  political parties in the current parliament; three of them in the ruling  coalition – Finance Minister Yair Lapid of the Yesh Atid faction, Economy  Minister Naftali Bennett of Bayit Yehudi, Justice Minister Tzipi Livni of  Hatnua; and, as mentioned, one from the Opposition, MK Isaac Herzog, head of the  Labor Party.The largest faction in the coalition, the Likud, was  represented by Interior Minister Gideon Sa’ar.In many ways, the debate  was a disconcerting – almost heartbreaking – spectacle, exposing the appalling  paucity of the Israeli political leadership. (Please don’t take my word for it –  you can judge for yourselves, as the entire depressing debate is available on  the conference’s website, which I urge you to visit.) True, some of the speakers  (notably Bennett and Sa’ar) did make several good points, but these were  confined to critical appraisals of the others’ proposals, rather than relate to  any rational blueprint of their own policy that could secure Israel’s long-term  future as the nation-state of the Jewish people.Loopy Lapid The first  speaker was Yair Lapid, who launched into a pretentious monologue, riddled with  blatant non sequiturs, transparent fallacies and glaring  self-contradictions.Indeed, there are so many logical lacunae and  factual flaws that pervade his address, it would take the entire column (and  probably the better part of next week’s) to deal adequately with them all. Sadly  however, in a broad overview such as this, I can only touch on a few of them –  and then only very briefly.You have to hand it to Lapid. Just when you  think he cannot possible enunciate anything more inane and imbecilic, he always  manages to prove you wrong and – ascend to ever higher levels of the absurd and  the asinine.Thus, he prescribes that Israel should initiate certain  measures, and at the same time undertake diametrically opposing  measures.On the one hand for example, Lapid suggests that following the  failure of the recent talks with the Palestinians, Israel should determine,  assertively and unilaterally, its own borders and security needs on which “there  is no room for compromise.”But paradoxically, he declares that, on the  other hand, once Israel has determined its borders and security needs (on which  it cannot compromise), the final agreement will be the result of negotiations  with the Palestinians and “moderate Arab countries,” and in coordination with  the US.So much for unilateral and assertive Israeli  initiatives.Loopy (cont.)But it was not only Lapid’s perversely paradoxical advocacy  of “defiant compliance” (or was it “compliant defiance?”) and “negotiated  unilateralism” that came across as somewhat “anomalous?” Take for instance his  characterization of Saudi Arabia as “moderate” and his willingness to allot it a  say in determining the future of the Jewish state. Saudi Arabia, the crucible of  Wahhabi extremism? Moderate? The only thing “moderate” about Saudi Arabia is  that it is not Iran.A country where gender apartheid is rampant; a  country that forbids women to drive or appear unescorted in public, that prefers  to let schoolgirls burn to death rather than escape their flaming dormitory in  their nightwear; a country that forbids Israelis, and effectively bars Jews,  from entering it, whose legal system still enforces public amputations and  beheadings, and imposes the death penalty for homosexuality and extramarital  sex. This is the country/regime that our esteemed finance minister seeks  approval from in some delusional blueprint for a final settlement – which it has  long declared unacceptable.(After all, Lapid, who began his electoral  campaign in Ariel, pledging “there is no map on which Ariel isn’t a part of the  State of Israel,” proposes including the large settlement blocs in Israel’s  final borders, something the Saudis have resolutely rejected.) Just how mindless  his approach is, was underscored by his opening remarks.Blithely  ignoring the fact that Israel has bent over backwards to try and accommodate the  Obama administration (building freeze, apology to Turkish Prime Minister Recep  Tayyip Erdogan, prisoner release), he alleges that were it not for the  “unnecessary clash with the Americans...we could have explained to the  international community that the reason Abu Mazen [PA President Mahmoud Abbas]  is fearful of progress in the talks, is that he knows that a political  resolution [of the conflict with the Palestinians] is not a ‘price that we are  willing to pay,’” but a clear Israeli “interest” that if achieved will bestow  untold economic, social and security benefits on Israel.With such  tantalizing Israeli gains implicit in any accord, clearly Lapid is issuing an  open invitation to the Palestinians to endlessly harden positions and escalate  demands...But enough of him. There are others to deal  with.Bennett’s blindness Next in line was Economy Minister Naftali  Bennett. To my mind, Bennett’s heart is definitely in the right  place.Sadly, that does not seem apply to his head.He began by  articulating an eminently coherent case for Jewish historical and moral rights  to Judea-Samaria, and for rejecting the failed two-state paradigm and the  doctrine of political appeasement and territorial withdrawal it is based on.  Unfortunately, however, he then reverted to his old proposal of partial  annexation of Judea-Samaria (i.e. of Area C that includes all the Jewish  population and around 10 percent of the Arab one), suggesting, as a first step,  extending Israeli sovereignty to Gush Etzion as a precursor to other  regions.I have been at pains elsewhere to explain why Bennett’s proposal  is one that will solve none of the major problems Israel faces today, but is  liable to exacerbate many of them (See: “Annexing Area C: An open letter to  Naftali Bennett”; “Sovereignty? Yes, but beware of annexing Area C”; and “Earth  to Bennett, Earth to Bennett...”) Blind (cont.)The detriments of his plan are stark and  indisputable – as a cursory glance at any map of the area will quickly reveal:  It will create a tortuous border well over a thousand kilometers long,  impossible to demarcate and secure except at exorbitant cost, and without the  ability to delineate and protect the frontiers, any declaration of sovereignty  will be little more than a provocation with little practical value or  significance.It will leave Israel in an untenable position  diplomatically, having to explain how it sees the fate of over 90% of the  Palestinian-Arab population, left in stateless political suspension, in a myriad  of disconnected enclaves, immersed in a “sovereign” Israel.The  “political pain” incurred by annexing the 60% of Judea-Samaria that Area C  comprises, is not likely to be less than that incurred by annexing the entire  100%, and offering the Arab population a clear, constructive alternative for  their future: Generous humanitarian relocation grants to allow them and their  families an opportunity to build a better future in some third-party country of  their choice.Here again Bennett’s plan is largely  self-obstructive.Instead of creating economic disincentives for the  Arabs to remain (by letting the Palestinian economy collapse) and economic  incentives to leave (via relocation grants), Bennett advocates doing precisely  the opposite – spending billions in developing Palestinian infrastructure and  economy.Unless he can offer a plausible future vision for the  Palestinian-Arab population, his proposal is at best no more than a temporary  stop-gap tactic of playing for time, which eventually will leave the country in  a worse position than it was previously.Treacherous Tzipi Then came  Tzipi Livni with her usual threadbare, disproven and failed  mantras.Unsurprisingly, her main theme was that to preserve the Zionist  dream of a democratic Jewish state, there is no option but to establish an  additional Muslim tyranny on the fringes of Israeli population centers adjacent  to the Trans-Israel Highway and overlooking its only international  airport.Like Lapid, Livni launched into a vicious attack on the  settlements – which she once vigorously supported while building her political  career in the Likud – blaming them for all the ills that afflict Israeli  society. Like Lapid, she seems totally oblivious to the ruinous costs – social,  security and economic – that would be involved in implementation of her  preferred policy of establishing a micro-mini failed state that in all  likelihood would become a bastion for Islamic terrorism on the approaches of  Greater Tel Aviv.Disingenuously, she attributes to Fatah willingness to  accept the idea of two states for two peoples when only recently Mahmoud Abbas,  like many other senior figures in the organization, have clearly stated they  will not recognize Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish  people.Indeed, Livni studiously ignores the fact that the Fatah  Constitution, like the much-maligned Hamas Charter, also calls for the violent  destruction of the Jewish state, the former in the name of the armed Arab  Revolution the latter in the name of Islam.Predictably, Livni urges  Israel to continue to deal with the new Hamas-compliant government and to  maintain the self-delusional pretense that there is a substantive difference  between it and Hamas itself. After all, for her to acknowledge the truth would  mean to concede all her efforts over most of the last decade have been either  hypocritical or futile.Indeed, by desperately clinging to a failed  paradigm and refusing to admit error, Livni proves that her loyalty is far more  devoted to her personal prestige than to any Zionist ideal she purports to  cherish.

Hypocritical Herzog The recently-elected leader of the  Opposition, spent most of his address on how to attain peace with the  Palestinians by berating Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, extolling his own  (yet-to-be-proven) leadership capabilities and bewailing the socioeconomic  inequalities in the country.When he did get round to his prescription  for peace it turns out that his entire (five-year) plan hinges on Abbas (will he  still be with us in five years?), agreeing to precisely what he has proven he is  neither able nor willing to do – to disarm Hamas, bring all the Palestinian  factions to recognize Israel as the “national home of the Jewish People,” and  agree to the long term presence of IDF in the Jordan Valley, a demilitarized  Palestinian state, Israeli annexation of the large settlement blocs (with  unspecified and unattainable land swaps).He then sallied forth on a  puerile prognosis of a new Middle East based on relations with the Arab world  according to the “Arab Peace Plan.” It is not clear whether Herzog supports  handing over the Golan (as the Arab Peace Plan prescribes/dictates) to Syria  (whatever that might mean in five years’ time) or endorses the “Plan’s” demand  for the right of return...Could it be that the leader of the Opposition  has been so busy haranguing Netanyahu, he hasn’t had time to update himself on  events in the Arab World? Status-quo Sa’ar Gideon Sa’ar was the last speaker. To  be honest, he gave an excellent rebuttal of Herzog, accusing him of being  oblivious of the far-ranging changes that have swept through the Arab world,  which seem to have had little impact on Herzog’s (or Livni’s or Lapid’s)  assessment of Israel’s situation and policy options.But then, as the  Likud is wont to do, he suggested doing – well, nothing.His rationale  for benign inaction was, since all the options proffered by others are likely to  create a situation worse than the status quo, the status quo is the best  option.However, this is a perilous path to tread. For in reality  maintaining the status quo is an illusion. It is continually deteriorating for  Israel – at least as far as the Palestinian issue is concerned.For  anyone who doubts this, allow me to suggest he peruse the late prime minister  Yitzhak Rabin’s last address in the Knesset when presenting Oslo II for  parliamentary ratification. If any Israeli leader today were to embrace the  Noble laureate’s vision for a permanent resolution with the Palestinians, he/she  would be dismissed as an unrealistic extremist...When it comes the  Israel-Palestine issue there is no status quo.To conclude: Sadly the  current leadership seems totally incapable of recognizing the Palestinian-Arabs  for what they are, and what they declare themselves to be – an implacable enemy  – and of formulating a policy that reflects this reality.Until the  national leadership can do this, it will not only be unable to prevent the  county’s slide into inexorable tragedy, but will in fact be complicit in  bringing this tragedy about.
Martin Sherman is the founder and executive  director of the Israel Institute for Strategic Studies.
www.martinsherman.net
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Islamic intolerance and the Temple Mount</title>
<date>31/3/2014</date>
<content>
Between 1948 and 1967, not one Jew prayed at the Western Wall. Jews were  prevented from entering east Jerusalem altogether, which was under Jordanian  occupation.The Six Day War changed that; with the hallowed words of Col.  Mordechai Gur, commander of the Paratroopers Brigade that captured the Old City  – “the Temple Mount is in our hands” – Judaism’s holiest site was  liberated.




The scene, of soldiers barely removed from battle, most of  whom were not religious, embracing the ancient stones of the Second Temple  period is perhaps the most iconic in all of Israeli history.But as  quickly as a Jew could recite the shema, the government snatched defeat from the  jaws of victory, by handing over joint control of the Temple Mount to Jordan and  the Wakf, the very entities which had previously banned Jews from accessing the  site.It is no surprise, then, that today Jews are again for all intents  and purposes barred from ascending the Temple Mount. At those restricted times  when they may do so, Jews are, astoundingly, forbidden to move their lips, lest  a prayer be uttered.The reality atop the Temple Mount reared its ugly  head again last week, when MK Moshe Feiglin and his entourage were besieged by  hundreds of Arab youths incensed by the politician’s  “provocation.”According to Feiglin, “The Muslim Wakf is paying people to  be on the mountain only when Jews go up, to scare them and attack them. I  believe they were waiting for me.”This “status quo” – which the  government has reaffirmed its commitment to upholding – is identical to that  which existed from 1948-1967; namely, Islamic-imposed segregation, replete with  fanaticism and hate, as manifested in the series of riots that broke out on the  Temple Mount throughout February and March.Acknowledging this reality  has, however, become taboo. Instead, the ongoing unrest (in addition to the  prevailing mass hysteria throughout the Muslim world) has been blamed on a  Knesset session entitled, “The loss of Israeli sovereignty on the Temple  Mount.”That the Aksa mosque resides atop Judaism’s holiest site is no  coincidence. While the Koran makes no mention of Jerusalem, Muslims built the  Dome of the Rock in 689 CE as a testament to their conquest of the city. Indeed,  throughout history, Muslims have attempted to rewrite the historical record by  destroying religious sites in lands they claim.Islam’s most sacred site,  al-Kaaba, was a pagan shrine that predated Islam by centuries.Following  Mohammed’s seizure of Mecca in 630 CE, his followers destroyed hundreds of idols  in the name of his new religion. This practice was repeated thousands of times  over as Islam expanded across Africa and Europe.The most notable  examples include The Grand Mosque of Damascus, which was converted in 705 CE  from a church dedicated to John the Baptist. The world-renown Hagia Sophia in  Istanbul was a church for a millennium before the Ottoman conquerors of  Constantinople transformed it into a mosque in 1453 CE (while the Hagia Sophia  was made into a museum in 1935 by Turkey’s secular founding father Mustafa Kemal  Ataturk, the current Islamist regime of Recep Tayyip Erdogan has made clear its  desire to restore it as a mosque).The most vivid modern example occurred  when the Taliban blew up the world’s two largest statues of Buddha in  Afghanistan, prior to the US-led invasion in 2001. In recent times, churches,  synagogues, Buddhist temples, etc., have been demolished or transformed by  Muslims in places ranging from Pakistan, Iraq and Nigeria, to Bangladesh, Mali  and Egypt; from Indonesia, Iran and Cyprus, to Tanzania, India and  Syria.This process is unfolding on the Temple Mount itself, where the  Wakf’s illegal excavations aim to destroy any trace of Jewish history; yet  another example of the Muslim propensity to erase the presence and heritage of  Jews in every Middle Eastern country save for Israel and to mask the flight of  fleeing Christians throughout the region.There is a clear lesson to be  drawn regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Muslim bigotry and  xenophobia explain why Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas will never  recognize Israel as a Jewish state, and why he cannot countenance even one Jew  living in the West Bank. It is why Gaza is already entirely devoid of  Jews.Ironically, the international community decries the “occupation” as  “Israeli apartheid”; whereas it is at worst but a direct, and legitimate,  response to virulent Islamic segregation policies. If a Jew could live securely  anywhere in the West Bank, there would be no need for IDF soldiers to be  stationed there.I recently had the opportunity to experience this truth  first-hand by visiting the epicenter of Palestinian discrimination:  Hebron.There, some 850 Jews live within a fiveblock radius, a veritable  ghetto fenced off from the city’s 150,000 Palestinian inhabitants.My  host in Hebron made clear the alternative to the local military presence; his  house is riddled with bullet holes, the remnants of sniper fire commonplace  before the IDF’s “occupation” of the adjacent hillside.Not surprisingly,  Hebron’s Cave of the Patriarchs, the resting place of Judaism’s forefathers and  the religion’s second holiest site, has been renamed the Ibrahimi  mosque.Similarly, Joseph’s tomb was ransacked and burnt to the ground in  2000 by Palestinians near Nablus. Only concerted international pressure  prevented the PA from building a mosque on its ruins.For the Palestinian  mayor of Hebron, whom I interviewed, the city is plagued by the 0.5 percent of  its population which prays three, as opposed to five times daily; Jews, who,  living where Abraham roamed some 4,000 years ago, are dubbed  “settlers.”By contrast, Palestinians wanting to eliminate said presence  are considered “peace-seeking.”Clearly, though, there will never be  peace, not in Israel nor anywhere else in the region, until Muslims reconcile  themselves to a co-existence with the “others” in their midst.In the  interim, Jews must adamantly and proudly defend their title and free access to  their holy places. This is especially crucial in light of a new report by  Palestinian Media Watch showing that the PA is now setting its sights on the  Western Wall.“The al-Buraq Wall [i.e. the Western Wall] is an authentic  part of the al-Aksa Mosque only,” PA Minister of Religious Affairs Mahmoud  Habbash is quoted as saying. Former Palestinian chief justice Sheikh Tayseer  Tamimi believes that the Western Wall “is Islamic and belongs to Muslims alone,”  thus Jews “have no right” to pray there.
Asserting Jewish rights –  including the inalienable right for Jews to dwell in their biblical heartland –  is not only just, but doing so will also begin to effectively erode the  prevailing narrative that anything and everything other than the Palestinian  yearning to cleanse Israel of Jews is responsible for the two-decade-long  failure to usher in peace in our time.

The author is a correspondent for  i24 News, a recently launched international news station which broadcasts out of  Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel, Hamas and the third (and fourth?) Gaza war: A Clausewitzian perspective</title>
<date>20/8/2014</date>
<content>
“Violence, that is to say physical force (for there is no  moral force without the conception of states and law), is therefore the means;  the compulsory submission of the enemy to our will is the ultimate object. In  order to attain this object fully, the enemy must be disarmed; and this is,  correctly speaking, the real aim of hostilities in theory. It takes the place of  the final object, and puts it aside in a manner as something not properly  belonging to war.” – Carl von Clausewitz, On War Despite the hypocrisy and  pusillanimity of the “international community” and the distortions and blindness  of the media, the nature and goals of the Hamas terrorist organization in its  third war against Israel are clear enough. Hamas’ binding covenant explicitly  proclaims its dedication to the destruction of the Jewish state, a genocidal  intention expressed in terrorist murders of Jews and indiscriminate rocketing of  Israeli civilian populations.




An offspring of the Muslim Brotherhood  fundamentalists in Egypt, Hamas emerged as a radical, explicitly Islamist  faction within Yasser Arafat’s PLO. Coming to power in Gaza after Israel’s  unilateral withdrawal in 2005, Hamas won a US-backed, onetime Palestinian  Authority election, taking full power subsequently in a bloody putsch against  the PA and its president, Mahmoud Abbas.Sworn to war against the Jewish  state and backed by Israel’s nemesis, Iran, Hamas acquired and began to use a  vast arsenal of short- and intermediate-range missiles against Israeli civilian  populations. This lead to Israeli military responses in 2008, and again in 2012;  despite short truces, new longer-range missiles were added, and tunnels dug for  the secret import of contraband goods and weapons from Egypt.The current  war differs from the two previous conflicts in quantity and quality. More and  longer-range rockets, supplied by Iran and capable of reaching deep into Israel,  are being used, while the number, complexity and extent of cross-border attack  tunnels has markedly increased.The political context is also different,  in two related respects. First, under increasing domestic pressure as its  economy sank, Hamas saw unemployment skyrocket, and its large 40,000-strong  bureaucracy’s salaries went unpaid. Second, internationally, Gen. Abdel Fattah  Sisi’s defeat of Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt deprived Hamas of a  political and economic patron, while Sunni Hamas’ support for the Iranbacked  Assad regime’s Islamist opponents in Syria distanced Teheran from  Gaza.Hence Hamas’ recent reconciliation with the PA, temporarily  creating a reunified Palestinian government, was aimed as much at getting Gaza  salaries paid by Abbas as it was at reconciling with the hated  Fatah.Hamas’ launching of missiles, and then of the tunnel attacks,  expressed a considered, if desperate, rolling of the dice, an effort to  reinforce its shaken Gazan hegemony, attract Arab and Muslim (Qatar, Turkey)  financial and political aid, and reaffirm its “revolutionary”  leadership.Yet Hamas alone cannot hope to defeat the regional hegemon,  Israel; if a traditional military victory isn’t its goal, what is? The answer is  three-fold: 1) To demonstrate, first to its own Gazan subjects, to the larger  West Bank population and to Arab world generally, that it is indeed the  incarnation of the “Resistance,” standing alone against the Jewish infidel  “occupier” of the Palestinian Wakf, the regional area of Islam’s inalienable  patrimony.Here Hamas’s readiness to use its Gazan subjects as “martyrs”  turns on the assumption (proven in the earlier Gazan conflicts, and in the  Arab-Israeli wars generally) that the “international community” – moved by the  mass media’s scenes of civilian casualties – will pressure Israel into  compliance with a cease-fire well before Hamas can be destroyed and/or Gaza  re-occupied.2) Importantly, Hamas’ notion of “victory” differs from the  Clausewitz epigraph’s statement. Immediate submission of Israel’s will to that  of Hamas, and its full disarmament [and therefore destruction] is not Hamas’  proximate goal (though it is, with the presumptive aid of the larger Muslim and  international world, its hoped-for final objective).Hamas’ specific goal  is – by standing up to the Jewish entity’s superior military machine and  inflicting casualties on Israeli civilians – to delegitimate the Jewish state  internationally, by representing it to the world as a “genocidal” war criminal  and racist human-rights violator. (Here, too, the functional, deeply  anti-Semitic meaning of the world-wide “BDS” and “apartheid analogy” campaign is  revealed: “delegitimation,” denial of the Jewish state’s right to exist,  prepares the way for its destruction.Delegitimation and genocide are  intimately linked.) Hamas’ reliance on aggression and martyrdom, its seeking, as  one of is spokesmen put it, for death rather than (like the Jews) life, to  delegitimize Israel and thereby to spark a wider conflagration, is a good  example of another of Clausewitz’s themes, that when war itself becomes an end,  and not a means, it can have unimagined (or in Hamas’ case, imagined)  consequences.As current short-term truces collapse under the weight of  Hamas’ truculence, Israel’s response to the third Gazan war’s amplified threat  may morph from artillery and airborne bombing to a sustained ground war. It  looks more and more as though Hamas has miscalculated, and that a quick  cease-fire and a US – and “international community” – forced “peace” may not be  available to rescue it. Squeezed between Sisi’s Egypt and Israel, with even  Abbas (while condemning Israel for the mounting civilian casualties) condemning  the rocket attacks, Hamas could be about to suffer a decisive  defeat.Clausewitz, well aware of the vagaries of war, and of the close  filial relation between Bellona, the goddess of war, and Fortuna, goddess of  chance, always insisted on the subordination of war to state policy. Currently  unforeseen considerations (for Israel, massive international pressure resulting  from a truly terrible accidental bombing) may give Hamas an escape route, or  even realize its hopes for a widening of the conflict.For Hamas, a  “success” – long-range Hamas rockets falling on densely-populated Tel Aviv or  Jerusalem – could radicalize Israel’s determination to pursue the conflict to  the bitter end, the “international community” and the media  notwithstanding.The political objective, Clausewitz wrote, not war per  se, is always the essential factor: “War is a... continuation of policy by other  means,” not a substitute for it. In Hamas’ case, war – the killing of Jews, the  hopedfor genocidal destruction of Jewish Israel – is a nihilistic end-in-itself.  This explains the seemingly paradoxical disproportion between Hamas’ limited  means and its apocalyptic goal: steadfastness, unending aggression, murder and  martyrdom are more important even than victory itself.But for democratic  Jewish Israel, a sophisticated, bureaucratic Western state, war is a calibrated  adjunct of rational policy, not a nihilistic end-in-itself. When necessary, it  is a means to achieve Israel’s overarching moral-political purpose: the  preservation and well-being of the Jewish state, and of the Jewish People  itself.As the third Gaza war enters its fifth week and casualties  continue to mount, it is clear that Israel’s policy goal cannot be yet another  easily-terminated de facto cease-fire. If a fourth Gazan war is to be avoided,  the atavistic terrorists’ ability to re-supply, and ultimately to resume the  deadly hostilities, must finally be blocked. And this may well mean the  destruction not only of the missiles and tunnels, but of their recidivist  progenitor, Hamas.
The author is a professor, and director of the  Canadian Institute for Jewish Research [Montreal and Toronto).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘Israeli Apartheid’ – the new form of anti-Semitism</title>
<date>26/2/2014</date>
<content>
The Afrikaans word “apartheid” means “the state of being apart.”As well,  apartheid was a system of racial segregation, through legislation, by the  National Party of South Africa between 1948-1994. Under this system of  governing, political representation for non-whites in South Africa ceased in  1970. Furthermore, in that same year, non-whites were denied  citizenship.




This racist policy forced the majority of non-white people  to live in, and become members of, 10 tribally-based bantustans, or “homelands.”  The white-led minority, represented by the National Party, also segregated  education, medical care, beaches and other public services. The native black  people were considered inferior to the whites, and were exploited due to this  inhuman policy.Those who call Israel an “apartheid state” are morally,  factually and historically inaccurate. Their mission is to delegitimize  Israel.As a man of faith, I believe that the West Bank of the Jordan  River (and frankly, much further east) is the land promised to the Chosen People  according to the Bible. Yet, for the sake of argument, let us say that the West  Bank is not part of the sovereign state of Israel, and is governed by the  elected Palestinian Authority and/or Hamas.In this case, Israel’s  policies cannot be compared to the racist internal policies of Apartheid South  Africa. And for those Palestinians that are citizens of Israel, Israeli law  guarantees equal rights, without distinction of race, creed or  gender.Proponents of so-called Israeli apartheid would attempt to  counter by saying that the West Bank is, ultimately, Israeli-controlled. They  would also say that Palestinians are scrutinized at military checkpoints, and  would bring up the ID system, separate highways, the West Bank security barrier  and other apparent forms of oppression.I do not deny that these exist. I  do deny, though, that their root cause is racism, as was the situation in South  Africa.The vast size and vigilance of the security forces in Israel is  an exceptional financial burden on the economy – yet must exist for Israel’s  very survival as a nation. Countless acts of terrorism have been perpetrated  within Israel by bloodthirsty and brainwashed individuals who hide within  crowds, and in hospitals and schools.The Arab people must understand  that the real reason they suffer these inconveniences – and, yes, at times,  embarrassment – is that other Arabs carry out terror attacks that make them  necessary.For these reasons, it is a sad – but sobering – fact that  Israeli security forces are suspicious of the non-Jewish population. The  separation of two groups in this case is not due to apartheid racism, but  terrorism.Finally, the citizens of North America shouldn’t throw stones  when it comes to the question of occupation, segregation and racism, as our  history reveals that we live in the proverbial glass house. We know that much of  the continental United States was acquired through conquest – especially against  the First Nations People.Indians, here, are still treated as second-  class citizens (who live on segregated “Reservations”). We should, as a society,  address very real racism at home before directing ignorant and uneducated  comments toward Israel.In closing, I must add that Israelis give the  best (and free) medical care in the entire Arab world to the Palestinian  people.Friends, let us apply these truths to all accusers of Israel.  Shalom ! 
The author is pastor of Sacred Heart Parish in the Archdiocese of  Toronto.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel's faulty calculus</title>
<date>11/11/2014</date>
<content>
Two months after the completion of Operation Protective Edge – a 50-day war  fought by the region’s military superpower against a terrorist group confined to  a limited territory – Hamas brazenly took responsibility for an attack in  Jerusalem in which one of its operatives plowed through the streets of the  capital ramming as many pedestrians as possible.Hamas is calling for a  third Palestinian intifada, as the spigot of rocket fire from Gaza again begins  to open.




In other words, Israel’s military offensive in the Gaza Strip  failed to achieve even the minimal goal set out by Prime Minister Benjamin  Netanyahu at the outset of the operation: Hamas has not been  deterred.Rather, it is actively rebuilding its infrastructure, first and  foremost its weapons manufacturing facilities, and openly testing long-range  missiles in full view of the IDF, which accounts for most of the alarms that  have intermittently been set off recently in the south.In the meantime,  the Netanyahu government is preoccupied with Hamas’ partner in terror,  Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas.For his part, Abbas is  equally responsible for the escalation of violence in Jerusalem. He has fanned  the flames by calling for Jews to be barred from the Temple Mount, under the  banner of “saving the Aksa mosque.” His systematic demonization of Jews and  official media’s whitewashing of Jewish rights to live within any borders in  their one and only state is the root cause of the ongoing unrest. Yet  Israel continues to appease Abbas as if he were a moderating force.Much  of this is done in deference to the US, which continues to fund the Palestinian  terror machine. Israel fears that without American support, the diplomatic war  waged by Abbas in international forums will gain steam and further chip away at  the country’s standing and international perceptions of its legitimate  rights. But these fears are largely unfounded.The paradigm of  Israeli-Palestinian relations has shifted, away from one of protracted diplomacy  to one of unilateral actions by both parties in a peace process that has been  moribund for years. As must surely have become clear by now to any objective  person, the Palestinians do not want 99 percent; they want everything, including  Israel proper. And while Israeli officialdom seems to think that Abbas’  prospective UN Security Council bid to force the IDF to withdraw to the “1967  borders” warrants further concessions to him, ultimately the Palestinians lack  the ability to change the reality on the ground, whereas Israel  doesn’t.Even if the US, under President Barack Obama, were to abstain  from a Security Council vote, thereby allowing a resolution to pass, it would  change nothing. From a legal standpoint, most of the international community  already considers the disputed territories as “occupied.”Moreover, there  is absolutely no way that any international force would ever be dispatched to  Israel – as US Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power once intimated – in order to  enforce any resolution.While it is likely that the European Union would  indeed enact sanctions against Israel, it already has and will continue its  campaign against the Jewish state in parallel with the growth of its restive  Muslim population.Europe has anyways always been inherently anti-Semitic  and Arabist, beginning with Britain’s effort to keep Jews out of Palestine,  despite the Mandate, and its subsequent collusion with Arab forces in their  attempt to destroy the nascent Jewish state.Europe is a lost cause for  the time being; it will not change course until such time as London and Paris  more closely resemble Baghdad – at which point European officials will be  lobbying Israel not to recognize East Brussels.As for the US, with both  houses of Congress now under Republican control, it will be next to impossible  for the Obama administration to force Israel’s hand vis-a-vis the Palestinians  or harm the Jewish state more than it already has. On the Iran front, a  Republican Congress will see readily through the Obama administration’s  engagement of the mullahs and its pursuit of a “bad deal” on the nuclear  issue.Accordingly, the effects of any Palestinian “victory” in the  Security Council would, in this author’s opinion, be negligible.THEN  THERE is the International Criminal Court, which spooks Israeli leaders like the  phantom boogeyman residing underneath a child’s bed.The ICC, however, is  a toothless and tainted entity that acts with sloth in prosecuting actual  perpetrators of genocide, leaving the likes of Sudanese leader Omar Bashir to  roam freely, attending summits throughout the globe. Not even Syrian President  Bashar Assad has been targeted by the court.While prevailing prejudices  would likely see the ICC spurred into action if Israel was on the docket,  ultimately its verdicts would, from a practical standpoint, be meaningless.  Israel has survived multiple previous kangaroo courts and will continue to do so  in the future.Furthermore, should the Palestinians in fact go the ICC  route it would expose their leadership to serious and irrefragable  counter-claims. The Palestinian Authority is an amalgamation of terrorist  groups, beginning with the PLO and Hamas, which together have waged a campaign  of murder against Israelis for decades. Should any proceedings be initiated at  the ICC, this reality would be crystallized and highlighted as never  before.Abbas and Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh are no doubt wary of such a  prospect, especially given their dependence on foreign aid.Overall,  then, the Palestinians can do little additional damage to Israel in the  diplomatic arena. No initiative they undertake can significantly alter the  current status quo, which is already firmly anti-Israel.This reality  accounts for why the Palestinians always turn to terrorism, for in this manner  they can do actual harm; by inciting to violence, which leads to the killing of  Israelis and the demoralization of the rest of the country.Therefore,  combating Palestinian terror in a pro-active manner should be Israel’s primary  focus.First, security must be restored to the capital, which then needs  to be taken off the negotiating table entirely.Jerusalem is the united  capital under Israeli law and should be treated as such. The term “east  Jerusalem” should be stricken from the lexicon and full Israeli citizenship  should be extended to every resident within the city’s jurisdiction.Poll  after poll shows that most Arab Palestinians would prefer to live under Israeli  control in Jerusalem, and so it should be.With regard to the Temple  Mount, Jews should be able to freely visit their holiest site. Israel cannot  succumb to Islamic apartheid practices, as it has done in Hebron, for example.  Rather, it must defend the rights of its citizens to worship where they so  choose.If Jordan, in particular, has a problem with this, then the  government should inform the Hashemite Kingdom that it will pull its support for  the monarchy, which would lead to its progressive demise. When given the choice,  Abdullah will undoubtedly opt for self-preservation rather than being consumed  by the Muslim Brotherhood or Islamic State.In response to Palestinian  unilateralism, Israel must also assert full sovereignty over any areas in Judea  and Samaria deemed necessary to maintain its security. Palestinians living in  any annexed lands should likewise be given a path to citizenship and the option  to relocate.If a further entrenchment of the IDF is temporarily  necessary, then forces should be deployed in requisite numbers.Finally,  Israel must consider cutting ties entirely with the PA, allowing it to collapse  like the house of cards it is. The country can, and will, deal with whatever  comes afterwards as long as its borders are secure and a military presence  exists in close proximity to any cities under continued Palestinian  control.The alternative to asserting Jewish rights is worse – and in  plain view: an endless cycle of violence waged by sworn enemies under the guise  of a phony peace process. There is no white dove fluttering its wings at the end  of the peace tunnel, which is nothing less than another underground conduit for  more terrorism from the likes of Fatah and Hamas.Pandering to murderers  is not why Jews fought and died for the establishment of Israel. The goal was  never the creation of a banana republic devoid of direction or intestinal  fortitude; one which, unless it gets its act together – and soon – might no  longer be worth fighting for at all.
The author is a correspondent for  i24News, an international network which broadcasts out of Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Israel's PA predicament</title>
<date>2/5/2014</date>
<content>
The government has begun implementing a variety of low-key sanctions against the Palestinian Authority after Ramallah brazenly scuttled the peace talks. The moves announced, however, are hardly likely to foster any reassessment by PA President Mahmoud Abbas. If anything, these piecemeal token measures are only liable to enhance the PA’s “occupied state” affectation.The penalties include deductions from taxes and customs tariffs Israel collects on the PA’s behalf, to partially cover the PA’s longstanding unpaid debts. These are numerous and varied, among them the NIS 1.5 billion owed the Israel Electric Corporation. The Palestinians are content to allow Israeli taxpayers to pick up their tab. Nevertheless, the deductions under consideration are so small that they will neither eliminate the PA’s arrears nor deprive it of the ability to pay salaries or enforce law and order.




Moreover, the monthly transfers of $100 million that the PA expects to receive from the Arab League will more than make up for Israeli deductions.Other sanctions include a freeze on Palestinian construction in Area C of Judea and Samaria, where Israel has full control under the Oslo Accords, and canceling the transfer of 1,400 hectares to Palestinian agricultural use.Deepwater drilling in the Gaza Marine gas field is to be put on hold. The expansion of the Palestinian Wataniya Mobile cellphone network is to be disallowed and Israeli banks will make no money transfers to the PA.VIP passes that PA headliners use to bypass security at checkpoints would not be honored and no top-level consultations would be conducted with the Palestinian upper echelon.All of the above amounts to a slap on the wrist considering that most of the PA’s imports and exports go through Israel and that Israel is a major employer of Palestinians. Some 150,000 Judea and Samaria Arabs cross over daily to work in Israel proper. Many others earn their livelihood in Israeli communities across the Green Line.The government could easily pull the rug out from under the PA, and the PA is fully cognizant of this, but it is also sure Israel will never do anything near its worst.The government finds itself on the horns of a grave dilemma – it can severely punish the PA, but it dares not bring it to its knees.Israel’s predicament yet again illustrates how detrimental decency can be in geopolitical jostling. The PA exploits Israeli forbearance and broadmindedness to demonize Israel and undermine its legitimacy. The PA’s Ramallah and Gaza City branches both know full well that Jerusalem can hurt them badly. At the same time, they feel free to chip away at Israel’s basic interests, because they are confident it will not employ the punitive powers available to it.This breeds chutzpah in the PA, bolstered by the fact that Israel – while it suffers from the consequence of its decency – is being threatened by the American secretary of state with an apartheid-state stigma or with escalated BDS ostracism.Thus Ramallah feels free to apply for state-status in a variety of UN-affiliated institutions and it can thumb its nose at Israel by cozying up to the Hamas terrorist fiefdom, despite the fact that Israel could instantly cripple the PA economy. Time after time, Ramallah and Gaza alike have been placing winning bets that Israel will not react in any serious way.The PA is laughing all the way to the UN forums it recently joined, mocking Israel’s discomfiture. However, the PA scorn is short-sighted and betrays callous disregard for its population.The PLO (of which the PA is an organ) turns 50 this year, yet in a half-century it has failed to produce a pragmatic leadership whose priority is the needs of its people.
A responsible leadership would teach and preach coexistence. Instead, the PA radicalizes its masses from kindergarten age onward, incites to violence and hate, glorifies terrorism and blames Israel for the Palestinians’ civic and economic failures.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Is the United Nations anti-Semitic?</title>
<date>7/7/2014</date>
<content>
“When people criticize  Zionists, they mean Jews.” 
– Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.In our world of  cultural relativism, calling someone anti-Semitic is usually dismissed as beyond  the pale. The usual retort is that legitimate criticism of Israel is not  anti-Semitism. At the UN, it goes much further. Israel is a nation designated  for special treatment, much like South Africa was years ago. Critics use the  template of apartheid South Africa for the Jewish state. Because apartheid is  beyond the pale of civilized norms, they argue, Israel deserves special  treatment. This allows the UN to bypass any legitimate defense of Israel and  Zionism. No one can defend apartheid, so it must be  destroyed.




Non-democratic states overwhelmingly control the UN. They  often mouth the words of moderation, but defend nations that give sanctuary to  terrorists. How else can one explain that some of the most odious nations on  earth are elected to the UN Human Rights Council? In fact, Israel’s judge and  jury at the UN are often nations that enable terrorism and  anti-Semitism.To accurately judge the United Nations, we need a  definition. If Israel is treated and judged completely differently than other  nations and held to a standard not applied to any other member nation, then that  should be considered anti-Semitism.The Inter-Parliamentary Coalition to  Combat Anti-Semitism (ICCA), composed of 140 parliamentarians from 40 countries,  affirmed the definition of anti-Semitism by the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA).  It states, “Applying double standards by requiring of [Israel] behavior not  expected or demanded of any other democratic nation” is anti-Semitism.As  Abe Foxman of the ADL said, “anti-Zionism constitutes anti-Semitism if Zionism  is the only nationalism being opposed.” When criticism of Israel devolves into  demonization and delegitimization of its right to exist as a Jewish state, you  have anti-Semitism. If Zionism is described conspiratorially as scheming to take  over the world, you are dealing with anti-Semitism.Robert Wistrich, of  The Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of Anti-Semitism, said,  “The deplorable combination of discrimination, delegitimization and double  standards at the United Nations has in recent decades been a lethal source of  globalized anti-Semitism.”Defenders of the UN claim it was created in  the wake of the Holocaust, and that the organization annually commemorates the  world’s most heinous genocide against the Jews. That is commendable, but  historical revisionism has universalized the Holocaust, and its special  characteristics pertaining to Jews have been watered down until the Holocaust  has become merely one among many genocides throughout the ages.A 2014  ADL poll revealed “the most anti-Semitic region in the world is the Middle East  and North Africa, with 74 percent harboring anti-Semitic views.” The Palestinian  Arabs living in the West Bank and Gaza had a 93% anti-Semitic rating.If  the double standard of treating Israel profoundly differently than other UN  members is anti-Semitism, consider the following: The UN Human Rights Council  Israel is the only nation in the world that has a standing agenda item against  it at every session of the UNHRC. Not North Korea, not China, not Pakistan, not  Syria, not Sudan, not Iran. The Council never has mentioned the word  “Hamas.”From 2006 through 2013, Israel has been subjected to 45  condemnation resolutions. No other nation in the world comes  close.Special Rapporteur on Palestine John Dugard said in 2006,  “Israel’s occupation of the Palestinian territories has many features of  colonization. At the same time it has many of the worst characteristics of  apartheid.” In explaining Palestinian violence, UN “expert” Dugard sees moral  equivalence with the partisans who fought the Nazis! Mr. Dugard is also a judge  on the UN’s International Court of Justice.UN General Assembly  ResolutionsFrom 1947 to 1991, there were about 300 anti-Israel General Assembly  resolutions against Israel. In 2012, there were 22 GA resolutions specifically  against Israel, while there were only four for the rest of the world  combined.The United Nations Relief and Works AgencyThe Palestinian  refugee organization UNWRA changed the definition of “refugee” to create a  unique status for Palestinians. While other refugees lose refugee status in the  following generation, only Palestinians remain refugees forever. This allows  UNWRA to receive 50 percent of the UN’s money for all the refugees in the world.  Instead of having only 30,000 original Palestinian refugees (if they were  counted as every other refugee in the world is), we now have over 5,000,000  Palestinian Arabs refugees – courtesy of the UN.UN Security Council The  real power of the UN lies in the Security Council. Israel is the only member  state that has not – and cannot – serve on the Security Council. From 1948 to  2010, there were 77 resolutions directly aimed at Israel. No other nation on  earth even comes close to this record of infamy.Israel’s Exclusion from  Regional Groups Israel is the only UN member excluded from membership in its own  regional group in the Middle East and Asia The UN’s Durban ConferenceThe three  UN Durban Conferences on Racism have found racism in only one of the 192 nations  of the UN: Israel. One of the flyers distributed at the first Durban conference  pictured Hitler asking the question, “What would have happened if I had won?”  Ignoring and not acting against the worst nations in the worldAnne Bayefsky, a  Senior Fellow with the Hudson Institute, said: “There has never been a single  resolution about the decades-long repression of the civil and political rights  of the 1.3 billion people in China.... Every year, UN bodies are required to  produce at least 25 reports on alleged human rights violation by Israel, but not  one on an Iranian criminal justice system which mandates punishments like  crucifixion, stoning and cross-amputation. This is... demonization of the Jewish  state.”UN Special Rapporteurs Richard Falk (2008-2014) and Makarim  Wibisono (2014-2020)Richard Falk is a notorious anti-Semite, infamous 9/11  conspiracy theorist and Boston Marathon bombing apologist.His successor,  Makarim Wibisono, according to UN Watch, has accused Israel of “unconscionable  use of force against the Palestinians,” and of having a “policy of retribution  against the entire Palestinian nation.” Wibisono described Israel as showing  “ruthless contempt for the lives of the innocent.” His home country has no  diplomatic relations with Israel.UN High Commissioner for Human RightsNavi Pillay is the UN official who questioned the legality of the killing of  Osama bin Laden, and is an enthusiastic supporter of the anti-Zionist Durban  conferences. According to Pillay, “The Israeli occupation of Palestine led to  large-scale violations of international law.”Is anti-Zionism at the UN  anti-Semitism? You decide.Here is how United States can fight  anti-Semitism at the UN while advancing American foreign policy interests: The  US pays for 22% of the UN’s annual $5 billion budget. Congress should legislate  support for only humanitarian efforts at the UN. Don’t support or defer to an  institution that glorifies anti-Americanism and anti-Semitism.End  financial support for UNWRA until it adopts the definition of “refugee” which  applies everywhere else. This would end a root cause of the conflict, as it  would reduce from 5,000,000 to 30,000 the number of Palestinian Arab  Refugees.Find democratic coalition partners to support American national  security priorities and protect America’s allies.As the leader of the  free world, the US should speak out unapologetically in the UN. Fighting  institutionalized anti-Semitism hiding behind the cloak of anti-Zionism would be  a great start.Soon there may be a new Islamic caliphate of al-Qaida in  the Levant. So who will be elected to the UN Human Rights Council first, Israel  or the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS)? 
The author is the founder and  director of MEPIN, the Middle East Political and Information Network.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>January 1: Overdue tribute</title>
<date>31/12/2014</date>
<content>
Overdue tribute Sir, – I was delighted to see in David Newman’s column about  Limmud (“The world’s greatest Jewish learning project,” Borderline Views,  December 30) tribute paid to Clive Lawton, whom Newman rightly describes as “a  maverick Jewish educator” for whom “a lot of the credit” for Limmud’s success is  due.




Clive and I were colleagues many years ago at the Board of Deputies  of British Jews – he as education officer – and I can still picture him clearly  with his unruly mop of hair. Since those days I have read numerous articles and  reports about Limmud and its “offspring,” Limmud FSU, but never a mention of  Clive’s founding role.Thank you, Newman, for this long-overdue  tribute.HYAM CORNEY 
NetanyaLetters about letters Sir, – Reader Netta  Kohn Dor- Shav (“Investigate Herzog,” Letters, December 30) was right in asking  for a “full clarification” of Labor Party leader Isaac Herzog’s role in the 1999  Barak election campaign scandal.Many of us have a deep sense of shame  that a president of the state, a former prime minister, a minister of finance, a  chief rabbi, a judge, army generals, senior police officers and several mayors  have criminally abused their positions. I dread hearing of yet another scandal  involving a senior government official.Those who aspire to lead must  lead by example and expect to be held to higher standards.Young Mr.  Herzog is on record as aiming for the highest position in our government. He  must explain the allegations to the public, clarify the source of the money and  not invoke the legal loophole of keeping silent.BARBARA OBERMAN KATZ 
Herzliya Pituah Sir, – Reader James Adler (“Not much difference,” Letters,  December 30) chides us benighted Israelis and asks us what we would do if  “Palestine” were occupying Israel.I refer him to Daniel Gordis’s  excellent “Tweets, content and history” (A Dose of Nuance) in The Jerusalem Post  Magazine of December 26 for a scholarly explanation of how “Palestine” has in  the past occupied – and, in fact, today actually occupies – large portions the  Land of Israel that had been earmarked for us.However, I would point out  to Mr. Adler that unlike the Palestinians, our reaction to this occupation has  not been to murder children in their beds or set off bombs in cafes or discos,  on buses or at religious celebrations.Instead, we have taken a tiny  sliver of land allotted to us and built schools and hospitals, universities and  cultural institutions.We absorb immigrants from all over the world and  have made arid wilderness fertile and blooming.If the Palestinians had  done likewise with the opportunities they have been given instead of using them  as a springboard to take away all that Israel has achieved, true peace could  have been realized long ago.LAURA WOOLF 
Ma’aleh Adumim Sir, – Nobody can  disagree with James Adler’s logic and sentiments because what he says makes real  sense. Unfortunately, what is going on in the world today has no interest in  common sense.The whole Arab world promulgates universal anti-Semitism  for two very simple reasons: First, blaming the Jews for everything is much  cheaper than sharing the oil cake with the downtrodden masses.Second,  they know that once a democratic society allows anti-Semitism to go viral, it is  doomed and will be replaced by totalitarianism in the form of the worldwide  caliphate.Our unelected neighborhood world hero, Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas, calls Israel an “apartheid state” while he tells the  world that no Jew will be allowed anywhere in his Palestine.Should  Israel help bring into being the brave new apartheid state of Palestine? What  Mr. Adler needs to remember is the Khartoum Declaration of 1968 telling the  world there will be no negotiation, no recognition and no peace with Israel, and  that the basis of his (and, apparently, the rest of the world’s) approach to  Israel is that Jews have no human rights and the Nazis were wrong not to have  destroyed every last one of us.But I will close with a simple question:  Once the UN has given permission for Jews to be eradicated, who will the world  blame for the bloodshed that is unleashed, which will make the Syrian nightmare  look like scenes from a comic opera? KALMAN BOOKMAN 
Jerusalem Sir, – The Jewish  people are the only people who ever had a sovereign state in the Land of Israel  with a capital in Jerusalem, and the only people with a continuous 3,000- year  presence in that land. James Adler must accept the fact that under Muslim rule,  Jerusalem was never made a political capital and always took an inferior seat in  deference to Damascus or Baghdad.Adler should also be capable of  understanding that Irgun resistance under Menachem Begin was based on Great  Britain’s White Paper, which closed the gates of Palestine to Jews while six  million were being systematically gassed by the Nazis. Finally, there is his  attempt to equate Palestinian terror, which is aimed at completely innocent  civilians, and resistance by the Irgun, which was always meticulous in directing  its efforts toward military rule.It is shallow thinking and a thin  veneer of morality that precludes any possibility of a peaceful solution between  Israel and the Palestinians.ZEV CHAMUDOT 
Petah Tikva Trusting in  antitrust Sir, – As an overseas-based American oilman in his 38th year of  international exploration (and someone who also has a lone soldier serving in  the IDF), I want to raise a red flag to all those who think that antitrust  commissioner David Gilo’s recent and stunning reversal on Delek Group and Noble  Energy is a “Hanukka present” for the Israeli people. It is not. Rather, it is a  signal to the international energy community that Israel is joining the likes of  Venezuela and Russia when it comes to setting the tone for the cost/ benefit  trade-off of massive energy investment.Here are several facts to  consider: There are few proven operators capable of safely and competently  extracting deep water hydrocarbons, fewer still whose boards are willing to work  with an undependable government, and (here’s the surprise for many) the  full-cycle economics for a portfolio of deep water projects is quite modest when  all risks are considered.Taken together, this near-term rush to protect  the value of Israel’s natural gas resources has a significant chance of  backfiring, and badly.This story is not about efforts to protect a  nation’s treasures, however well-intended, nor is it about beating down “toxic”  CEOs. It is about competent national leadership and vision.There are  oil-rich countries on this planet that have been written off by both the global  energy and investment communities for unethical and irresponsible behavior.  Learn about them before it’s too late.STEVEN TOBIAS 
CopenhagenAfrican  bootstraps Sir, – Seth J. Frantzman accuses the West of a “sub-conscious  racist... mentality” when life-enhancing technologies are provided to individual  Africans via NGOs (“Stop ‘saving’ Africa,” Terra Incognita, December  29).Actually, the real reason for these “grass roots” strategies is that  all too many African governments are too corrupt, inept or, in some cases,  murderous to provide their people with basic infrastructure and services such as  clean water, education, health care and welfare. All that can be done under the  circumstances is get as many of these services as possible into the hands of  individual Africans so that they can “bootstrap” their way out of  misery.KIM EZRA SHIENBAUM 
Camden, New Jersey CORRECTION 
The name of the  governor of the US state of Indiana is Mike Pence, not Mark Pence, as was  erroneously stated in “Possible US presidential candidate: US need not be  ‘honest broker’ in Mideast” (December 31).
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>John Kerry’s act of desperation</title>
<date>21/5/2014</date>
<content>
It is unfortunate that US  Secretary of State John Kerry put himself in the middle of the superficial,  gossip-laden, “he said, he said” death spiral of the latest nine-month peace  talks between Israel and the Palestinians.By now, his “apartheid”  remark, warning of the consequences for Israel if the Palestinians don’t get  their own state, has gone viral. Pandemic, even.




He’s even apologized  publicly, and rightly so. More troubling than his use of a very sensitive term,  however, is what it suggests about his disposition.The bigger point here  is that Kerry may be acting out of desperation.He has invested  tremendous effort and political capital in getting the Israeli and Palestinian  sides to agree on basic terms for security and borders, leading to a Palestinian  state. For the duration, that process was dominated by public claims that one  party or the other was undermining trust and acting unilaterally. Kerry kept  plowing forward, even as Ukraine, Egypt and Syria blazed.Kerry’s  commitment to this effort, whether you believe in his ability or not, has been  nothing less than admirable.This is part of what makes his comment so  regrettable. Only in a fantasy world would Kerry not know that his use of the  word would automatically reach the press, infuriate Israelis and American Jews  and cloud out all other considerations.Israel can handle whatever anyone  throws at it, whether it’s Ehud Barak, Ehud Olmert or Kerry warning of an  apartheid future. But by invoking apartheid, Kerry shows just how far he is  willing to go.What is his fallback, or did he just lash himself to the  mast to ride out the storm of the century, known as the Israeli-Palestinian  conflict? The American Jewish Congress has worked to promote joint economic  efforts between Jews and Palestinians, regardless of where the peace process  happens to be in any given moment.These kinds of projects build trust  and lay the foundations for an eventual final-status agreement. Resorting to  drama and reckless initiatives undermines such an outcome.On a global  scale, we should also be worried that a secretary of state who’s ready to  sacrifice all just for the sake of a chance at progress in one arena will find  himself distracted from other, less containable crises in the Middle East and  beyond.With Iran, specifically, how much will Kerry or the White House  be willing to risk – in ways that expose Israel as well as the United States –  to secure some long-term agreement with Iran? Desperation is not an isolated  trait, and it’s one that too often leads right back to despair. We have enough  of that as it is.The author is a financier, real estate developer and  investor. He is involved in numerous community and philanthropic  organizations.
In addition he is an honorary board member of numerous  non-profit organizations.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Know Comment: Abbas is busted as a ‘partner’</title>
<date>6/11/2014</date>
<content>
For more than a decade, we have been told that Mahmoud  Abbas was the most reasonable Palestinian leader Israelis could hope for; that  he was Israel’s best partner for peace; that he was the moderate with whom a  grand compromise deal could be reached. Israelis wanted to believe this so very  much.But then came the Abbas who walked away from prime minister Ehud  Olmert’s outrageously generous territorial offer in 2008, and the Abbas who  refused peace talks with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu even after Netanyahu  froze settlement construction beginning in November 2009.




Then there was  the “PaliLeaks” opportunity in 2011 to ready the Palestinian public for  compromise with Israel. But Abbas ran away from that gateway too, vigorously  denying the hints of compromise with Israel on refugees, Jerusalem or borders  that were in the leaked documents.Ever since then, Abbas has become an  aggressive and deceitful irredentist, the furthest thing from a peace partner.  He has used every international forum to spew forth extremist vitriol against  Israel and seek the criminalization of Israel. When he speaks to Palestinians,  he legitimizes terrorism against Israel and glorifies terrorists. He has cozied  up to Hamas and Iran. And he explicitly rejects compromise on any of the key  issues that would have to be the basis of a peace agreement.Let’s review  Abbas’ appalling UN record.In his 2011 speech at the United Nations  General Assembly, he called Yasser Arafat a man of peace.He spoke of  Israel as a “brutal,” “aggressive,” “racist,” “apartheid,” “horrific” and  “colonial” military occupier.He accused Israel of a “multi-pronged  policy of ethnic cleansing” and of “targeting Palestinian civilians by  assassinations, air strikes and artillery shelling.”He suggested that  Israel’s demand for recognition as a Jewish state would “transform the raging  conflict in our inflamed region into a religious conflict and a threat to the  future of a million-and-a-half Christian and Muslim Palestinians, citizens of  Israel.” He spoke of Christian and Muslim historical connections to the Holy  Land – and only theirs. And, most tellingly, he spoke of 63 years of Israeli  occupation, implying a threat to the sovereignty of pre-1967  Israel.Abbas hewed resolutely to maximalist Palestinian goals, including  refugee demands, which are the Palestinian recipe for dismantling Israel in the  long term. He demanded a state on all of the pre-1967 territories, with only  “possible minor and mutually agreed upon land swaps of equal size and value.”  (Note the phraseology “possible” and “minor”).In fall 2012, Abbas sought  to turn the established framework for peace upside-down; to get his statehood  “declared” by the international community without having to compromise with  Israel; to claim the end result of the peace process without having to engage in  any process.He went before the UN General Assembly and called upon  international community to “compel the government of Israel to respect the  Geneva Conventions” and “impose a solution” on Israel. Abbas then accused Israel  of numerous crimes, including ethnic cleansing, terrorism, racism, inciting  religious conflict, apartheid, house demolitions, dispossession, imprisoning  “soldiers of freedom,” and settlement colonization.In 2013, Abbas told  the UN General Assembly that Israel is preparing a new “nakba” (“catastrophe”)  for the Palestinians. He demanded that the UN invoke “the full and complete  implementation of international law” to penalize Israel’s presence “as an  occupying power in all of the occupied Palestinian territory.”And he  threatened to indict Israel in the International Criminal Court.Abbas  subsequently swore never to recognize Israel as the national state of the Jewish  People, never to forgo the so-called right of return to Israel of Palestinian  refugees, never to accept Israeli security control of the Jordan Valley and  other key air and ground security assets, never to allow Jews to live in Judea,  and never to accept Israeli sovereignty in any part of Old Jerusalem.In  September of this year, Abbas stood before the UN General Assembly and accused  Israel of waging a “war of genocide” in the Gaza Strip. “Israel’s jets and tanks  brutally assassinated lives and devastated the homes, schools and dreams of  thousands of Palestinian children, women and men and in reality destroying the  remaining hopes for peace.”He asserted that Palestinians faced a future  in a “most abhorrent form of apartheid” under Israeli rule. He said that instead  of rectifying “the historic injustice” of the 1948 “Nakba” (again, note the  reference to 1948, not 1967), Israel had committed “absolute war crimes” and  “state terror.” He went on to rant about “racist and armed gangs of settlers who  persist with their crimes against the Palestinian people, the land, mosques,  churches, properties and olive trees,” and talked about a “culture of racism,  incitement and hatred” in Israel.Even Tzipi Livni was forced to call  this a “horrible” speech, and the State Department spokesman admitted that the  speech was “unhelpful” and worthy of “concern.”(Yet note: Barack Obama  and John Kerry did not rush to publicly reprimand Abbas, as they have  notoriously done repeatedly with Netanyahu over much lesser offenses.) More  recently, Abbas has taken to explicitly exhorting and inciting to violence  against Israel in Jerusalem.“We must prevent the settlers from entering  the Noble Sanctuary in any way. This is our al-Aksa and our church. They have no  right to enter and desecrate them. We must confront them and defend our holy  sites,” he fulminated on October 17.Note the dark, incendiary, inciting  references to “settlers” who “desecrate” the Temple Mount and must be prevented  from entering the area “in any way.”Taking the cue from Abbas, the  Palestinian Authority Foreign Ministry spread flammable lies about Israeli  “plans to destroy” the Aksa Mosque. Its spokesman told the official PA daily  newspaper Al-Hayat al-Jadida that “the Israeli government has been carrying out  a plan to Judaize the Aksa Mosque [i.e., the Temple Mount], and the rate of  escalation and repression against al-Aksa is increasing... [Israel is moving  toward] dividing it geographically and according to time, destroying it and  building what is referred to as ‘the Temple’ in its place... Ongoing calls have  been made by the extreme Right to enlist a large number of settlers to assault  the Aksa Mosque in order to perform their Talmudic rituals in  it.”“Talmudic rituals” is rank and derisive PA parlance for Jewish  prayer at the holiest site on earth to the Jewish People.A direct line  runs from such vociferation to the attempted assassination of Yehudah Glick on  October 29. Abbas’s intemperate rhetoric paved the way toward the attack. It  gave a Palestinian Authority presidential imprimatur to the attempts to turn the  Temple Mount into the hottest battleground between Israel and the Arab  world.And sure enough, Abbas wrote a November 1 “letter of encouragement  and support” to the family of Moataz Hejazi, the Palestinian terrorist who tried  to kill Glick and who was shot dead while resisting arrest by Israeli troops.  Abbas called Hejazi a shahid (“martyr”) and said that “he rose to heaven while  defending our people’s rights and holy places.” Abbas described Hejazi’s death  as “an abominable crime” carried out by “terror gangs of the Israeli occupation  army.” He had nothing condemnatory to say about the terrorist attack on  Glick.How far can Abbas go in opposing real negotiation and compromise,  encouraging violence, venerating terrorists, and pushing the criminalization of  Israel internationally – while still being considered a paragon of peace by the  Israeli Left and the Obama administration? What will it take for them to move  beyond Abbas and consider other options? This is an important question because  of a critical historical precedent: Israel suffered similarly with Yasser Arafat  during the Oslo process. Then, too, the Left and the Clinton administration  become so attached to the Palestinian leader and the concept of negotiations  with him that they ignored his support for terrorism and his stoking of hatred  for Israelis and Jews.When critics of the Oslo process brought up  evidence of Arafat’s actions, they were dismissed as enemies of peace. Any  attention paid to Arafat’s “flaws” was considered to be a distraction from the  need to concentrate on advancing peace negotiations.The same pathetic  process is repeating itself with Abbas. His extremism is ignored; his  obstructionism is overlooked; his critics are dangerously  disregarded.
www.davidmweinberg.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Know comment: Are we ready for 100 years of diplomatic warfare?</title>
<date>10/4/2014</date>
<content>
The latest breakdown in Israeli-Palestinian peace talks leads to the conclusion  that, alas, a comprehensive agreement to end the conflict is not within easy  reach. Of course, Israel could and should negotiate partial agreements with the  Palestinian Authority in order to manage the situation and improve everybody’s  quality of life. But the Palestinians seem to have rejected a true  end-of-conflict two-state solution.Palestinian leadership will not  renounce the so-called “right” of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel, nor  recognize Israel as a Jewish state, nor declare an end to all claims against  Israel – which, of course, are Israel’s bottom-line expectations for an  all-embracing peace agreement.




The Palestinians view these contours as a  trap, as a restrictive “sovereign cage.”They certainly feel no urgency  about achieving a two-state solution of this sort. Instead, they seek a  Palestinian state without an end to the conflict. They want a state in order to  continue the conflict.And to achieve this, Palestinian leadership is set  for another 10 or even 100 years of diplomatic warfare against Israel – with the  aim of wearing it down, from within and from without.Thus the  Palestinian Authority plans to once again try to internationalize the conflict;  to attack Israel with lawfare from every possible global angle; to seek the  boycott and isolation of Israel in all arenas; to brand Israelis as war  criminals and apartheid-style racists; and to smear Israel as a threat to world  peace.The PA hopes to unravel Israeli society from within by deepening  the divisions between Left and Right; and to weaken Israel by driving  ever-greater wedges between Israeli and Diaspora Jewries.This sober  reality raises the critical question: Is Israel geared-up, societally and  diplomatically, to repel the Palestinian assault? Do we have the necessary  social solidarity and political unity of purpose to withstand a long,  delegitimizing Arab offensive? Do we believe deeply enough in the righteousness  of our case and our cause? Or has the Israeli public been so saturated with  Oslo-era fantasies that it no longer has the stamina for sustained diplomatic  warfare against the ill-intentioned Palestinian national movement? Has the  drumbeat of “Peace Now” and “peace-very-soon” and “peace-is-justaround-  the-corner-if-we-only-try-a-bitharder- and-concede-a-bit-more,” sapped Israelis  and Diaspora Jews of their capacity to abide protracted conflict with the  Palestinians? Is struggle against a revanchist, revolutionary and irreconcilable  Palestinian national movement – one that will not be satisfied with a  Palestinian statelet in the West Bank and Gaza that is hemmed-in by Israel –  beyond Israel’s capabilities and energies? Have Israelis so thoroughly bought  into the bogus belief that the “occupation is corrupting” that they don’t have  sufficient sense of moral superiority to resist Palestinian slander? Have  Israelis so completely accepted the defeatist line that “Israel is doomed”  unless the two-state solution is rapidly realized, that in the absence of this  Holy Grail solution they can’t hack the fight? The Palestinians are hoping so.  They are counting on Israeli weakness; on an Israel too dependent on Western  love, Western comforts and Western markets; on a post-ideological, sedentary  Israeli society that is no longer geared for war, diplomatic or otherwise; and  on a liberal Jewish Diaspora increasingly distanced from Israel.They are  counting on an Israeli society that knows only how to blame itself or blame the  rival Israeli camp, not to unify in battle against an implacable and determined  external adversary.It is time for Israelis and Jews worldwide to pull  together and prove the Palestinians wrong.
www.davidmweinberg.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lackluster Land Day</title>
<date>2/4/2014</date>
<content>
Israel’s Arab sector instituted Land Day 38 years ago,  foremost as a vehicle for political protest (pro forma against alleged  discrimination and property confiscations).As such, its objective, if  not outright raison d’être, is to make headlines and generate publicity.  Substantial sums and much effort are poured into the hype.




It is in the  framework of building up expectations that Amnesty International issued stern  warnings to Israel, ahead of the annual event last Sunday, “not to use violence  to quash Land Day demonstrations.” Amnesty promoted the propagandistic  speculation that Israel would “launch a violent crackdown on planned Palestinian  protests.”As it was, however, the organizers and their avid cheerleaders  were in for a disappointment. Their project failed to live up to the hype. Not  only were there no furious clashes, but the entire Land Day undertaking this  year failed to excite much attention.To no small extent this testifies  to the disconnect between Israel’s Jews and Arabs. Without physical conflict,  the Jewish majority remains largely uninterested in Arab marches.Nothing  appeared abnormal. The one-day strike did not keep Arab employees home and it  filled the malls of Jewish cities with ever-more Arab  shoppers.Nevertheless, lack of awareness is tantamount to putting on  blinkers and obstructing our vision. Had we paid attention, we would have seen a  multiplicity of flags hoisted in Arab-Israeli communities – Palestinian,  Hezbollah, Hamas and even Syrian flags. Indeed, the few fistfights that broke  out were between supporters of Damascus despot Bashar Assad and his opponents.  “Israeli security forces” stayed away, contrary to Amnesty’s dire  predictions.Yet parades featuring flags of terrorist organizations  implacably opposed to Israel’s existence, right inside Israel proper, are  nothing to scoff at. This denotes in-your-face extremism. Without even minimal  deterrence, the potential for provocation appears greater than it was on the eve  of the October 2000 riots.This is underscored by shrill Land Day chants  calling for suicide bombings and abductions. Jerusalem was hailed as  “Palestine’s capital,” Israel was disparaged as an “apartheid state” and  relatives of Israeli-Arab terror convicts were feted as heroes. It was hard to  believe that this took place inside Israel. It seemed indistinguishable from  across-the-Green Line pageantry.This was all the more difficult to  comprehend because of what Israel’s own Arabs cannot fail to observe outside our  borders. In all directions, Arab states are in the throes of turmoil and  internecine violence. The carnage in Syria may be the most appalling, but Iraq  too bleeds profusely, hostilities trickle into Lebanon and Egypt is hard pressed  to regain a modicum of stability.The Arabs in Israel enjoy greater calm  than any of their brethren, and by any yardstick live better than do Arabs  anywhere else in the region. This is not so only by economic criteria. The civic  liberties and the liberal ethos of Israeli society are unequaled in the Middle  East and second to none in the free world.In their heart of hearts  Israeli Arabs know this, regardless of the posturing and the inflammatory  rhetoric. Where else is access to the judicial system, including the Supreme  Court, as free and open, and where else will courts as readily consider Arab  citizens’ petitions and rule in their favor? Certainly not under any Arab  regime. This leads to communal schizophrenia in Israel’s Arab sector. On the one  hand there is an utter refusal to countenance any land swaps that would see  Israeli Arab towns transferred to Ramallah’s jurisdiction (without loss of  property). Conversely, rival Arab politicians whip up anti-Israel fervor and vie  to see who can foment more discord and score more political points among voters  they cynically radicalize.Those who clamor for all the rights Israeli  citizenship bestows should be the first to remember that Israel is the freest  and most prosperous country for any Arab in the region. A scornful stance toward  the state and its delegitimization hardly serve the interests of Israeli  Arabs.
Those who yell loudest fear coexistence most.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lessons for Israel-on-campus from Scarlett Johansson</title>
<date>3/2/2014</date>
<content>
Scarlett Johansson has demonstrated tremendous courage in facing down the double standards of Oxfam and other organizations that trade in condemnation of the Jewish state. SodaStream, for which Johansson now serves as global brand ambassador, employs 500 Palestinians and 400 Arabs from east Jerusalem. SodaStream’s Mishor Adumim factory in the West Bank offers both a mosque and a synagogue, and Jewish and Arab employees share the company cafeteria.Last January, SodaStream CEO Daniel Birnbaum stated in an interview with Arab publication Al Monitor that “We practice equality and full cooperation both on the job and off it.” And upon receiving an invitation to the meet the Israeli president and receive an award, Birnbaum brought guests that included some of the Palestinian employees from the Mishor Adumim factory and subjected himself to the same security checks they went through.




Still, Johansson was condemned by Oxfam for associating with a company it claims contributes to the “denial of rights of the Palestinian communities that we work to support.”One might have expected her to buckle.After all while she is Jewish, she is not a professional pro-Israel spokesperson. Many have no idea that she’s even Jewish. Yet she responded by resigning as Oxfam’s global ambassador due to a “fundamental difference of opinion” and stood up for the Jewish state against a ferocious international assault.Bravo! It’s a lesson that should be taken to heart by those who are concerned that Israel cannot win arguments in the marketplace of ideas.Executives at Hillel and other Jewish campus leaders have expressed consternation at my organization’s announced plan to stage large-scale debates on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to demonstrate the fearless conviction that Israel can win arguments in the marketplace of ideas.Many have written to me pleading that dialogue is better than debate. They believe our debate series across the country will undermine harmony on campus and create friction and tension.If only.It’s time American Jewry faced up to facts.There is no harmony at the nation’s most troublesome campuses. There is, rather, an active, militant and growing attempt to delegitimize Israel, with Jewish students and other Zionists steadily losing significant ground. It’s happening on prominent American campuses, with leading academics from Yale, NYU and Northwestern, among others, supporting the American Studies Association boycott of Israel.It’s happening in Hollywood, whether it’s Emma Thompson’s protest of an Israeli theater group’s participation in a 2012 Shakespeare festival in England, or Elvis Costello canceling two performances in Israel over “a matter of instinct and conscience,” or Stevie Wonder not performing in Los Angeles at the gala benefit for Friends of the Israel Defense Forces because he has “...always been against war, any war, anywhere,” or Roger Waters, former Pink Floyd front man, branding Israel a “racist, apartheid” regime.But the lack of response to such anti-Israel sentiment is not due to cowardice or impotence but because American Jewry – especially those working on campus – has yet to accept that we have a battle on our hands.There is no-one to talk to at the BDS movement.These are people who hate Israel and employ blatant double standards, wanting to punish one of the most humane democracies on earth, while they overlook the glaring human rights abuses of nations like China and large swaths of the Arab world.They want to punish Israel even more than they want to stop the slaughter in Syria.It’s time that we accept that for many campuses, organized, rules-based debate is exactly what is required.Trying to secure pro-Israel speakers on campuses like UC Irvine or McGill can result in the kind of dangerous riots and chaos that prevented former Israeli ambassador Michael Oren, Natan Sharansky and Binyamin Netanyahu from even being heard. Such hooliganism has been common in Britain for years where, for example, Deputy Ambassador to Britain Alon Roth-Snir was prevented from speaking at the University of Essex, Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon was shouted down at Oxford by cries of “Itbah al-Yahud” (slaughter the Jews) and “From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free,” and in Edinburgh where Ambassador Daniel Taub, despite bring protected by a small army of British police and Israeli agents, still had his lecture disrupted.Debates are different, inviting the other side as they do from the outset to present its case. The idea is not to bring anti-Israel speakers to Hillel, but to organize the debates in neutral, leading university venues where Israel’s case can finally be made.I am traveling back to Oxford University, where I served as rabbi for 11 years, for a debate on Iran, and the threat it poses, at the Oxford Union on March 6. There will be many detractors of Israel, to be sure. But as I learned with the tens of debates I personally organized at Oxford, there is no better way to communicate one’s message than to demonstrate fearlessness and the courage of one’s convictions.The Union is famous for its debates, something at which Oxford leads the world. It was at Oxford that I started the first modern debates on science and religion, featuring the world’s leading atheists like Richard Dawkins. Later I would debate the world’s other most famous atheist, Christopher Hitchens, at the 92nd St Y., a debate that has garnered nearly a million views online. In each of those cases there also was the assumption that religion could never hold its own against modern science. But the many religious people who engaged Dawkins and Hitchens helped to demonstrate the intelligent side of religion and win over adherents.I am astonished that our community is afraid of Israel debates. Does it stem from fear that Israel can’t defend itself? That students are not fair and will immediately support the Palestinian side? Sometimes you have to accept that you have a battle on your hands and the only way to move forward is to embrace the fight.The only bright spot in Mitt Romney’s failed campaign was the night he stunned the world in Denver with the power of his ideas and presentation in debate. Adlai Stevenson began turning the tide of Soviet propaganda when he engaged the Soviet ambassador, Valerian Zorin, in debate at the United Nations, challenging him directly on his assertion that there were no offensive missiles in Cuba. Until then the Communists were able to assert their bullying views in international forums almost with impunity.And that’s why Stevenson’s retort to the Soviets is today regarded as a classic moment.The same applies to Israel’s need to fight on campus with its most eloquent spokespeople.In my last column on this subject I argued that while falafel parties and Israeli folk dancing are important, there is no substitute for the kind of intellectual inspiration that can be offered in intelligent, rules-based debate. We are not the people of the matzo ball but the people of the book. It’s time to win the world over to our ideas by overcoming our reluctance to share and defend those ideas.It is the purpose of our organization, This World: The Values Network, to offer the world’s foremost defenders of Israel, at our expense, along with an advertising budget and PR support, to pro-Israel campus organizations, both Jewish and non-Jewish, who are prepared to help organize these debates.If your organization qualifies and if you’re at a campus where Israel is under siege then please reach out to us.
The author, “America’s rabbi,” is founder of This World: The Values Network, which seeks to promote universal Jewish values in the media and culture. He is the international best-selling author of 30 books including, most recently, The Fed-Up Man of Faith: Challenging God in the Face of Tragedy and Suffering. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Lessons from the Palestinian response to Ariel Sharon’s death</title>
<date>27/1/2014</date>
<content>
Ariel Sharon was a fierce defender of Israel who fought valiantly and led Israel  to victory in the Six Day War, the Yom Kippur War and the Lebanon War, among  others. He was a man who was willing to make incredibly significant land  concessions for peace and was willing to engage with the other side, no matter  how hostile it was at times. He was willing to evict 10,000 of his own people  from the Gaza Strip in order to try to establish peace.And how did the  Palestinian community, especially the youth, respond to his death? They  celebrated by handing out candy and dancing on the streets.




This behavior  stems from what they are being taught in their classrooms. However, instead of  examining Palestinian institutions, which exude hatred and bias and suffer a  serious lack of academic freedom, groups such as the American Studies  Association (ASA) have decided to subject Israel to boycotts.Palestinian  children are indoctrinated to hate Israel and the Jews from birth. They are  taught that Jews are the descendants of apes and swine. They are encouraged to  be martyrs in order to receive a great reward in the world to come. Buildings in  Al-Quds University are named after some of the worst terrorists in Israeli  history. These messages are found everywhere, from Palestinian Authority  assemblies to Palestinian children’s television shows to  schoolbooks.Instead of focusing on the hateful messages espoused by the  PA, the international community has decided to take the easier route and attempt  to pressure Israel to make more concessions in the peace process. And instead of  denouncing Palestinian academic institutions, which do not promote academic  freedom, organizations such as the ASA have boycotted Israeli institutions,  where students of all backgrounds and ethnicities are given equal rights and  engage in academic discussions.Discriminating against Israel because it  “practices apartheid” or “violates human rights” is simply erroneous. Israel is  the only democracy in the Middle East. Its Arab constituents enjoy more rights  and freedoms than those in any of its neighboring Arab countries. Arabs in  Israel have the right to vote. There are 12 Arab Knesset Members, and there is  an Arab justice on Israel’s Supreme Court. The valedictorian of the most recent  graduating class at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology (Israel’s MIT)  was Mais Ali-Saleh, a Muslim woman.Israeli Arabs maintain their own  religious courts and their own, state-funded Arabic-language schools. Arabic is  one of Israel’s official languages. These facts are not indicative of a state  participating in discriminatory practices.In Syria, on the other hand,  Palestinians are not allowed to vote or become citizens. In Lebanon,  Palestinians cannot own property or work in various professions. The ASA has not  commented on these regimes, and instead decided to focus on the one country in  the region that does not engage in such actions.The academics who voted  to boycott Israeli institutions do not belong in the classroom, educating the  next generation of Americans, if they don’t understand the mission of  academia.Academia is meant to serve as the hub of enlightenment, a place  that allows for the free flow of information based on facts.An academic  boycott runs precisely counter to what education is all about.How can  you justify boycotting all the institutions in a country simply because you  disagree with the government’s policies? How can you justify boycotting these  institutions because of “apartheid” when in fact Arab students study at those  very same establishments? Narrow-mindedness has no place in academia, and  neither do those who engage in it. Those who deny the spreading of information  due to their own prejudices should not be in the position to educate and inform  others.The reaction of the Palestinian community to Sharon’s death  highlights the necessity of the international community, both political and  academic, clamping down on the messages of hatred and destruction that are being  taught in Palestinian schoolrooms, from elementary school to higher education.  As a result of the Oslo Accords of 1993, both the Palestinians and the Israelis  promised to teach their children peace education. Israel has complied, the PA  has not.
Academic organizations should shift their efforts to pressure  the PA into fulfilling its commitment. Only then can a true, lasting peace  between the two sides in the Arab-Israeli conflict finally begin to be put in  place.

The writer is the founder of Voices of Conservative Youth and a  political commentator who regularly appears on Fox News, the Fox Business  Network and on MSNBC.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Let's call BS on the BDS</title>
<date>2/3/2014</date>
<content>
“10 good arguments in defense for Israel” That was the title of the last email I  received from one of the many pro-Israel mailing lists I've ended up on over the  years.




The email contained talking points to use when debating Israel  with its critics, much like the droves of links shared and spread all over my  Twitter and Facebook feeds every day.I don’t care for them.Not  at all.I don’t care for the insinuation of guilt these talking points  carry with them, as invisible CC:s at the top of every page. Nor do I care for  the idea of teaching truth to people who never cared for it to begin  with.In 2013, the finale of the Eurovision song contest was held in  Sweden. In Malmö, to be precise, a city that can boast having put Sweden on the  Wiesenthal Center’s do not travel-list. Violent protests were being held against  Israel’s participation, and signs with the usual boycott/  apartheid/occupation-slogans were hailed for everyone to see. This in a contest  that among others included delegations from Belarus, Romania, Hungary, Russia  and Azerbaijan; countries with actual serious human rights violations under  their belt. Were these countries participation protested? Well, I think we all  know the answer to that.It was not about the facts in 2013 during the  Eurovision song contest, nor was it about the facts in 2009 when a Davis  Cup-match between Sweden and Israel had to be played before an empty stadium due  to violent riots. If the issue was human rights there would be no riots. But the  issue is with the Jews, so the cities keep burning. Last week a big chunk of  the world sat glued to their TVs following the Winter Olympics in Sochi,  Russia. Not a single country, or any individual athletes, chose to boycott the  event. Even though we all know, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the most  atrocious human rights violations are taking place on a daily basis in that  country. That same week, the annual campaign “Israeli Apartheid Week” was  launched. According to the campaigns own website, IAW is an international series  of events that seeks to raise awareness about Israel’s apartheid policies  towards the Palestinians and to build support for the growing Boycott,  Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) campaign. The campaign against Israel went  viral, with 133 participating cities around the world.So. While  LGBT-activists were being abducted, raped and beaten in Russia, political  activists around the world choose to focus their energy and resources on  demonizing the one country in the Middle East where gay people can live freely,  safely and openly? If I thought for a second that this was based on facts or  even ignorance, that would infuriate me. But I don’t, so it doesn't. How many  countries do you know whose entire existence is questioned on a regular basis as part of what is called a political debate? I know one. And I know why. The  campaign against Israel is not about facts, so it cannot be overthrown by  presenting more or sharper versions of them. There is no convincing a bigot. The  only way for a Jew to appease an anti-Semite is to stop being a Jew. And I am  having none of that. When we study up on answers to give to the boycotters and  the anti-Semites-turned-anti- Zionists, we are telling them that we somehow have  an obligation to defend the truth to liars. I feel no such obligation, nor  should any of us. I do not answer to them. I do not seek their respect, much  less their permission to defend my country and ensure my peoples survival. Don’t  get me wrong, I understand the reflex to defend yourself. I know what it’s like  to want people to see what you see, to face facts and see reason. But that urge,  that very human need, is based on a false assumption that reason, facts and  truth have anything at all to do with the argument. This past summer I was lucky  enough to spend a day at the hospital in Ashkelon, speaking to doctors and  nurses and staff. I saw the bomb shelters where they are forced to operate  during attacks, where they within seconds have to bring their patients, keeping  their cool under unimaginable circumstances. I heard stories of them saving  lives of the very people trying to kill them. Over and over and over again. The  world is not watching, it does not make the news. But they do it none the less.  They do what they do because it is right and it is just. To me, that is Israel.  Valor, honor and upholding democracy and human rights in a time and a place  where it would be so much easier not to. Because it is the right thing to do.  Because it is, simply, who we are. In Sochi, the world was watching. It was  watching as, not unlike during the Berlin games in -36, it allowed a triumphant  dictator to whitewash horror with fireworks and synchronized dancing. As Russian  tanks are rolling into Crimea, The Israel Apartheid week is moving from the US  to Europe. If I had a tendency for naiveté, I would expect the BDS freedom  fighters to divert their attention to the murmurs of war taking place at their  very doorstep, but time has taught me that reality does not fit well with  hypocrisy.Meanwhile in Ashkelon the doctors and nurses keep saving  lives, without a second thought of campaigns or news cycles. They do what they  do because it is right and it is just, no matter who’s watching.
As for  the rest of us, we don’t need another mailing list or 10 catchy quotes, instead  we need to call BS on the BDS and simply stand our ground.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Letters: November 13</title>
<date>12/11/2014</date>
<content>
Full circleSir, – I read with interest that the Palestinians have begun to call  the present violence against Israelis the “knife intifada” (“Soldier, woman  killed in two terrorist attacks,” November 11).




We just marked the 76th  anniversary of Kristallnacht in Germany.On that infamous night of  pogroms, many Nazis and their sympathizers sang the “Horst Wessel song,” one of  the most popular Nazi anthems. That song called for war against the Jews “until  Jewish blood spurts from the knife.”Sadly, we seem now to have come full  circle. Thank God that the Jewish people is no longer stateless.ARNOLD  I. KISCH 
Jerusalem Sir, – Awake, awake Israel and the Jewish people! The  terrorists want nothing more than the death of every Jew, wherever the Jew is.  But the death of Jews will bring only chaos and misery to everyone.The  terrorists will never have to give an account for the suffering they have  brought to hundreds and thousands of families.Instead of every country  saying they will harbor no active terrorism whatsoever, they should not give  physical or financial aid to these terrorists. Shame on every country that says  it will recognize a terrorist state. For this, thousands of people should be  rallying at the Prime Minister’s Office demanding that he declare military rule  in Israel because it is essential that these terrorists be declared enemies of  humanity like Hitler and Osama Bin Laden.A long list of the countries  and organizations that have given such power to terrorism should be published.  We must fight back and we must try to make the world understand that there can  be no free nations if terrorism exists anywhere.THELMA SUSSWEIN  
Jerusalem What a difference Sir, – As I read the headline regarding Prime  Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s comments on rabble-rousers (“Netanyahu: Go to the  PA or Gaza if you don’t like Israel,” November 11), I had a flashback to 40+  years ago.At the time, I attended a lecture by Rabbi Meir Kahane at the  Young Israel of Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn. (The synagogue’s rabbi, Herbert  Bomzer, was a supporter of Rabbi Kahane.) Rabbi Kahane’s address and the  contents of the article are pretty much one and the same. Yet the former was  blackballed for his comments. I doubt seriously the same fate awaits  Bibi.What a difference four decades make.MICHAEL D. HIRSCH 
Kochav Yair Out of orderSir, – Justice Minister Tzipi Livni’s comment as quoted  in “Protecting democracy focus of swearing-in of 24 judges” (November 11) is out  of order.Minister Livni should be advised that a basic tenet of  democratic government is the checks and balances between its legislative,  executive and judiciary branches. No one branch can be considered sacrosanct  from reproach in establishing its decision and limited from any corrective  action within the legal bounds of the other branches.By stating “I will  not allow the Knesset to override the Supreme Court,” she is taking upon herself  a task that contradicts this basic tenet of democratic government. Further, with  her statement she indicates a lack of understanding of the rules of law by  personally impeding any legislative action to maintain this  balance.ALBERT RETTIG 
Tel Aviv All-purpose sauce Sir, – In view of the  vote taken in Catalonia (“Spain, Catalans to try dialogue,” November 11), we in  Israel should organize a massive petition urging the government of some country  or other to immediately recognize the State of Catalonia.The Knesset  should also pass a non-binding resolution demanding an end to the occupation of  Gibraltar by Britain and its being handed back to Spain. Foreign Minister  Avigdor Liberman should visit Brussels and lecture the head of the EU on the  need for a two-state solution in that country, and on his wish to see France  living in peace, side by side, with the State of Corsica.What’s sauce  for the goose is sauce for the gander.DAVID STEINHART
Petah Tikva Singular serviceSir, – Walter Bingham does a singular service by bringing us  his firsthand “Reminiscences of Kristallnacht” (Comment and Features, November  11).Twenty-one-year-old Herschel Grynszpan’s assassination of a Nazi  German diplomat in Paris was indeed the pretext sought by Berlin to carry out an  extensive pogrom throughout Germany and newly- annexed Austria and  Sudetenland.The planned pogrom thus came sooner than the Nazis had  intended, and thankfully so.Tens of thousands of German Jews in the  expanding Reich who had been sitting on their suitcases in the desperate hope  that “things could not get worse” made a final decision that night: They picked  up those suitcases and left their lost homeland any way they could, and in much  greater numbers. Most of those lives were thus saved.Gerald Schwab, in  his important book The Day the Holocaust Began, sums up the Grynszpan affair by  suggesting that “in the final analysis, he performed a very valuable service” by  poking the beast.Grynszpan probably never intended this result, but his  act of desperation resounds to us today across so many terrible years for  humanity.The so-called master race, then, has ill-begot the master jihad  of today, personified by Iran. This should give the world a clue as to possible  action to come. Hopefully, the continuing dialogue between the ships of state in  Israel and America will not shipwreck over the issue of allowing Tehran to  continue toward full nuclear weapons capability.Let no one pontificate  today by exclaiming “but Iran is against ISIS, isn’t it?” in the same deafening  tone of yesteryear “but Germany is against Bolshevism, isn’t it?” AARON  BRAUNSTEIN
Jerusalem Laughing stock Sir, – What Shmuley Boteach says about  Australian Labor Party politician Bob Carr (“Ex-Australian FM stabs Israel in  the back,” No Holds Barred, November 11) resonates with me for particular  personal reasons.For many years, the Jews of Australia regarded Bob Carr  as a friend.I, as an Australian rabbi – for 32 years senior rabbi of the  Great Synagogue in Sydney – certainly thought Bob was my own good friend, and it  gave me pleasure to see him at various Great Synagogue events, culminating in my  farewell at the Art Gallery of New South Wales.He was never less than  gracious.He quoted me in parliament and said wonderful things about my  efforts for intercommunal harmony.He was constantly positive in relation  to Israel.Now, it seems, he likes neither Jews nor Israel and I guess he  must find my own name rather embarrassing.He seems to have caught  dictionary disease, in which words mean whatever he wants them to: Friend no  longer means friend, rights mean wrongs, and any way you can slur Israel –  especially by unfairly labeling it an apartheid state – is morally  defensible.I deeply deplore Carr’s change of tone – not that he is  influential enough to make a difference to international or Middle East affairs,  but it’s not good to see someone I thought was a high-minded idealist making a  laughing stock of himself.RAYMOND APPLE 
JerusalemSir, – Shmuley Boteach  says it all.I have one word for it – “bravo,” especially for the two  paragraphs that both start with “He omits....”This column should be  reprinted in all western newspapers and quoted by members of our government in  every forum available.If you tell the truth over and over again, it  might sink into the heads of western governments and make them truly understand  what is going on between the Palestinians and Israel.
MURRAY JOSEPH
Kiryat Motzkin
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 23: A bitter fact</title>
<date>22/3/2014</date>
<content>
A bitter fact Sir, – The tragic death of a 15-year-old Palestinian (“IDF kills  Palestinian teen suspected of sabotaging security barrier,” March 20 was  shocking and disturbing, but not very different from many such incidents except  for the age. It is a bitter fact of this war we are involved in.




The  explanation that the teenager was gathering greenery for cooking and generating  income was provided by a relative and seconded by a representative of B’Tselem,  neither of whom was present. Was that precise spot the only place this herb or  plant could be found? Did nobody think to tell him that the border was a place  that was guarded? The trio was warned and called on to surrender.One of  the jobs of our soldiers is to keep the border safe. Anyone breaching it should  be suspect because we have learned by experience what happens once such people  enter Israel.

MARCELLA WACHTEL 
Jerusalem 

And the others? Sir, – Gershon  Baskin’s “Framework document for the establishment of permanent peace”  (Encountering Peace, March 20) is interesting and I look forward to reading the  second part, which he says will deal with a number of practical issues. But  there is (at least) one area in which his document is totally deficient: While  calling for compensation for Palestinian refugees, it says nothing about  compensating Jewish refugees.This is an injustice that has been ignored  for far too long. It is only recently that the over 800,000 Jews evicted from  Arab countries after 1948 and stripped of their possessions are being  acknowledged.Fortunately, US president Bill Clinton raised the issue  during the Camp David peace talks of 2000. He said an international fund should  be established to compensate both Arab refugees from Israel’s War of  Independence and Jewish refugees from Arab countries. His proposal was codified  in 2008 by US House of Representatives Resolution 185.It would be a  gross miscarriage of justice, as well as counterproductive, to address the needs  of one refugee population while ignoring the other.

DANIEL CHERTOFF 
Jerusalem 

Let it stay open Sir, – Regarding Gil Troy’s “Hobbes vs. Jefferson in  debate on Cinema City Shabbat closure” (Center Field, March 19), I see nothing  wrong with letting the new Jerusalem cinema complex remain open on Shabbat.  Exactly what is the city gaining by closing the place? I understand the concept  of the “sanctification of the Land of Israel and Jerusalem,” but even in our  holy city there are non-religious Jews who do not yet see the beauty of  observing Shabbat and the commandments. They are citizens and deserve a place to  go to see a movie and be entertained when they want to, even if it is on  Shabbat.No secular Jerusalemite will suddenly see the light and become  religious because yet another place of entertainment and leisure is made  unavailable to them in their city on Shabbat.Cinema City is not near any  religious neighborhood whose residents’ Shabbat observance will be hindered. In  fact, it isn’t near any neighborhood at all unless you consider those ugly,  French-styled apartment buildings going up opposite the equally ugly Crowne  Plaza Hotel.Besides, those haredim who protest the most would never step  into a place encouraging what they consider a waste of time – they are too busy  shteiging (learning) away in their study halls. Or are they? 

NORMAN DEROVAN 
Ma’aleh Adumim 

We need him Sir, – As one with 15 years of close friendship with  Mort Klein, including two years as national executive director of the Zionist  Organization of America, I am delighted that he was reelected president (“ZOA  leader sees his reelection as vindication of his leadership,” March 18) and am  so sorry that he was subjected to this unfortunate and totally pointless  ordeal.To me, Mort is the most important Jew in America, and certainly  the most courageous.He has always been correct in the positions he has  taken – against the PLO, against terrorism, against incitement, against the  withdrawal from Gaza, protecting Judea and Samaria. There were many times at  meetings of the President’s Conference that I witnessed votes on important  issues where the outcome was 50-2 or even 51-1, as with Gaza, but he stood his  ground. In the end, unfortunately, his concerns were borne out.It’s  gratifying to see how the ZOA has expanded its activities in the past decade,  with very effective work on campuses, in the courts and in Congress, as well as  here in Israel. Please join me in congratulating Mort and wishing him many more  years of continued good health and leadership for the Jewish people. We need  him.

JAN SOKOLOVSKY 
Jerusalem 

Rereading suggested Sir, – Regarding the  article by Rabbi Chaim Richman of the Temple Institute (“Purim and the Holy  Temple,” Comment & Features, March 18), the “original” oil painting (really  somewhere between pre-Raphaelite and book illustration) commissioned by the  institute is a fine example of its would-be historicity (to wit: pineapples –  from Hawaii? – and black servants), as well as that of the article “explaining”  the absence of God in the megila as His presence hiding behind the masks in a  drunken free-for-all.The rabbi extrapolates that the banquet depicted in  the painting was Achashverosh’s relief that the Temple was not about to be  rebuilt, and thus his throne was secure. It’s possible that Achashverosh (Xerxes  ) had begun to sense the unrest in the decade preceding the actual  representations to Artaxerxes by the Samarians who, with Ammonite and Arab  support, tried to prevent the Temple’s reconstruction. It’s also possible that  he was not as proactively supportive of the cults of Persia’s vassals, as were  Cyrus and Darius before him, and, after him, Artaxerxes – who financed the  rebuilding.Reading anti-Semitism in folklore- turned-history helps set  us apart as a people and only serves to regenerate itself. Far better to take  the Purim story as no more than a historical novel of its time, as has been  suggested, with Mordechai as Marduk, Esther as Astartes and the banquet as no  more than a carnival allowing one to let one’s hair down and get drunk ad lo  yada (until he couldn’t tell the difference).That’s being normal! 

BARNEY  WAINER 
Tel Aviv The real apartheid Sir, – It’s interesting to note that the  South African government (the African National Congress) and its alliance  partners (the Congress of Trade Unions and the SA Communist Party) are  vociferous supporters of the boycott, disinvestment and sanctions (BDS) campaign  against Israel, repeatedly calling it an “apartheid state” when the ANC has  legislated the most draconian apartheid policies against its own  people.When it came to power almost 20 years ago, all “non-blacks” were  purged from government, state and municipal departments, as well as from  state-owned-enterprises. Laws were introduced that forced private businesses to  apply black economic empowerment, affirmative action and employment equity  policies – meaning to exclude all non-blacks from job opportunities. Even  acceptance to universities and technical colleges is race-based, regardless of  grades.South Africa now is one of the few countries on this planet where  legislation is designed exclusively to victimize all minority groups in  preference to the majority. Further, legislation is being considered that will  allow the government to nationalize all private enterprises, be they mines,  banks, property or even patents, that are owned by “whites.”In light of  these facts, it’s rather hypocritical for the ANC to accuse Israel of being an  “apartheid state” when South Africa under the ANC is exactly that.
MARK  WADE 
Johannesburg
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 28: Moral decline</title>
<date>27/3/2014</date>
<content>
Moral decline Sir, – The recent decision of the Royal Institute of British  Architects (RIBA) to call on the International Union of Architects to suspend  the membership of the Israel Association of Architects (“Israeli architects  appeal to foreign ministry, Britain against threat of boycott,” March 26) is the  usual self-righteous anti-Israel diatribe of special pleadings and plain lies.  Also included is the standard disclaimer of anti-Semitism.




RIBA’s royal  charter, conferred by King William IV in 1837 on the Institute of British  Architects, states its objective as being “for the general advancement of civil  architecture and for promoting and facilitating the acquirement of the knowledge  of the various arts and sciences connected therewith.” Over the years the  charter has been amended, but this definition has remained unaltered.It  would thus appear that RIBA is flouting its own charter and turning itself into  a racist NGO – a further symptom of the tragic moral decline of a once-great  nation.OSCAR DAVIES 
Jerusalem 
The writer is a retired architect and  former fellow of RIBA 

Muted voice Sir, – At a time when Israel is assailed the  world over, its international voice is seriously reduced on account of the  Foreign Ministry strike (“Liberman lashes out at striking ministry employees,”  March 26).Is it not time for the Knesset to interrupt its recess to deal  with this disastrous state of affairs? BERNARD GOLDBLUM 
Jerusalem 

In name only  Sir, – The Jerusalem College of Technology (JCT) – Lev Academic Center wishes to  completely distance itself from the remarks made by Rabbi Binyamin Metzger, head  of the Lustig Seminary High School, who, according to the online edition of The  Jerusalem Post (March 25), was recently shown on television “comparing religious  Zionism to Nazism in the wake of a public outcry against the suspension of a  student who had voiced support for performing national service.”Although  Campus Lustig, JCT’s affiliate in Ramat Gan, shares the same building and the  “Lustig” name, the two institutions are separate entities, ours being an  academic institution where haredi and religious-Zionist women study side by  side.A very high percentage of our students participate in national  service and we are very proud of them.ROSALIND ELBAUM 
Jerusalem 
The  writer is JCT – Lev Academic Center director of external affairs 

A bad name Sir,  – With regard to “The referendum law’s problem” (Comment & Features, March  24), Edan Johna, ex-human rights worker, gives human rights a bad  name.Sorry, Edan, if Israel annoyingly clings to “romantic” ideas about  democracy and consistently votes for a Center-Right government. I’m sure you  would rather we were dictated to by a minority that really knows what is best  for us.Wouldn’t it be amusing if there were a secret referendum on how  many Arab-Israelis would rather stay in Israel than live in a Palestinian state?  Or would that also be too democratic? JENNY LEVINE 
Ra’anana Careless talk Sir, –  South African Chief Rabbi Warren Goldstein (“The great apartheid lie,” Sinai  Today, March 21) effectively demonstrates, whether wittingly or unwittingly, the  Goebbels technique of repeating a lie often enough until it becomes the accepted  truth, by stating that the West Bank “belonged” to Jordan prior to  1967.By careless use of language he perpetuates the lie that somehow  this territory (which was supposed to be part of the Jewish homeland) legally  belonged to Jordan, when in fact Jordan illegally occupied it. Any uninformed  reader would easily assume that in 1967 Israel took away this piece of territory  from the legal owner.Nothing, of course, could be farther from the  truth.This demonstrates how the careless use of language can easily be  hijacked to spread the lies that emanate from our misnamed peace partners on a  daily basis.
MICHAEL KUTTNER 
Efrat
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>March 2: Eye opener</title>
<date>1/3/2014</date>
<content>
One-sided document Sir, – The latest diatribe against the IDF has just been  given to the world by Amnesty International (“Amnesty International to US, EU:  Suspend all arms transfers to Israel,” February 27). It is a document that is  filled with a barrage of charges against Israeli policy toward the Palestinians.  It is extremely one- sided, and we all know this.




What is to be done  about all these NGOs that persist in accusing Israel – and Israel alone – of  these terrible charges? How can they refuse to admit that the Palestinians throw  rocks and Molotov cocktails, and commit knifings, random shootings and killings?  What should we do? Should we lie down and say, “Don’t kill me. I will give you  my land and my family, and I will try to find refuge somewhere else in the  world?” Or should we be able to say, “I live here. I am an Israeli and this is  my land from time immemorial?” Human rights organizations need to have their  policies exposed. Silence to their bias is acquiescence.

TOBY WILLIG  
Jerusalem 

High caliber Sir, – Familiarity with the modern Israeli scene is an  essential requirement for any newspaper.In “Comptroller criticizes Likud  for Sarit Hadad campaign event” (February 27), you display regrettable ignorance  of the modern Israel social atmosphere by derisively referring to Sarit Hadad as  “performing three songs, in which she compared Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu  to a cannon.”The reference to a “cannon” is extremely complimentary,  today meaning an “amazing guy,” a “force to be reckoned with.”LAURENCE  (SHMUEL) BECKER 
Jerusalem 

Incredible lie Sir, – Thank you for printing John M.  Duffy’s “‘Israeli Apartheid’ – the new form of anti-Semitism” (Comment &  Features, February 27). It ought to be part of our hasbara (public diplomacy)  the world over.My mother passed away 10 years ago at Jerusalem’s Shaare  Zedek Medical Center. I stayed with her every day for six weeks.During  that time I thought I was in Ramallah. She was lying next to Muslims, Christians  and sometimes Jews. So this incredible lie about calling Israel an “apartheid  state” is just a mission to delegitimize it.Our enemies must stop using  vile vocabulary to describe a multifaceted nation like Israel, which boasts very  diverse citizens who make up this remarkable country.

JENNY WEIL  
Jerusalem America’s lobby Sir, – Douglas Bloomfield (“AIPAC – Whose lobby is  it?” Washington Watch, February 27) raises a conflict faced by American Jews  ever since the establishment of the State of Israel. Questions often arise  regarding Jewish loyalties to the US when American Jews wish to be vocal about  their support for Israel.The issue of Iranian nuclearization is Israel’s  greatest security concern since the establishment of the state. AIPAC members  are fully aware of this and unite toward eliminating this evil  goal.True, the wording of statements and policy by AIPAC is something  delicate, which is necessary so as not to alienate the White House. But there  are no doubts that it is America’s pro-Israel lobby, and not Israel’s American  lobby. Its members are tax-paying, patriotic American citizens who feel strongly  about securing Israel’s future. Some have served in the US armed forces and have  been willing to give their lives for their country.There is no doubt of  their undying loyalty to the United States, and this must not be  questioned.Furthermore, most AIPAC members believe that what is in  Israel’s greatest interest is also in the best interest of the US, and that is  definitely the case in regard to Iran’s nuclearization.

MEIRA OVED  
Jerusalem Eye opener 

Sir, – Reader Norton Druger’s idea of accepting 20,000  Syrian Christians (“Righteous move,” Letters, February 27) sounds like a very  bad idea to me.It would be seen as a publicity stunt. The rest of the  world would not take the slightest notice anyhow, happily continuing with its  boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign while the new refugees become an  antagonistic minority.We would simply get 20,000 more potential  congregants for the anti-Semitic rants of the Latin patriarch. We have enough  enemies living here, the only place in the Middle East where Christians are not  abused, killed or caused to flee, and the only place where their number has  actually grown.We don’t owe these people anything. We have our own  country and we intend to keep it that way.For those who want to know  more about the Church’s crimes against us, I urge them to read the short book  The Vatican against Israel by Giulio Meotti.It’s an eye opener! JOE  FRANKL 
Savyon 

Time to stand up Sir, – Shame on the government that gave away  responsibility for our most holy site, the Temple Mount. And shame on the  government that allows this situation to continue (“Knesset hosts stormy debate  on Temple Mount sovereignty,” February 26).What is more important – our  self-respect or kowtowing to Jordan, a state that was artificially set up by the  British on 77 percent of the original Land of Israel? The Temple Mount is the  most holy place in Judaism, as well as being at the center of our capital,  Jerusalem. In a normal world, everyone – regardless of religion, nationality,  color, etc. – should have the right to ascend the mount, to walk, sit, talk or  pray there. If Muslims have a problem with that, it’s just too bad.It is  the duty of our government to ensure that the Temple Mount is a place of  tranquility and prayer, something that, as we have seen, will only happen under  our jurisdiction.It is time to stand up for our self-respect – and for  the same respect to be shown to all people.JACKIE ALTMAN 
Netanya Haredim  and the IDF Sir, – The spectacle of rabbis from traditionally warring factions  of extreme Orthodoxy coming together to plot strategy against their common bête  noire, the Zionist state, is reminiscent of the Appalachin mafia summit of 1957,  when 100 mafioso capos gathered to consolidate their strategy against the forces  of law and order (“Haredi councils unite against conscription,” Analysis,  February 26).It is high time law-abiding Israelis who believe in their  country and democracy face the truth. The handful of haredim in uniform is no  indicator of any shift. It is naive to expect an exponentially growing  population of people who believe it is a mitzva to help themselves to the  earnings of others to volunteer at the draft office.Criminal charges  against haredi draft dodgers are worthless.Thousands of incarcerated  haredim in Israeli prisons would only mean they can continue their activities  uninterrupted while having the rest of us pay for their room and board. What we  can do is simply cut off all government funding and social benefits for nominal  citizens – Jewish and non-Jewish alike – who refuse to shoulder an equal burden  for national security or meaningful national service.

J.J. GROSS  
Jerusalem 

The writer “spends his mornings studying Talmud in a Jerusalem kollel  whose members receive no payments or benefits” Sir, – Some haredi leaders imply  that jailing people who refuse to serve in the army because they claim they are  studying Torah would be “criminalizing Torah study” (“Porush: PM betrayed us,”  February 26).
Using similar logic, since while in jail they would no  doubt be able to sit and study Torah all day at government expense, anyone  opposing their imprisonment would be against Torah study.

YONATAN SILVER  
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 13: Name-calling</title>
<date>12/5/2014</date>
<content>
Name-calling Sir, – I was astonished to hear author Amos Oz calling the “price  tag” criminals and others “neo-Nazis” (“Amos Oz: Hilltop youth are Hebrew  neo-Nazis,” May 11).




These Jews (or provocative non-Jews) who try to  incite our inhabitants cause us immense damage. They are criminal delinquents  who should be treated as such. But in calling them “Hebrew neo-Nazis” we only  cause damage to ourselves and not to them.Has ever the distinguished  writer, born in Jerusalem in 1939, met personally a Nazi or a neo-Nazi? The Nazi  murderers killed my parents and tried to kill me, and now the neo-Nazis seek to  kill my children and grandchildren only because of being Jewish.So  please, dear Amos Oz, be careful with your expressions.MICHAEL  GOLDMANN-GILEAD Givat ShmuelThe writer was a prisoner at Auschwitz and later,  as part of the Israel Police’s Bureau 06, helped the prosecution compile its  case against Adolph Eichmann Sir, – Amos Oz is almost right.However,  these people are not “monsters” or “Hebrew neo-Nazis.”They are nut-cases  whose behavior is fueled and encouraged by extremist, medieval, misogynistic  rabbis who are racist to the core, hate Arabs and wish the conflict would erupt  into a full-scale war.MITCHELL RADOV Ashdot Ya’acov Sir, – Your  editorial of May 9 “Fighting ‘price tag’” attempts to redefine the word  “terrorist” by stating that the call by the justice and public security  ministers to classify “price tag” crimes as terrorism seems an  overreaction.My dictionaries inform me that the meaning of terrorism is  to instill fear. That is precisely what motivates the price-tag hooligans with  their perverse acts of violence. Their abusive exploits may not be as violent as  those of other terrorist groups, as your editorial notes, but what they set out  to achieve is the same. This classifies them as terrorists, not pranksters! I  also note that no one from among members of the government describes these acts  as a desecration of the Almighty’s name. Our raison d’être is to glorify His  name.LEONARD BOOK Ashkelon The writer is a rabbi Sir, – “Fighting ‘price  tag’” was a well-stated and balanced editorial.More power to  you.SEYMOUR HOFFMAN Rehovot Sir, – Just as calling Israel an “apartheid”  state trivializes the suffering of the true victims of apartheid, equating the  slashing of tires of parked cars to slitting the throat of a three-month-old  baby denigrates the suffering of untold thousands of victims of terror  throughout the world.People who do so (“Livni, Aharonovitch call to  classify ‘price-tag’ attacks as terrorism,” May 8) are evil or lack a sense of  moral judgment, or both.Writing offensive graffiti on the walls of  places of worship, be they churches, mosques or, yes, even synagogues, are hate  crimes and should be punished with the full severity of the law.Only  weeks ago a swastika was painted over a prayer on the wall of the Petah Tikva  Central Synagogue.Unfortunately, this was not an isolated  incident.Perhaps the apathy displayed toward these acts helped to spawn  the “price tag” phenomenon? DAVID STEINHART Petah Tikva Dignity and honor Sir, –  I am utterly appalled by reports that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has  proposed postponing the election for a new president (“Sa’ar, Edelstein come out  against delaying, canceling presidential election,” May 11). Is this going to be  a repeat of his embarrassing delay in finding a new governor of the Bank of  Israel until he finally got his act together and appointed the person he should  have appointed all along? The government and the entire Knesset have known for  the past seven years exactly when the term of office of our current president is  due to expire. Why does everything have to be done not merely at the 11th hour,  but long after? Why the indecision and vacillation? Do the members of our  Knesset feel that this position should be reserved for one of the bunch of  second-rate, has-been politicians who are clamoring for the job? Have they no  pride in who represents our country abroad? I agree that the president is a  figurehead, but that doesn’t mean we don’t need a figurehead.We have  enough problems with our image abroad. When Shimon Peres travels around the  world, he is greeted with affection and respect. Therefore, let us choose our  next president from the highly respected non-politicians who have thrown their  hat in the ring, like Prof.Dan Schechtman or retired Supreme Court  justice Dalia Dorner, who can represent our country with dignity and  honor.B. YAGIL Beersheba The real news Sir, – “Will the world ignore  Iran’s execution binge?” (Opinion & Features, May 11), your headline  screams. Of course it will.The world has much more important things to  consider – things that are so much more palatable to the media frenzy as well as  serving the human-rights pretense – when there are such catastrophes as  “settlers” building homes! Now that’s what makes the news.JOE FRANKL  Savyon Widespread perception Sir, – By way of the example of six Israel Prize  winners, sisters Bracha Mantaka and Shira Leibowitz- Schmidt attempt to make the  case against a widespread perception (“‘Haredim don’t contribute anything’:  Really?” Comment & Features, May 11).Of course, the exceptions – and  these are indeed exceptions – always prove the rule. And even among this  minuscule number, one, Rabbi Israel Meir Lau, is not haredi, and another, former  Jerusalem mayor Uri Lupolianski, is now a convicted felon (though this is not to  diminish from the good he did).A third, Adina Bar-Shalom, despite being  the daughter of the late chief rabbi Ovadia Yosef, would likely not consider  herself haredi either. Indeed, Bar-Shalom said only last week during an  interview on a haredi radio station that most haredi men, rather than actually  sit and learn Torah, “are wandering from window to window and from cigarette to  cigarette.” Her ability to so succinctly sum up the dismal reality should win  her a second Israel Prize.J.J. GROSS Jerusalem Sir, – In “Dependence  days: In the shadow of Kishinev” Comment & Features, May 5), Rabbi Eli Kavon  writes that “Zionism was supposed to encourage self-reliance,” an end to haredi  yeshiva adult students living off charity.It is not Zionism but Judaism  that requires this. In the Musaf prayer of Yom Kippur, Orthodox Jews recite the  poignant plea of the high priest after he completes the service in the Holy of  Holies on the holiest day of the year: “May it be Your will... this should be a  year that your nation the House of Israel shall not depend on each other or  another nation for its livelihood.”The parasitic lifestyle also applies  to haredim in the Diaspora.The rabidly anti-Zionist Satmar hassids live  in Kiryas Joel, outside New York City. According to 2008 census figures, Kiryas  Joel was the poorest of tens of thousands of towns in the US. It had the highest  proportion (40 percent) of residents receiving food stamps.There is a  beautiful verse in the Torah: “Observe them faithfully; for this is your wisdom  and your discernment in the sight of the nations, which shall hear all these  statutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and discerning people”  (Deuteronomy 4:6). Haredi extremism shows the world the very  opposite.
JACOB MENDLOVIC Toronto
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 20: Mishmash</title>
<date>19/5/2014</date>
<content>
Mishmash Sir, – Concerning “PM: Livni did not speak for Israel in Abbas meeting”  (May 18), this is just the latest saga from a mishmash government.




Will  the person who speaks for Israel please stand up! ISSY HASS 
Ra’anana Tough job Sir, – It is almost impossible for the press to do its job (“Palestinian mob  assaults two Israeli journalists,” May 18).The sorry history of  journalists who have been attacked, beaten and killed deserves much more  publicity. Why haven’t the media been concerned about the ongoing silencing of a  free press? Why hasn’t this involved a United Nations resolution? The world has  accommodated itself to the repression of thought, speech and religion. This  means it will soon be plunged into the Dark Ages once again, and we will all be  living in the shadow of extermination.The slogan “Journalists around the  world, unite!” should be part of every newspaper headline and all social  media.BATYA KOENIGSBERG 
Jerusalem Good idea? Sir, – When I was in  rabbinical school a noted rabbi delivered an extemporaneous lecture on why, in  theory, it was permitted to kill a non-Jew. The next day, when the head of the  yeshiva found out, the rabbi was sent packing.Nissan Kaplan’s harangue  against Jews, his emphasis on killing us with knives and hammers, and the fact  that he teaches Khomeini-like beliefs to his children (“Rabbi says government  officials should in theory be killed,” May 18) should sensitize all of us to the  fact that Shas, in the form of its new religious mentor, means what it says when  comparing Jews with knitted kippot to Amalek.As a person who has  welcomed many American students from the Mir Yeshiva to my home, I wonder if  it’s time to consider whether having students of Kaplan under my roof is such a  good idea.JACOB HIMMELFARB 
Jerusalem Lobbies needed Sir, – Thank you for  your thoughtful editorial “Green lobbies” (May 18).It might very well be  true that too many environmental groups getting involved in every detail of  every development plan would impede growth and development and make progress all  but impossible.On the other hand, what will protect the people living in  these area, as well as the environment itself, when development plans move ahead  without any impediments whatsoever? In Beit Shemesh, we worked for years to  collect 20,000 individually written, lawyer-notarized objections to building  plans for ongoing extensions to the area known as Ramat Beit Shemesh, yet the  Regional Planning Council appears to have ignored them. It seems to have  completely overlooked the indisputable facts of the destruction of irreplaceable  flora and fauna, bicycling and hiking trails, and archaeological ruins in the  area in order to push forward a plan to provide housing for tens of thousands of  families as quickly as possible.And the council seems totally  unconcerned about the fact that additional roads and infrastructure have not  been planned or put into place to accommodate these families in an already  tightly packed infrastructure.There seems to have been a decision made  at some point on the national level for Beit Shemesh to provide an answer to the  severe housing shortage, in particular for haredi families. One or two really  effective and powerful environmental lobbies would help all of us save the  region from over-development and unnecessary destruction of the  environment.DEBORAH BUCKMAN 
Beit Shemesh Furies of hell Sir, – Allow me  to add one or two comments related to reader Nachama Kanner’s excellent letter  (“Olmert’s sentence,” May 18).“In his pursuit of self-interest, the man  completely disregarded accepted legal and moral practice and made a mockery of  the people who put him in office,” Ms. Kanner writes. But was this wily  character really voted into the office of prime minister by the people? No, he  crept in through the back door after prime minister Ariel Sharon suffered a  stroke.But now it appears that Olmert is not quite as smart as he  thought he was. In light of the testimony against him provided by his ex-aide,  Shula Zaken, he should have made a note of the words written by the  late-17th-century poet William Congreve, who said that hell hath no fury like a  woman scorned.SAMUEL LEWIS 
Herzliya Passé Sir, – Over the past few  weeks, we in Israel have criticized US Secretary of State John Kerry for his use  of the word “apartheid.” He has been vilified left, right and center in our  media.On May 16 I opened The Jerusalem Post to find “Oppositions”  (Savir’s Corner) by Uri Savir, who I admit has never made much sense to me. He  wrote: “The current policies and coalition are turning us into a pariah  apartheid state....”The Peres Center for Peace, where Savir is honorary  president, should be closed forthwith and he should be sent to Africa to learn  first-hand what apartheid really was. He might have been, with good intentions,  a proponent of the Oslo Accords, but we all now know that they are passé and not  relevant to the situation as exists today.DAVID BARRETT 
Ra’anana Unfortunate highlight Sir, – The complaint filed by the Samaria Residents’  Council against Amos Oz after he called “pricetag” attackers “Hebrew neo-Nazis”  (“Settlers file police complaint against author Amos Oz for incitement to racial  hatred,” May 12) provides an opportunity to critique the harshness and crudeness  of Israeli politics.Oz was wrong in saying that no difference exits  between neo-Nazis and those responsible for price-tag attacks. In addition to  the danger posed by thugs and vandals, neo-Nazis model themselves after the Nazi  party. They wear Nazi uniforms, swastikas and other clothing, and use the Nazi  salute. Hitler is their role model; his picture adorns their offices and they  celebrate his birthday.As for the settlers’ police complaint, the  Israeli penal code limits the scope of “incitement to racism” to statements  whose purpose is to incite racism as opposed to opinion, however abhorrent to  some.The Samaria Residents’ Council should take no encouragement from  the recent arrest of settler Eliraz Fein for asserting that throwing stones at  Arabs or Jews could be permissible “even in a situation where the rock kills a  soldier.” Fein was arrested on suspicion of incitement to violence and  terrorism, which prohibits statements calling for violence under circumstances  where a real possibility of violence exists.It is unfortunate that  poorly calculated rhetoric and the frivolous use of the law highlight the  Israeli political debate.RICHARD HOROWITZ 
Tel Aviv The Letters Editor  notes: The letter appearing above was originally published on May 14 without the  second paragraph. It is being reprinted here, with apologies, to set the record  straight.Sir, – Concerning “Livni, Aharonovitch call to classify  ‘pricetag’ attacks as terrorism” (May 8), our justice minister and public  security minister are plain wrong.The “price-tag” phenomenon is  vandalism, yes, even a hate crime.And yes, we should stop it. But it is  not terrorism! LOIS GREEN 
Kadima Praise for Lauder Sir, – With regard to  “Standing up for Israel on the world stage” (Frontlines, May 2), Ronald Lauder  is to be praised by the entire pro-Israel Jewish community for his approach to  countering the BDS (boycott, divestment and sanctions) movement.The  legal approach is a very good method and should be used to the  utmost.
JOSEF FLASCHNER 
New York
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 4: The ‘a’ word again</title>
<date>3/5/2014</date>
<content>
The ‘a’ word again 

Sir, – Gershon Baskin (“People of Israel – wake up!”  Encountering Peace, May 1) likes the idea of using the word “apartheid” at any  price, just like US Secretary of State John Kerry. He, too, tries to use it as a  weapon to bash Israel.While every shopping mall, hospital, theater,  hotel, beach area, nature reserve, etc. is enjoyed by our Arab citizens – who,  by the way, are better off in Israel than in any Arab country – Baskin is  hissing “apartheid,” albeit modified by “a new form of.” He just rewrites the  definition and voila! But the word has always been a red flag, and using it  deliberately, even if erroneously, is deceitful.




He should understand  what the word means before he tries to tar us with that brush. He should ask an  African who lived under the system.MARCELLA WACHTEL 
Jerusalem Sir, –  Regular readers of your columns are familiar with the repeated pro-Palestinian  views of Gershon Baskin. However, in his most recent diatribe he reaches a new  level of blatantly anti-Israel rhetoric despite his claim to be a proud  Israeli.Every paragraph can be countered by describing the factual  situation existing between our prime minister and the head of the Palestinian  Authority. However, this would occupy too much printed space, so I will limit  myself to commenting on one of his statements: “There is no acceptable two-state  solution that does not allow the Palestinians to have their state without  Israeli control.”There is already a Palestinian state known as Jordan,  whose area west of the river resulted in its frequently used name.Having  conquered the Jordanians in the war they waged against us, we can legitimately  annex a small part of that land and return the rest to the country whose  citizenship the West Bank Arabs so readily accepted for 19 years.MONTY  M. ZION 
Tel Mond Blessed memory Sir, – About a score of years ago, Prof. Reuven  Feuerstein (“Feuerstein: A tribute from a very grateful mother,” Comment &  Features, May 1) came to teach at Yale University on a sabbatical leave. He took  up residence in Monsey, New York, where my husband and I were privileged to be  part of a group of educators and physicians he assembled on a semi-regular basis  to disseminate his then-revolutionary ideas about the learning potential of all  individuals, however challenged they might seem.Many years later we  visited the Feuerstein Center in Jerusalem and were amazed to see the  extraordinary results of his methods.Sometime toward the end of Prof.  Feuerstein’s sabbatical year, my cousin discovered a developmental problem with  her young child and we referred her to the professor, who generously gave of his  time to meet with them. His words to them were: “This is a thinking child.” In  addition, his practical advice gave them the fortitude to bring their child to  his potential in the ensuing years.May Prof. Feuerstein’s memory be a  blessing and an inspiration to continue his good work.MARION REISS  
Monsey, New York/ Beit Shemesh Fat cats, poor saps Sir, – With regard to “The  cost of kashrut” (Editorial, April 29), I am thoroughly disgusted with the Chief  Rabbinate and its hold on kashrut, forcing the prices up so high it becomes  impossible for thousands of people to have chicken for Shabbat. However, my main  complaint is about Tnuva, Strauss and Tara, as well as Osem, Telma and other  food companies that ship their products abroad.We spend time in Canada,  where we were born. Every summer, when we travel there to visit family, we are  upset and disgusted to see that Israeli products are 20-30 percent cheaper there  than what we have to pay here.It pains me to say that the cost of living  here is crazy. The fat cats are getting fatter and the poor saps are getting  thinner.When will our government wake up and do the right thing? MILLIE  KAPOROVSKY 
Netanya 

Heavy heart Sir, – Your April 20 editorial about little Adele  Biton and her family’s plight (“Adele’s sad saga”) and the response I read  several days later from one of your readers (“Mutual guarantors,” Letters, April  24) left me very unsettled.My heart is heavy when I think of the  hardships this family faces, and I pray for the miracle that can save this  little girl.However, as a person who has spent much time working in  various hospital settings, including a rehabilitation center, I assure you that  things are not as simple as they seem.Beit Loewenstein is widely  regarded as a top rehabilitation facility, where a professional and loving staff  provides excellent care to all patients. But the key word here is  “rehabilitation.”The number of beds is limited, and there is probably a  lengthy waiting list of those who are in desperate need of rehabilitation.  Therefore, when patients have reached their full rehabilitation potential, as  Adele sadly has, they must be discharged and room made for the next  patient.This is not a financial calculation, but a process of clinical  reasoning where the staff is seeking to donate from their knowledge and  expertise to as many patients as possible. The end result might cause it to  appear callous or unsympathetic, but it is the responsibility of the staff to  keep a broad perspective and make difficult decisions like this on a daily  basis.I am looking neither to judge nor to suggest what should be done  in this highly complex situation.I’m simply pointing out that in the  equation there is another innocent child, perhaps the victim of a car accident,  stroke, abuse or even terror, who remains nameless and faceless but is enduring  immeasurable hardship while waiting for his or her turn for a bed and  treatment.M. JACOBS 
Jerusalem Both sides at fault Sir, – The world has  had enough of the Middle East conflict.The leaders on both sides have  failed their people miserably for six decades. The proof is screaming at the  world.To the Israelis the question is: Why did the Jewish leadership  (both Israeli and Jews in the Diaspora) not at least try to put themselves in  the shoes of the Palestinians and realize that if there was ever to be peace it  was in their best interest to do everything in their power to assist them to  thrive and prosper in a shared land? To the Palestinians the question is: As a  people guided by the tenets of Islam – a religion that recognizes and shares  many of the prophets of the Old Testament and has always portrayed itself as  peace-loving and tolerant of other religions – why have you turned your back so  forcefully on the biblical claim of the Jewish people? How did you allow your  political and religious leadership to negate these facts and lead you to the  suffering and humiliation you have endured for over 60 years? My final question  needs answers from both sides: Why does neither of you recognize that when the  state is controlled by one religion it creates two classes of people – believers  and non-believers? Non-believers will always be treated as second-class  citizens, an affront to an individual’s basic human rights.Regrettably,  the extremists on both sides are now running the show. Until the moderates take  back the agenda, the suffering will go on and it will take generations to  cleanse the hatred and bitterness.
Given the damage and lost potential,  the world’s heart both cries and is fed-up with both peoples.

JEFF ARRON  
Ottawa
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>May 8: Absolute horror</title>
<date>7/5/2014</date>
<content>
Absolute horrorSir, – I read with absolute horror “Baby dies after being left by Beit Hagai  parents in car” (May 5).




I am at a total loss to understand the  phenomenon of babies being left in cars in the heat because their parents stop  and jump out for a minute and that minute becomes half an hour, or because they  do not remember or notice.This poor little mite was apparently  forgotten. Forgotten! Wasn’t the child missed? Didn’t the parents notice the  baby wasn’t with them? How on Earth does any sane, caring parent forget a baby  in a car? It is beyond belief! As a mother and a grandmother I cannot imagine  myself ever forgetting – unless, of course, I am so very engrossed in my so very  important cellphone conversation that my mind is totally oblivious to the fact  that I have a very precious child in the car and I simply “forget.”LINDA  SILVERSTONE
Herzliya Pituah Price tag attacksSir, – The quotation marks  appeared in the wrong place in your headline “Cops investigate ‘price tag’  attacks against Israeli Arabs” (May 5). The headline should have been “Cops  ‘investigate’ price tag attacks against Israeli Arabs.”MICHAEL ALGE 
Kiryat Tivon Sir, – A letter to The Jerusalem Post is one way of expressing my  outrage at the headline “Ex-Shin Bet chief: Israel does not intend to stop  ‘price tag’ attacks” (May 4). I hope every Israeli will send a letter now  demanding that the Shin Bet (Israel Security Service) swiftly brings to justice  those who vandalize the property of fellow citizens.SUSAN ROSENBERG
HaifaSir, – It was quite telling to read about former Shin Bet head Carmi  Gillon’s words.While I and, I’m sure, the overwhelming majority of  Israelis are totally against the price-taggers, leave it to Gillon, one of those  who was so happy to spill the Shin Bet’s secrets in the documentary The  Gatekeepers, to now use this situation to promote his leftist  leanings.Far worse, note his comparison to the pre-state era when he  proudly notes that people like him knew how to deal with the Irgun and Stern  Group. These are the same folks who tried to murder Menachem Begin in their zeal  to make David Ben-Gurion the uncontested dictator of the state.When  quoting this kind of person, it would be instructive for the Post to first  reveal the nature of the individual.CHAIM ABRAMOWITZ
Jerusalem We never  leftSir, – Your editorial “Indomitable spirit” (May 5) unfortunately conveys a  common misperception in expressing “prayers and hopes for an end to exile stored  up over nearly two millennia....”The Jews never left. Roman-Byzantine-  era synagogues all over the land, the Mishna and Palestinian Talmud, Roman  recognition of the patriarch until the 5th century, and the yishuv’s joinder in  the 614 Persian invasion show that the Romans did not “exile” the  Jews.Archeologist Dan Bahat included in his Twenty Centuries of Jewish  Life in the Holy Land: The Forgotten Generations a map showing 9th-century  Jewish communities all over the land, of which we have knowledge a millennium  later.The Crusaders acknowledged that Jews were “the last to fall” in  fighting them at Jerusalem, and that Jews alone “courageously” held them off at  Haifa for a whole month. Evidence abounds of an organized Jewish presence in the  four holy cities, in Galilee and elsewhere during the final six Mamluk and  Ottoman centuries of foreign rule preceding modern Israel becoming the Land of  Israel’s next native state after Jewish Judea.As eminent British  historian James Parkes wrote in Whose Land, the “heroic endurance of those who  had maintained a Jewish presence in the land, and in spite of every  discouragement,” wrote the Zionists’ “real title deeds.”It does a  disservice to both the memory and meaning of the continuously present Jewish  yishuv to speak of “exile” and “return.”Parkes bitterly criticized us  for not making the continuous-presence case, and he was right.JEROME  VERLIN
Philadelphia 
The writer is author of Israel 3,000 Years: The Jewish  People’s 3,000 Year Presence in PalestineA masterpieceSir, – Susan Hattis  Rolef’s “How we remember the six million – and the 24,000” (Think About It, May  5) made my day. The truth and the way she tells it is more than food for  thought.I would be very happy to sign my name under a masterpiece like  this.OLGA P. WIND
Holon Not all are YanksSir, – We are one the most  cosmopolitan countries on the face of the globe, boasting olim from Japan, New  Zealand, Hawaii and the rest of the planet, yet 14 of the questions in your “20  questions” quiz (Arts & Entertainment, May 5) can be answered only by those  who were either born in or have an exceptionally high level of knowledge of the  United States of America.Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to  devise a quiz – if a quiz be required – that could only be answered by  others.For those of us born elsewhere, it is more than sufficient to be  faced in The Jerusalem Post, on a daily basis, with American spelling, American  slang and endless reports of NBA, World Series and baseball games on a daily  basis.To be faced with a positively discriminating quiz is more than  this Cockney oleh can bear! STANLEY COHEN
Jerusalem The ‘a’ wordSir, – Warren  Goldstein very clearly delineates reasons why labeling Israel an “apartheid”  state is inaccurate and offensive (“Kerry’s sins,” Sinai Today, May 2). All of  his reasons are true and compelling. But the most compelling argument is the one  he neglects to make.South Africa’s apartheid policy was imposed upon an  indigenous population by a colonial power. The colonial power had no claim to  the land nor justification for its presence there other than its exploitation of  that country’s natural resources for its own purposes.The Land of  Israel, on the other hand, is home to the people of Israel. We are not  displacing a native population as colonists, but are returning home to where we  belong. Were we to be the minority population and allow the majority population  (hostile or otherwise) to remain, we would still not be considered an apartheid  state, as it would be within our privilege to rule over that majority given that  this is our home, not theirs.BOB YERMUS 
Jerusalem Why us?Sir, – With  reference to “Oklahoma prison halts execution, but condemned man dies anyway”  (May 1), how ironic that in the US, brutal murderers are condemned to death and  executed, yet Secretary of State John Kerry persistently calls on the government  of Israel to release convicted murderers guilty of similar heinous crimes or  worse.Is it not time that Israel learned from the US how to deal with  such deadly people? 
SIDNEY LEVINE 
Hendon, UK The right moveSir, – I’d like to  say kol hakavod to Rachel Bresinger on her article “‘3 reasons to make  aliya...and stay” (Comment & Features, April 30).I, too,  left my extended family in Chicago when I made aliya almost five years ago.  (Unlike Rachel, however, I had my husband and three children). I agree with  everything that was said. Sure, it hasn’t been easy and my family thinks I’m  crazy, but I, too, think it’s one of the best decisions I have made.
The  only regret is not coming earlier! 
SUSAN COOPERSMITH
Ma’aleh Adumim
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Michael Oren misunderstands the obstacle to peace</title>
<date>29/1/2014</date>
<content>
For an accomplished historian, Michael Oren seems to have an extraordinarily  short memory.In a recent article on CNN’s website, the former Israeli  ambassador to the United States argued that in the absence of a two-state  solution, “One solution could be a unilateral Israeli withdrawal from  Palestinian population centers in the West Bank.” This, he reasoned, would allow  Israel to “end the occupation of the Palestinians, preserve its security, and  perhaps lay new foundations for peace.”




But this precisely what Israel  did some 20 years ago.The declaration of principles (DOP, or Oslo I)  signed on the White House lawn in September 1993 by the PLO and the Israeli  government provided for Palestinian self-rule in the entire West Bank and the  Gaza Strip for a transitional period not to exceed five years, during which  Israel and the Palestinians would negotiate a permanent peace settlement. By May  1994, Israel had completed its withdrawal from the Gaza Strip (apart from a  small stretch of territory containing a small number of Israeli settlements that  “occupied” not a single Palestinian and were subsequently evacuated in 2005) and  the Jericho area of the West Bank. On July 1, PLO chairman Yasser Arafat made  his triumphant entry into Gaza, and shortly afterward a newly-established  Palestinian Authority (PA) under his headship took control of this  territory.On September 28, 1995, despite the PA’s abysmal failure to  clamp down on terrorist activities in the territories under its control, the two  parties signed an interim agreement, and by the end of the year Israeli forces  had been withdrawn from the West Bank’s populated areas with the exception of  Hebron (where redeployment was completed in early 1997). On January 20, 1996,  elections to the Palestinian Council were held, and shortly afterward both the  Israeli civil administration and military government were dissolved.The  geographical scope of these Israeli withdrawals was relatively limited; the  surrendered land amounted to some 30 percent of the West Bank’s overall  territory.But its impact on the Palestinian population was nothing short  of revolutionary. In one fell swoop, Israel relinquished control over virtually  all of the West Bank’s 1.4 million residents. Since that time, nearly 60% of  them – in the Jericho area and in the seven main cities of Jenin, Nablus,  Tulkarm, Qalqilya, Ramallah, Bethlehem and Hebron – have lived entirely under  Palestinian jurisdiction. Another 40% live in towns, villages, refugee camps and  hamlets where the PA exercises civil authority but, in line with the Oslo  accords, Israel has maintained “overriding responsibility for  security.”Some 2% of the West Bank’s population – tens of thousands of  Palestinians – continue to live in areas where Israel has complete control, but  even there the PA maintains “functional jurisdiction.”In short, since  the beginning of 1996, and certainly following the completion of the  redeployment from Hebron in January 1997, 99% of the Palestinian population of  the West Bank and the Gaza Strip has not lived under Israeli occupation. As the  virulent anti-Israel and anti-Jewish media, school system and religious  incitement can attest to, during these years, any presence of a foreign  occupation has been virtually non-existent.That a former holder of  Israel’s top diplomatic post seems to be blissfully unaware of this basic fact,  nearly two decades after its occurrence, is a sad testament to the failure of  the country’s foreign policy establishment to confront the well-oiled Arab  propaganda machine and its biggest and most damaging lies. And since the Israeli  conquest of Gaza and the West Bank in the June 1967 war, “occupation” has become  the Palestinians’ trump propaganda card, allowing them not only to demonize  Israel as a repressive apartheid state and justify terrorism but also to extract  substantial aid from the international community.Of course the  presentation of terrorism as a natural response to the so-called occupation is  not only completely unfounded but the inverse of the truth. In the 26 years of  Israeli occupation preceding the signing of the DOP, some 450 Israelis were  murdered; in the two years attending the formation of the PA in July 1994, 224  people lost their lives in terrorist attacks, an almost sevenfold higher average  annual death toll (112 vs. 17).And this death toll skyrocketed to  unprecedented heights after the launch of the Palestinian war of terror in  September 2000 (euphemized as the “al-Aqsa intifada”), shortly after being  offered an independent state in the entire Gaza Strip and 92% of the West Bank  with east Jerusalem as its capital.If occupation was indeed the cause of  terrorism, why was terrorism sparse during the years of actual occupation, why  did it increase dramatically with the prospect of the end of the occupation, and  why did it escalate into open war upon Israel’s most far-reaching concessions  ever? To the contrary, one might argue with far greater plausibility that the  absence of occupation – that is, the withdrawal of close Israeli surveillance –  is precisely what facilitated the launching of the terrorist war in the first  place. Just as it was the partial restoration of security measures in the West  Bank during the 2002 Operation Defensive Shield and its aftermath (albeit  without reassuming control over the daily lives of the Palestinian population  there) that brought the Palestinian war of terror to an end.It is not  “occupation” that is the foremost obstacle to a two-state solution but the  67-year-long Palestinian rejection of this notion as expressed in the 1947 UN  Partition Resolution stipulating the establishment of a Jewish and an Arab state  in mandatory Palestine. Until that disposition changes, the idea of  Palestinian-Israeli peace will mean little more than the continuation of war by  other means.
The writer is professor of Middle East and Mediterranean  Studies at Kings College London and professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan  University. His books include Arafat’s War and Palestine Betrayed.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My heart is in the East... and West</title>
<date>25/1/2014</date>
<content>
It’s official. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper is the number one  Israelophile among world leaders. In truth, at least since George W.Bush  has been gone, Harper has merited the title, pulling Canada from its previous  (self-imagined) status as an “honest broker” in an unabashedly pro-Israel  direction. But in his speech this week in the Knesset, Harper outdid even  himself. He reaffirmed Canada’s commitment to sanctions against Iran and hinted  at his contempt for an Iran policy based on their pledges rather than concrete  activities.




He condemned boycotts in no uncertain terms.He called  Israel a bastion of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. He praised Israel as  the home of the Jewish people.A cynic might say that this is all part of  the Conservative party’s minority outreach strategy, which did succeed in  turning Jewish ridings that had never voted for a party other than the Liberal  party of Canada Conservative in the 2011 elections. But even still, no minority  outreach policy requires the extent of Harper’s passion. Few political figures,  Israeli or otherwise, have said anything quite like this: “Most disgracefully of  all, some openly call Israel an apartheid state.Think about that. Think  about the twisted logic and outright malice behind that: a state, based on  freedom, democracy and the rule of law, that was founded so Jews can flourish,  as Jews, and seek shelter from the shadow of the worst racist experiment in  history, that is condemned, and that condemnation is masked in the language of  anti-racism. It is nothing short of sickening. But this is the face of the new  anti-Semitism.”Just leave it to a bland Canadian economist, always  trying and failing to spruce up his image with successive pairs of garish  designer glasses. For Canadians like me who grew up with cowardly equivocation  from successive governments on Israel, Harper’s turn is as stupefying as it is  impressive.What, then, explains Harper’s passion? Shrewd commentators,  have noted that Israel fits within Harper’s principled political conservatism.  While benefitting from a broadly consensual cross-party economic consensus (not  to mention the good luck of a growing China for a resource-based economy like  Canada), in political terms Harper has surely shifted Canada to a British  commonwealth version of conservatism over his near decade tenure in office. He  has re-asserted Canada’s ties to the monarchy and reintroduced the “royal” in  the Royal Canadian Air Force.Where his predecessors spoke of tolerance  and multiculturalism as the alpha and omega of “Canadian values,” Harper has  reintroduced “freedom” and “rule of law” into the Canadian lexicon. And, in  foreign forums, the Harper government has consistently stood for liberty (while  also trying, it is true, not to piss off the Chinese). And, of course, Harper’s  government has defended Israel when she has been singled out in international  institutions and forums. The defense of Israel, it has been said, fits within  Harper’s principled defense of liberal democracies against their  enemies.What else is at work is Harper’s moral identification with the  story of the State of Israel itself. Born into a middle class protestant family  in Toronto, the young Harper, it is worth recalling, was a kind of runaway.  While he finished high school in Toronto, he dropped out of the University of  Toronto after a few months and went West – to Calgary, Alberta, where he worked  in a mailroom, and eventually resumed his studies. Americans are fanatically  mobile, and it is hard to understand that going West in such a fashion is not  something nice middle class Torontonians typically do, and surely not in the  late 1970s.Whether or not Harper’s intellectual yearnings as a young man  were evangelical, as has been said, Harper clearly felt bored and depressed by  the prospects of the humdrum, comfortable but non-political life available in  Toronto. Harper left this behind, for the West. Unlike so many young men and  women who make such an escape, however, Harper used this voyage not to dispense  with what he had been given at birth in favor of some great unknown or frivolity  but to build something legitimately new in light of moral ideas.Out  there in the West, Harper found the excitement, opportunity, and, above all,  politics which were lacking in Toronto. His abandonment of a typical Toronto  urban life was followed by a true political education. Harper would go on to  earn a master’s degree in economics and meet the western political guru Preston  Manning. The rest is history.How does Israel fit into all of this? The  greatest Israeli diplomat, Abba Eban, noted in his autobiography that the  “pioneering” countries – Australia, New Zealand, America and Canada – had a much  stronger natural affinity with Israel than those stodgy, settled countries like  France and England.As a pioneer-prime minister of Canada, Stephen Harper  naturally sees Israel’s immense achievement over considerable obstacles. Through  his own interesting moral journey out West, Harper has glimpsed the beauty and  morality of the Jewish journey out East. If only there were more moral pioneers  like Stephen Harper.
The author is a Tikvah Fellow and a PhD candidate in  history at the University of Cambridge.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My word: 'A wonderful country’</title>
<date>1/5/2014</date>
<content>
An Independence Day riddle for readers: What  democratic country beginning with the letter “I” has ancient cultural  traditions; saw the birth of more than one major religion; was freed from  British colonial rule at the end of the 1940s as the result of a partition plan;  has known war and still feels threatened by its increasingly Islamist neighbors;  had a wellknown woman prime minister; has a well-developed hi-tech industry; and  is admired for its economic progress over the last six decades? I’ll give you a  clue: Nobody ever calls its existence into question and the UN is not mandated  to single it out for scrutiny several times a year. So that rules out  Israel.




There are, I admit, a lot of differences between Israel and India  – not least of them the size: India is the seventh- largest country in the world  and the second-most populous, while Israel has a population of about eight  million and could fit into India so many times that my head hurts at even the  thought of doing the math. But that’s not the reason the world doesn’t focus on  India’s border issues, query its right to determine its own capital, grant the  refugees created in the turmoil surrounding its establishment and subsequent  wars permanent refugee status, and act as if solving its problems with its  nuclear neighbor, Pakistan, could solve all the problems of war and peace around  the globe.Why Israel – the Jewish state – has this peculiar honor is  probably related to different ancient traditions: the fact that Jews have always  maintained their separateness – even while contributing to whichever country  they reside in – and the way that the world has traditionally reacted to that  distinctiveness. There is a growing understanding here that the delegitimization  of Israel is simply the continuation of anti-Semitism in a different  guise.We’re not perfect. Nobody is. But neither are we the world’s worst  offenders – by far – when it comes to human rights, civil liberties and freedom.  And despite the predictions of US Secretary of State John (“Poof!” “If I could  rewind the tape”) Kerry, Israel is not about to turn into an apartheid state –  not in the original South African sense of the word and not in the distorted  sense it has come to mean when applied to Israel.As Yediot Aharonot  columnist Yoaz Hendel put it this week: “Contrary to Secretary of State John  Kerry’s threats, Israel will not become an apartheid state because there is no  peace just like the US did not become a failed democracy because it failed to  spread democracy around the world. Sometimes an ideal runs into an iron wall; it  may be unpleasant, but it is reality.”Kerry was obviously disappointed  that his peace initiative failed (like those before it and for many of the same  reasons). But few here were surprised. Israelis took it in their stride – just  as we cope with the escalation in terror attacks that accompanies every attempt  at peacemaking in this region, just as we cope with everything that’s thrown at  us, particularly missiles from Gaza.Last week, the PLO and Hamas  announced a reconciliation agreement (so never let it be said that Kerry didn’t  achieve some kind of peace as a result of all his diplomatic and not so  diplomatic efforts). On the same day, Israelis were largely absorbed watching  Maccabi Tel Aviv thrashing Milano at the climax of a dramatic 3-1 series  granting the Israeli basketball team entry to the Euroleague Final  Four.Listening to neighbors in different apartments collectively roaring  their approval – an unmistakable sound that travels easily through open windows  on a warm Jerusalem evening – I realized that this might serve as a reflection  of one of those very Israeli moments. The utter collectiveness of the  experience. Knowing that in buildings throughout the country there were groups  of people glued to TV screens, spitting out sunflower seeds, attributing success  to Divine help as much as player prowess and enjoying themselves regardless of  all that is going on in the outside world.The post-game interviews with  Maccabi coach David Blatt, who speaks in American-accented Hebrew, reminded me  of Maccabi legend Tal Brody, who was willing to forgo an NBA career to take the  “yellow-andblue” team to its greatest successes. His statement “Anahnu al hamapa  ve’anahnu nisharim al hamapa” (“We’re on the map and we’re staying on the map”)  after beating CSKA Moscow to reach the final in the 1977 Euroleague has long  since turned into a catchphrase.And there seems like no better time than  our 66th Independence Day celebrations to repeat it.A visitor recently  remarked that she was surprised that although Israelis are such political  creatures and most meet around the dinner table with friends and family for  Friday night meals and a general chance to complain about everything, we do not  obsess over the peace process. Some might interpret this as a lack of caring,  others as a sign of despair, she half-warned, half-scolded à la Kerry.It  is neither.Of course we care: We all know soldiers, every single one of  us is a potential terror victim, and I don’t think there are many Israelis who  haven’t experienced that stomach-lurching sound of a missile warning at some  time or other. Neither do we despair: A country that has “Hatikva” – The Hope –  as its national anthem and a religion that includes prayers for peace three  times a day is not the despairing sort.It’s just that we have learned to  live with our particular reality and even turn the bitter lemons into defense  systems.The ship isn’t sinking and there’s no reason to drown in  despair. We wouldn’t have got very far, and certainly not far enough to earn the  nickname “Start-up Nation,” if we’d waited for peace before aiming for  prosperity.We are like any normal country, normal in our own  way.That’s why one of the biggest local news stories this week was about  a very particular end of an era: Not Kerry temporarily quitting shuttle  diplomacy, but the resignation of star impersonator and satirist Tal Friedman,  who is leaving the Eretz Nehederet (“A Wonderful Country”) show after 11 years  during which he created different characters, including Luba, the immortal  new-immigrant supermarket cashier, and poked fun at politicians across the  political spectrum. The politicians didn’t mind – appearing in some form on the  satire show gave them a certain status. Last Independence Day, Prime Minister  Binyamin Netanyahu happily laughed at himself – or at least at his Eretz  Nehederet counterpart – in an end-of-season show.“Eretz Nehederet is the  Maccabi Tel Aviv basketball club of the screen,” wrote Yediot TV reviewer Einav  Schiff, the day after the news of Friedman’s defection broke.A country  that can freely laugh with and at its leaders in a TV satire show is a rarity in  the Middle East. And it’s another reason I know we don’t have to worry about our  future. We’re not on our way to being an apartheid state.We have a  wonderful country. An eretz nehederet unlike any other.The writer is  editor of The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Digest and divest?</title>
<date>10/4/2014</date>
<content>
Reading this Haggada left me without much of an appetite.I could never  manage a traditional Seder meal after this. But then this Haggada is not about  the traditional Seder meal of the type that millions of Jews around the world  celebrate. It’s big on the affliction, although not necessarily of the  Jews.




Its four cups run over, but not with Israeli wine. And its  questions have more to do with ritual Israel-bashing than teaching the younger  generation (as we are commanded) the story of the Exodus from Egypt.The  Seattle Chapter of Jewish Voice for Peace produced this Haggada for its own  communal Seders. When I first read about it on April 1, I thought it might be a  joke; having read its 28 pages, it’s clear to me that it takes itself very  seriously.There are several twists in the Seattle JVP Seder. That’s  probably because participants are constantly contorting and bending over  backwards to remain politically correct.It definitely has its own take  on the traditional narrative. For example, it takes great care to make the  distinction between ancient Egypt and today’s country. “We are not conflating  contemporary Egyptians with the pharaoh and taskmasters that appear in the  Passover story,” notes the JVP Haggada, first written in 2012. “In the US, and  worldwide, anti-Arab racism and Islamophobia saturate our media and our culture,  and we must be vigilant to oppose it and interrupt it at every turn.”No  such care evidently needs to be taken to avoid anti-Israel  sentiment.(Here’s the beauty of their technique: You can’t accuse them  of being anti-Semitic, because they are Jewish and even celebrating a Jewish  holiday, in their own painfully peculiar manner.) One of the Haggada’s insights  – make that incite, if you prefer – is that “The word Yisrael (Israel) when  found in the liturgy (religious text) does not refer to the modern nation/ state  of Israel, rather it derives from the blessing given to Ya’akov (Jacob) by a  stranger with whom he wrestles all night. When the stranger is finally pinned,  Ya’akov asks him for a blessing.The stranger says, ‘Your name will no  longer be Ya’akov but Yisrael for you have wrestled with G-d and triumphed.’  Therefore when we say ‘Yisrael’ in prayer we are referring to being G-d  wrestlers, not Israelis.”So much for the commandment to tell the story  of the Exodus from Egypt as if it happened to each of us personally, not as some  distant historical event.The group is obviously more into current  events. The part of the invitation that drew attention in the social media had to do with the four cups of wine we drink at the Seder.The Seattle JVP folk note in  their open invitation: “Bringing a bottle of wine is great [but] we are respecting  the Palestinian call for a boycott, so please try to bring wine (or whatever)  made in places other than Israel.
We will also be updating you about our  exciting boycott campaign.”At this point they lost me on so many levels:  Celebrating Passover, the religious holiday marking the ultimate expression of  the (God-wrestling) Israelites’ path to freedom in the Promised Land by  boycotting that very country makes me wonder whether we’re talking about the  wicked child or the foolish one referred to in traditional haggadot.I  pondered whether “wine made in places other than Israel” couldn’t be interpreted  (by their own thinking) as the produce of wineries on the Golan Heights and in  the Barkan area of Samaria. Do you get added points for finding kosher  non-Israeli wineries or is it preferable to mark Jewish freedom with non-kosher  wines? And is it worth pointing out that the majority of Palestinians, including  in the Palestinian Authority, actually do not call for a boycott of Israel and  even import from it? Every call for a boycott puts Palestinian jobs at risk,  because, contrary to what JVP supporters believe, Israel is not an apartheid  state and Jews and non- Jews are employed in the same companies.By now  some readers will also be considering exciting discussions about the Seattle  Seder’s boycott call, I suspect. But I digress.As you might expect from  the type of people breaking away from the traditional meal passed down from  generation to generation, the JVP Seder plate contains some unusual ingredients.  As a vegetarian, I also use a beetroot instead of a roasted shank bone – an  option the group helpfully points out – but I didn’t realize what my plate was  missing: The JVP Haggada recommends adding an orange – “symbolizing building  Jewish community where women, queer and transgender people are welcomed and  recognized as full, valued participants” and an olive, “symbolizing the  self-determination of the Palestinian people and an invitation to Jewish  communities to become allies to Palestinian liberation struggles.”It  doesn’t specify where the oranges and olives should come from, but I’m guessing  that anything stamped Jaffa will not be welcome, unless of course it is proven  that no Jews touched it.The four cups of wine are dedicated to different  themes (or, more accurately, variations of the same pro- BDS theme). The first  glass, for example, is described as a “L’chayim to education” “At JVP we  continually are educating ourselves in the history of the  conflict...”OK. So maybe not all Jews are into the “They tried to kill  us, we survived, let’s eat” school of Jewish education.The explanation  about the breaking of the middle matza (yahatz) is accompanied by the story of  Muhammad Ali, “a souvenir salesman by trade and a devotee of old Mickey Mouse  cartoons” – I promise I’m not making this up – who fled his home in rural  Galilee in 1948 and settled with his family a year later in Nazareth “one mile  away from the village of his childhood.” (Luckily for him, he doesn’t live in  Syria or Lebanon or anywhere else much more removed from Disneyland than  Israel.) There is no mention, of course, of Jews who fled Arab lands in  1948.(What? A modern exodus from Egypt?) Or were forced out of places  like the Old City of Jerusalem and Gush Etzion. The Haggada does give a list to  be recited of former Palestinian villages. At the risk of being a spoiler, I  should note that at the end of the meal participants declare: “Next year in  Jerusalem. Next year in Al-Quds. Next year in a city of peace!” If they were to  proclaim the traditional “Next year in Jerusalem rebuilt” they’d probably feel  bound to have a few more hours of discussion on the iniquities of Jewish  construction in the Holy City.Permit me to skip the maggid section on  the “Telling of the story”: Suffice to say, the picture looks different at a  communal pro-BDS Seder in Seattle than it does in a traditional family home in  Jerusalem, or almost anywhere in the Jewish world.Allow me, also, to not  spell out the JVP version of the Ten Plagues, “The Ten Plagues of the Israeli  Occupation.”I wouldn’t say that I didn’t find anything commendable in  the Seattle Seder invitation. It ends with a request: “Please be fragrance  free.”
Admittedly, in Israel perfumes are considered the perfect gift for  the Seder hostess, and all major chain stores have special offers on them this  time of year. Granted, too, that part of the Seder experience, in my opinion,  should be for children to be hugged by their aunts, while trying to dodge a  lipsticky kiss, and be surrounded by the smell and warmth of those who love  them. But in this particular case I make an exception: The Seattle JVP Seder  stinks so much that no perfume is going to disguise it. It is the smell of  self-hatred. And that’s very different from the aroma of love of “the  other.”

liat@jpost.com The writer is editor of The International  Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My word: Keep your eyes on the road</title>
<date>27/11/2014</date>
<content>
I’ve been thinking a lot about artificial intelligence lately. It’s not because  the non-artificial type seems to be sorely lacking – or at least not only  because of that. The trigger was an article reprinted in The Jerusalem Post this  week courtesy of San Jose Mercury News/TNS under the headline: “For Google’s  self-driving cars, learning to deal with the bizarre is  essential.”Writing about the testing stage, Steve Johnson notes: “One of  the most surprising lessons: While hoping to make cars that are safer than those  driven by people, Google has discovered its smart machines need to act a little  human, especially when dealing with pushy motorists.




“‘We found that we  actually need to be – not aggressive – but assertive’ with the vehicles, said  Nathaniel Fairfield, technical leader of a team that writes software fixes for  problems uncovered during the driving tests.‘If you’re always yielding  and conservative, basically everybody will just stomp on you all day.’” There  seems to be a message in there. Welcome to the real world.The  self-driving vehicles are apparently perplexed by the hazards that pop up on the  road and tend to err on the side of caution and come to a complete  halt.Perhaps it was my mood, influenced by the sections of the paper  that I had read before reaching the foreign features, but Google’s artificially  passive cars seemed to prove a philosophical point, however uncomfortable: Being  slightly pushy is not a failing but a necessity.The car tests show that  artificial intelligence is just that: artificial. The cars lack street  smarts.Johnson notes a study which concludes that it will be hard to  create software “smart enough to know that a ball bouncing into the street might  mean a child could come chasing after it.”Another lesson in life, if you  like. It brought to mind the slogan of one of the cleverest road safety  campaigns that ever ran in Israel: “On the road, don’t be right, be smart.” It  is a favorite motto of mine along with “Pick your battles.”I get the  feeling that too many of the country’s politicians – both Left and Right – are  being driven by their fears and failing to do the smart thing.Like the  self-driving car, they either fail to see the broader picture of what could  happen next – that the kid will probably bounce out into the road after the  escaping ball – or are so paralyzed by the perceived threats that they come to a  bumpy halt, getting nowhere and creating a new hazard for the cars behind. They  seem to act automatically, eyes closed, without thinking.The result has  been a series of self-defeating political gestures, some more worrying than  others.The government, for example, is resending the Israeli ambassador  back to Sweden, after a break protesting the Swedish move to recognize a  Palestinian state. To make a point, the envoy is being sent back on November 29.  It’s unlikely the Swedish Foreign Ministry and government will get it. The date,  marking the 1947 UN Partition Plan, might be ripe with symbolism in this  particular part of the Middle East, but it lacks the same significance in  Scandinavia.Still, if it makes someone feel better (and the envoy avoids  creating another local crisis by traveling on Shabbat), it’s a fairly harmless  gesture.I wish I could say the same for the other topics in the news.  The so-called “Jewish state” bill is driving me mad.I’m among those who  wonders “who needs it?” and even more “who needs it now?” Not everything has to  be anchored in law. As many have noted before me, the surest way to get secular  Jewish Israelis to drive on Yom Kippur would be to legislate against it. As long  as the ban on driving is by custom rather than law, it is respected.A  country which comes to a halt on Yom Kippur does not need another law marking  its peculiarly Jewish characteristics. And the one Jewish state – the only  country in the world to suffer from anti-Semitism – does not need to hand  ammunition to its enemies. The bill is a gift for those who love to portray  Israel as an apartheid state, facts be damned.Incidentally, I was told  this week by someone who counts these things that the UN Partition Plan mentions  the phrase “Jewish state” 29 times.The date itself is known locally by  the extraordinary combination of Hebrew and English as “Kaf tet  be’november.”This bill is the equivalent of a road safety hazard,  creating a new issue to argue over. If Benjamin Netanyahu did not insist on  Yasser Arafat recognizing Israel as the Jewish state before the withdrawal from  Hebron during his first term as prime minister, it seems strange that he should  turn it into a central stumbling block with Arafat’s successor Mahmoud  Abbas.And if you can’t trust your supposed “peace partners” then it  doesn’t really matter what you call each other in public.Jerusalem Post  diplomatic reporter Herb Keinon this week wrote an interesting analysis on the  self-perpetuating story of the crisis in US-Israel relations, putting the State  Department’s spokesman’s comments on the “Jewish state” bill in context (as  answers to a series of questions). Keinon concludes, correctly in my opinion,  that the context goes to show that this is not another stage in a diplomatic  crisis.My concern, however, is that Netanyahu’s insistence on the bill  has turned it into a new controversy. Why was the topic considered interesting  enough to raise in the first place? That the reporter persists in asking “That  means that every person should have a vote, not just Jewish people?” shows not  only a lack of knowledge of what the bill is proposing but also the dangerous  trend to believe anything bad of Israel.But spare me the chorus of the  self-righteous Left: I don’t think any legislation has so threatened the  country’s democratic nature in recent years as the “Israel Hayom” bill,  tailor-made by the prime minister’s political enemies to ban the free  distribution of the daily paper most supportive of Netanyahu.The news  this week was not all gloomy, however. Just as I was wondering if the government  didn’t have anything better to worry about, I came across an intelligent  decision that is good news for nighttime drivers.Deputy Transportation  Minister Tzipi Hotovely, no stranger to controversy, unveiled an initiative  which would allow drivers on interurban routes to buy a cup of coffee for just  NIS 1 at the convenience stores of several gas station chains between midnight  and 6 a.m. The program, in conjunction with the National Road Safety Authority,  is aimed at keeping oh-so-human drivers awake and alert while they’re on the  road.I was also cheered by the news of the release of Temple Mount  activist Yehudah Glick from hospital following his survival of an assassination  attempt. Although the road to full recovery is still long, the return home less  than a month after being left for dead verges on the miraculous.While  you can argue whether it is wise or not (or even acceptable under Jewish law)  for Glick to insist on the right to ascend the Temple Mount, only extremists (on  any side) would argue that it should cost him his life.Glick’s  insistence that it is the right of all – Jews, Christians and Muslims – to pray  at the site where the First and Second Temples once stood is hard to contradict  in the name of democracy.In a press conference before his release from  Jerusalem’s Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Glick, always more moderate than his  media image, said: “Anybody who shoots and kills someone in the name of his  religion is the first person disgracing his religion.Those who are  giving respect to Islam are those Muslim doctors and nurses who work at this  hospital [by] helping people after they have signed the Hippocratic  Oath.”What the country needs now from its leaders is responsible hands  on the steering wheel. Someone who cares for the kids in the back chorusing “Are  we there yet?” but doesn’t speed up just to satisfy them. Someone who is  prepared to be smart and yield when necessary, even if they technically have  right of way, but is assertive enough not to get stuck at the traffic circle. We  don’t need anyone on auto-pilot, whose pre-programmed route is constantly being  recalculated for them. No one drunk with power is safe behind the wheel. We need  a leader who can think independently and drive intelligently.The writer  is editor of The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My word: Never trivialize!</title>
<date>24/4/2014</date>
<content>
I was recently given a “Holocaust book” to read, although I declined to review  it. I don’t want to trash a book which is well-written from a technical point of  view.As a reader, I was drawn so close to the central characters that I  felt like I was getting into bed with them. Endlessly. In what seems to have  become the staple of Holocaust novels, the book is studded with sex  scenes.




In fairness, the writer does depict how the hero and heroine are  survivors struggling to return to something like normal life in a world where  the very idea of things carrying on normally as before is obscene. But for me,  the obscenity didn’t stop there.I have a problem with Holocaust novels  as a genre. As soon as the facts – so absolutely awful – are turned into  fiction, doubts are bound to creep in. If not for this generation, then for the  next, and the one after that.And we as a people are defined by our  millennia- long collective memory, a never- changing narrative in the  old-fashioned sense of the word. It’s hopelessly politically incorrect but the  Purim story and Passover tale are a way of passing on our history to our  children; they don’t take modern liberal sensitivities and tastes into account.  They are stories of survival, themselves intended to survive and be passed  on.The Haggada which we read on Seder night, a defining Jewish  experience all around the world, contains the words: “For not just one enemy has  stood against us to wipe us out.But in every generation there have been  those who have stood against us to wipe us out, and the Holy One Blessed Be He  saves us from their hands.”We are commanded to remember, always, Amalek  who tried to wipe us out as we escaped, tired and desperate, from  Egypt.Yes, us. For just as the Talmud teaches us that saving one life is  the equivalent of saving the entire world, so too the destruction of the Jewish  people at any stage in our history – under the Egyptians, Persians, Romans,  Greeks, Spanish Inquisitors or Holocaust – would have been the end of our  world.The commandment “Remember” is collectively becoming harder and  harder. Strangely, the more access we have to the truth, the less we can believe  what we read and see. For the Holocaust novel has a cinematic  sister.Here too sex and violence are increasingly used to  sell.And even when a movie is not busy trying to titillate viewers –  does most of the audience really buy a ticket to voyeuristically view the rape,  abuse and murder of the greater part of the Jewish People? – many are tweaked to  lend that great necessity of the new era: universality.Years ago I was  shocked and offended in very rapid succession at the ending of Andrzej Wajda’s  film Korczak. Instead of finishing with a shot of the children from the Warsaw  Ghetto and their courageous teacher and mentor arriving at Treblinka – the final  stop – the movie ends with a dream-like sequence in which the cattle car into  which they have been packed is detached from the rest of the train and the  children spill out into a beautiful green field, presumably to live happily ever  after, at least in cinematic paradise.The American movie-going public at  the time was assumed to want happy endings.Now, it is presumed to want  sex and a message that it could have happened to anyone.The overall  effect is one of desensitization and an increased lack of  credibility.Today, almost no museum or exhibit on war or the Holocaust  would dare avoid a message of universality. And in this way, instead of  spreading the message of the absolute evil perpetrated on the Jews for being  Jews – which should be a warning in itself – we are lectured about the threat of  violence and intolerance in general. It might be easier than admitting that an  ancient hatred still exists among us – and it is certainly more popular – but it  is less effective. When everyone becomes a victim, no one is a perpetrator, no  one is guilty.As a generation is growing up not knowing or hearing about  the horrors firsthand as the survivors literally die out, the banality of evil  is being replaced by the simply banal. The meaning of the Holocaust, its  immensity, is constantly being diminished. Seinfeld’s “Soup Nazi” might have  turned into one of the iconic TV series’ most popular episodes, but it makes me  lose both my appetite and my sense of humor. Some cheap laughs come with a heavy  price.THE DISTORTION is so great that equating the Jewish state with the  Nazi tormentors of yesteryear has become close to de rigueur in certain circles.  Israel is compared to Nazi Germany and Gaza has become a “ghetto.” This image is  nurtured even when rockets rain down on southern Israel, as they did on Sderot  over the end of the Passover holiday.This is no ghetto. This is an  increasingly Islamist de facto Palestinian state. Meanwhile, Palestinian  Authority head Mahmoud Abbas swears that Judea and Samaria will be judenrein in  the event of any peace agreement.And yet it is Israel that is accused of  being an “apartheid state,” another expression of ignorance of historic facts  and present truth.This Passover, indeed, provided several unpleasant  reminders that the hatred of Jews thrives.Ukrainian Jews feel  increasingly under threat in a place where synagogues have been firebombed and  the community singled out.In Israel, police commander Baruch Mizrahi, a  father of five, was killed as a terrorist opened fire on his car as he drove  with his wife and children to a family Seder in Kiryat Arba.And people  around the world were shocked by the attack on the Jewish Community Center in  Overland Park, Kansas, in which three people were killed: Reat Underwood, 14;  his grandfather, William Corporon, 69; and Terri LaManno, 53. None of them were  Jewish as it happens, but there is no doubt that this was a classic anti-Semitic  attack carried out by a man who never hid his views.I recently watched a  TV discussion on anti-Semitism focusing on Europe and North American university  campuses, though Heaven knows, the hatred of Jews is not restricted to those  continents. There’s no definitive solution, but one way of tackling the problem  is boosting Jewish identity. The more people are scared to openly identify as  Jews, the more they conversely open themselves up to bullying.Earlier  this month, the Jerusalem Post Conference in New York witnessed a spirited  discussion on Israel’s image. The two main schools of thought were divided  between those who want to focus on the country’s successes and those who  stressed its ongoing problems as a victim in a tough neighborhood.I fall  somewhere between the two approaches: I believe Israel’s development in almost  every field has been close to miraculous – particularly given that it has had to  fight roughly a war a decade and the threats are far from over.I’m not  looking for the sympathy vote. I don’t think a culture based on victimhood is  healthy, but I’m definitely a member of the “Zachor” (“Remember”) brigade.  “Forgive and forget” is literally foreign to my way of thinking. I’m more into  remembering, learning and moving on.I marvel at the miracles, the  contrariness of surviving and thriving. I take pleasure in Israel being a  country like other Western countries, and at the same time I am proud of our  uniqueness.This is who we are, in spite of everything we’ve been through  and because of everything we’ve been through. What hasn’t killed us made us  stronger. You can read the earliest accounts about it (with a fair amount of sex  and violence, too) in The Book that doesn’t change. I’d trust it more than I’d  trust the movie.
liat@jpost.com The writer is editor of The International  Jerusalem Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: No golden silence in Jerusalem</title>
<date>6/11/2014</date>
<content>
It is being called “The Silent Intifada,” but  not by me. When bereaved families cry and emergency vehicles wail on their way  to yet another terrorist incident in the capital; when police helicopters hover  above hot spots in Jerusalem; shots ring out; and the sound of fireworks being  thrown at Jewish homes can be heard almost every night, these are indications  that there is an intifada going on and it’s not a quiet one, just lo-tech – so  far.In the early hours of the morning, the intifada is particularly  noisy in my neighborhood, like so many others in Jerusalem.




It is then  that the muezzin can be heard calling the residents of nearby Arab neighborhoods  for prayers. The volume is much greater than that needed to wake the sleepy  devout; in colloquial terms, it is loud enough to wake the dead. This is not an  act of religious freedom – it is part of the ongoing psychological warfare. And  the sermons sounding out oh-so-loud and clear in the wee hours are not calling  for peace and quiet: They are adding fuel to the intifada flames, broadcasting  the message of jihad.When the heavy rains began falling in Israel last  week, many of us prayed that they would dampen the riots. Even hotheaded youths  don’t like getting wet. And the situation in Jerusalem did calm down –  relatively and briefly.On October 29, Yehudah Glick was shot and  critically wounded outside the Menachem Begin Heritage Center where he had just  spoken on the subject he is passionate about, the right to visit and pray on the  Temple Mount. On November 5, Border Police officer Jidan Assad, from the Druse  village of Beit Jann, was killed and others critically wounded in an attack at  the Shimon Hazaddik light-rail stop. This is near the stop where three-month-old  Chaya Zissel Braun and 22-year-old Karen Jemima Mosquera were fatally wounded in  a similar incident two weeks before.In Hebrew we have a term for this  particular form of attack, carried out by terrorists who need only a vehicle and  a perverted ideology.We call it a “pigua drisa,” a running-down  terrorist attack. It came into use in 2008, when two Arab construction workers  used their bulldozers not to build but to destroy.The method, and the  term, has been used in Israel several times since then and I suspect that the  rest of the world will soon search for a similar phrase. Canada sadly witnessed  such an attack just last month.This week’s fatal attack was carried out  by a terrorist with a clear Hamas affiliation.The assassination attempt  on Glick was carried out by an Islamic Jihad operative, who had already served  time for security offenses. The name Islamic Jihad should give you a clue of the  nature of the terrorist organization. This is not about creating a Palestinian  state. This is war. On the world.But most of the world finds it too hard  to comprehend.The double standards are sickening – and  dangerous.After more than 30 of its soldiers were killed last week,  Egypt swiftly created a buffer zone between Gaza and Sinai, displacing thousands  of Palestinians in the process. It could be considered fortunate that at least  one country threatened by Islamist terrorists is allowed to take  action.The 4,000 rockets launched at Israel this summer from Gaza  apparently don’t constitute a war crime in the eyes of the world diplomatic  community. Neither does the serial disregard of cease-fires that could have  halted all the hostilities and loss of innocent lives. Only Israel’s defense is  criminal.I don’t know whether this is because the Jewish state was  audacious enough to want to defend itself or because – horror of horrors – not  enough Jews died during the war (thanks in part to the Iron Dome) to make the  casualties “proportional.”The threats to take Israel to the  International Criminal Court in The Hague have not gone unnoticed. Hezbollah  leader Hassan Nasrallah on November 4 told tens of thousands of his supporters  that his organization is not afraid of another war with Israel and that his  rockets can reach the country’s ports and airports.The fact that he was  speaking via video link from a bunker is small consolation.The  destruction by Israel of his stronghold in Beirut’s Dahiya neighborhood in  response to the rocket attacks in the Second Lebanon War is no longer a  deterrent. In a culture that worships martyrdom and a world that automatically  condemns Israel, the Iranian-backed master terrorist feels with some  justification that he can’t lose.The recent conference by donor states  on the reconstruction of Gaza, under the same Hamas leadership that had  deliberately caused its destruction, proves his point. It perversely  encapsulated the definition of “chutzpah”: the man who kills his parents and  then pleas for mercy from the court because he is an orphan.The Palestinians appeared to have co-opted the concept of chutzpah just as they have  adopted so many motifs important to Israel and Jews. (Just when did Jerusalem  become so central to their world? Not when it was under Ottoman, British or  Jordanian rule.) This week it was revealed that the sister of senior Hamas  official Mousa Abu Marzouk is receiving treatment for cancer in an Israeli  hospital. Last month, the daughter of former Hamas prime minister Ismail Haniyeh  was hospitalized in Israel.Meantime members of the Boycott, Divestment  and Sanctions movement globally have stepped up their campaign against any  relations or normalization efforts with Israel. (BDS apparently doesn’t apply  when it comes to receiving top-notch Israeli medical care, but perhaps the  greater absurdity is that the Israeli government permits this farce ongoing  hostilities notwithstanding.) MKs Haneen Zoabi and Ahmed Tibi continue to sit in  the Israeli parliament, assured of healthy salaries and pensions, while decrying  “the apartheid state” and fanning the flames of hatred.The light rail,  which until this summer acted as a symbol of peaceful coexistence, is now being  targeted, we’re told, because it passes through Jerusalem’s Arab  neighborhoods.Were it to stop short of those neighborhoods, Israel would  be accused of discriminating against Arab residents.Strangely the only  place in the country that approaches what can be described as an apartheid  policy is the Temple Mount, where Jews – not Muslims – are banned from openly  praying. The attempt to keep the Temple Mount judenrein can be seen in the Arab  riots, where the sanctity of the site – and its mosques – are defiled by thugs  throwing rocks and firecrackers.It is all too easy to present Glick,  with his fiery red hair and beard, as a right-wing fanatic. Easy but wrong.  Glick is passionate about the rights of members of all the monotheistic  religions to pray at the site where the First and Second Temples once stood. In  past contact with him, I found him mild-mannered and naive but far from being a  rabid racist.Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas did not  condemn the attack on Glick.On the contrary, he sent a letter of support  to the family of the suspect of the shooting attack, killed as he resisted  arrest on the rooftop of his Jerusalem home. Describing Hejazi as a martyr,  Abbas said his death is another crime “of the Israeli occupation army against  our people since the Nakba.”It is another sign, for those who care to  see it, that the core issue isn’t the settlements or even Jerusalem. The problem  is the existence of the State of Israel.Leaders who seek true peace do  not go out of their way to glorify Islamic Jihad “martyrs.”They seek to  stop the bloodshed and calm tensions.Israeli lawmakers and opinion  leaders on the Right would be wise – and morally correct – to use their  influence to calm the tensions among their followers. The sanctity of Jerusalem  can only be maintained through peaceful means. However hard and painful the  present situation, violence and provocation will never provide the answer, only  more ammunition to our enemies.And patience should be a particularly  important virtue in a city that’s more than 3,000 years old.A few hours  after the November 5 attack in Jerusalem, it was reported that French Socialist  parliamentarians, following as similar move by Sweden and the British  opposition, were calling for the recognition of the Palestinian state, even  without clearly defined borders. I, too, call for recognizing the Palestinian  entity for what it currently is: We already have Islamic State.
The last  thing the world needs is another terrorism-supporting, borderless entity,  dedicated not to peace and progress but to death and the cult of  martyrdom.

The writer is editor of The International Jerusalem  Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Photo essays and historical narratives</title>
<date>23/1/2014</date>
<content>
Here’s my dilemma: On the one hand, I hope that US Secretary of State John Kerry  reads what I write (which journalist wouldn’t?); on the other hand, I hadn’t  realized that the decorated war hero is so sensitive.




If the  off-the-record comments by Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon leaked by an  anti-government newspaper can cause a crisis with the US administration, I fear  that the honorable secretary, medals for bravery notwithstanding, might be  unable to take the public criticism I have dealt him and the administration he  represents during his remarkably frequent trips to the region. By region, I mean  his numerous visits to Jerusalem and Ramallah rather than his attempts to solve  the bloodshed and revolutions going on elsewhere in the Middle East. But there I  go again.I know that some of my barbed comments have left a mark. One  reader recently threatened to cancel her subscription because I wrote following  the charm offensive by Iranian President Hassan Rouhani: “I’m not entirely  unsympathetic to Obama’s predicament. I understand that he is tired of being  ‘the world’s policeman.’ But that doesn’t mean he should act the global village  idiot.”Fortunately, other readers wrote in to compliment me not only on  the turn of phrase but also on the sentiments.Ya’alon has neither fully  apologized for his comments nor claimed he was misquoted, the usual let-out of  politicians in these circumstances.For the record, unlike Ya’alon’s  criticisms as reported in Yediot Aharonot, I don’t think that Kerry is motivated  by a sense of messianism or an incredible longing for a Nobel Peace Prize. But I  do sometimes get the impression that among the things that keep him going –  there and back, there and back – is the belief that achieving even a temporary  peace between Israel and the Palestinians could only help if he decides to run  again for president. Obama, extraordinarily, received the Nobel simply for being  elected. I admire Kerry for working much harder, whatever it is that drives  him.Actually, I think Kerry’s intentions are good. It’s where the road  they are paving leads that worries me.And not just when it comes to the  Palestinians and Israel.The Syrian situation is also  unbearable.Last week, a Facebook friend shared a photo purporting to  show an orphan sleeping between the graves of his parents in Syria. The word  “heartbreaking” appeared throughout the thread of comments in Hebrew, English  and Arabic. This photo is touching wherever it was taken and is just as  applicable to the victims of war in other places, noted my friend – a feeling  with which I could concur even as I decided that the desert scenery did not look  like what I know of Syrian terrain.The touching photo had not been  Photoshopped, as I suspected. It was in fact literally a work of art.The  picture originally posted by Syrian opposition leader Ahmed Jarba was not of an  orphan and not taken in Syria. It was the work of a Saudi Arabian photographer  who mobilized the help of his nephew for an art project on the theme of the  bonds between parents and children. The (burial) plot thickened, however, as  Jarba reportedly requested that photographer Abdel Aziz al-Atibi at least  pretend that the picture was as Jarba claimed.Jarba hoped to use it to  mobilize support for his anti-Assad cause.Later in the week, when truly  shocking footage surfaced, reportedly taken by a Syrian military police  photographer who defected and handed the material to the rebels, many people  were too jaded or wary to believe it. And it is indeed hard to  authenticate.Not for the first time, I wondered what would have happened  had the mass media (not to mention the social media) existed during the Second  World War. Would they have been able to prevent or at least reduce the extent of  the Nazi killing machines, or would people around the world have just tut-tutted  and got on with their own lives? The one thing of which I am certain is that had  Israel existed as an independent sovereign state – not as an entity subject to  the whims of the British Mandate – millions of Jewish lives could have been  saved.The photos purportedly from Assad’s prison camps immediately  raised associations of the Holocaust.The starved, tortured bodies; the  death and decay.But as the world marks International Holocaust  Remembrance Day on Monday, I am also incredibly aware of the difference. What  became known as the Holocaust was not merely an attempt by the Nazis to kill the  Jews; it was a systematic effort to erase all signs of their religion, culture  and existence.Next week will be full of activities around the free world  aimed at educating another generation in the undoubted importance of  tolerance.The “Never again!” slogan will reverberate. And everybody will  be able to feel good. The photos from Syria will be shown. Or perhaps from Gaza.  Does it even matter any more? The message has become so trivialized that all  means are accepted.The attempt by the Syrian opposition to exploit the  Saudi Arabian boy who had happily helped his uncle’s art project is not the  first incident of its kind. Far from it.It is still far from clear what  actually happened to 12-year-old Palestinian Muhammad a-Dura. Israeli  investigations show it is highly unlikely that his death was caused by the IDF,  but who cares? He is an image. An icon. A Palestinian martyr whose name and  face, distorted with fear, is known worldwide – even if he was accidentally shot  by his own side. Even if he wasn’t shot at all.Just over a year ago,  during Operation Pillar of Defense, the images supposedly coming out of Gaza  were similarly horrendous. Yet CNN’s Anderson Cooper, among others, had to  apologize for screening footage of an ostensibly wounded Palestinian man who  made a remarkable recovery as soon as he thought the cameras were no longer  rolling.Izzadin Kassam tweeted a photo of a father weeping over the  bloody body of his child, as doctors looked on – a photo, it later turned out,  that had been taken at a hospital in Aleppo, Syria. A particularly poignant  picture posted by pro-Palestinian activists showed a baby, dazed and bloodied,  in the hands of a rescue worker. It was the most audacious of lies. The infant  was not a victim of Israeli aggression in Gaza; on the contrary, she had just  lost her mother when a Gazan missile hit her home in Kiryat Malachi.And the  truth continues to be a victim in the regional turmoil. Just this week, Arab MK  Ahmed Tibi heckled Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, claiming Israel is an  apartheid state – his own political position and immunity  notwithstanding.The same day, more missiles were launched on the south  of the country. Tibi managed to ignore them – each one a war crime – and instead  tried to prove his point by yelling that his party colleague MK Taleb Abu Arar,  a Beduin, lived in a community without water and electricity. It didn’t take  long for photos to emerge of Abu Arar’s hometown, replete with street lights,  and his house, equipped with air conditioning. In this case, however, the photos  couldn’t correct the image the two Israeli parliamentarians had already  conveyed.The propaganda war has no set battlefield. And anything goes. A  UNESCO exhibition, originally titled “People, Book, Land: The 3,500-year  relationship of the Jewish people to the Land of Israel,” which was meant to  open next week in Paris, was first renamed and then postponed at the last minute  after the Arab states managed to convince UNESCO director-general Irina Bokova  that showing the link of Jews to the land that features in all their prayers  could harm the current round of peace negotiations.Coming on the heels  of the latest round of claims by Palestinian Authority head Mahmoud Abbas that  Jesus was a Palestinian, the struggle to dictate the narrative is heating up.  But the non-Muslim world should not be fooled, or fool itself. Not long after  Jesus’s Jewish identity is erased, the rest of his history – and the world’s –  will be rewritten. It won’t take much for the Last Supper to turn into a  post-Ramadan iftar meal. Just consider the Christians already fighting to  survive wherever Islamists are taking over. There will be those who shrug and  say “Who cares?” And even worse, there will be those who see nothing wrong with  the picture.The writer is the editor of The International Jerusalem  Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Pontificating on Jerusalem</title>
<date>29/5/2014</date>
<content>
All roads lead to Rome, but when the pope visits Jerusalem, all traffic comes to  a standstill. Jerusalemites are used to high-profile visits – it literally goes  with the territory – but the whirlwind trip by Pope Francis was in a class of  its own. A highschool student stuck on a bus with me missed her matriculation  exam in Bible studies – an irony not lost on the rest of the passengers, some of  whom spent two and a half hours together because so many streets were closed for  security reasons.I found myself exuding extraordinary Jewish motherly  emotions to the pope as he passed through our city. Like the almost  unprecedented number of police and security agents protecting him during his  stay, I didn’t want anything to happen to him. Especially not here; especially  not on our watch.




As it was Pope Francis came, saw and conquered many  hearts. A pope who reaches out in friendship – anyone from any religion who  reaches out in genuine friendship – is, in my opinion, a welcome visitor  (traffic snarls notwithstanding).The photo of the pope by the security  fence near Bethlehem with its spray-painted anti-Israel messages was upsetting –  not least for its obvious exploitation of the pontiff and abuse of the truth.  The photo of Francis placing a prayer for peace between the stones of the  Western Wall presented an image far easier on the eyes and heart. And I am  convinced the stones of the Kotel will still be standing long after the graffiti  on the security fence has faded.Perhaps nowhere in the world is the  message of universal values more pertinent than in Jerusalem.Ahead of  the pope’s visit, when it was clear that normal life would be temporarily  disrupted, I did what all experienced Jerusalemites did – stocked up on  groceries. It probably seems like a gross overreaction to outsiders – but  there’s something ingrained in the Jerusalem experience that makes such  preparations as buying extra milk, bread, fruit and vegetables an automatic  response to everything from a one-day holiday to a flurry of snow, or a visit  from a traffic-stopping dignitary.“It’s like we’re pre-programmed to  prepare for the Siege of Jerusalem,” quipped a woman waiting in the supermarket  line.Later, as I unpacked cans of food – good for all emergencies, we  shouldn’t know of them – I wondered whether she had been referring to the siege  of 1948, when the Arabs cut the Jews of Jerusalem off from the rest of the  country during the War of Independence, or the Roman siege a couple of millennia  earlier.Only in Jerusalem would such a question arise.I have  neighbors who remember the 1948 siege well and friends who recall the dangers of  the pre-1967 years. Most of my friends commemorate the fall of the First and  Second Temples as naturally as they celebrate the city’s  reunification.No sooner had the pope safely returned to Rome, than  Jerusalem celebrated its own unique birthday, or rather a re-birthday. Jerusalem  Day, whose Hebrew date this year fell on May 28, marks the reunification of the  capital in the 1967 Six Day War. It is marked by prayers, parades and public  dancing – most of which caused more traffic jams.In an effort to counter  the claims of Israel being an apartheid state, many Facebook friends have  recently taken to posting photos of Jews and Arabs traveling together on  Jerusalem’s buses and the light rail. For those of us who actually live here,  the remarkable thing is not that Jews and Arabs share the same stores, cafes and  public transport, it’s that the buses and light rail manage to function between  one event and another. (The memory of the approximately half a million mourners  who brought the city to a halt for Rabbi Ovadia Yosef’s funeral a few months ago  came to mind with the road closures for the pope.) Part of Jerusalem’s magic is  the marriage between the metaphysical and the mundane.I realize that  Jerusalem’s Arab residents might not see the reunification of the city in the  same miraculous terms that I do, but I don’t have to apologize. I’m proud to be  on the side that didn’t launch wars in 1948, 1967 and 1973 – and lose. I’m happy  to be part of a people who build and rebuild Jerusalem, making it grow and  flourish without attempting to annihilate other religions and  cultures.Jerusalem is an ancient city; the Roman-era siege seems fairly  recent compared to the First Temple period. The population, however, is  overwhelmingly a young one. The vast majority of the city’s Arab residents have  grown up in the united city. Similarly, most of the Jewish population does not  remember firsthand living in a divided city under constant threat from Jordanian  snipers, let alone life with British-imposed curfews during the Mandate  pre-1948.Our sieges are due to weather conditions and visiting  dignitaries, celebrations and festivals, or the passing of leaders.The  light rail in particular, whether fully functional or not, has united the city  in an incontrovertible way. Mamilla Mall, the high-class shopping parade linking  the city center to the Old City, serves all. A walk, jog or bicycle ride along  Mesilot Park, built on and around the old railway track, also makes it clear  that people of different stripes – or at least sporting different religiously  identifying headwear – share the same pleasures and leisure- time  activities.A Palestinian acquaintance, a resident of Ramallah, noted how  incongruous it was that she had visited Jerusalem’s recently inaugurated Cinema  City while I have yet to find the time. (And maybe our prayers for peace will  one day be answered and I’ll feel as comfortable visiting Ramallah as she is in  Jerusalem.) Having different neighborhoods with their own distinct character is  not the sign of a racist system – at least no more than it is in cities  elsewhere that boast Chinatowns.I used to joke that the best way to see  the city’s Arabs and Jews together was either to visit Hadassah Hospital or (the  pleasanter option) visit the Biblical Zoo. Those days are gone.The  city’s mixed nature is now evident in far broader settings. Does that make me  feel threatened? No.I am secure enough in my identity and Jerusalem’s  identity as the eternal capital of the Jewish People. It is a spiritual  link that cannot be broken.And the more people realize their welfare and  livelihoods depend on peace, commerce and – particularly in a city like  Jerusalem – providing an attractive environment for visitors, tourists and  pilgrims, the safer we will all be.In a natural progression, Jerusalem  Day gave way to preparations for Shavuot – one of the three festivals when Jews  in Temple times made a pilgrimage to the city. Traditionally on the eve of  Shavuot Jews hold all-night study sessions. It is not unusual to find people  wandering the streets in the early hours of the morning. Special points can be  found on the way to the Kotel where the modern-day Jewish pilgrims can stop to  drink.The street names are in Hebrew; the people speak Hebrew; when they  get stuck in traffic, they grumble in Hebrew; when they greet each other, they  do it in Hebrew.Compare that to the fate of Latin and you’ll understand  part of the miracle of this city and of this land.This is Jerusalem. I  don’t occupy it. I live in it. I live it. And I love it (traffic jams and  all).

liat@jpost.com 
The writer is editor of The International Jerusalem  Post.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>My Word: Seen, heard, ignored and the absurd</title>
<date>18/12/2014</date>
<content>
The world is  a mess. And it is spinning very fast. No wonder bits and pieces keep breaking  off. Or maybe it’s just my head that’s spinning as I try to keep up.Last  week, I was asked by a London-based radio station to discuss the incident in  which Palestinian Authority quasi-minister Ziad Abu Ein died, according to the  autopsy report of a heart attack, shortly after scuffling with border police at  a protest. “The Palestinians can turn him into a martyr, but nobody can turn him  into a saint,” I pointed out, noting Abu Ein had been extradited from the US to  Israel to face trial for his part in a terror attack that killed two teens in  1979. He was later released in a prisoner swap.




I’m not sure whether the  interview was broadcast or not. Perhaps the producers got another point I made:  That there are bigger stories in the region.As it turns out, there are  bigger stories outside the region too.Eyes this week were firmly set on  the siege in Sydney, for example. The incident in which a former Iranian held  hostages in the Lindt Cafe, demanding an Islamic State flag and voicing Islamic  State slogans via the staff and customers he held captive, is not being  described as a terrorist attack, noted a friend.Even after Man Haron  Monis and two hostages died, the Australian press referred to him only as a  “gunman.”Monis was described as a “lone wolf” with a disturbing history,  including being charged as an accessory in the murder of his ex-wife and sending  hate mail to families of fallen Australian soldiers.If asking for an  Islamic State flag is not the (literal) sign of some kind of affiliation to the  Sunni jihadist terror organization, I’m not sure what is: Perhaps as 2014 draws  to an end it doesn’t count unless you behead an infidel and post the video on  YouTube.Australians were obviously not used to terror attacks and I hope  they never do need to adopt the instincts that are second nature to Israelis.  Most of the Israelis I know in Sydney quickly contacted family and friends to  let them know they were all right. I messaged a former Brit who lives there  because she hadn’t checked in. She seemed surprised but touched by the  gesture.I don’t think the world has fully understood that it is at war.  And the Palestinian-Israeli issue is not at the heart of it.I keep  correcting people who speak of six Islamic State victims who have been  beheaded.That’s six Westerners, I note. Countless people – Christians,  Yazidis and Muslims – have been killed in this particularly gruesome way, but  the Western world didn’t notice. Didn’t want to know. They remain  nameless.Taliban gunmen, I’ll call them terrorists, for argument’s sake,  butchered more than 100 students and staff at a Pakistani school on Tuesday,  but, unlike the Sydney siege, the story did not disrupt regular broadcast  schedules in many Western media outlets.The children cut down in their  prime will soon be forgotten in the West, like the 200 or so Nigerian  schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram in March, or the already-forgotten 47 killed  in a bomb attack on a Nigerian school just last month.The Iraqi  government, or what’s left of it, issued a statement on Tuesday condemning the  murder of some 150 women and girls in Falluja for refusing to serve as Islamic  State sex slaves. This follows the publication of what is reportedly an Islamic  State manual on how to treat female captives (and wives).Terror attacks  are taking place all over the world, the vast majority of them being perpetrated  by Muslims.Jerusalem Post staff met this week with a visiting journalist  from China’s prestigious Southern Weekly. Wu Mengqi candidly discussed the  situation in Israel and the Palestinian territories as well as in China,  stressing his right to freely express his own opinions.The average man  on the street there is pro-Palestinian, Wu said, but something has changed  recently. Terror has come to China’s streets, too. The frenzied knife attack at  Kungming station in Yunnan province in March that left nearly 30 people dead is  believed to have been carried out by Muslim separatists from the Xinjiang  region, far from the site of the massacre. It has left people so nervous, Wu  said, that there is a danger that even a perceived attack could cause a stampede  in a crowded station with catastrophic consequences.The Uighur  separatists might not be a part of global jihad but it’s clear from where they  drew their inspiration.Scotland recently held a polite plebiscite on  splitting from the United Kingdom; Catalans in Spain also held a good-spirited  symbolic vote on independence. They didn’t go round stabbing, hacking and  beheading innocent victims at prayer, school or on their way to work.One  response to the “non-terror” attack in Australia was the 
illridewithyou  campaign offering support for members of the local Muslim community who fear the  ugly backlash of Islamophobia.I was more impressed with the condemnation  by local Muslim leaders of the siege in which two innocent people tragically  lost their lives. The battle against the distortion of Islam hijacked by terror  groups and organizations throughout the world has to be fought by brave,  moderate Muslims.It takes only a few terrorists to cause tremendous  devastation; that’s why it’s so important that the vast numbers of the moral  majority speak out.And if you need a reminder of how low terrorists will  stoop, consider this: The Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) announced on Monday  that it had thwarted a terror attack in which the Palestinian would-be bomber  had cynically planned to get a permit to enter Israel for medical treatment,  disguise herself as a pregnant Jewish woman, and carry out a mass-casualty  attack in Tel Aviv.This week, we were subjected to so many moral  outrages that it’s hard to fit them all within the confines of a column of this  length. I think the chutzpah award goes to Ireland, but it’s a close  call.After members of the Irish parliament accused Israel of “genocide”  and “apartheid” earlier this month before passing a non-binding motion  recognizing a Palestinian state, I should not perhaps have been surprised at the  turn of events this week when the Holocaust Education Trust Ireland reportedly  banned any mention of Israel at a Holocaust Memorial Day event in January. It  later backtracked – although I dread to think what its members are going to say  about Israel, in the circumstances. We can’t be far from the day when  “enlightened” Europeans drop any reference of the Jews in relation to the  Bible.Meanwhile, in what is being described as a “diplomatic tsunami”  for Israel, the ironically named European Court of Justice in Luxembourg  temporarily at least removed Hamas from the EU’s list of terrorist organizations  until it had received additional evidence to support the designation. Apparently  the 10,000 or so missiles launched from Gaza – some from hospitals and schools  and every one of them aimed at Israeli civilians and civil targets – do not  count. And the numerous dead victims of terror, including the three teenagers  abducted and murdered in June, can’t speak.The idea of convening a  special meeting to discuss Israel’s purported war crimes under the Fourth Geneva  Convention the same day was also more bemusing than amusing.As one  Israeli official commented: “Think about the absurdity. The Geneva Convention,  which is supposed to deal with war crimes, did not meet about [Syrian President  Bashar] Assad, [Libya’s former leader Muammar] Gaddafi, or Boko Haram, but only  about Israel.”The move, like this winter’s fashion of voting for  Palestinian independence, is being described as largely symbolic. That’s what  scares me: symbolic of what? The right thing to do is cut off the Medusa- like  heads of terrorist organizations instead of trying to clip the wings of those  fighting for freedom, but the current atmosphere only fosters the growth of more  terrorists, or deranged gunmen. The world has become more dangerous for  everyone, everywhere. I don’t want someone to ride with me; I want the world’s  leaders to make life’s journey safer for us all.The writer is editor of  The International Jerusalem Post.
liat@jpost.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>NO HOLDS BARRED: An annus horribilis for Israeli PR</title>
<date>29/12/2014</date>
<content>
The past year saw a ferocious fight for the survival of the Jewish state, both  military and in PR. Israel defeated Hamas on the Gaza battlefield, though amid  serious casualties. But in the PR war, Israel suffered an outright loss. Four  months after the war, Israel is under greater international assault than ever  before. It’s no longer the paranoid who see the world ganging up on Israel. It’s  the politically aware.In the coming year we may see sanctions against  Israel from the EU. As if that weren’t shocking enough, there have even been  press reports of possible sanctions from the Obama administration. What is  certain is that the PR onslaught will continue. Israel’s implacable enemies  smell blood and, like the bloodthirsty sharks they are, will press their  case.




This coming year the momentum needs to reverse. The time has come  for us to bolster our ranks. We need to expand the draft of Israel’s defenders,  as more and more of us join in the battle for Israel. And of particular  importance are the two arenas where Diaspora Jewry can contribute most: in the  media and on campus.As for media we’ve already gotten the ball rolling.  This past year, we organized advertising campaigns supporting Israel in print,  broadcast and social media. Just over the past few months, our organization,  This World: The Values Network, has produced ads that have exposed the  child-sacrifice barbarity of Hamas, the anti-Israel bias of William Schabas, the  obscene human rights abuses of Iran, and the humanity of Israel maintaining the  highest morality in combat even as it defends itself from genocidal threats.  Most of our ads have been produced in full pages of The New York Times, The Wall  Street Journal, The Los Angeles Times and USA Today.But Israel needs  much more. We must bring the PR war to our foes, exposing the duplicity,  corruption and lies of organizations like Students for Justice in  Palestine. Which brings us to the war on campus.It will be the  purpose of our organization, in the coming year, to provide funding to student  groups who fight for Israel. We are looking to assist those student groups who  take the step beyond communal grass-roots activism and provide a markedly  visible defense of Israel, on a level large enough to be impact their entire  university.That means, to give a few examples, demonstrations against  SJP incitement on campus, large-scale public events exposing the monstrous lie  of Israel Apartheid Week, and campus advertising campaigns shedding light on the  human rights abuses of Israel’s enemies, especially Iran and Hamas. Students who  are prepared to organize public campaigns and events like these are those with  whom we wish to partner. Nurturing small pro-Israel communities with Horah  nights and falafel theme-parties will not suffice. The time has come for us to  broaden our horizons, reach well beyond our familiar circles, and turn the tide  on campus as a whole.The world needs to know what Israel is facing and  why it is hated. Those who seek to impose a radical Islamist order on the Middle  East, returning the region to the Stone Age, hate Israel because of its  democratic freedoms. Europe is ridiculous in lending support to this barbarity,  even as it threatens their own societies at home. It’s our job to make that even  clearer.We intend to expose the hypocrisy of Palestinian leaders like  BDS founder Omar Barghouti, who, even while working toward a subsidized  doctorate from Tel Aviv University has the chutzpah to call Israel an apartheid  state. In fact, by calling for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions – of  which he is a part – Barghouti is actually boycotting himself.You can’t  make this stuff up, and it would be laughable if it weren’t so tragic. It needs  to be exposed.We intend to fund more debates on campus that bring  together Israel’s best defenders with whomever BDS wishes to field, confident in  the fact that Israel can and will win arguments in the marketplace of  ideas.I find it amusing that some Hillels around the country consider  inviting Peter Beinart as the featured speaker when they seek to stage a  pro-Israel event, even as he calls for a boycott of all Jewish manufactured  goods from Judea and Samaria. Meanwhile, ole’ Peter is using Chinese  manufactured goods even though China has occupied Tibet since 1950. One can  likewise presume that Beinart has no problem using Turkish goods though Turkey  has occupied half of Cyprus since 1974. Beinart has made his name as a Jew who  is a severe critic of Israel. His inconsistency and double standards toward  Israel merit exposure.While I was in Israel last week I saw a thriving,  industrious and healthy democracy – a heroic society that has maintained its  humanity and decency while being the target of genocidal threats and actions in  its six-decade-plus existence. But it also struck me that Israelis are not fully  aware of just how vilified their country has become around the world. And who  can blame them? They have enough problems just trying to protect their citizens  from constant terrorist attack and murder.
In the end, then, it is for us  Jews who live abroad to join the battle to protect Israel’s good name and  reputation. But we need to act fast, before irreversible damage is done to the  integrity and standing of the world’s only Jewish state.

The author, whom  Newsweek and The Washington Post calls “the most famous rabbi in America,” is  the Founder of This World: The Values Network, the world’s leading organization  defending Israel in the media. He is the author of Judaism for Everyone and 29  other books. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No holds barred: Anti-Israel speakers and Jewish self-hatred</title>
<date>3/3/2014</date>
<content>
CAPE TOWN, South Africa – The global center of the world BDS movement is, when  you think about it, South Africa. BDS (boycott, divestment, sanctions), in an  attempt to sound more reasonable and less hateful, rarely compares Israel to  Nazi Germany the way, say, arch-anti-Semite Roger Waters of Pink Floyd does. No,  BDS argues that Israel practices apartheid the way that pre-Nelson Mandela South  Africa did.You can imagine, therefore, that it’s not all that easy being  a proud lover of Israel in South Africa. That the Jewish community here pulls it  off, remaining staunch Zionists, is impressive. But there are fissures in the  support. Israel is under constant assault by some ANC ministers who make the  false and erroneous comparison of Israel’s existential war against Islamic  terrorists to the ANC’s struggle against white apartheid rule. Last week I  responded to this ridiculous comparison. This week I want to focus on what it’s  like to be subject to it.




It’s impossible for world Jewry to bear the  brunt of so much hatred, and to constantly be on the defensive about Israel,  without some of that bile and poison seeping in.The constant attacks  start playing with your head. Maybe there is something wrong with us Jews, you  start to think.With Christianity saying for 2,000 years that Jesus is  loving while the God of the Old Testament is vengeful, maybe Judaism is too  rigid. Maybe in Israel we’re overdoing it. With the Palestinians saying they’re  humiliated by checkpoints, perhaps Israel is purposely trying to degrade them as  opposed to instituting security measures to stop buses filled with children from  being blown up. And maybe, just maybe, we Jews who live outside of Israel are  simply giving Israel too much mindless support.I remember twice visiting  Dakar, Senegal, one of the poorest countries on earth, and being struck by the  advertisements all over the city for skin-bleaching agents. But maybe I  shouldn’t have been surprised.Gorie island in the city is where millions  of African slaves departed through “the gate of no return” to a life of chains  in the Americas and Caribbean. When you’re brutalized with that kind of hatred  just for the color of your skin you don’t always see beauty when you peer in the  mirror.The gradual trickle of self-hatred into the Jewish soul is  evidencing itself in the growing American Jewish call for Israel-hating speakers  to be hosted by Jewish organizations at Jewish venues in order to demonstrate  our open-mindedness. We first saw this with Swarthmore Hillel when it bizarrely  announced its “Open Hillel” policy, opening their doors to anti-Zionist  speakers. Asking people who wish to destroy Israel to come and address Jewish  audiences – and make no mistake about it, BDS is only about destroying Israel –  would be the equivalent of the ANC inviting white bigots to argue that apartheid  should be reinstated.I am all for inviting Israel’s opponents to open,  rules-based debates, where they are forced to rationally defend their positions  in the marketplace of ideas, and indeed, our organization, This World: The  Values Network, will be sponsoring debates along these lines across the United  States, beginning at Columbia University on 31 March. I believe strongly in  freedom of speech and fair and intelligent exchange. And if it’s a credible  opponent but one who has the intention of obliterating your very home, it can  only be a debate format and on neutral ground.But what fool would allow  poisonous, anti-Israel, anti-Semitic propaganda to be offered to impressionable  Jewish minds without a retort? To invite people who want to malign and defame  Israel to address Jewish audiences is proof of the old adage that there is no  hatred like Jewish self-hatred.The latest example was Ramaz High School  students in New York inviting Columbia Professor Rashid Khalidi to lecture to  them. The New York Times reported that Khalidi had been suggested to the  students by Peter Beinart, and that did not surprise me. Peter, who I was kind  to and hosted several times 20 years ago at the University of Oxford, has become  the Jewish legitimizer of BDS. Peter feels he can get away with joining the  calls for boycotts against Israel because, he says, he only wants to boycott all  goods from Judea and Samaria in the West Bank.Of course, this would  destroy mainstream Israeli companies that provide jobs for thousands of Israelis  and Palestinians, companies like Sodastream, Ahava cosmetics, and even  Victoria’s Secret, to name but a few. Peter claims to be a Zionist, but by being  not just in league with but a leader of those seeking to destroy Israel  economically he is clearly pushing the term to its absolute limit.MY  REWARD for my friendship to Peter was his column last summer in which he libeled  me with the nauseating and revolting claim that my stances on the Israeli-Arab  conflict “borders on racism.” Personal insults and name-calling are what often  passed for journalism on Open Zion, and it’s not surprising that The Daily Beast  canceled it, though whether the cause was widespread disinterest or shoddy  journalism was never made clear.I immediately challenged Peter on  Twitter, and he took the cowardly route of blaming a low-level editor for  inserting the racism charge, even though he was the editorin- chief of Open Zion  and clearly the buck stopped with him. I have invited Peter into our 31 March  debate and he has accepted.Khalidi is a respected academic. But in the  PBS documentary, Anti-Semitism in the 21st Century: The Resurgence, he throws  out a blood libel against Israel, accusing it of “killing children” and “old  people.” He does not mention that Israel has lost thousands of civilians to  Palestinian terror attack. He also makes the absurd claim that peace between  Israel and the Palestinians will end the virulent anti-Semitism so often seen in  the Islamic world. One can only surmise that Iran’s calls for the extermination  of Israel and its Holocaust denial will magically cease just as soon as Israel  signs away Jerusalem and the West Bank.Martin Solomon pointed out that  in a 2006 appearance on PBS’s NewsHour with Margaret Warner, Khalidi claimed  that neither Hezbollah nor Hamas was a “direct threat to the United States.”  This was an astonishing claim given Hezbollah’s 1983 Beirut bombing of the US  Marine barracks in Beirut, in which 241 American marines were murdered. Khalidi  seemed to believe that US peacekeeping forces, as an army of occupation, were  fair game.Of Khalidi’s book The Iron Cage: The Story of the Palestinian  Struggle for Statehood, New York Times columnist Clyde Haberman wrote, “When he  talks about repressive Israeli measures having been ‘sometimes imposed on the  pretext of security,’ critics are bound to ask: What pretext? How many suicide  bombings of cafes and pizza shops does it take before a country has a right to  end them by any method that seems to work?” But while Khalidi’s opposition to  Israel is not appropriate for high school students, it is perfectly appropriate  for our Columbia University debate, to which I publicly invited him and where I  can assure him he will be treated with the respect and courtesy he  deserves.The author, whom Newsweek and The Washington Post call “the  most famous rabbi in America,” is the only rabbi to have won the London Times  Preacher of the Year competition and is the international best-selling author of  30 books. In May he will publish Kosher Lust: Love is Not the Answer. His  website is www.
shmuley.com. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No holds barred: Chabad fanatics are destroying the movement</title>
<date>24/2/2014</date>
<content>
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa – Of late I have found myself a target of Islamic  extremist websites and Iranian activists around the world. As one of Israel’s  more high-profile defenders in American media – and one of Iran’s most strident  critics – I have received death threats and repeated condemnation in  Israel-hating outlets across the globe.So when I was invited again to  lecture in South Africa, a benevolent nation whose government has unexpectedly  emerged as one of Israel’s harshest critics, followed by a major debate in  England at the Oxford Union on Iran, I knew that I would come in for more of the  same.




What I did not expect was that my most strident critic on this trip  would not be an Islamist fanatic but a Jewish one – my own former yeshiva head  from Los Angeles, Rabbi Ezra Schochet, part of a new breed of religious  fundamentalists who are destroying the Chabad movement.Some  background.Since 1994 I have visited South Africa many times for lecture  tours. On some occasions I was brought by my publishers to do national media  tours on my books on marriage and relationships. On other occasions I was a  guest of the Jewish community to address eroding support for Israel in an  otherwise staunchly Zionist community.I have watched this incredible  country evolve from the end of apartheid when I first arrived to the  multi-ethnic, harmonious society which has become an inspiration to the  world.I have also watched the standing of the State of Israel slowly  devolve as more and more South Africans accept the superficial comparison of  Israel as an apartheid state.The popularity I have been fortunate to  earn in South African media as a promoter of the family – and few continents  love family as much as Africa – has allowed me to emerge as a credible defender  of Israel explaining that we Jews, as the Christian Bible makes clear, are  analogous to Black South Africans as the indigenous people of the Holy Land who  were invaded by a white, oppressive, European, colonial power who destroyed our  temple, murdered us, and exiled us from our land. For 2,000 years we have prayed  to return, never losing contact with our soil.And now that we have come  back and rebuilt our country, we granted equal citizenship to our Arab brothers  and sisters who came to the land over the centuries in our absence, when we Jews  were forcibly denied entry, and who have, even more so, come to Israel over the  past century as Zionist pioneers have made the country more habitable and  prosperous.Fast-forward to my lecture tour this week as a guest of  Johannesburg’s largest congregation, Sydenham, headed by one of the world’s most  successful communal rabbis and orators, Yossi Goldman, where I spoke to more  than a thousand people.Today, out of the blue, I started hearing from  friends that Rabbi Ezra Schochet, head of the Chabad Yeshiva in Los Angeles, had  written to the Beit Din of Johannesburg to say that “It is totally prohibited  and unacceptable for orthodox Jews to hear someone like S. Boteach speak, since  his views on many issues are against Torah and halacha.”That was bad  enough. But then Schochet did something truly astonishing.Those of us  who love Chabad and the Jewish intellectualism it has represented for centuries  have been pained and appalled to witness over the past few years how two vapid,  insipid, gossip-mongering and illiterate websites – who trade in daily attacks  on leading figures in Chabad and beyond – publish drivel that contravenes all  Jewish standards of decency and values, but have nevertheless become the de  facto news outlets for the global Chabad movement.Rabbi Schochet  actually sent a statement to these websites attacking Rabbi Goldman, one of  South Africa’s most esteemed religious leaders, as “a Lubavitcher hassid” who  has committed a “chilul hashem,” a desecration of God’s name, and fought “an  active war against the Rebbe and everything the Rebbe promoted and stood  for.”Surely Rabbi Schochet is aware that he is funded by the Jewish  community of Los Angeles, to the tune of millions of dollars a year, to run a  yeshiva and not a Taliban madrassa. His disgusting assault is an insult to all  the hard-working financial supporters who expect him to graduate students who  spread love and not hate, acceptance and not attacks, Jewish light rather than  odious darkness.This same Rabbi Schochet is the brother of Rabbi  Immanuel Schochet, who banned my book Kosher Jesus without ever citing a single  textual source or reason, even as the book brought back so many Jews who had  been lost to Christianity. Rabbi Schochet was extremely ill at the time and  would tragically die a few months later. Many were puzzled that he would  suddenly malign a book that was widely praised as a powerful response to  Christian missionaries, so much so that entire books have now been published by  leading Christian scholars responding to my arguments against the divinity of  Christ and the founding of a new faith.“Chabad” translates literally as  “Wisdom, Understanding and Knowledge.” The Rebbe himself was a world-class  intellectual, with encyclopedic knowledge of both Jewish and secular  texts.Sadly, this air of intellectual sophistication is being lost to  Chabad with fanatics and extremists like Rabbi Schochet rising to prominence  amid the dearth of scholarly leadership. Religious extremism always thrives in a  vacuum. Chabad continues to be the most successful Jewish outreach organization  in the world. But everyone in the movement is aware of the acute shortage of  Chabad writers, thinkers and intellectuals as an emerging and bullying thought  police attempts to enforce suffocating doctrinal purity and rigid academic  conformity.Their methods are harsh and immoral.When they set  their sights on people like me who believe that Judaism must illuminate the  modern world, they go after not us, but our children. They try to ban our kids  from attending Chabad schools, and when that doesn’t work they even try and stop  people from dating and marrying our offspring.The loser, of course, is  Chabad, which is producing outstanding fundraisers and organizational heads but  is experiencing a diminishing intellectual life. Chabad is world-famous for  outreach and programming.But just a generation ago, in the Rebbe’s  lifetime, Chabad was producing world-class orators and thinkers who resuscitated  Jewish life not just with buildings but with the power of Jewish ideas. Both are  necessary.We need grass-roots activists to build mikvahs and synagogues,  and to look after special-needs children, like Friendship Circle.But we  also need broadcasters, authors, lecturers and debaters who bring Jewish values  to millions through the power of the global media. The Jewish people are meant  to be not just the group that opens outposts throughout the world. Their  biblical mandate is to be a light unto the nations.Accusing scholars of  veering from halacha without citing a single example is a form of intellectual  tyranny that cuts against the grain of Jewish love for learning.I joined  Chabad as a boy. The Rebbe’s warmth and genius won me over, as did his worldly  sophistication, polish and refusal to judge less observant Jews.At the  age of 14 I became a student at Rabbi Schochet’s yeshiva and would eventually  win top prizes in both Jewish and secular studies. Now, this man who educated me  is calling me a heretic because I dare to say that gay Jewish men should be  encouraged to put on tefillin and keep the Sabbath as opposed to just being  ostracized as an abomination. If he’s right that I am a heretic to orthodoxy he  should be capable of easily defending his revolting allegations in an open and  public debate, to which I challenge him, before a public audience of his own  choosing.If he denies me the right to defend myself, then you know what  this is. A great intellectual movement, built by the Rebbe, which is slowly,  like too many other religious movements, being taken over by ignorant, radical  fundamentalists who exercise power through character assassination and then hide  like cowards after shooting their arrows.The author, who Newsweek and  The Washington Post call “the most famous rabbi in America,” is the only rabbi  to have won the London Times Preacher of the Year competition and is the  international best-selling author of 30 books. In May he will publish Kosher  Lust: Love is Not the Answer. His website is www.
shmuley.com. Follow him  on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No holds barred: Holocaust denial and the Rwandan genocide</title>
<date>28/4/2014</date>
<content>
No sooner had I returned from the twentieth anniversary commemorations of the  Rwandan genocide in Kigali than I saw Howard French’s assault on the man  universally credited with stopping the mass killings, President Paul  Kagame.In his Wall Street Journal op-ed (“How Rwanda’s Paul Kagame  Exploits US Guilt,” 19 April 2014) French brings us an unoriginal rehash of all  the Monday-morning quarterbacks convinced they could have done a much better job  of bringing Rwanda back from the brink after the fastest genocide in  history.




I am mystified by French’s efforts to obscure these truths and,  as Jew who has watched the growing trend of Holocaust denial, I am even more  troubled. When I was in Kigali I told President Kagame that if he was not  careful in 10 years’ time the world would say there was no genocide, but merely  ethnic strife. He responded, “10 years? It’s happening already today.” As  outrageous as it would be to describe the Armenian, Cambodian, Jewish or Bosnian  genocides as occurring without agency, the Rwandan genocide is no different.  There were good guys and really, really bad guys. And despite all French’s  efforts to obfuscate the truth, Kagame is the acknowledged hero of the  plot.French contends that America’s guilt over its inaction to stop the  genocide causes our government today to overlook alleged crimes of the Kagame  government. It does not occur to French that the reason the US is very friendly  toward Rwanda is because Americans are amazed that in a continent marked by war,  starvation and corruption Rwanda has the fastest-growing economy, the highest  immunization rates, a celebrated war on corruption and, as any visitor can  witness, is a model for racial harmony and integration? While traveling through  Rwanda I was amazed to see the entire country shut down at 2 p.m. each day  during the annual genocide remembrance week, to sit outdoors in groups of a few  hundred to talk through ethnic differences and foster reconciliation so that  such violence never repeats itself. I have never seen anything of its kind, not  even in Israel or the United States.French is a downer, a profound cynic  and pessimist whose prejudices against Kagame would deny him even this  astonishing achievement. In a world filled with mass murderers like Bashar Assad  and Kim Jong-Un, who continues to starve his people to death, French eviscerates  any pretension to objectivity when he says, quoting a Belgian scholar, that  Kagame is “probably the worst war criminal in office today.” But any objective  observer who drives through the pristine and immaculate roads of Rwanda will  conclude that Kagame has exceeded any expectation the world would have had for a  country that in 1994 had so many bodies in its rivers that the waters actually  ceased to flow.That is not to say the president is perfect. It is to say  that before we hurl accusations against a man who witnessed the world’s  abandonment of his people to machetes and axes, we ought to be somewhat  understanding of his aggressive security policies that ensure his people are  never subject to extermination again. As Yogi Berra famously said, “Just because  you’re paranoid doesn’t mean they’re not out to get you.”Writers like  French find it easy to condemn countries like Rwanda or Israel for taking the  fight to their enemies rather than continuing to be sitting ducks. Would French  really advise Kagame to leave the murderers who perpetrated the genocide right  on his border in Congo? Would he tell Kagame to rely on international assurances  and the United Nations to protect his people, the same UN that categorically  refused to allow its commander, General Romeo Dallaire, to disarm the Hutu  militias and who evacuated most of its peace-keepers just as soon as the  genocide began? I claim no expertise in the ongoing travails of  Congo.But French loses all credibility when he lays all the country’s  suffering at Rwanda’s door. Congo, well before Rwanda’s incursion, was ruled by  the ruthless dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, a violent autocrat who ran a  kleptocracy, amassing vast personal wealth, and who was seen as an archetypal  African dictator. After the Tutsi genocide, the main body of perpetrators fled  to, and were granted sanctuary in Congo.Surely even the biggest critic  would cut Kagame some slack when they imagine some two million Rwandan refugees  still camped across the border under the command and control of the former  genocidal government.Congo’s government openly collaborated with the  FDLR, which is on the US terror list.Most venomous of all is French’s  assertion that Rwanda’s incursions into Congo was the result of “Rwanda’s  pursuit of coldblooded ethnic revenge.” Such unsubstantiated conjecture would  turn the tables and make the man who stopped the genocide, Paul Kagame, into the  only true génocidaire, and reminds me of former Pink Floyd front-man Roger  Water’s claim that Israel is now the Nazis.French wishes his readers to  believe that the current Rwandan government is just as guilty of “genocide” as  its predecessor, making victims into villains. This unfortunate moral  equivalence is something of which we Jews have learned all too well as Israel is  regularly and falsely accused of being an apartheid state, even as it affords  its 1.5 million Arab citizens equal rights to every Israeli and more rights than  any Arab nation on earth.Legitimate criticism of the Rwandan government  is important. The US government is pressing President Kagame for greater press  freedoms and allowing for greater political opposition. There are troubling  allegations of select opposition leaders and even journalists who have been  murdered. Kagame’s defenders argue that there is no evidence linking his  government with these deaths.I raised these subjects with President  Kagame on more than one occasion. I told him that as the only man alive to have  stopped a genocide he is a hero to me and countless millions the world over. He  must remain so and make morality and democracy the cornerstone of his policies  amid the legitimate need to protect his people against so many that wish them  harm. A man whose country has suffered indiscriminate slaughter has a special  responsibility to uphold human rights and stop all abuse.
But the US  lecturing Kagame would no doubt carry more weight if Rwanda did not feel itself  being subject to double standards, as the world’s sole superpower pursues a  policy of inaction in Syria, North Korea and the Central African Republic, where  millions continue to die with barely an American objection.

The author is  the international best-selling author of 30 books and in May will publish Kosher  Lust: Love is Not the Answer. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No holds barred: Holocaust denial and the Rwandan genocide</title>
<date>28/4/2014</date>
<content>
No sooner had I returned from the twentieth anniversary commemorations of the  Rwandan genocide in Kigali than I saw Howard French’s assault on the man  universally credited with stopping the mass killings, President Paul  Kagame.In his Wall Street Journal op-ed (“How Rwanda’s Paul Kagame  Exploits US Guilt,” 19 April 2014) French brings us an unoriginal rehash of all  the Monday-morning quarterbacks convinced they could have done a much better job  of bringing Rwanda back from the brink after the fastest genocide in  history.




I am mystified by French’s efforts to obscure these truths and,  as Jew who has watched the growing trend of Holocaust denial, I am even more  troubled. When I was in Kigali I told President Kagame that if he was not  careful in 10 years’ time the world would say there was no genocide, but merely  ethnic strife. He responded, “10 years? It’s happening already today.” As  outrageous as it would be to describe the Armenian, Cambodian, Jewish or Bosnian  genocides as occurring without agency, the Rwandan genocide is no different.  There were good guys and really, really bad guys. And despite all French’s  efforts to obfuscate the truth, Kagame is the acknowledged hero of the  plot.French contends that America’s guilt over its inaction to stop the  genocide causes our government today to overlook alleged crimes of the Kagame  government. It does not occur to French that the reason the US is very friendly  toward Rwanda is because Americans are amazed that in a continent marked by war,  starvation and corruption Rwanda has the fastest-growing economy, the highest  immunization rates, a celebrated war on corruption and, as any visitor can  witness, is a model for racial harmony and integration? While traveling through  Rwanda I was amazed to see the entire country shut down at 2 p.m. each day  during the annual genocide remembrance week, to sit outdoors in groups of a few  hundred to talk through ethnic differences and foster reconciliation so that  such violence never repeats itself. I have never seen anything of its kind, not  even in Israel or the United States.French is a downer, a profound cynic  and pessimist whose prejudices against Kagame would deny him even this  astonishing achievement. In a world filled with mass murderers like Bashar Assad  and Kim Jong-Un, who continues to starve his people to death, French eviscerates  any pretension to objectivity when he says, quoting a Belgian scholar, that  Kagame is “probably the worst war criminal in office today.” But any objective  observer who drives through the pristine and immaculate roads of Rwanda will  conclude that Kagame has exceeded any expectation the world would have had for a  country that in 1994 had so many bodies in its rivers that the waters actually  ceased to flow.That is not to say the president is perfect. It is to say  that before we hurl accusations against a man who witnessed the world’s  abandonment of his people to machetes and axes, we ought to be somewhat  understanding of his aggressive security policies that ensure his people are  never subject to extermination again. As Yogi Berra famously said, “Just because  you’re paranoid doesn’t mean they’re not out to get you.”Writers like  French find it easy to condemn countries like Rwanda or Israel for taking the  fight to their enemies rather than continuing to be sitting ducks. Would French  really advise Kagame to leave the murderers who perpetrated the genocide right  on his border in Congo? Would he tell Kagame to rely on international assurances  and the United Nations to protect his people, the same UN that categorically  refused to allow its commander, General Romeo Dallaire, to disarm the Hutu  militias and who evacuated most of its peace-keepers just as soon as the  genocide began? I claim no expertise in the ongoing travails of  Congo.But French loses all credibility when he lays all the country’s  suffering at Rwanda’s door. Congo, well before Rwanda’s incursion, was ruled by  the ruthless dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, a violent autocrat who ran a  kleptocracy, amassing vast personal wealth, and who was seen as an archetypal  African dictator. After the Tutsi genocide, the main body of perpetrators fled  to, and were granted sanctuary in Congo.Surely even the biggest critic  would cut Kagame some slack when they imagine some two million Rwandan refugees  still camped across the border under the command and control of the former  genocidal government.Congo’s government openly collaborated with the  FDLR, which is on the US terror list.Most venomous of all is French’s  assertion that Rwanda’s incursions into Congo was the result of “Rwanda’s  pursuit of coldblooded ethnic revenge.” Such unsubstantiated conjecture would  turn the tables and make the man who stopped the genocide, Paul Kagame, into the  only true génocidaire, and reminds me of former Pink Floyd front-man Roger  Water’s claim that Israel is now the Nazis.French wishes his readers to  believe that the current Rwandan government is just as guilty of “genocide” as  its predecessor, making victims into villains. This unfortunate moral  equivalence is something of which we Jews have learned all too well as Israel is  regularly and falsely accused of being an apartheid state, even as it affords  its 1.5 million Arab citizens equal rights to every Israeli and more rights than  any Arab nation on earth.Legitimate criticism of the Rwandan government  is important. The US government is pressing President Kagame for greater press  freedoms and allowing for greater political opposition. There are troubling  allegations of select opposition leaders and even journalists who have been  murdered. Kagame’s defenders argue that there is no evidence linking his  government with these deaths.I raised these subjects with President  Kagame on more than one occasion. I told him that as the only man alive to have  stopped a genocide he is a hero to me and countless millions the world over. He  must remain so and make morality and democracy the cornerstone of his policies  amid the legitimate need to protect his people against so many that wish them  harm. A man whose country has suffered indiscriminate slaughter has a special  responsibility to uphold human rights and stop all abuse.But the US  lecturing Kagame would no doubt carry more weight if Rwanda did not feel itself  being subject to double standards, as the world’s sole superpower pursues a  policy of inaction in Syria, North Korea and the Central African Republic, where  millions continue to die with barely an American objection.
The author is  the international best-selling author of 30 books and in May will publish Kosher  Lust: Love is Not the Answer. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: Is Europe lost to Israel?</title>
<date>10/3/2014</date>
<content>
At the Oxford Union debate on Iran that I participated in last Thursday night, I  waited for the inevitable argument that we’re wasting our time fighting over the  Islamic Republic when the real wolf in sheep’s clothing is of course the Jewish  state.Sure enough it came in the first thirty minutes, when a bearded  Islamic student who did not look much different to me (lucky, handsome devil)  joined the floor debate. He argued that Israel, an apartheid state, is  responsible for the real atrocities in the Middle East.




So why bother  with the Iranian distraction? Time was when an argument like that would have  been shot down by the intelligent students witnessing the debate. Really? You’re  going to compare a liberal democracy like Israel, with every freedom from  religion to press to assembly, to a theocratic nightmare like Iran? Iran last  year put 700 of its citizens to death, hangs gays and blasphemers from public  cranes, and stones women to death on false accusations of adultery so their  husbands can marry younger women. Are you seriously going to compare Israel to a  country that used snipers to murder political protesters in the streets of  Tehran in 2009 and infamously shot Neda Agha-Soltan in the heart? The martyred  Iranian woman even has a scholarship at Queens College, Oxford named after  her.Press accounts of the Oxford debate have our side demolishing those  of the pro-Iran faction and for anyone who was there the huge applause I was  fortunate to receive from the entire audience – easily in evidence on the video  of the debate shows how well we connected with the students. But... we lost  anyway. When it comes to Israel, British universities seem impervious to  reason.Which begs the question, Is Europe lost to Israel? Perhaps it’s  inevitable that a continent where anti-Semitism has festered and where millions  Jews have been murdered for two millennia is simply incapable of ever  repudiating a congenital prejudice? Should we just give up on Europe and focus  instead on the United States? The answer is an emphatic no. As I saw at Oxford,  we were the side that easily won the students’ respect and got them thinking  through the accepted tendency to blame Israel.When the debate was over  the same Muslim student who had earlier called Israel an apartheid state came to  sit and speak with me and we discussed the Middle East together for over an hour  in the friendliest way. He was one of many who surrounded me, wanting to talk,  debate, and exchange ideas. I was encircled by scores of students who moments  before had voted against Israel.They could not have been more amiable,  even as they argued, and it was clear that I had won their respect.Why?  Because they understood that I had agreed to go into the lion’s den to fight for  my beliefs and had given it my all.Oxford celebrates those who display  courage for their convictions. And when it comes to Israel and Europe, we in the  Jewish community display it far too little. I love Israel and I was not afraid  to show it. I brought the fight to Israel’s enemies and while their opposition  remained, it was taken down a notch as they saw our ability to belt them with  rational arguments that have no real response.A few years ago I was  invited on to a panel in Malaga, Spain, with one of America’s most famous Muslim  women leaders. Speaking just after us was Guy Kawasaki, the original Apple  computer evangelist, who was so successful in helping the company launch. He  said that what made the marketing of Apple successful was that from the  beginning Apple sought to bifurcate its audience.They accepted that in a  world where everyone was IBM, they had a fight on their hands. Their genius was  to embrace the fight. They did not seek to convert the whole world to Apple.  They weren’t trying to be nice to the IBMs in order to win them over. On the  contrary.They attacked them as out-ofdate and out-of-touch bores and  conformists.In the PR fight for Israel we’ve been afraid to divide our  audience. We don’t want to make enemies. We want to win everyone over to  Israel’s cause. Guess what: Israel has real, implacable enemies.We have  a fight on our hands and many will not be coming over to our side. Embrace the  fight. Go out there and argue like hell for Israel’s cause. Be intelligent, be  factual, be methodical.But stop being so nice. The BDS crowd do not give  a damn for Arab rights. If they did they would be vocal about the real wholesale  slaughter of innocent Arab life going on in Syria which we hear almost nothing  about. Rather, they are out to destroy Israel, plain and simple. Omar Barghouti,  the founder of BDS, has said many times that even if Israel withdraws from the  West Bank BDS will continue because all of Israel is all occupied Palestinian  land. The friendly Islamic students I met at Oxford told me the same. I commend  them for their honesty.We have to be just as honest and tell them we’re  not going anywhere. We are happy to share the land with our Palestinian brothers  but Israel as a Jewish state is not transitory but forever.Israel is a  country that has always exhibited military genius and PR incompetence. Here’s  the difference: when it came to the military, Israel always understood it was up  against enemies who wanted to destroy it. It could not afford to be nice. It had  to defeat its enemies lest the Jews be pushed into the sea as Nasser, Arafat,  Assad, and Ahmadinejad promised. But when it came to PR Israel suddenly forgot  that it was at war. It thought that the logic of its case was  self-evident.Surely everyone could see the superiority of a democracy  like Israel over a barbarous government like Syria? Surely everyone would  appreciate a book-loving nation like Israel over a Kalashnikov- loving terror  group like Hezbollah? But what Israel did not reckon with was something called  prejudice, a blinding force which makes smart people stupid.Europe is  not lost to Israel, certainly not all of it. Israel does not need to win over 90  percent of Europe to its side. But it does need about 55%. So go  on. Bifurcate your audience. Accept that a large portion will never like  you. But fight like hell to win over the majority. And as you make solid,  rational, factual arguments – presented I the most engaging and inspiring way –  the tide will begin to turn in your favor.
The author, who Newsweek and  The Washington Post call “the most famous Rabbi in America,” is the only rabbi  to have won the London Times Preacher of the Year competition and is the  international best-selling author of 30 books. In May he will publish Kosher  Lust: Love is Not the Answer. His website is www.shmuley.com. Follow him  on Twitter @ RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No holds barred: Is Putin a friend to the Jews who deserves support?</title>
<date>17/3/2014</date>
<content>
Wow. This one’s a real cliffhanger.I’m writing this column on Purim, as  the people of Crimea are at the polling stations deciding if they’re going to  annex themselves to Putin’s Russia or remain part of Ukraine. By the time this  is published you’ll already know the outcome. But for me it’s still in the  future.




Putin’s got 18,000 heavily armed troops in the  province.He called the election and gave the pro-Ukraine guys about 15  minutes to campaign. He’s kind of indicated that if the vote doesn’t go his way  he might get kind of angry.Gosh. I wonder what the people of Crimea will  decide? But I’m going to venture a wild guess here. Putin wins? Welcome to a  world where a thug’s expansionist dreams are beginning to be  reality.Vladimir Putin has established his credentials over the past  decade as an international bully, a KGB apparatchik who suppresses political  dissent with oppression and murder, a gangster who subjected Pussy Riot’s  members, in prison, to “endless humiliations,” including forced gynecological  examinations almost every day for three weeks. A man who would treat women this  way just because they oppose him politically deserves the condemnation of the  world as a violent brute.Still, there are many in the global Jewish  community who support Putin because he is good to the Jews of  Russia.There can be little doubt that he is. Ending the centuries old  anti-Semitism which was endemic to Russia and claimed the lives of endless  hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, in state-sponsored pogroms, Putin is  the man principally responsible for the $50 million Jewish museum of Moscow, to  which he also donated a month of his official salary. (Don’t worry, a man  estimated to have $75 billion isn’t going hungry any time soon.) He has been  extremely good to Chabad, giving them official state recognition. He also seems  to be good to Israel, establishing strong diplomatic relations with a nation he  says has a natural connection to Russia, given Israel’s million- strong  Russian-speaking community. Should we Jews love this guy? Does it matter that  he’s deeply immoral when we have so few friends as it is? This was the question  that confronted Israel in its relationship with apartheid South Africa. Much of  the world embraced the hate-filled Arab global boycott of Israel, which forced  Israel to look for trading partners where it could find them. The South African  government was a willing friend when few others would have anything to do with  the Jewish state. Israel was fighting for its very life. So it did business with  South Africa.A few decades later I wonder if anyone believes that was a  good idea. No people are more deeply opposed to racism than the Jews, and not  just because we suffered its effects but because we are the ones who taught  through the Torah that every human being is created equally in the image of God.  A deeply immoral government like apartheid South Africa was anathema to the  central teachings of Judaism. I understand that Israel was caught between a rock  and a hard place. Some argued that it was analogous to the allies partnering  with Stalin – the second biggest murderer in the history of the world – in order  to defeat Hitler. It was a necessary evil.But I have a different take on  the matter.I believe that the Jewish people are hated by the world  because of their sacred mission to spread the Ten Commandments and ethical  monotheism. That’s why, whenever there is someone truly wicked, like Hitler or  Stalin, they always hate the Jews first. We are the canaries in the coal mine  when it comes to world evil. They attack us first, Nazism and Islamist fascism  did. But the world is not too far behind.Therefore, whenever a man or a  country is wicked, however good they may temporarily be to the Jews, the  friendship will not last. They will eventually turn on the Jews since our  mission is to spread morality. And can we really support dictators who are our  friends if they are murderous and immoral? Does that not contravene everything  we are about? Can the Jewish community befriend a man who is the shield  protecting mass murderer Bashar Assad, who gasses innocent Arab children? Can we  have any relationship with a man that facilitates such evil? Take a closer look  and you will see that not only is Putin not the friend to Israel we think he is,  but that he actually poses a huge danger. Who is the biggest international  defender of Iran at the UN? Putin’s Russia.Moreover, in 2012 Putin had  Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov warn Israel against “any possible  military scenario against Iran” which he threatened would be “catastrophic for  the region and for the whole system of international relations. Therefore I hope  Israel understands all these consequences... and they should also consider the  consequences of such action for themselves.”Some friend.Russia  has also called the international sanctions against Iran “overt blackmail” and a  “crude contradiction of international law.”In September, 2013, The Daily  Mail quoted a Kremlin source as saying that Putin was preparing to offer Iran  “missile systems and a second nuclear reactor... If it goes ahead Iran will be  supplied with five advanced S-300 surface- to-air missiles, capable of taking  down aircraft or guided missiles, valued at $800m.”With Iran threatening  to wipe Israel off the map one can only wonder why Putin, the great friend of  the Jews, is protecting Iran’s nuclear program and arming Iran with advanced  weapons systems.The answer, of course, is that Putin has no friends. He  is your typical narcissistic, megalomaniacal dictator who will cultivate  friendships that burnish his image. And for now it suits his purposes to feign  attachment to the Jews.As to Chabad of Russia’s friendship with Putin,  the Lubavitcher Rebbe made it clear that Russia had stolen the celebrated  “Schneerson Library” accumulated by successive Chabad leaders. He had the  movement launch lawsuits and use every diplomatic connection to retrieve the  stolen archive from Russia. Putin has categorically refused to return it,  offering to exhibit it in the Jewish museum in Moscow instead. How some in  Chabad have accepted this “deal,” given the Rebbe’s ferocious opposition to it,  continues to mystify.Always beware a dictator. When he falls righteous  people will point fingers. And you really don’t want to be around.
The  author, whom Newsweek and The Washington Post call “the most famous rabbi in  America,” is the only rabbi to have won the London Times Preacher of the Year  competition and is the international best-selling author of 30 books. In May he  will publish Kosher Lust: Love is Not the Answer. His website is  www.shmuley.com. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No holds barred: Judging Obama, Christie and Kerry</title>
<date>4/5/2014</date>
<content>
The news that Governor Chris Christie will be delivering the keynote speech at  our upcoming gala dinner on Lag Ba’omer (18 May) at Cipriani in New York City  prompted one Jewish broadcaster to announce on his show that he is boycotting  the dinner.Christie is no friend of Israel, he said, citing Christie’s  recent comment about the “occupied territories” in the West Bank. For good  measure he added that he would never break bread with one of our honorees, Sean  Penn, either.




When I was asked by his listeners about his embargo, I said  that I had never heard of someone boycotting a dinner to which they were not  invited. I added that rather than bloviating about how much he hates Sean Penn,  if he had gotten on a plane, traveled to Bolivia, and stuck his neck out to save  a Jew rotting in prison on false charges he, too, would be receiving an award as  a champion of Jewish values. Sean Penn also saved tens of thousands of lives in  Haiti. The fact that people may disagree with his politics is  immaterial.I hate it when we give people labels based on a single  statement or action, reducing the sum total of their lives to one event. Both  Democrats and Republicans are guilty.I’ve heard many people tell me that  President Barack Obama is an anti-Semite. It’s deeply disturbing. Jews, who know  what it’s like to be falsely maligned, can never engage in character  assassination. I vehemently disagree with many of President Obama’s policies in  the Middle East: his legitimizing of Iran; his pushing Israel to make peace with  Palestinian leaders who name squares after terrorists; his seeming inability to  fully embrace Israel’s democratically elected prime minister; his refusal to  punish Syria for gassing innocent Arab children. But a man who holds a Passover  seder in the White House, appoints Jews to the highest offices in the land and  significantly helps Israel with its military deterrence is no  Jew-hater.Governor Christie misspoke when he said “occupied  territories.” The West Bank was illegally annexed by Jordan in 1950 and was  conquered by Israel in a defensive war in 1967. Even UN Resolution 242 says that  Israel must relinquish “territories” – without specifying which – in return for  a comprehensive peace, which we are no way near. But to say that based on this  Christie is an enemy of Israel is to take a man who has always shown nothing but  friendship and warmth to the Jewish community and Israel and falsely blacken his  name. I for one am very grateful to our governor for honoring us with his  presence. And to the extent that we in the Jewish community have disagreements  with him, they are disagreements among friends.A leader has a right to  have the public consider the full body of their work. When President Obama  intervened in Libya to stop children from being bombed from the air, he showed  moral conviction and courage.It was a bold move, fighting evil, stopping  that monster Gaddafi (my neighbor!) from killing more innocent people. The same  was true of President Obama’s gutsy call to kill Osama bin Laden deep in  Pakistani territory.But Obama’s incredibly weak response to Russian  President Vladimir Putin biting off big chunks of Ukraine, his allowing Iran to  maintain its nuclear program and unfreezing billions of dollars for the  murderous mullahs, and his spinelessness in Syria has damaged his legacy and  made his foreign policy a joke.Did Secretary of State John Kerry say  Israel is an apartheid state? Well, he says he misspoke. He should be given the  benefit of the doubt. But he does seem to have a propensity for painting  doomsday scenarios for Israel’s morality whenever the Jewish state doesn’t  succumb to his pressure to make what he calls peace. Kerry enjoys saying Israel  either allows a Palestinian state or it will be forced to compromise its soul.  There is a third possibility: if Israel allows another Palestinian terror state  in the West Bank like it has in Gaza it might end up as all soul and no  body.And Governor Christie? He’s got his hands full just trying to fix  New Jersey, which is only slightly less dysfunctional than the Middle East.  Expecting him to have a mastery of foreign policy while he wrestles with a state  that might go under due to decades of accumulated debt is probably  unfair.But should he pursue the presidency he will be expected to speak  authoritatively on the world’s most troubled region. I sincerely hope that the  principle that guides his policies will be a detestation of criminal regimes  that are a menace to their neighbors and a danger to their own long-suffering  citizens.
The author will publish Kosher Lust: Love is Not the Answer on  1 May. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: The ferocious battle for Israel at New York University</title>
<date>20/11/2014</date>
<content>
I was happy to see a  piece in the New York Observer by members of TorchPAC, New York University’s  pro-Israel advocacy group, attacking me and claiming enough is being done to  defend and promote Israel at the school, which has more Jewish students than any  other American university.We got their attention.




I wish it were  true that Israel is faring well, but I fear they are in denial.Here are  the facts.Over the last few years NYU has emerged as one of the most  hostile campuses to Israel in the United States. Israeli scholars are absent  from the department of American Studies because the American Studies Association  joined BDS and boycotted Israel.The head of the ASA is NYU Prof. Lisa  Duggan and a quarter of all ASA national board members who voted for the boycott  are based at NYU.One of the most active groups on campus is Students for  Justice in Palestine. It is well-known for trying to boycott Israeli products,  even food, and hosts a weekly vigil against victims of “Israeli  aggression.”Its members became notorious last summer at the NYU campus  when they hosted a diein, pretending to be corpses killed by the IDF. Their  annual big event, of course, is Israel Apartheid Week, with the malicious  allegation that Israel is pre-Mandela South Africa.Last year the SJP  slipped eviction notices under the doors of students in a dormitory that was  largely Jewish, trying to show them what it’s like to be evicted by the Israeli  military. Such intimidation of students is growing at an alarming  rate.In September, Mahmoud Abbas spoke at Cooper Union, also in  Manhattan, where he was given repeated rousing and standing ovations by a  largely NYU audience as he assailed the State of Israel. Much more serious,  however, were his allegations of an Israeli genocide – a monstrous modern blood  libel – which he repeated before the United Nations General Assembly three days  later.The reaction of the pro-Israel community at NYU was to attend the  speech at Cooper Union. One Jewish student told me that his protest came in the  form of not standing up for every ovation Abbas was given for condemning Israel.  This is what passed for an effective demonstration against Abbas.I was  in Korea while this happened, speaking with fellow religious leaders at Seoul’s  Olympic Stadium to 100,000 at a global peace summit. I was so proud to see that  my son Mendy, an NYU undergraduate, had organized a protest against the  demonization of Israel and the kleptocracy represented by Abbas. Mendy  accurately pointed out in his banners that Abbas has dismantled Palestinian  democracy in the West Bank, having abolished any semblance of elections over the  past decade. He likewise pointed out that freedom of press and speech for  Palestinians has been likewise suppressed and that a liberal arts university  should not be rewarding a dictatorship.To all this, TorchPAC responded  that it decided to encourage students to go and hear Abbas’s diatribe against  Israel rather than protest because otherwise they would have legitimized BDS,  the attempt to boycott, divest and sanction Israel.Few times in my life  have I heard a sloppier argument.BDS is a malicious attempt to destroy  the State of Israel by cutting off its economic lifeline. Its charges of Israel  apartheid and comparisons to South Africa would fraudulently elevate Yasser  Arafat, the father of modern terrorism and a man who died a billionaire after  stealing global aid from his people, into Nelson Mandela. Comparing that to  holding a sign outside a venue where there is an anti-Israel speaker would be  comical if it were not tragic.That the pro-Israel groups of NYU gave  Mahmoud Abbas a free pass – a man whom the prime minister of Israel accuses of  being responsible for the deaths of dozens of Jews over the past few months  through direct incitement of terrorism – is a stain on their legitimacy. That  they would be so ludicrous as to argue that because Abbas praised J Street, his  charges that Israel is a genocidal power were diluted, are absurd to the point  of being nonsensical.Elie Wiesel is 86. He is not as young and robust as  he was. I approached him and asked him to be the one to respond to Abbas’s  charges of genocide. Health and other challenges made him at first  reluctant.But when I told him that no one else had responded, he put on  his coat on a night of extreme storm conditions and came out to defend the  reputation and honor of his people.It’s that kind of courage and  conviction that makes him the world’s foremost Jewish personality and the prince  of our people.In my column I did not name any of the pro-Israel  organizations that refused to work with us to promote the event. I was careful  to leave them anonymous. But, for reasons best known to them, Laura and Zak  identified themselves and the Bronfman Center as having done too  little.I knew Edgar Bronfman and I today call his son Matthew a dear  friend. Edgar Bronfman was a fighter and lion for the Jewish people. As  president of the World Jewish Congress he took on the Swiss government and banks  to reclaim the lost property of millions of murdered Jews. It made him deeply  unpopular. He received intimidation and threats. But nothing would cause him to  bend and be cowed.We pleaded with the Bronfman Center to co-host the  foremost Jewish personality on earth, Elie Wiesel, who was being introduced by  Samantha Power, the American ambassador to the UN. It refused. We asked for a  dedicated email highlighting the event. It refused. We asked for volunteers to  help man the doors. It refused. Still, we invited their student leaders to the  VIP reception to meet Prof. Wiesel and made the event free for all NYU  students.It is true Bronfman partnered with us for our Elie Wiesel-Paul  Kagame event last year, for which we are grateful. But that proves the point.  That event was against global genocide. It eagerly joined us. This event was  about responding to a blood libel against the Jewish people and Israel  specifically.And it would not join us.Bronfman Hillel advocates  for Israel. But it has to wake up to the seriousness of the battle.We  will continue to fight for Israel at NYU. We hope and trust that every Jewish  organization will band together with us.
Rabbi Shmuley Boteach founded  the Oxford University L’Chaim Society which grew to be one of Oxford’s largest  student organizations. He won the London Times Preacher of the Year  Competition and the Millennium and has just published Kosher Lust: Love is Not  the Answer. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No Holds Barred: The ferocious battles for Israel on Western campuses</title>
<date>1/12/2014</date>
<content>
The Jewish state is fighting wars for its very survival against barbarous,  genocidal foes like Hamas, Hezbollah and Iran. But far outside the Middle East  ferocious battles are being fought on the campuses of the world’s great  universities for Israel’s reputation and good name. The consequences of failure  are too horrible to contemplate, including the destruction of Israel’s economic  lifeline through economic boycotts that germinate on campus and pass into the  mainstream.I became an Israel campus warrior in 1988 when the  Lubavitcher Rebbe first sent me as rabbi to Oxford University.




A steady  stream of attacks on Israel were launched by the likes of Hanan Ashrawi, Saeb  Erekat and Yasser Arafat himself. Many of these speeches took place at the  world-famous Oxford Union. Our Oxford University L’Chaim Society responded with  five Israeli prime ministers, including Benjamin Netanyahu, Yitzhak Rabin,  Shimon Peres, Yitzhak Shamir and Ehud Olmert. We partnered with the Union for  most of the speeches, including mesmerizing defenses of the Jewish state  delivered by a young and hyper-charismatic Netanyahu.Since those days  the battles have become ever more ferocious, with the much more timid pro-Israel  groups at America and Europe’s leading universities being clobbered by Students  for Justice in Palestine, Israel Apartheid Week and BDS.At New York  University, in the heart of a city with 2.5 million Jews, SJP regularly stages  “die-ins” that feign murder at the hands of the IDF, and an Israeli apartheid  wall. The organization also serves “IDF Eviction Notices” to students to convey  the brutality of the Israeli regime.In September Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas received 20 standing ovations from NYU students three  days before he accused Israel of genocide at the UN.Aside from my son  Mendy, who is an NYU undergraduate, there was not a single protest. The formal  pro-Israel group on campus would later tell The New York Observer that they did  not protest Abbas lest they legitimize BDS, as if there were some comparison  between holding a banner outside a lecture theater and calling for the economic  destruction of an innocent nation.Last week I traveled back to Oxford  with my close friend Dennis Prager for a debate on Israel versus Hamas that was  easily the most hard-fought debate on Israel I have ever participated in. In an  aggressive and merciless contest, our opponents in the debate threw out  monstrous charges: that Israel is an apartheid regime, that it murders  Palestinians with impunity, that Israel is a quasi-Nazi government, that Israel  seeks the theft of Palestinian land and the eradication of the Palestinian  people, and that Hamas is a legitimate resistance movement whose terrorism is an  inevitable and organic response to Israeli colonial rule.As for America,  it was argued to be like Islamic State (IS).IS beheads only a few  prisoners, but America annihilates innocents in Pakistan each and every day with  drone strikes, and thus there is no real difference between the two, the  argument went.Rising to speak, I looked at the huge assembled crowd of  students and felt a righteous indignation bubbling up within me. My people were  under attack. Whatever the odds arrayed against us, I had an opportunity to  strike a blow at one of the most influential speaking platforms on  earth.Islam is a great world religion, I said, that took my people in  from the Catholic expulsions of Spain and Portugal.Islam pioneered the  just treatment of prisoners of under the greatest of all Muslim warriors, Sultan  Saladin, who invited the Jews back to Jerusalem after his conquest in 1187.  Ninety years earlier they had been slaughtered to the last woman and child after  Crusader conquest. We Jews dare never forget Muslim kindness.But oh, how  the mighty have fallen.Tonight we hear world-renowned academics  justifying terrorist mass murder in Allah’s name because Palestinians feel  aggrieved at Israel’s existence. When the Jews of Germany were turned into ash,  soap and lampshades under Nazi rule they did not respond by blowing up German  nurseries and buses. There is no excuse for terrorism. Not now. Not  ever.Islam is disgraced not only by those who murder in its name but by  educated and lost souls who dignify terrorism with grievance.The Dalai  Lama has been under brutal Chinese occupation since 1950 and he has never become  a monster.As to the charges that the Palestinians live under Israeli  occupation, the West Bank was illegally occupied by Jordan in 1948 yet no one  ever complained of an occupation.Israel has tried since its creation to  make peace with Arab states and has endangered its security with repeated  territorial concessions that were met with nothing but terrorist  attacks.What we learned from Israel’s unilateral withdrawal from Gaza in  2005 is that should Israel withdraw from Judea and Samaria – which is not  occupied but disputed – it would lead immediately to the creation of another  terrorist state run by Hamas. Israel would be sandwiched between two terrorism  launching pads intent on its total destruction.Hamas is a genocidal  organization that proudly touts its charter calling for the annihilation of Jews  everywhere.It is a greater menace to Palestinians than Jews.It  aids and abets honor killings of Palestinian women. It murders gay Palestinians,  shoots Palestinians who dare protest its rule, ruthlessly crushes any form of  criticism, and ululates when British and American civilians are murdered in  Islamist terror attacks. It has ended any semblance of democratic rule in Gaza.  When I arrived in Oxford tonight I did not see air force and army bases built in  the heart of the college campus. No civilized nation would ever consider using  students as human shields. But Hamas builds its military installations under  hospitals and nurseries so that children can serve as bullet-proof vests for  cowardly terrorists.Israel is a just and righteous democracy which  affords 1.5 million Muslims-Israeli citizens – almost the same number that live  in Britain – greater freedoms and human rights than any Muslim country on  earth.
The world Jewish community and Israel’s non-Jewish allies need to  wake up. Israel is under vicious attack at European, American, South African,  Australian and Canadian universities. It’s a battle we can win if we step up our  game on campus and begin to courageously fight back.

The author, whom The  Washington Post calls “the most famous rabbi in America,” served as rabbi to  Oxford University for 11 years. The international best-selling author of 30  books, he is also the winner of the London Times Preacher of the Year  competition. Follow him on Twitter @RabbiShmuley.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No life without borders</title>
<date>10/6/2014</date>
<content>
A lecture I once heard at the Faculty of Agriculture at the Weizmann Institute  in Rehovot dealt with the question, “What is a life form?” One definition  referred to the presence of a distinction between the organism and its  environment; our body temperature is not the same as the temperature of the air  around us; fish blood is not briny like the sea in which the creature swims;  even the water in an amoeba differs from the water in its puddle. Nothing can be  considered a living organism without a dividing line, without a border between  itself and its surroundings.A state also needs borders. A nation  desiring sustainable existence has to distinguish itself from its surroundings,  to mark its borders and define itself and its neighbors, to be able to say,  “These are my borders and within them I will live as I choose.” A fish will not  survive if its body is invaded by seawater, and a nation will not survive if it  is inundated by members of another nation.




Israel is no exception. More  than anyone else, it is those who are motivated by strong feelings of  nationalism who need to understand this and take appropriate action. Our goal  should be to have sovereignty over as much territory as possible, and over as  few people who do not belong to our nation as possible. But there have to be  borders.In Jerusalem, for example, we must maintain control over the Old  City and adjacent neighborhoods, but we can divest ourselves of all the  surrounding villages that have been annexed to the city. And we have to do it  soon. The thousands of Palestinians that have been added to Jerusalem are  preventing it from being what we want it to be. And I repeat: the first people  who should be crying out for such action are those who regard themselves as the  keepers of the city walls.We need a border in the West Bank as well. If  we are unable to reach an agreement on the issue, we will have to make the  decision ourselves. We can hold back a little extra in order to have something  to concede when the time comes that we can negotiate a settlement. In the  meantime, we can split the territory up in a way that will enable a Palestinian  to go from Jenin to Hebron without seeing a single Israeli soldier. The  principle remains the same: a nation is a living organism that must be clearly  distinguished from its surroundings.You can not live in a house without  walls and then whine that there is nothing to lean on, nothing to protect you  from the cold. A submarine with holes in the hull is just a pile of steel at the  bottom of the ocean. A refrigerator without a door is no more than a cupboard,  and a state without borders is like a bus terminal. What are our borders? Areas  A, B, C? Who knows what those mean and can draw them on a map? The status quo  only allows for two possibilities, both of them bad: a binational state, and  being accused of apartheid. Borders would alter the situation  entirely.To return to the subject of biology, there is one major  difference between countries and human beings: when it comes to countries, size  doesn’t necessarily matter. Luxemburg, Singapore, Lichtenstein and Andorra are  all proof that a small nation can prosper. If the Palestinians would only take  these examples to heart, as far as I am concerned they can establish a  principality on their territory if they want to. In fact, with the right  attitude, Ramallah could be the next Monte Carlo.
Translated from Hebrew by Sara Kitai.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>No to unconditional citizenship</title>
<date>21/4/2014</date>
<content>
Economy and Trade Minister Naftali Bennett has taken a step in the right  direction with his plan endorsing an Israeli declaration of sovereignty over  Area C, the 60 percent of Judea and Samaria (the so-called West Bank) in which  most of its approximately 350,000 Jewish citizens live. He goes on to say that  Israel should give citizenship, as well, to the Arab residents of those  territories.Minister Bennett’s promotion of Israeli sovereignty in a  large portion of its historical biblical heartland is certainly the right thing  to do, as the “land for peace formula” has been proven fatally flawed time and  time again. This obviously unilateral move by Israel would be an initial yet  significant assertion of Israel’s rights over its land. While many Israelis  believe that Israel should declare full sovereignty in all of the lands  currently in its possession, there is a certain logic to a phased  approach.




After all, politics is “the art of the possible” and declaring  Israeli sovereignty over Judea and Samaria would indeed be an important first  step.THE MAJOR flaw in this plan is in the automatic granting of  citizenship to the Arab residents. Many Israeli politicians are rightly  concerned about the ramifications of the inevitable “apartheid state”  accusations that would accompany any declaration of Israeli sovereignty without  granting of full citizenship to all residents, and therefore, when formulating  plans to move forward, are unnecessarily hasty in the granting of full  citizenship with no strings attached.What I propose in my peace plan,  aptly titled “Peace For Peace,” is to accompany full Israeli sovereignty with a  “path to loyal citizenship,” which would include the following mandatory steps  by all applicants: 1. Completion of a two- to three-year course in  Zionist/biblical history and civics.2. Commitment to perform two to  three years of appropriate national service like all Israeli citizens.3.  An oath of loyalty, with hand on Tanach, to the Jewish State of  Israel.Those who complete these obligations would be welcomed as full  citizens. Those who refuse would be given a stipend and six months to relocate  to a different country.
The “apartheid state” charge would be proven  false by this generous offer. Every country has the right to set an appropriate  standard by which it screens and perhaps accepts new citizens and this would be  no exception. Especially in a sensitive situation like ours, in which the Arab  residents have often been hostile toward the State of Israel, it makes absolute  sense for all potential citizens to prove their utmost sincerity in that quest.  For Israel to demand less would be naïve at best and suicidal at  worst.

The author is former mayor of Shiloh. He is founder and president  of Shiloh Israel Children’s Fund and the author of several books, including  Peace for Peace and The Islamic Tsunami. He can be found at  www.DavidRubinIsrael.com or at www.ShilohIsraelChildren.org.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>November 30: Strange bag-lady</title>
<date>29/11/2014</date>
<content>
Strange bag-ladySir, – Can we suspect a conflict of interest in the decision to  postpone the banning of free plastic bags in supermarkets (“Bill banning free  plastic bags to be shelved,” November 27)? Must Israel remain in the Dark Ages  concerning environmental issues? But there is no reason for the implementation  of this ban to be complex as claims the person who unfortunately replaced the  chairman of the Internal Affairs and Environment Committee.




There does  not have to be the added complication of downloading coupons for these bags from  one`s electricity bill.Supermarkets can simply supply attractive cloth  bags with their own logo and remove the plastic bag dispensers.For many  years, I have returned from trips to the UK with these hard-wearing  bags.But when I take them to supermarkets here in Haifa, I am the only  customer not grabbing handfuls of plastic bags, and I get strange looks from the  cashiers who attempt to wrap every item in a separate bag.On one  occasion, when the cashier refused to put my cloth bags in the delivery crates I  threatened to leave all my shopping at the check-out (before paying of  course).In my regular supermarket I am known as that strange  bag-lady.This country is considered sophisticated and developed, but  somewhere in our leadership there are people who have an interest in continuing  the environmental damage of using huge quantities of non-biodegradable  plastic.WENDY BLUMFIELD
HaifaA realist
Sir, – In regards to the MKs on  the Left who denounced Mayor Shimoni’s action (“Ashkelon mayor halts  construction by Arab workers,” November 20) as being undemocratic and racist, it  clearly shows that they do not have an understanding of democracy.To  preserve democracy a state must protect its citizens through the Rule of Law. In  turn, the citizens are responsible to abide by the laws of the state.To  support the Rule of Law there must be consequences for breaking  it.Israel is caught on the horns of a dilemma. It is sharing its land  with a people, of which there is a significant percentage of people who do not  value democracy, seek to thwart peace through criminal violence against  law-abiding citizens, which violates the Rule of Law, and have no allegiance to  the state.Along comes Mayor Shimoni.He is doing his job in  assessing the current reality of increased terrorist attacks and is taking  precautions to keep his community safe.He is not a racist, he is a  realist.ELISHEVA BORENSON 
Jerusalem About timeSir, – In regards to the  article “Interior Ministry to deport wife of Har Nof terrorist,” (November 27),  the author reports that the wife of one of the terrorists involved in the  Jerusalem syangogue massacre will be forced to leave the country and forfeit all  future monetary and social benefits from the state.It’s about time for  this to happen.Hopefully, it will make any future terrorists think twice  before committing an attack and realize how this will affect their family  members.It makes no sense for the terrorists’ family members to continue  receiving social benefits from the State.Let us hope that this new  measure will deter many others to refrain from terror attacks.HANNAH  SONDHELM 
Jerusalem Forest for the trees Sir, – The horrifying tragedy of the  Jerusalem synagogue massacre in Har Nof is but the latest in a string of  murderous attacks whose victims, other than security officers, have been haredim  – members of diverse sects ranging from adherents of the extreme Hassidic Toldos  Aharon to adherents of the extreme Lithuanian Brisk tradition.Haredim  typically explain these horrors in spiritual terms that seem increasingly  bizarre to the normative mind.The bereaved widow of Rabbi Mosheh Twersky  (“Widow of Rabbi Twersky blames internal haredi discord for synagogue attack,”  November 27) sees the cause of the massacre as the dispute within the insular  extreme Lithuanian yeshivish world – between the adherents of Rabbi Aharon Leib  Steinman and Rabbi Shmuel Auerbach – differences that require a microscope and  tweezer to parse for those of us that not part of that community.One  might think that Mrs.Twersky would focus on the perennial hatred between  the Yeshivish and Hassidic communities, or perhaps on the sometimes loathing and  disdain both groups have toward their Sephardi brothers and sisters or, perish  the thought, on the willful disenfranchisement of all of these groups from the  body of Israel and its security needs.But, no, such is the haredi world  these days.It is mired in picayune sectarian nonsense that that it sees  neither the forest nor the trees.JJ GROSS 
Jerusalem Level the fieldSir,  – With all the endless lies about Jews defiling the Temple Mount and Israels’  supposed plans to destroy the site, the ramifications of such inflammatory talk  cannot be ignored.As long as our partners for a peace deal continue to  engage in this behavior and the end result appears to be enabling the further  radicalization of Palestinian youth pushing them to commit the slate of horrible  attacks that have occured recently in Jerusalem and elsewhere, perhaps Israel  should serve indictments of incitement to those Palestinian officials  involved.I am straight out referring to PA President Mahmoud Abbas,  legislator Hanan Ashrawi and chief negotiatior Saeb Erekat. If they wish to  threaten taking our leaders both military and civilian to the International  Criminal Court then perhaps we should play the same game.Sometimes one  must get down to the level of one’s enemies and fight them on the same ground in  order to succeed.B WEINSTEIN
NetanyaExpose the truthSir, – In 1913 the  South African government legislated that 87 percent of the land and it’s mineral  wealth would be allocated to the white population, which comprised less than 10%  of the population at the time.The was the root of South Africa’s  apartheid.The Middle East comprises approximately 13 million square  kilometers and is home to more than 400 million people, the vast majority of  which being Arabs. Jews comprise only six million of that population, yet they  can not live in more than 96% of the territory – this as a result of legislation  enacted by Arab states.It is time that the reality of who is practicing  apartheid in the Middle East is exposed for what it is.

CHONI KAHN
Shoham Show a cold faceSir, – In regards to the rioting in Ferguson, Missouri, this  past week (“Misouri governor orders more troops to Ferguson after night of  violent riots,” November 26), I have some advice for President Barack  Obama.Obama is inciting rioting in Ferguson, why? Obama talks of their  anger in such sympathetic tones, that when he appeals to the rioters not to hurt  others and not to damage property and not to violate laws – he’s actually  fanning the flames. I believe that it’s clear that Obama agrees with the rioters  on their goals, just not their methods. To stop rioting, Obama should show  sympathy to the police and a cold face to the rioters.
GERALD ARANOFF  
Bnei Brak
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>October 2: ‘Lancet’ and Israel</title>
<date>1/10/2014</date>
<content>
‘Lancet’ and Israel Sir, – The excellent article by Gerald Steinberg (“Richard  Horton’s war on Israel,” Comment & Features, September 30) summarizes some  of the key issues that need to be addressed in order to begin to accept Horton’s  bona fides on his visit as an example of a genuine “listen and learn”  episode.




Horton has been in your part of the world often, particularly to  visit Birzeit University. It is a pity that he appears to have shown little  interest in interacting with Israeli colleagues. For example, there is no  obvious evidence from his supplements that he has engaged with the Israeli  public health and epidemiology community or seen and absorbed the full spectrum  of positive cooperative work.But there is a more sinister aspect to  this. If we accept Horton’s view that politics, society and health are  intertwined, then surely it is the responsibility of a medical editor to act as  guarantor of balance, to recognize conflict of interest – including his or her  own – and to scrutinize the probity and integrity of  correspondents.Horton has failed on all these counts.A  reasonable hypothesis is that he is so blinded by his political prejudices about  Israel that he does not recognize anything else. However, this would have to  ignore his repeated publication of Dr. Swee Ang’s material, his appearance with  her on public platforms, and his failure to take any further action now – where  it seems self-evident that her views about Jewish conspiracies must impinge on  how she perceives Israel-Palestine affairs. All this adds up to what appears to  be willful cooperation with her unacceptable views.Horton appears to be  an active member of a small but very vocal cohort in British medicine that  relentlessly focuses on this topic, but always from an anti-Israel stance. For  example, in view of these latest disclosures, one has to ask Prof. Sir Iain  Chalmers why his conflicts of interest appeared several weeks after publication  of the letter by Paola Manduca et al? Will it take him even longer to manage to  express his opinions about the NGO Monitor report of Manduca’s and Ang’s links?  Has he forgotten that he chaired a meeting in London in 2007 where it was  alleged that Israel and the US used Gaza as a testing ground for biological and  biochemical warfare? These issues have been brought to the attention of The  Lancet’s publisher, Reed Elsevier Group, in the past. It seems they have been  willing to act as purveyors of documents emanating from those who go beyond  medicine and health in a selective fashion only in relationship to Israeli  issues, refusing persistently and perniciously to show any insight into the  sinister roots of their ideas.Against this background it will take a  great deal to persuade me that in Israel between September 29 and October 2  Horton will not only listen but also be willing to acknowledge and absorb the  possibility that he has been responsible for promoting a one-sided political  vantage point that has now been shown to have links directly to anti-Semitic  propaganda.DAVID KATZ
London/Jerusalem 
The writer is an emeritus  professor of immunopathology at University College London, chair of the Jewish  Medical Association UK, and a member of the Board of Deputies of British JewsSir, – I just found out that the academic publishing company Elsevier publishes  The Lancet as well as many other highly technical, medical and scientific  journals.I am writing to suggest that the company’s leaders act to  disinfect the gangrene at The Lancet by amputating editor Richard  Horton.Horton continues to poohpooh the recent uproar and has the  audacity to insist that his journal has done nothing wrong.He is unfazed  by the fact that one of the authors of the non-medical, anti-Israel letter that  caused the outcry is guilty of fund-raising for, and receiving funding from, a  terrorist organization designated as such by the governments of three nations  (the United States, Canada and Australia) and so described by a BBC  investigation.The organization that funds and is funded by one of The  Lancet’s anti-Israel authors stands accused of hiring terrorists in Gaza,  publicly applauding Hitler for “putting Jews in their place,” deliberately  “planting the love of death in the Islamic nation” and actively encouraging  Palestinian children to become suicide bombers.How can Elsevier possibly  employ for one more day an editor who willingly and without remorse has allowed  such terrorist ideologies to seed the reading material of the medical  profession? J’accuse! SUSIE DYM 
Rehovot Major blunders Sir, – Contrary to  accepted wisdom, it now seems that the Palestine/ Israel conflict is not the  cause of all the wars, killings and massacres in the Middle East after all. This  was acknowledged by no less an authority than US President Barack Obama (“Obama  chides tribal Middle East in speech to UN General Assembly,” September  28).A couple of days later Obama admitted that American intelligence had  underestimated the military capabilities of Islamic State and overestimated the  ability and steadfastness of the US-trained Iraqi army (“Obama says US  intelligence underestimated Islamic State,” September 30). You can add to this  the failure of the same intelligence agency in not recognizing that Saddam  Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction.We are not talking here  of little, insignificant boo boos, but major blunders that have had very serious  negative consequences for the entire western world. Heaven help us if we rely on  the same agency to gauge the aims and achievements of the Iranian nuclear  program.Not for nothing are Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and  Intelligence Minister Yuval Steinmetz repeatedly warning of the duplicity of the  Iranians. If only the world would take heed.I. SRUL ZUNDER 
Ra’ananaGiving a damnSir, – Accompanying your article “Jewish campus groups counter  anti-Semitism” (September 28) is the photo of a demonstrator demanding a boycott  of Israel “not least because apartheid Israel kills babies.”To  commemorate the 50th anniversary of the beginning of America’s major involvement  in the Vietnam War, Life Magazine published a commemorative issue. It states  that “the most conservative estimates are at least 80,000 children under the age  of 15” were killed in that war in addition to tens of thousands of children  being wounded.In contrast, the Palestinians claim that 500 children were  killed in this summer’s Gaza war.As a result, Israel has been globally  demonized.Unlike Hamas, which targeted Israeli cities, no Viet Cong  fired rockets at American cities. As someone who remembers that war, there were  never condemnations of and demonstrations against America because of the  staggering death toll of Vietnamese children. Moreover, according to Life, up to  30,000 children were born in Vietnam to American GI fathers and almost all of  these fathers abandoned them.The Vietnam War was not the Second World  War, when there was no television to sensitize the masses about atrocities. It  also took place in the sixties, the era of hippies, peace and love. Still, no  one gave a damn about the kids.JACOB MENDLOVIC 
Toronto Pride in heritage  Sir, – With regard to “Hap J’lem comes up short in qualifiers against Russian  giant” (Sports, September 28), I wish Hapoel Jerusalem a very successful season,  but did they really have to play their first game on the eve of Rosh Hashana? I  know that most Israelis are secular, but don’t we at least have some pride in  our heritage and tradition? 
RUTH SCHUELER 
Jerusalem
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On International Women’s Day, women continue to face obstacles</title>
<date>15/2/2014</date>
<content>
International Women’s Day falls out right around Purim, the holiday  celebrating Queen Esther.Don’t tell it to Shas, and don’t announce it on  the streets of Ashkelon, but it was the brave, daring, shrewd exploits of the  virginal Esther that saved the Jewish people.




Women, too, can make a  difference.As we all know, women continue to suffer even though their  legal status has changed, because it is difficult for society to rid itself of  age-old patterns of thought, deep-rooted oppression, and sexist images that are  still rampant in movies, newspapers, advertisements, television, etc.A  brief survey of contemporary Israeli society reveals that while about half of  Israeli women work outside of the home, the lion’s share of the housework and  childcare still falls to them. Most women in Israel make only minimum wage, and  men’s salaries are almost double those of women. The unemployment rate is also  higher for women than for men.Women continue to work in jobs that are  regarded as feminine, such as education, welfare, nursing, or clerical work, and  the number of those who advance to senior administrative positions, both in the  public and the private sectors, is still negligible.At a time when in  the third world we are witness to the flowering of women’s leadership, the  representation of women in the Knesset and in the Israeli government is  shameful.And this is in spite of the fact that women are more educated,  and more women are earning bachelor’s and master’s degrees at colleges and  universities nationwide. Even in the universities, where there is ostensibly  gender equality, only 13 percent of tenured professors are women. It is worth  noting that the percentage of women in the Knesset and in the government has  additional symbolic significance, since it is a sign of the extent to which the  democratic ideal has been realized.When I served as the Israeli  ambassador to Moscow, appointed by Shimon Peres, who was then foreign minister,  I was astonished to discover that we have succeeded in marketing the myth of  equality all across Israeli society. Many of the women from local women’s  organizations with whom I met believed this myth, and commented that “with you  it’s different, but with us...”We have somehow managed to keep secret  the discrimination against women by the monopoly of religion and of religious  parties and the centrality of the military-security system, with its  hierarchical, undemocratic leadership which manages to exclude women from the  circles of decision-making. Not to mention the apartheid system on Israeli  buses.How fortunate that the Russian feminists haven’t heard about that  one.I have often been asked if there is any chance of creating a women’s  political party in Israel. Aside from the fact that Israeli women have a  complicated relationship with feminism, it seems to me that the issues that  divide women into factions – issues of religion and state, Right and Left,  majority and minority – will not allow it.Moreover, in honor of the  sixtieth anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel, it was decided in  5768 (2008) to award the Israel Prize to the three largest women’s organizations  – Naamat, Wizo, and Emuna – for their contributions to the advancement of women  in Israel, for fighting violence against women, and for their educational work.  It was noted that thanks to their contributions, Israel became an international  leader in advancing the status of women.The awarding of the Israel Prize  on Yom Ha’atzmaut, according to the Israel Prize website, underscores the  organic, intrinsic connection between political and cultural  independence.Bestowing the prize on Yom Ha’atzmaut serves to remind the  nation, time and again, that its independence is dependent on its cultural  richness, which cannot exist unless the nation strives to maintain all facets of  its identity. These words should spur us on: “The Israel Prize has been awarded  to a wide range of citizens, both men and women,” notes the official website,  but only 13% of the prize recipients are women. It is worth noting, too, that  about half of the recipients are members of the academy. Are there no women in  academia who are deserving of the prize? Today, when life in this country has  changed so dramatically, the time has come for a woman presidential candidate.  And there are several women who are fit for the task.
The author is the  provost of the Yezreel Valley College, and the former Israeli ambassador to  Moscow.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>On journalists, political conflict and NGOs</title>
<date>13/12/2014</date>
<content>
When I  started researching and criticizing powerful groups claiming moral agendas, such  as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, my primary objective was to  open a debate and build a system of accountability where none  existed.Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) exercise a great deal of  political power, without being subject to the checks and balances of democracy  or media scrutiny. The organization that I founded, NGO Monitor, is an attempt  to provide at least some substantive and independent analysis and counter to the  growing impact, particularly regarding Israel.




The need for informed and  serious criticism became apparent during the 2001 Forum of Non-Governmental  Organizations (NGOs) that took place in Durban, South Africa. This forum, held  under the banner of the UN Human Rights Commission, brought in 5,000 delegates  from over 1,500 NGOs, ostensibly to celebrate the end of apartheid. In fact,  this high-profile event was turned into the opening attack in a dirty political  war targeting Israel “as an apartheid state,” and using weapons such as  boycotts, demonization and lawfare.In this ongoing conflict, journalists  play a central role in marketing the NGO “reports” and condemnations accusing  Israel of war crimes and violations of human rights. In the media, NGO officials  that attack Israel are automatically given the role of experts on the  complexities of urban warfare and international law, without examination of  their credentials, which are usually non-existent. For example, the Jerusalem  bureau of The New York Times often quotes politically biased NGO officials with  no expertise on urban warfare, thereby furthering the Durban agenda of Israel  bashing.For the most part, journalists, both as individuals and through  professional groups that examine ethics and guidelines, try to avoid debating  and criticizing their own behavior. But questions over the role of journalists  in the conflict are now – for the first time – the focus of a serious  debate.On November 22, Margaret Sullivan, the public editor of the New  York Times, published “The Conflict and the Coverage,” after acknowledging the  culture of reluctance to look inward: “This is column I never wanted to  write.”Sullivan rejected “balanced reporting,” which is often used by  Israel-based correspondents. “I’m not a believer in the idea that if both sides  are upset, the Times must be doing something right. [S]ound journalism isn’t a  matter of hewing to the middle line.”She also acknowledged that the  Times was often remiss in covering Palestinians: “They are more than just  victims...Realistic examinations of what’s being taught in schools, and  the way Hamas operates should be a part of this.”Her newspaper, like  most Western media platforms, devotes many column inches to distorted criticisms  of Israel, particularly pushed by politicized NGOs, but since their NGO guides  and friends give the Arabs (as perpetually victims) a free pass, journalists do  the same.In another detailed critique, Matti Friedman, who spent a  number of years in the Jerusalem bureau of the Associated Press, wrote a  stinging article in The Atlantic (What the Media Gets Wrong About Israel,  November 30). Friedman noted that journalists have become central actors in the  conflict, in violation of basic ethical principles. He drew attention to the  close relationship between journalists covering the conflict and the hundreds of  NGO officials that frequent the same hotels and bars, and focus on the  Palestinian victimization narrative.Friedman, like the Dutch journalist  Linda Polman and others who have exposed the links between reporters and NGOs,  criticizes the way that “the press represents humanitarians with unquestioning  admiration.” While reporters routinely question and criticize politicians and  military officials, they give influential NGO officials that control millions of  dollars (or pounds, euros, etc.) a free ride, acting more as their agents than  as journalists.As a critic of human rights NGOs active in the  Arab-Israeli conflict, I have often seen this preferential relationship in  action. Friedman’s article confirms the intense efforts to keep the research  that I and NGO Monitor publish from getting into the media, and into the hands  of policy makers. We now know that in 2009, the AP’s Jerusalem bureau chief,  Steve Gutkin, issued a formal ban on quoting me and NGO Monitor. According to  Friedman (and confirmed by another ex-AP reporter), “In my time as an AP writer  moving through the local conflict, with its myriad lunatics, bigots and killers,  the only person I ever saw subjected to an interview ban was this  professor.”Highlighting the deep fear of exposing the NGO-media  alliance, Friedman’s article was subject to a number of counter-attacks. The  Columbia Journalism Review – the bastion of journalism’s power elite –  immediately ran a column attacking both Friedman and NGO Monitor, repeating the  political labels and false allegations against both of us. This response, and  the lack of basic fact checking at CJR, inadvertently provided a blatant example  of the problems and failures in media coverage of Israel. The fact that the  author, Jared Malsin, worked for the Palestinian wire service Ma’an between 2007  and 2010, was omitted. The editors of CJR also refused to even respond to my  submission on the NGO-media alliance. Like the AP’s official ban, and the New  York Times in practice, this “prestigious” publication on journalism censored  the criticism.In democracies, journalists enjoy a privileged position as  the embodiment of a free press, enabling them to criticize powerful actors, and  to help the public make informed decisions. But when the media itself promotes  the unchecked power of political groups such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty,  and suppresses criticism of these NGOs, democracy is ill-served.
The  author is a professor of politics at Bar-Ilan University and heads NGO Monitor,  a Jerusalem-based research institute.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Original thinking: How Mandela’s legacy has faded</title>
<date>16/7/2014</date>
<content>
An event celebrating the legacy of Nelson Mandela  was recently held at the Tel Aviv-Jaffa Academic College. The event was an  attempt to make Mandela’s legacy relevant to Israel, however, many in the  audience were probably unaware of the contents of a recent statement issued by  Mandela’s ANC party.I was given a copy. The statement is truly  shocking.




Written by Jessie Duarte, the deputy secretary-general of the  ANC, it says: “The state of Israel has turned the occupied territories of  Palestine into permanent death camps.”She goes on to write that the ANC  is “reminded of the atrocities of Nazi Germany.” She asks the people of Israel  if the term “lest we forget” has lost its meaning. The statement condemns what  it calls “the barbaric attacks on the defenseless Palestinian people of  Gaza.”I read this statement on a day when 150 Palestinian rockets were  fired at Israeli civilian areas. Six million Israelis were under rockets-fire  from “the defenseless people of Gaza.” Does that number ring a bell, ANC? This  didn’t appear in the offensive ANC statement.How far has Mandela’s party  fallen? One of the panelists, Nic Wolpe, is a proud ANC member.He told  of an incident at Yad Vashem in which he was accused of being an anti-Semite.  His joking question of whether it’s possible for a Jew to be an anti-Semite fell  flat.One can only imagine what offensive words he uttered, in the  Holocaust memorial located in the ancient capital of the Jewish people, to draw  such a response. Such is the abusive and insensitive nature of ANC, as witnessed  by Wolpe’s words and Duarte’s official document.Wolpe may desire to  wallow in the glory of Mandela but as a South African Jew and member of ANC, if  he puts his hand on his heart and reads the awful things his party has written  about Israel, words deeply offensive to any Jew, he must hang his head in shame.  If he doesn’t, he deserves to be called an anti-Semite, Jewish or  not.Wolpe discussed the period when Mandela’s ANC became militant.  Mandela is not celebrated for this dark period of South African history but  rather for the pragmatic and charismatic leader and masterful politician he  later became. But for many of his admirers, the armed struggle was an essential  element of the black march to freedom. As such, the ANC and many others view  Hamas and Palestinian violence in a similar light. For them, it is part of the  process.But when Mandela and the ANC turned to “armed resistance” in  1961, they avoided the killing of white civilians.The Palestinians, on  the other hand, deliberately target civilians. This point is lost on the ANC. It  airbrushes out Palestinian terrorism with bogus claims such as Hamas being “the  defenseless Palestinian people of Gaza.”Wolpe is a member of a party  that endorsed the infamous “Israel Apartheid Week” in 2014. Even fellow panelist  Benjamin Pogrund, a close friend and adviser to Nelson Mandela, accused anyone  supporting IAW as promoting “nothing more than slander designed to harm Israel”  (The Jewish Press, March 6, 2013). How can Wolpe remain a member of a party that  defames Israel as a cornerstone of its policy? It’s a party that endorses the  Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions campaign against Israel. How much worse can it  get? Well, it is a party that lies without shame. It is the party that  perpetrated the lie that Israel was the last major country that aided the  Apartheid regime in South Africa, when it is perfectly aware that the white  regime’s industry and military operated due to the $2 billion oil supplies from  Arab nations, mainly Saudi Arabia, while Israeli business with South Africa was  miniscule by comparison. Yet the ANC supports the Arabs and boycotts  Israel.It needs reminding that Mandela said, in October 1999, that “I  cannot conceive of Israel withdrawing if Arab states do not recognize Israel  within secure borders.” This has not happened, not under Yasser Arafat nor  rejectionist Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, and certainly not  under Hamas and Islamic Jihad. It won’t happen for two profound reasons,  explained by Palestinian human rights activist Bassam Eid, a Mandela Legacy  panelist.Eid admitted that the Palestinians had failed to produce a  Mandela. Abbas, who speaks the same twisted language as Duarte, referring to the  Holocaust to describe Israel’s forced response to incessant Palestinian rocket  attacks against its citizens, is certainly no Mandela. We are reminded that  Abbas literally has a PhD in Holocaust denial. Eid accused Arafat and Abbas of  failing to adopt unity and reconciliation when it comes to Israel. This equally  applies to ANC.Some perceive Shimon Peres as the Israeli Nelson  Mandela.Even if this were so, the Palestinians have failed to produce a  De Klerk. Without De Klerk even Mandela’s road to peace would have  failed.Pogrund assumes that he has to support the Palestinian cause  because it’s good for Israel, and good for his Jewish soul. He is reliving his  past and imposing it on the Palestinian conflict and Israel, even as both Fatah  and Hamas reject the notion of a Jewish state.His view is shared by  many. They do nothing to hone Hamas into a pragmatic party seeking true  democracy, a la Mandela. They do nothing about finding a Mandela figure among  the Hamas and Islamic Jihad leaders. (Mission impossible, I suspect.) The ANC  thinks the Palestinian cause reflects its old struggle for freedom and liberty,  and as such, is in denial as to the real aim of the Islamic terrorist arm of  Palestinian society.Proof of this aim can be seen in the Palestinian  rocket fire. The Palestinians are targeting Israel not for Israel’s presence in  the Gaza Strip, but for its presence anywhere.The Palestinians aren’t  targeting a West Bank settlement, they’re targeting central and southern Israel.  Doesn’t it occur to the ANC that this reflects the ultimate aim of both Fatah  and Hamas, and that everything else is a distraction aimed at weakening Israel  in advance of the final fatal blow? No matter, they say. Just give them victory,  a la the ANC, and they will share Mandela’s peaceful legacy. Such is the  political absurdity driving the ANC-type dreamers, all blinded by Mandela’s  unique example.If the ANC supports the notion of a nation that respects  all its citizens then Israel is their shining Rainbow Nation. A “Judenrein”  Palestinian state would be an apartheid state. It would be a state where even  the Christians flee as they have from Bethlehem under Palestinian  control.All this they fail to see. They are so blinded that the  Palestinian cause, no matter how evil, is to them a blessed one. For them, it’s  Israel that’s preventing it from coming to fruition. So they demand that Israel  get out of the way, or curse it forever.It’s this at the heart of the  ANC statement. It’s a dangerous concept, which the ANC accepts none of the  consequences of. Nelson Mandela was a unique figure at a unique moment in  history. You can’t cut and paste Mandela onto the Palestinian conflict. Any  apparent similarities are mere desert mirages. No matter how thirsty you are, a  mirage will not keep you alive.The problem of the ANC, without Nelson  Mandela, is that is has sunk to become the failing, divisive, corrupt party it  is. It was so under Winnie Mandela. It is so today.Remove Nelson Mandela  from the ANC and you have Fatah, and even worse, Hamas.
The author is a  special consultant to the Strategic Dialogue Center at Netanya Academic College.  He is the founder of the Netanya Terror Victims Organization, and also the  author of ‘Israel Reclaiming the Narrative.’ www.israelnarrative.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Original thinking: When Israel supporters use the language of delegitimization</title>
<date>7/4/2014</date>
<content>
When US Secretary of State John Kerry said it was a “mistake” for Israel to  demand recognition as the Jewish state it showed how deeply the language of  delegitimization has been adopted by even the most ardent of Israel  supporters.Another example of this was New Jersey governor and potential  Republican presidential candidate Chris Christie. In front of a crowd of Jewish  Republican fund-raisers in Los Vegas, hosted by Sheldon Adelson, a close friend  of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, Christie said, “I took a helicopter ride  from the occupied territories and felt personally how extraordinary that was, to  understand the military risk that Israel faces every day.”




When  challenged by the head of Zionist Organization of America, Morton Klein,  Christie apologized, saying his remark was not meant as a statement of policy.  Didn’t he know that Israel has legitimate claims to this land? The  UJA-Federation of New York decided this year to allow organizations such as New  Israel Fund, which promote the boycott of Israel, to march in the annual Israel  Day Parade. How misguided and wrong can that be? They permit groups that assist  in the delegimitization of Israel in an event that should be affirmatively  pro-Israel.We increasingly see well-intentioned, powerful and  influential people, who have the close attention of the media, make misplaced  statements that feed into the adoption of a viewpoint that Israel has no  legitimate right to be where it is. The misuse of language and deed is an  indicator not only of the general public’s views, it also displays how  pro-Israel influential voices are chasing a narrative that is driven by the  Palestinian side of the conflict.One perfect example of terminology  drift can be seen with the area once known as Judea and Samaria becoming  “disputed territory,” then the “West Bank,” and now “illegally occupied  Palestinian land.” Any staunch Israeli, or dispassionate neutral, would argue  that it is neither illegal, nor occupied, and certainly not Palestinian land  according to international law and binding resolutions going back as far as the  League of Nations Mandate of 1922. All this has not stopped the flow of  terminology becoming accepted language.How did this state of affairs  come about? Well, it boils down to two major factors: 1) A highly successful  pro-Palestinian publicity campaign. 2) Dereliction of duty by consecutive  Israeli governments and prime ministers.Some say the demonization and  delegitimization of Israel began at the infamous 2001 UN Conference on Racism at  Durban in South Africa which produced the hateful “Zionism is Racism” slogan,  and gave birth to the accusations of an apartheid Israel.However, the  refusal to accept Jewish rights to an independent state was forcefully  demonstrated back in 1947 when the Arab nations violently rejected UN Resolution  181 which called for recognition of a Jewish state.They unsuccessfully  launched major wars against the nascent Jewish state which led them in anger,  following yet another defeat in 1967, to gather in Khartoum and declare three  “No’s” against Israel.No peace, no negotiations, no recognition. This  was reconfirmed by the Arab League as recently as March 25, 2014, when Arab  leaders again declared that they will never recognize Israel as the Jewish  state. So much for the Arab Peace Initiative! But, to go back in time, out of  Egypt came Yasser Arafat to cloak himself in the mantle of  Palestine.Initially, he saw himself as the spearhead of the Pan-Arabic  aggression against Israel. As he said in a 1970 interview with Italian  journalist Arianna Palazzi, “The question of borders doesn’t interest  us.Our nation is the Arabic nation. The PLO is fighting Israel in the  name of Pan-Arabism. What you call Jordan is nothing more than  Palestine.”This hatred of Israel conglomerated into what is known as the  Palestinian cause. By portraying Israel as a colonialist, powerful, aggressive,  oppressive, racist occupier of a poor, defenseless, weak, indigenous Palestinian  people a picture is painted that, to the impressionable, inevitably leads to a  negative opinion of an Israel accused of the worst examples of war crimes and  human rights abuses, and a sympathy for the weak Palestinians. That is the  perception today.It leads to the ridiculous, but dangerous, situation  where church leaders gather in Bethlehem to accuse Israel of abuses – this in a  once-Christian town from which their co-religionists have been driven out and  persecuted not only by the non-Christian Palestinians who have taken over their  homes and businesses, but also by officials of the Palestinian Authority,  including Arafat himself, who confiscated the Greek Orthodox mission to make it  his official Bethlehem residence.The Palestine cause has become so  “flavor of the month” that the British Methodists have abandoned Wesleyan hymns,  and the founding principles of their own faith, that call for the return of the  Jews to their homeland in Zion, in favor of declaring it as Palestinian  land.When you see that happen you know that the Palestinian PR machine  has won the battle ofr public opinion.The seeds of delegitimization are  planted when the official voice of Israel is missing. Opposing voices get their  message over with clarity. Their message may be wrong, it may be false, but told  often enough, and loudly enough, it leaves people waiting to hear a clear voice  of reason from our side.That voice is seldom heard. That voice has been  missing. The result of this silence has been to convince the undecided to side  with the voice they hear, and the result of that is all too plain for us to see.  The international community and public opinion is against us.It doesn’t  matter whether the political position in Israel is to surrender land or not. The  starting point of both camps must be grounded in our heritage and rights. What  is critically important is publicly and repeatedly to claim Israel’s legitimacy  to the land, clearly elucidating Israel’s legal precedents, of which we have  many, for existing and for sovereignty.Without this, we have no basis  for honesty and no credibility in the international community or with public  opinion both at home and abroad. It is from this certain and firm starting point  that either side can then move forward. Without it, we have no legitimacy  anywhere.Official voices have either been silent or waffling on this  vital issue. There are thousands of supportive voices that are broadcasting  strong pro-Israel messages but they are merely the choir. The lead singer has  been absent from the stage, or strikes a discordant note. This is not the way to  sell a hit record.The Israeli government must get its act together and  start to sing out in clear, clarion tones. The backing group of organizations  and individuals will take up the lyrics to amplify the convincing message of our  song, and drown out the opposing voice.This, surely, is the only  platform from which Israel can, and must, claim any legitimacy from which to  move forward. Without it, we have no legitimacy anywhere, not in Judea and  Samaria, the West Bank, or whatever you call that place. And, once you have lost  that you have no legitimacy anywhere in what was once called  Palestine.And, when that happens, we may as well sneak away, like  thieves in the night.The author is special consultant on  delegitimization issues to the Strategic Dialogue center at Netanya Academic  College.He is the author of Israel Reclaiming the  Narrative.
www.israelnarrative.com
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: John Kerry's Jewish best friends</title>
<date>29/4/2014</date>
<content>
Anti-Semitism is not a simple bigotry. It is a complex neurosis. It involves assigning malign intent to Jews where none exists on the one hand, and rejecting reason as a basis for understanding the world and operating within it on the other hand. John Kerry’s recent use of the term “Apartheid” in reference to Israel’s future was an anti-Semitic act. 




In remarks before the Trilateral Commission a few days after PLO chief Mahmoud Abbas signed a unity deal with the Hamas and Islamic Jihad terror groups, Kerry said that if Israel doesn’t cut a deal with the Palestinians soon, it will either cease to be a Jewish state or it will become “an apartheid state.”Leave aside the fact that Kerry’s scenarios are based on phony demographic data. As I demonstrate in my book The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East, Israel will maintain a strong and growing Jewish majority in a “unitary state” that includes the territory within the 1949 armistice lines and Judea and Samaria. But even if Kerry’s fictional data were correct, the only “Apartheid state” that has any chance of emerging is the Palestinian state that Kerry claims Israel’s survival depends on. The Palestinians demand that the territory that would comprise their state must be ethnically cleansed of all Jewish presence before they will agree to accept sovereign responsibility for it. In other words, the future leaders of that state – from the PLO, Hamas and Islamic Jihad alike --- are so imbued with genocidal Jew hatred that they insist that all 650,000 Jews living in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria must be forcibly ejected from their homes. These Jewish towns, cities and neighborhoods must all be emptied before the Palestinians whose cause Kerry so wildly champions will even agree to set up their Apartheid state. According to the 1998 Rome Statute, Apartheid is a crime of intent, not of outcome. It is the malign intent of the Palestinians –across their political and ideological spectrum -- to found a state predicated on anti-Jewish bigotry and ethnic cleansing. In stark contrast, no potential Israeli leader or faction has any intention of basing national policies on racial subjugation in any form. By ignoring the fact that every Palestinian leader views Jews as a contaminant that must be blotted out from the territory the Palestinians seek to control, (before they will even agree to accept sovereign responsibility for it), while attributing to Jews malicious intent towards the Palestinians that no Israeli Jewish politician with a chance of leading the country harbors, Kerry is adopting a full-throated and comprehensive anti-Semitic position. It is both untethered from reason and libelous of Jews. Speaking to the Daily Beast about Kerry’s remarks on Sunday, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki was quick to use the “some of his best friends are Jewish,” defense. In her words, “Secretary Kerry, like Justice Minister [Tzipi] Livni, and previous Israeli Prime Ministers [Ehud] Olmert and [Ehud] Barak, was reiterating why there’s no such thing as a one-state solution if you believe, as he does, in the principle of a Jewish state. He was talking about the kind of future Israel wants.”So in order to justify his own anti-Semitism – and sell it to the American Jewish community – Kerry is engaging in vulgar partisan interference in the internal politics of another country. Indeed, Kerry went so far as to hint that if Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is forced from power, and Kerry’s Jewish best friends replace him, then things will be wonderful.  In his words, if “there is a change of government or a change of heart, something will happen.” By inserting himself directly into the Israeli political arena, Kerry is working from his mediator Martin Indyk’s playbook. Since his tenure as US ambassador to Israel during the Clinton administration, Indyk has played fast and dirty in Israeli politics, actively recruiting Israelis to influence Israeli public opinion to favor the Left while castigating non-leftist politicians and regular Israeli citizens as evil, stupid and destructive.Livni, Olmert, Barak and others probably don’t share Kerry’s anti-Semitic sensitivities. Although their behavior enables foreigners like Kerry to embrace anti-Semitic positions, their actions are most likely informed by their egotistical obsessions with power. Livni, Olmert and Barak demonize their political opponents because the facts do not support their policies. The only card they have to play is the politics of personal destruction. And so they use it over and over again.This worked in the past. That is why Olmert and Barak were able to form coalition governments. But the cumulative effects of the Palestinian terror war that began after Israel offered the PLO statehood at Camp David in 2000, the failure of the 2005 withdrawal from Gaza, and the 2006 war with Lebanon have brought about a situation where the Israeli public is no longer willing to buy what the Left is selling. Realizing this, Barak, Livni and others have based their claim to political power on their favored status in the US. In Netanyahu’s previous government, Barak parlayed the support he received from the Obama administration into his senior position as Defense Minister. Today, Livni’s position as Justice Minister and chief negotiator with the PLO owes entirely to the support she receives from the Obama administration.  Neither Barak nor Livni ever lost sight of the cause for their political elevation, despite their electoral defeats. 
Like Barak in Netanyahu’s previous government, today Livni provides Kerry and Indyk with “Israeli” cover for their anti-Israeli policies. And working with Kerry and Indyk, she is able to force herself and her popularly rejected policies on the elected government. Livni – again, like Barak in Netanyahu’s previous government – has been able to hold her senior government position and exert influence over government policy by claiming that only her presence in the government is keeping the US at bay. According to this line of thinking, without her partnership, the Obama administration will turn on Israel.Now that Kerry has given a full throated endorsement of anti-Semitic demagoguery, Livni’s leverage is vastly diminished. Since Kerry’s anti-Semitic statements show that Livni has failed to shield Israel from the Obama administration’s hostility, the rationale for her continued inclusion in the government has disappeared.The same goes for the Obama administration’s favorite American Jewish group J Street. Since its formation in the lead up to the 2008 Presidential elections, J Street has served as the Obama administration’s chief supporter in the US Jewish community. J Street uses rhetorical devices that were relevant to the political realities of the 1990s to claim that it is both “pro-peace and pro-Israel.” Twenty years into the failed peace process, for Israeli ears at least, these slogans ring hollow.But the real problem with J Street’s claim isn’t that its rhetoric is irrelevant. The real problem is that its rhetoric is deceptive.   J Street’s record has nothing to do with either supporting Israel or peace. Rather it has a record of continuous anti-Israel agitation. J Street has continuously provided American Jewish cover for the administration’s anti-Israel actions by calling for it to take even more extreme actions. These have included calling for the administration to support an anti-Israel resolution at the UN Security Council, and opposing sanctions against Iran for its illicit nuclear weapons program. J Street has embraced the PLO’s newest unity pact with Hamas and Islamic Jihad. And now it is defending Kerry for engaging in rank anti-Semitism with his “Apartheid” remarks.J Street’s political action committee campaigns to defeat pro-Israel members of Congress. And its campus operation brings speakers to US university campuses that slander Israel and the IDF and call for the divestment of university campuses from businesses owned by Israelis. On Wednesday, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations is set to vote on J Street’s application to join the umbrella group as a “pro-peace, pro-Israel” organization.Kerry’s “Apartheid” remarks are a watershed event. They represent the first time a sitting US Secretary of State has publically endorsed an anti-Semitic caricature of Jews and the Jewish state. The best response that both the Israeli government and the Jewish community can give to Kerry’s act of unprecedented hostility and bigotry is to reject his Jewish enablers. Livni should be shown the door. And the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations should reject J Street’s bid for membership.
 Caroline B. Glick is the author of The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Our World: Rand Paul’s support for Israel</title>
<date>6/5/2014</date>
<content>
Republican Senator Rand Paul is an isolationist. This ought to make him a natural ally for appeasers like Steve Walt and John Mearshimer and the whole blame Israel first crowd.And indeed, he has taken positions, like opposing additional sanctions on Iran that placed him in their camp.




But Paul is a mixed bag.Last week, following the PLO’s unity deal with terrorist groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad, Paul introduced the Stand With Israel Act. If it had passed into law, Paul’s act would have required the US to cut off all funding to the Palestinian Authority, including its security forces. The only way the administration could have wiggled out of the aid cutoff would have been by certifying that the PLO, Hamas and Islamic Jihad had effectively stopped being the PLO, Hamas and Islamic Jihad.Paul’s conditions for maintaining aid would have required the President to certify to Congress that the PA – run jointly by Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the PLO –formally and publicly recognized Israel as a Jewish state; renounced terrorism; purged all individuals with terrorist ties from its security services; terminated all anti-American and anti-Israel incitement, publicly pledged not to engage in war with Israel; and honored previous agreements signed between the PLO and Israel.Paul’s bill was good for America. Maintaining financial support for the Palestinian Authority in the aftermath of the PLO’s unity-with-terrorists deal constitutes a breach of US anti-terror law.Financing the PA also harms US national security. Hamas and Islamic Jihad are financed by Iran. So by funding the PLO’s PA, which just united its forces with theirs, the US is subsidizing Iran’s terror network.Ending US financing of the PA would certainly be good for Israel. Indeed, just by sponsoring the bill Paul has helped Israel in two critical ways. He offered Israel friendship, and he began a process of changing the mendacious narrative about the nature of the Palestinian conflict with Israel to one based on the truth.By extending his hand to Israel, Paul gave Israel an opening to build relationships with political forces with which it has not traditionally had close ties. Because most of Israel’s supporters in Washington support an interventionist US foreign policy, isolationists like Paul have generally either stood on the sidelines of the debate, or in light of their desire to beat a quick retreat from the region, they have been willing, even happy to support the Arabs against Israel and blame Israel’s supporters for getting the US involved in the Middle East.The hard truth is that while American isolationism is bad for the US, it isn’t necessarily bad for Israel. To date, under Democratic and Republican administrations alike, there has been a direct correlation between the level of US involvement in Israel’s affairs and US hostility towards Israel. Paul’s pro-Israel detractors note that he also supports cutting off US military aid to Israel. But that doesn’t necessarily make him anti-Israel.Despite the protestations of AIPAC and other pro-Israel groups, it is far from clear that Israel would be worse off if it stopped receiving US aid. Indeed, it is likely that Israel’s economy and military strength would both be enhanced by the strategic independence that an aid cut-off would bring about. Yes, Paul is a complicated character. But that doesn’t make him Israel’s enemy. His bill was an act of friendship. And Israel can use more friends in Washington who actually do things that help it rather than suffice with declaring their support for Israel while standing by as its reputation is trashed.And that’s the thing of it. The Obama administration can’t stop trash talking Israel. And more than ever before, Israel needs allies who are willing to take real action to defend it. Israel received yet another reminder of this basic fact last Friday when Yedioth Aharonoth’s senior writer Nahum Barnea published an interview with unnamed “senior American officials” involved in the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. Those “officials,” it quickly became apparent, turned out to be the one and only Martin Indyk, Secretary of State John Kerry’s senior mediator. In that interview, Indyk showed that among members of the Obama administration, Israel is friendless. Indyk’s interview, like serial anti-Israel statements made by Kerry, (most recently his anti-Semitic “Israel apartheid” remarks to the Trilateral Commission), and by President Barack Obama himself, was notable for its utter hostility to Israel and its Jewish leaders.Not only did Indyk blame Israel for the failure of Kerry’s “peace process.” Like Obama and Kerry, Indyk insisted that Israel’s failure to bow to every PLO demand has opened it to the prospect of a renewed Palestinian terror war against it, to international isolation and to European trade embargoes. Like Kerry, Indyk casually employed anti-Semitic stereotypes about Jewish cleverness and greed. From the perspective of continued US aid to the PA, by far the most important part of Indyk’s remarks, like those that Kerry made to the Trilateral Commission, was his claim that the Palestinians will likely respond to the failure of Kerry’s peacemaking by initiating another terror war against Israel.Indyk’s assertion – or was it a threat? – was notable because the US government is training and financing the Palestinian forces that would be directing the terror war.Since 2007, the US has spent billions of dollars financing and training Palestinian security services and transforming them into a professional military. Trained using US doctrine, they are the strongest military force the Palestinians have ever fielded against Israel. These forces – commanded by Abbas – share his supportive view of the terrorist mass murder of Jews. They share his position that Israel has no right to exist, that Jews have no history and are not a nation. Since 1996, every Palestinian terror campaign has been directed by these security services. And as US Lt. Gen. Keith Dayton, who served as the first commander of the US training mission has stated publicly, these US trained forces can be expected to turn their guns at Israel.While the PLO was competing with Hamas for leadership, Abbas deployed these US trained forces against Hamas. Now that the PLO and Hamas are unified, these operations will necessarily end. Moreover, these US trained forces are already involved in terrorism. Over the past six months, IDF commanders have repeatedly pointed fingers at PA security forces claiming that the steep rise in terrorist attacks against Israelis in Judea and Samaria is being organized and directed by them. This is brings us to the second reason why Paul’s initiative is so important. While it is important for Israel to find new friends in Washington, it is even more important for it to change the narrative about the Palestinians and their conflict with Israel. The false narrative, which claims that the PLO is moderate and that Mahmoud Abbas is a statesman and a man of peace, has made Israel’s old friends in Washington unable to understand reality. So unlike Paul, these friends are incapable of taking actions that actually advance Israel’s interests and strengthen its alliance with the US. The false narrative of PLO moderation has monopolized the discourse on the Palestinians to the point where adherence to the two-state policy has more in common with a religious faith than a policy preference. Indyk’s hysterical assault on Israel is textbook behavior of a believer lashing out at a person who exposes the utter falsity of his faith. The believer cannot disown his phony messiah. So his only option is to present the party that unmasked the lie as the devil. Hence, Indyk’s vulgar assault on Israelis.But while Indyk’s faith is fanatical, many others share it in more moderate, but still devastating forms. And they too lash out at anyone who exposes their irrationality. Case in point is the pro-Israel community’s opposition to Paul’s bill. The day after Paul introduced his bill, AIPAC came out against it. AIPAC opposed the bill, according to the Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin, (who herself violently opposed it), because its leadership believes that the PA security forces play a key role in fighting Hamas. So a week after the Israeli government formally ended negotiations because the PA supports terror, AIPAC opposed ending US aid to the PA because, AIPAC claimed, it fights terror. For her part, Rubin railed against Paul’s initiative claiming that it was “a phony pro-Israel bill.”Paul submitted his bill for unanimous consent in order to fast track it to a vote and into law. AIPAC convinced some senators to vote against Paul’s bill, and so killed it. In an interview with Newsmax’s Steve Maltzberg after the vote, Paul attacked AIPAC saying, “I think the American people, if they knew that [AIPAC opposed his bill], would be very, very upset and think, you know what, those people are no longer lobbying in favor of America and Israel if they’re not willing to put restrictions on aid to Palestine.”In other words, Paul was saying, it is time to move on, and those who insist on acting as though nothing has changed since 1994 are not behaving as one would expect Israel’s friends to behave. And he is right. Paul may be a cynical opportunist. But that’s better than a messianic that prefers to believe that Israel is the devil than accept that the Peace Fairy doesn’t exist. And yes, his refreshing embrace of the truth as the basis for US policymaking makes him a better friend to Israel today than AIPAC that refuses to accept the truth, (and like him, failed to support additional sanctions against Iran). Rand Paul told Fox News after his bill failed to pass that he will not abandon the fight against US aid to the PA. We must hope that he is true to his word. 
Caroline B. Glick is the author of The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Palestinian terrorism is no accident</title>
<date>26/10/2014</date>
<content>
On Wednesday afternoon,  Abdel Rahman al-Shaludi, a 21-year-old resident of Jerusalem’s Silwan  neighborhood, rammed his car at high speed into a group of people standing at  one of the city’s light-rail stations.After committing this hit-and-run  terrorist attack, which left three-month-old Chaya Zissel Braun dead and eight  others wounded, Shaludi ended up crashing into a pole. As he attempted to flee  the scene on foot, he was shot by police. He was then taken to Hadassah  hospital, where he died.




One of his uncles told reporters that Shaludi  was a “normative” person who had merely lost control of his car, and was  therefore was a victim of cold-blooded murder by Israeli police.But  Shaludi’s record shows otherwise.He had spent two stints in jail – one  for 14 months and another for 20 days – for throwing rocks at Jews. In addition,  he had ties to Hamas. Another of his uncles, Mohiyedine Sharif (known as “the  electrician” for his expertise in explosives), was responsible for three major  bus bombings. He was killed in 1998 in Ramallah, possibly by rivals in  Fatah.In addition, Shaludi had written pro-Hamas posts on his Facebook  page, and following Wednesday’s attack Hamas praised him as a proud member and  martyr for their cause.Internecine rivalries aside, Fatah also hailed  Shaludi as a “heroic martyr” in a poster created for this purpose. The poster,  which honors Shaludi for having carried out the attack against “settlers in  occupied Jerusalem,” was distributed in Silwan.This is not only the  neighborhood where Shaludi lived, but also the site of stepped-up Arab violence  due to the recent purchase of a number of homes by Jews. (Though Arabs are free  to live anywhere in Israel, Jews are not welcome to reside among Arabs.) Prime  Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud  Abbas of creating the climate of incitement which led to the attack, one of many  incidents of violence in the Israeli capital of late.PA spokesman Nabil  Abu Rudaineh responded to the charge by omitting any reference to Wednesday’s  attack: “Israeli escalation and incitement and continued occupation of  Palestinian lands are the real reason for all the violence in Palestine and the  region.”Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat also lashed out at  Netanyahu.“Instead of pursuing peace,” Erekat said, “[Netanyahu’s]  government systematically violates international law in order to consolidate its  apartheid regime in Palestine.”Really? Let us take a look at the “peace  pursuing” way in which Jerusalem Arabs reacted to the murder of a Jewish infant.  Residents of Shuafat hurled rocks at the neighborhood light-rail station,  virtually destroying the stop and two train cars.Residents of Isawiya,  near the Hebrew University on Mount Scopus, spent Wednesday night and Thursday  morning pummeling Police and Border Police forces with rocks.Residents  of Wadi Joz held a rock-throwing riot.Residents of Ras al-Amud threw  rocks at a Jewish kindergarten on the Mount of Olives.Residents of Jabel  Mukaber threw rocks at Jewish pedestrians in the Armon Hanatziv  neighborhood.Unidentified Arabs threw rocks at buses driving near  Gethsemane.An Arab assaulted an Israeli guard at a checkpoint at the  entrance to southern Jerusalem.And the list goes on.Jerusalem  Mayor Nir Barkat vowed to restore order to the city, which has seen a sharp rise  in Arab violence since the beginning of the summer.This was when a group  of vigilante Jews burned an Arab boy to death as revenge for the kidnapping and  murder of three Israeli teenagers – events which contributed to the launching of  Operation Protective Edge.His aim is to crack down on violence, while  increasing dialogue with Arab community leaders.In spite of his good  intentions, this is not likely to have the desired effect.Though  Netanyahu is correct in calling Abbas to task for incitement, and Barkat is  right to express zero tolerance for the impossible conditions under which  Jerusalemites have been living, there is a bigger picture to take into  account.On Wednesday, as Shaludi was racing his car into innocent  commuters, a keffiyeh-clad Canadian named Michael Zehaf-Bibeau shot and killed a  soldier at Ottawa’s war memorial, before entering the adjacent parliament  building and opening fire at everyone in sight. Zehaf-Bibeau, who recently  applied for a passport to travel to Syria (undoubtedly to fight with Islamic  State), was gunned down by House of Commons sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers. The  Royal Canadian Mounted Police say that Zehaf-Bibeau had no connection to Martin  Couture- Rouleau, a Christian convert to Islam who committed a hit-and-run  terrorist attack on two soldiers in Quebec last Monday, one of whom died from  his injuries.In spite of the fact that the above acts were technically  unrelated, they are all part of the same global jihad against “infidels”  everywhere and from whatever creed or religion, including Islam. Muslims who do  not hold with the slaughter of Jews and Christians, the subjugation of women,  the stoning of gays and the practice of decapitation are also fair game for  brutality at the hands of their brethren.It is a contagious form of  barbarism that has young people the world over scrambling to sign on.  Palestinians are no exception.It is this greater burden that makes peace  impossible. Anyone who holds Israel the least bit responsible is as complicit in  the spread of Islamist blood-lust as a hit-and-run baby killer.
The  writer is the author of To Hell in a Handbasket: Carter, Obama, and the ‘Arab  Spring.’
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Peace, war and messianism</title>
<date>25/1/2014</date>
<content>
US Secretary of State John Kerry was recently criticized by Defense Minister  Moshe Ya’alon for approaching peacemaking in an emotional and messianic  manner.After the ex-general was reminded of Israel’s need for American  support, he issued a muted apology, but the concerns he raised are central to  the internal Israeli debate, and their substance should be  addressed.




Peacemaking is, almost by definition, messianic. The idea that  in a few months, or even years, it is possible to reverse the flow of human  history, with its ingrained violence between tribes, nations and religions, and  create trust and cooperation, requires deep faith. While replacing the horrors  of war with compromise and mutual understanding seems like an entirely rational  choice, in reality, success in reaching and sustaining peace agreements is the  exception, rather than the rule. Efforts to convince warring groups to lay down  their arms, agree to painful compromises and accept the risk of being caught  unprepared by a deceitful enemy are grounded more in religious belief than in  political reality.For would-be peacemakers like Kerry, the history of  recent efforts in other conflicts should be sobering. The American experiences  in Korea, Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan did not end in peace, and the same is  true in war-torn regions such as Sri Lanka and Colombia. Israelis need only to  look a few tens of kilometers across their borders to the brutality of Syria and  Lebanon to see the all-too-familiar images of tribal and religious warfare, and  the frequent results of messianic peace efforts.Yes, there are some  important exceptions, and these are worthy of careful study and provide some  cautious hope.The peace treaty signed by prime minister Menachem Begin  and president Anwar Sadat in 1979, while not perfect, has been broadly  implemented for over three decades – in sharp contrast to the previous 30 years  of warfare and destruction. But the circumstances, including the ability of both  leaders to take political risks, as well as the geography of the Sinai buffer  zone, were very specific to this case.Outside of the Middle East, we  have the examples of Northern Ireland, where the Unionist Protestants and  Nationalist Catholics reached and have more or less honored the 1998 peace  agreement. But here as well, the limited peace is based on rational interests,  and there is little love lost between the two groups, as public opinion polls  and ongoing friction demonstrate.Similarly, the much touted  post-apartheid transition in South Africa is also attributable to an entirely  unique situation, particularly the exceptional role of the late Nelson Mandela.  The many efforts to duplicate these examples elsewhere, often infused with a  strong dose of messianism and talk of hope, trust and reconciliation, have  generally failed.Academics also have little to offer, and many of the  personal peacemaking efforts of professors from social psychology, education and  other disciplines, undertaken with enthusiasm, and messianism, have yielded  minimal substance. The models based on transferring techniques used to sooth  disputes within families or between neighbors in a small neighborhood do not  succeed on a global scale – conflicts between nations and religious mini-states  (such as Hamas or Hezbollah) are of an entirely different nature.While  some individuals in a violent political conflict share human experiences in an  environment far away from the bombs and destruction, there is no reliable  mechanism for converting such personal contacts into the wider political  arrangements required for a stable peace.Numerous peace dialogues,  summer camps and joint education projects aimed at future leaders are run by  well-intentioned messianists, but without sustained impact on the wider  societies.Nevertheless, when would-be peacemakers such as president  Jimmy Carter or John Kerry respond by calling for trust and highlighting the  insanity of destructive wars, it is difficult to say no. They offer hope instead  of despair; construction instead of destruction; optimism in place of pessimism.  And if, as is often claimed, there is little or no risk, and if there is no  agreement on peace, nothing is lost, their efforts and lofty rhetoric should be  greeted with enthusiasm, rather than fear.But there are real costs and  major dangers associated with a failed peace process based ultimately on faith  and hope.For Israelis and Palestinians, the unripe Oslo agreements,  engineered by messianists from Norway, were clearly  counterproductive.Arafat’s campaign of terrorism that followed these  agreements reflected the loss of Israeli deterrence and security capabilities as  a direct result of the “peace process” and military withdrawal.Israel  then exerted great effort to restore these capabilities, also at a major cost.  As a result, when the dust settled, the core of the conflict and the mutual  fears that sustain it had increased, and most people are understandably wary of  repeating another round.Kerry and his team would be well advised to  consider these issues carefully and to avoid too much talk about hope, trust and  faith, particularly given the long history of warfare over the Holy Land.  Instead, a practical and rational approach, based on mutual interests in  conflict management and security, with gradual and matching steps for both  sides, rather than the hype of dramatic breakthroughs, can produce  success.
The biblical image of beating swords into plowshares is  messianic – the prophets Isaiah and Micah were addressing circumstances outside  the realm of normal human history and politics. As aspirations for prayer and  imagination, they provide inspiration. But this prophetic tradition and other  forms of messianism should not be confused with earthly politics, based on  concrete interests, and the necessary elements for survival in a lawless  world.

The author is a professor at Bar-Ilan University (founder of the  Program on Conflict Management); and the head of NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Reality Check: Netanyahu has given up on full equality for Israel’s Arabs</title>
<date>23/11/2014</date>
<content>
Out of Israel’s population of nearly nine million people, 75 percent are Jewish.  Hebrew is by far the country’s dominant language. The country’s calendar is  Jewish: Shabbat is the legal day of rest and on Yom Kippur the whole country  falls silent. In the major supermarket chains, all the food is kosher, as are  most restaurants around the country. At major national ceremonies, a seat of  honor is always found for the Ashkenazi and Sephardi chief rabbis. The country’s  founding document declares in its very first sentence: “The establishment of a  Jewish state in Eretz Israel, to be known as the State of Israel.”As a  result, over 60 years later, anyone with one Jewish grandparent automatically  has the right to Israeli citizenship, regardless of where they were born, their  knowledge of Hebrew or previous affiliation with any Jewish organization, be it  synagogue, cultural club or sporting team. The country’s national anthem,  “Hatikva,” is exclusively Jewish-focused, talking of the “Jewish spirit  yearning... to be a free people in our land, the land of Zion and Jerusalem,”  while the national flag is a Star of David and the symbol of the state is the  Temple’s seven-branched menorah.




I could go on, but you get the point:  Israel is very clearly the Jewish state; there is no other country like it. So,  using the very Jewish rhetorical device of posing a question to which you  already know the answer, why the need for a new basic law defining Israel as the  nation state of the Jewish people? And the answer is that there is no need.  Unless, of course, you want to make 20% of Israel’s citizens (some 1.7 million  people) feel unwelcome in their own country, which is precisely the intention of  right-wing Knesset members Ayelet Shaked, Yariv Levin and Ze’ev  Elkin.Elkin’s proposal downgrades the status of Arabic as one of the  country’s two official languages, encourages Jewish settlement construction  anywhere in the country (without defining Israel’s borders) and says legislation  should be inspired by Jewish law and that courts should look to Jewish law in  cases where civil law provides no clear answer. Shaked and Levin’s proposal  meanwhile firstly affirms the exclusive right of the Jewish people to national  self-determination in Israel and only, in its second clause, commits to  upholding the personal rights of all the country’s citizens.THIS COLUMN  is being written before Sunday’s cabinet meeting, which is scheduled to discuss  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s compromise suggestion for this unnecessary  basic law. Netanyahu’s proposal also focuses on Israel as the national home for  the Jewish people but avoids the nastier parts of Elkin’s bill, such as the  downgrading of Arabic or the prioritization of Jewish settlement activity.  Crucially, however, although Netanyahu insists that his proposal enshrines “full  individual rights according to law,” nowhere does it mention “full equality” for  all Israel’s citizens.It’s instructive to go back to Israel’s  declaration of independence, which in the same breath as declaring “the State of  Israel will be open for Jewish immigration” adds that the new country will  “ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants  irrespective of religion, race or sex.”Given the glaring socioeconomic  differences between the Jewish and Arab populations in Israel, particularly with  regard to land, urban planning, housing, infrastructure, economic development  and education, it’s hard to argue that the above tenet is being met, but at  least it is still there as a goal. Netanyahu has given up even the pretense  wanting full equality for all the citizens he serves as prime  minister.It’s therefore hard to take seriously Netanyahu’s denunciations  of Ashkelon Mayor Itamar Shimoni’s decision to issue a blanket ban on  Israeli-Arab builders working at municipal kindergartens following last week’s  terrorist outrage in Jerusalem. Such racism on the part of Shimoni is the  logical outcome of the atmosphere created by right-wing Knesset members,  encouraged by Netanyahu, who seek to undermine the democratic foundations of the  country by ramming its Jewishness down the throats of all its  citizens.
Following a summer which saw the shocking kidnapping and murder  of three young Israeli hitchhikers in Gush Etzion, the brutal kidnapping and  murder of a young Palestinian from Shuafat in Jerusalem, a 50-day war against  Hamas in the Gaza Strip, and the recent wave of individual acts of terror by  Palestinians from east Jerusalem, is this now really the time for the government  to seek to further stoke the flames of Jewish-Arab tension by discussing a bill  that effectively downgrades the status of 20% of the country’s population? For  the pyromaniacs and delusional messianists on the Right, determined to bring  about the end of the Israel as a Jewish and democratic state, with an end goal  of creating a binational, apartheid state between the Mediterranean Sea and the  Jordan River, the answer is clearly yes. It is up to the sane members of the  coalition - Yair Lapid’s Yesh Atid and Tzipi Livni’s Hatnua - along with the  opposition, to make sure no version of this unnecessary bill ever becomes  law.

The writer is a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Elections now</title>
<date>12/6/2014</date>
<content>
The awkward conduct of the prime minister on the election of a new president had  even some of his staunchest supporters in the Likud asking whether Bibi had lost  it.The anti-Ruby Rivlin obsession drove him to a frantic candidate hunt  – from David Levy to Elie Wiesel, as long as your name wasn’t Rivlin. Binyamin  Netanyahu is giving political paranoia a bad name. If he can’t make peace with  Rivlin, how is he expected to make peace with the Palestinians? Behind the  scenes, another political race has thus begun: Who will succeed Netanyahu? The  knives are out in Likud Beytenu; Ya’alon, Sa’ar, Shalom, and Liberman have their  eyes on the biggest prize. Herzog and Lapid share this ambition; so do the  possible newcomers to the political race, Moshe Kahlon and Yuval  Diskin.




Netanyahu has not given up, but if it looks like a lame duck,  walks like a lame duck and talks like a lame duck, it is a lame duck! The Bibi  III government is a story of failures. It failed to decrease the cost of living,  to reform the housing market, to reduce the number of people living under the  poverty line and to rehabilitate the floundering health services. It also failed  in conducting the peace process, which was sacrificed in favor of settlement  construction. The all-important relations with the United States are now at a  low point and Europe is threatening economic boycott.Success in this  government is measured by how each party scores with its own constituency:  Netanyahu with rightwing demagoguery to his Likud base; Lapid with the  legislation on equal military service that was only of rhetorical value to his  Yesh Atid upper-middle-class crowd; Tzipi Livni with her best efforts on peace  and democracy for those who still believe in both; and Bennett and company with  thousands of housing units in the West Bank for their ultra-nationalist  followers inside and outside of the West Bank. The highest score  definitely goes to Bennett. Bennettism has become government  policy.Bennett, a radical ideologue in the clothes of a pragmatist, has  skillfully manipulated the government to adopt his policies and basic outlooks.  He aimed to sabotage the peace process and did not rely on the prime minister’s  assurances that nothing will come out of it. He added 14,000 obstacles to the  peace talks, in the form of new or planned housing units in the West  Bank. Netanyahu insisted on having him in the government rather than the  alternative unity government with Labor.Bennettism is also the tune to  which this government marches. To him, every Palestinian leader is a terrorist,  every compromise a capitulation, a Palestinian state a catastrophe. At least he  is honest and outspoken; his megaphone spoke louder than the hesitant mumblings  of the prime minister about a two-state solution. For all practical purposes,  the government has now espoused a policy in favor of a binational apartheid  state.That is the direction; Bennett is the locomotive. He  marches at full throttle in front of thousands of fanatic followers, chanting  nationalistic slogans, through Arab neighborhoods in east Jerusalem (like Sheikh  Jarrah) to scare the local population. This serves as inspiration for the  “price-tag” hooligans and takes the ugly form of Jewish  Fascism.Historically and universally, it’s not only that the radical  Right wins; it’s no less that the moderate Center-Left loses by not fighting for  its positions. This is the predicament set before the relative moderates in the  government, Yair Lapid and Tzipi Livni.Both of them ran in the last  election on a liberal agenda in favor of an Israel engaged in a peace process,  with more democratic and liberal legislation and improving the well-being of the  middle class. Now that the prime minister and virtually all Likud ministers have  taken sides with Bennett, and the country has taken the course for a binational  state in favor of settlements at the expense of democracy, it is time for both  to leave.
They can learn from Bennett in terms of commitment to  ideology.At such a dramatic crossroads about the very identity of  Israel, the country is in need of national elections – now. It is a matter of  national emergency.Israelis behave as though they were on the Titanic,  not noticing that they are soon to crash into the iceberg. We are in the process  of losing not only the majority in our own country but also the very moral  identity on which the state was founded, not to speak of the all-essential  support of the world. This predicament should be the choice in the next  elections: either a binational state, with an apartheid regime in the West Bank,  with a messianic worldview, delusions of superiority and in dangerous isolation  from the world, or a state striving for a realistic two-state solution, with  Western democratic and liberal values and laws, with good diplomatic and  economic relations with the world.The Likudniks and Bennetts will  undoubtedly effectively offer the first alternative, and, during election time,  move to the center in order to “fool all of the people all of the time.” The  Center- Left must propose a realistic alternative and not empty slogans  regarding the middle class.Tzipi Livni was right in the last elections:  Without a realistic peace process, Israel will face the danger of a binational  state and international isolation with growing economic  burdens.Netanyahu’s two-state solution was never intended to be realized  and has zero chance. His so-called two-state solution leads to a binational  state. Now that his bluff has been called, the center-left parties, including  Yesh Atid, must offer a realistic alternative.A two-state solution can  come about only with a readiness for a strategic deal: almost all of the West  Bank and east Jerusalem (without the Jewish Quarter and the Western Wall) in  return for security arrangements, no right of return and normalization with all  Arab countries; and naturally a settlement freeze.The bases for such a  solution are the visions of President Barack Obama, president Bill Clinton and  the Arab Peace Initiative. It’s time for an Israeli peace  initiative.Such a peace process will open us up to the many  opportunities that the globalized world has to offer our Start-up Nation –  investments, trade, tourism, as well as the Arab market of 300 million people.  This can turn the economy around, improve the standard of living for the middle  class and decrease poverty.The Right will use the usual scare tactics –  the dangers emanating from Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas. These are real threats,  but a political solution and good relations with the West can only strengthen  our hand in tackling them. If we wait until the Middle East becomes Switzerland,  we will cease to be a Jewish democratic state.This is the choice, and it  should be made before it is too late. All elements of this choice are mirrored  in the settlement question. Further expansion is a choice for a binational  state, while a freeze of construction is a choice for Israel.The  election results will reflect the 50-50 split within Israel, probably with a  slight edge for the Right. But there is no 50 percent on the issue of a  binational state or a two-state solution. After the next election, it’s one or  the other. Bennett or no Bennett, this is the question.Therefore,  realistically speaking, the best outcome would be a national unity government,  only this time with the Labor Party and without the settlers.The  center-left parties must predicate their participation in a future government on  the acceptance of realistic positions for negotiation in the next term in favor  of a two-state solution, based on the pre-1967 lines and a settlement freeze.  This scenario may be strengthened by Yuval Diskin joining politics; he  represents the security-based view favoring a realistic solution, while  understanding our Palestinian partner better than others.This may also  be true for the new Moshe Kahlon party – the former Likud minister’s view of  social justice – which may also lead to political realism. His participation  will weaken the hand of the Likud leaders who are held hostage by the settlers  within their own party.Such a change in the political landscape after  elections is not only possible but a national must: a coalition of parties  setting clear conditions within the next government that will rescue us from a  binational state. More of the same is a prescription for national  disaster.
The writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace  and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords. Barbara Hurwitz  edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: For the young, by the young</title>
<date>22/5/2014</date>
<content>
The jubilation over the breakdown of the peace process, and the pride each side  takes in blaming the other side for the failure, is nothing short of a betrayal  of the people of Israel and Palestine.If even a fraction of this energy,  maneuvering and flamboyant rhetoric had been invested in promoting realistic  peace, the process would be headed in the direction of creative  solutions.




This peace process must end with two democracies living side  by side. It must, therefore, be led in a democratic fashion – in other words,  serving the people’s interest and including them in the process.The last  round of so-called negotiations was about dictating the terms of peace and  catering to the interests of the leaders, not their constituencies.At  every step, talk and decision, the leaders looked in the mirror, not to the  future. Binyamin Netanyahu was moved more by public opinion polls than by  historic commitment.Peace has to be made with the values of peace, with  mutual respect for equality and with consideration for people’s lives and  well-being. Trying to dictate the terms of peace and complaining to the  Americans about the needs of a coalition with anti-peace forces is blatant  disrespect to the people and the partner.It is the continuation of  conflict by other means.Peace by tyranny. This is reflected in the  bellicose and denigrating rhetoric of the leaders. Peace is defined in purely  nationalistic terms, by superiority rather than equality. Netanyahu’s ultimatum  for the recognition of the Jewish state was like pointing a pistol at Abu  Mazen’s (Mahmoud Abbas’s) head – “prove that you are a partner, or  else....”Such demagogy is filled with hypocrisy: “Peace must be for our  children.” The well-being of the next generation is hardly on the mind of  leaders incapable of making difficult choices. Their view of the future is  myopic, focused on public opinion rather than the people’s future. Sixty percent  of Middle Easterners are under the age of 27. The young are today’s majority. It  is primarily their individual and collective interests and rights that have to  be addressed, especially in education, employment and civil rights.The  region has an average of 30% unemployment, which is also the situation in  Palestine. While many go to universities, the studies do not provide them with  the skills for good jobs. In Israel, one-third of our children live under the  poverty line (800,000 children). Our governments do not provide for the next  generation. Money is wasted on the conflict, inflated defense budgets, appeasing  the religious, and, in our case, on settlement expansion. Israel, due to its  hi-tech success, is much better off, yet it cannot remain an island of wealth in  a sea of poverty.Peace resulting from a democratic worldview must aim at  equality between states and within the state.Within the country, basic  rights must be protected, starting with the most basic of rights – life. A  country at peace must be at peace with the respect for equal rights,  irrespective of nationality, religion, gender or sexual orientation. The respect  for the most basic human and civil rights must be at the foundation of the state  and stem from a profound attitude of human equality. This is demanded today more  by young protesters than by old governments. The young yearn to be respected  equally for their individual rights and preferences. This is true for Israel,  Palestine and the entire world.Equality between states is a fundamental  value of modern international relations based on the principle of  self-determination. Peace cannot be made when one party senses superiority over  another; historically such an attitude has led to treaties of humiliation, not  peace.In the case of Israel and Palestine, it must be clear, therefore,  that two sovereign nation states will have to live side by side in full  equality.This requires that each side enjoys full  sovereignty.Palestinian sovereignty cannot be undermined by Israeli  security arrangements or settlements, nor can Israeli sovereignty be endangered  by Palestinian immigration. The economies of the two states must be equally free  to develop with free movement of people and goods as well as  security.Most important, the young on both sides must have a sense of  full freedom to develop their potential and well-being with good education,  employment and civil rights, leading to socioeconomic cooperation. Peacemaking  must have this vision in mind – it is far more important than holding on to this  or that square kilometer.For peacemaking to lead to democratic outcomes  of equality, it must be conducted in a democratic fashion with the civil  societies partaking in the process, most of all the young.Most of the  peace treaties of the last century suffered from a lack of popular legitimacy,  with the possible exception of the South African post-apartheid agreements. The  agreements in Ireland, the Balkans and the Middle East (Egypt, Jordan, Oslo) did  not enjoy the necessary popular consensus and therefore did not lead to real  reconciliation. People will generally not follow a peace agreement without being  asked about its value in terms of doing justice and allowing for economic peace  dividends. Paradoxically, peace is elitist (often by the leaders, for the  leaders), and war is participatory (only fought by the young). The young  generation, which is the first to be sacrificed in war, has every right to play  a part in the peace process, through its representatives and on social  networks.A participatory peace can be realized, more than ever before,  due to the Internet. In the Middle East and North Africa there are almost 100  million people on the Internet, half of them on social networks. In Israel, 75%  are Internet users and 50% are on Facebook.People can be mobilized for  the sake of peacemaking, or even more important can mobilize vast constituencies  in favor of peaceful coexistence.Peace is in need of democratization, as  peace and its dividends are for the people. The people, mainly the young  generation, can experience a process of transition from conflict to coexistence  by a dialogue with the people of the other side on social networks.Every  day thousands of Israelis and Palestinians speak to each other on Facebook and  Twitter, above the head of their governments.When people sense that they  have a say, many will be supportive, understanding that peacemaking demands a  long transition. A participatory peace can therefore have important added-value  for the peace process: • Greater legitimacy for the process and the  outcome.There is an illusion that peace is a rose garden, while it  merely begins as an oasis. Peace between enemies is difficult; its main  advantage is in relation to the alternative, which destroys lives and  livelihoods.It demands a major national effort to ensure its  sustainability, putting aside hatred, suspicion and violence and learning to  coexist according to common interests. When people, mainly the young generation,  feel on board, despite powerful oppositions from the ultranationalists, peace  will achieve greater legitimacy.• Economic peace dividends must be  shared according to the considerations of economic growth, social equity and  opportunities for the young. Better and more education should be at the core of  a society coming out of conflict. The post-conflict generation should be offered  the best education and professional training that the world has to offer. The  young must be allowed to demand it, as well as a fair share of the peace  dividends. Both in war and in peace, the powerful elements of the economy tend  to reap the economic benefits. A participatory peace has to introduce the  opportunities that globalization has to offer to young people. It should lead to  regional economic cooperation, in industries that favor the young, such as high  technology and tourism.• A new social discourse is of critical  importance in the aftermath of the conflict. The language of hostility and  hatred poisons the values of society. Participatory peace, especially with the  involvement of young people on social networks, creates a new universe of  discourse. The dialogue held today on Facebook between Israelis and Arabs, such  as on the biggest online peace movement, YaLa Young Leaders, (with close to half  a million followers in the Middle East), is generally respectful, even polite.  Young people clash on historical narratives, but can agree on a future of common  interests. With time, they develop a new language, succinct and empathetic,  highlighting pragmatic, common interests for education, employment and  entertainment as well as common values of basic freedoms.In this vein,  this Sunday the nearly 500,000 followers of YaLa Young Leaders will join on  their Facebook page in their third regional online peace conference.They  are disappointed with their leaders’ inability to offer a better future of  peace. In this innovative way, they continue the process online – Israelis,  Palestinians, Egyptians, Jordanians, Tunisians, Moroccans, Lebanese, Syrians,  Yemeni, Saudi, Sudanese, etc.This new effort is respected by the  international community. The young leaders will hear from Shimon Peres, Mahmoud  Abbas, Abu Ala, Munib Masri, from members in or close to the US administration –  David Axelrod, Zeenat Rahman and Laura Blumenfeld (from John Kerry’s team),  Larry Summers, Dennis Ross, Aaron Miller, from heads of the EU – EU President  José Manuel Barroso, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, as well as from the  Canadian Foreign Minister John Baird and leading business people such as David  Fischer (vice president of Facebook) and Dan’l Lewin (vice president of  Microsoft).This international salute to the YaLa Young Leaders peace  conference is no coincidence. It reflects a new understanding that with the  current failure of traditional diplomacy, peace today must be by the young, for  the young.The writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace  and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
Barbara  Hurwitz edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Oppositions</title>
<date>15/5/2014</date>
<content>
The halt in the peace process is a triumph for the forces in Israel and  Palestine who favor a binational state over peace. The trumpets in Yitzhar and  Gaza played the music of hatred, xenophobia, paranoia, racism; big crowds with  long beards and head scarves cheered with fanaticism in a joyous funeral for the  current peace process, listening to the heart-breaking eulogies of Bayit Yehudi  chairman Naftali Bennett and Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh. The forces  that pretended to promote peace were too weak and undecided, and surrendered  with unsuppressed satisfaction – both Mr. Netanyahu and Mr.  Abbas.And now that the dangerous peril of peace has been thwarted, the  question is what does the future hold? What is the vision of Hamas or its plans  for the creation of an independent Palestine recognized by the international  community? What is Bennett’s vision for the future of Israel, how can he  guarantee our identity as a Jewish democracy and our relations with the world?  Those in oppositions to peace can destroy better than build. They have no  solution for the future of their nations, and given the chance, they will lead  us to mutual destruction.




They stand for extremist, radical nationalism  that has no place in the modern world, and would send Israelis and Palestinians  back to violent conflict in dangerous isolation from the world.It is no  coincidence that Hamas and Bayit Yehudi are part of the governing coalitions in  their respective countries, coalitions that serve the political popularity and  sustainability of their leaders rather than the well-being of their  peoples.Hamas is a disaster for Palestine. Its leadership is  fundamentalist, religious, suppressing human rights in Gaza, with a totalitarian  regime that denigrates women and minorities.They espouse a jihadist and  racist view of the conflict and are ready to sacrifice Palestinian youth in  suicide attacks. The damage they have done to the Palestinian cause after  Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza to the 1967 lines is immeasurable. The rocket  attacks on the civilian population in the South have convinced many Israelis and  many in the world that by “the occupied land” they mean all of Israel.A  Palestinian radical, religious Hamas state would have no support from the world,  except for Iran and North Korea. Hamas fights Fatah on the nationalistic court,  sending some Fatah factions into rejection of moderation and toward a focus on  demagogic anti-Israel sloganeering, rather than into constructive compromise and  nation-building.Some Fatah followers in Gaza are still loyal to Muhammad  Dahlan, the former Fatah warlord, who has aspirations to overthrow Mahmoud  Abbas. Dahlan is a symbol of corruption to many Palestinians, yet backed by some  in the emirates and Egypt, which is one of the reasons for Abbas’s recent turn  to Hamas. The top Palestinian leadership is pragmatic and moderate, yet  intimidated by the fanatic opposition just as Abbas was weakened by the failure  of the negotiations with Israel. This marriage of convenience will probably lead  nowhere, as each side – Fatah and Hamas – wants the demise of the other. It’s an  exercise in survival of the weakest.In Israel, Bennett is the most  effective leader of the Right. He says openly what others think. He actually  believes that Israel has to be in confrontation with all Arabs and Muslims and  most of the international community over his vision of a binational state. He is  driven by a fundamentalist, messianic belief in the settlements as a bridge to a  Greater Israel. He pretends to solve the demographic challenge by subordinating  the Palestinians in a binational apartheid state. He not only issues racist  policy statements, but acts upon them together with Construction and Housing  Minister Uri Ariel, building and planning 14,000 housing units in the West Bank  during the recent negotiations with the Palestinians. It was a kiss of death to  the process.Also in Israel, more pragmatic forces in the coalition are  intimidated by this radical nationalism, especially Bennett’s “brother” Finance  Minister Yair Lapid. In his position, Lapid could have prevented the settlement  expansion, but he preferred to glorify a so-called consensus of the Center and  surrendered to the Bennetts. The price is paid by the middle class that elected  Lapid, as without a peace process, the economic price will be high. The Jewish  brotherhood is not less detrimental than the Muslim one.Binyamin  Netanyahu is the leader of this brotherhood, with Avigdor Liberman as first  violinist. This may have tragic consequences.Israel at 66 is one of the  most dramatic renaissance success stories of modern times: the rebirth of the  language, the flourishing Hebrew culture, the influx of exiles from almost 100  countries, a democratic system despite conflict, an impressive academia, a  growing technology-based economy and the No. 2 start-up nation in the  world.This came about also because the world accepted our narrative –  from the ashes of the Holocaust to “dramatic, democratic  nation-building.”Today the Israeli narrative in the world is “from  victim to victimizer.” Israel is not autarchic but is dependent on good  relations with the world; without a two-state solution, we will become isolated  internationally by the world’s younger generation, which does not know the  rebirth of Israel. The current policies and coalition are turning us into a  pariah apartheid state, endangering our achievements.Netanyahu should  have acted differently by strengthening the hand of Abbas, by freezing  settlements and by agreeing to a border based on the 1967 lines. He abandoned a  weak Abbas to the hands of Hamas when he preferred Bennett to historic decisions  on peace. He is his own best opposition.Now the successful oppositions  of Hamas and Bennett are in the driver’s seat.The road they take is a  slippery one, downhill toward violent confrontation and international isolation,  endangering the dreams and interests of their nations.In the middle  ground is the United States – also there, the right-wing Republican opposition  had a field day with the failure of the process. From the outset, the peace  talks with the Palestinians were not the cup of tea of the Tea Party and its  allies. Sen. John McCain does not miss an opportunity to brand Barack Obama and  John Kerry as hostile to Israel. He, Sen. Ted Cruz and others are more Catholic  than the pope, more blue and white than the chief rabbi. A real friend of Israel  is someone who is truthful about its policy options; a friend of Israel is a  friend of peace, who understands that peace in the Middle East is with the  Arabs, not the Swiss.This goes also for the American Jewish community –  the vote at the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations  against J Street was a vote against a twostate solution. It is also part of  internal domestic bickering in favor of AIPAC and its Pavlovian instinct to back  Israel’s Right.All these oppositions to the Obama-led peace process are  detrimental to Israel and the region and fuel for fundamentalist conservative  worldviews and petty politics.The Right has the upper hand, to a large  degree because of the weakness and apathy of the Center-Left. They all – the  Haniyehs, Bennetts and McCains – have one thing going for them: the energy and  commitment to fight for their mistaken worldview. They create the preponderance  of noise on the airwaves, but are still a minority, a dangerous one.Most  Israelis, Palestinians and Americans are sick and tired of this conflict; they  know that a two-state solution more or less along the 1967 lines is the only  possible solution.More than 60 percent, according to credible polls,  support a historic compromise, although they have natural suspicion of conflict  resolution. Most important, these opponents of peace, and mainly those who  create coalitions with them, are in opposition to the interests of the  people.Young Israelis and Palestinians (60 percent are under the age of  30) aspire to a better life, good education, good employment and basic civil  rights, and to offer the same to their children.The vision of the  fanatic naysayers stands against all these basic interests and rights. So do the  policies of their bedfellows.
The writer is honorary president of the  Peres Center for Peace and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo  Accords.

Barbara Hurwitz edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's corner: Pragmatists and fundamentalists</title>
<date>24/7/2014</date>
<content>
Israel is in the midst of its third military operation against Hamas in six  years. It is doubtful that this round will produce better results than previous  ones. After each round, Hamas gained political clout in Palestine and acquired  more sophisticated weapons.It is in Israel’s interest to see a weakened  Hamas. With force, one may tactically and temporarily weaken the terror  organization, but with time, it seems, in the eyes of many that only the Arab  side is gaining something – a massive prisoner release and the intimidation of  virtually all of our population.




Terror organizations do not thrive on  their weapons, but on the popular support they are able to recruit.The  Palestinian strategic predicament is how to convince Israel to agree to an  independent state along the 1967 lines with east Jerusalem as its capital. Even  the radicals know that to expect more is out of the question. There are two ways  to achieve this aim, in their view, represented by two conflicting parties in  Palestine: Fatah and Hamas.Fatah transformed during the ’90s from a  radical terror group to a political movement based on pragmatic and secular  views. Its leadership advocates negotiation with Israel and the international  community as a means to bring Palestinians closer to their national  aspirations.On the other hand, Hamas, which is religiously  fundamentalist and politically fanatic, believes that only an armed struggle  will, with time, weaken Israel to a point of surrendering its national  positions.Their ideological appetite is megalomaniacal, driven by a  racist vision of a state on all the land.The real and immediate aim of  each of these two parties is to destroy the other politically. The Palestinian  people will ultimately have to choose who serves their interests better. So far,  both sides have delivered very little hope.Israel has a choice to make  for its own interests: either strengthen Fatah through a diplomatic agreement,  or try to weaken Hamas through war. By not going along sufficiently with John  Kerry’s peace initiative, the process of peace was replaced by a process of war.  Yet war by the Israeli military giant, as the Palestinians see us, will not  weaken Hamas with the Palestinian public.Instead it is in our interest  to reach an agreement with Fatah that will weaken Hamas. It is an illusion to  believe that by destroying missiles and tunnels, we can destroy  Hamas.Hamas before the current IDF operation was at its weakest  point.This division between fundamentalists and pragmatists typifies  much of the Arab world today – in Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, the Maghreb and the  Gulf.In certain ways the same schism exists within the Israeli political  system. The pragmatist forces are on the Center-Left and, to some degree, within  the Likud. They are the ones who advocate realistically a two-state solution in  favor of our identity and security, negotiated with the Fatah leadership of the  Palestinian Authority. The fundamentalist forces in Israel are mainly the  settlers and their ideological supporters in the right-wing parties.They  are driven by a messianic view of religious rights, laws and superiority over  others. They do not, however, advocate the use of violence against civilians.  Bayit Yehudi chairman Naftali Bennett is their most powerful and dogmatic  representative. They have kidnapped the current government by infiltrating the  rank-and-file of the Likud. They sabotaged the Kerry initiative by ensuring the  creation of 14,000 housing units in the West Bank during the peace talks. This  has dramatically weakened Mahmoud Abbas and Fatah, and therefore strengthened  Hamas, as we witness from its self-confidence.When fundamentalists meet  fundamentalists, the outcome is ultimately irrational and violent. The  fundamentalists on both sides gain from dedicated demagogic propaganda  machines.Hamas convinces Palestinians that Israel is an outpost of the  infidel West, a society out to rob all of the land east of the Sea and to kill  Palestinians. Hamas’s incitement affects the minds of many, especially in Gaza,  which is under its dictatorial control. Religious propaganda is used as opium  for the people while Hamas is destroying the Gazan economy by investing every  petrodollar it gets from Qatar on expensive armaments.The settlers are  also master propagandists.They skillfully exploit the weakness of the  Palestinian side to convince Israelis that there is no viable peace partner and  that only force works, employing demagogic, racist undertones. Bennett is better  than any marketing conglomerate.They are also economically draining the  national treasury in favor of expensive settlement construction.Both  Israel and Palestine must make historic choices regarding identity and policies:  pragmatism or fundamentalism.As to Palestine, it must choose statehood  in peace and security with Israel, or perpetual war and destruction; a secular  democracy, or a totalitarian theocracy; a growing peace economy in relations  with the West, or a destroyed war economy financed by Qatar.I was  involved in the negotiations that led to the transformation of Fatah from a  terror organization into a political party engaged in nation-building. Hamas is  not about to engage in a similar change in the foreseeable future. It is part of  the Muslim Brotherhood and blinded by religious hatred. The Palestinians must  opt for pragmatism and engage in peace negotiations with Israel and the United  States. The unity government between Fatah and Hamas is mixing oil and water and  will lead nowhere. After this cycle of violence, started by Hamas, it should be  dissolved.Israel is the stronger party in the conflict, and its choice  is of a critical nature. We must choose between a political compromise for peace  and security with the Fatahled PA, which will strengthen its posture also in  Gaza, or perpetual rounds of violence with Hamas, which will strengthen Hamas  also in the West Bank.The choice is of more profound nature: Do we want  to be a moral, Jewish democracy, or become a binational apartheid state with  religious fundamentalists from both sides fighting each other? This choice  forces us to reach deep into the soul of Israel. We will find there much  patriotic dedication, but also an empathetic ability to understand the plight of  others and the necessary pragmatism to achieve this goal, mixed with a strong  sense of anxiety inherited by traumatic historical experiences. In this  soul-searching, we must focus on the future of our children more than on the  tragedies of our parents.The right choice is clear: a two  state-solution, with Palestine under Fatah rule, along the 1967 lines, with a  shared capital in Jerusalem, realistic security arrangements and no right of  return. That would mean the end of Hamas power. To move in this direction, the  government must divorce its own fundamentalists – the settler party, Bayit  Yehudi – who did and will continue to sabotage such peace strategy from within  the government. Binyamin Netanyahu should establish a unity government with  Labor.These strategic choices for both sides – between pragmatism and  fundamentalism – must guide the policies to end the current war, and its  immediate aftermath. Therefore the agreement to end the war must be more than a  cease-fire, it must begin to bring strategic considerations into play. The  cease-fire agreement should be for five years.In this period, Gaza will  have to be economically rebuilt and developed as well as demilitarized of  rockets.Abbas and Fatah must be part of the deal, and peace negotiations  with them should be relaunched under American guidance.The parties need  mediators and facilitators in order to implement such arrangements. On the  security side, a force of the Arab League, with the possible backing of NATO,  should ensure that the gradual demilitarization of Gazan from rockets over a  one-year period.In return, the European Union should actively engage in  the economic development of Gaza. With demilitarization, the siege of Gaza  should be gradually lifted, starting with the immediate opening of the Rafah  crossing to Sinai. Young Gazans should take part in entrepreneurial training,  rather than the detrimental brainwashing of Hamas. The EU should facilitate  trade, thereby overcoming the security predicaments. The Palestinian partner in  Gaza should be of a non-political nature, such as an investment and trade  company.To realize this, significant resources will have to be  invested.Simultaneously, the United States should relaunch the peace  talks between Israel and the PA with the backing of the Arab League. For this  purpose, Abbas must divorce Hamas and Netanyahu the settlers (a settlement  freeze is necessary).Once the guns are silenced, tactical solutions will  not suffice – strategic choices will have to be made in favor of long-term  policy pragmatism and against dangerous religious fundamentalism.There  is no perfect implementation of such strategies – peace and security have too  many enemies in this region. But they need to lead to a new, pragmatic  coalition.It is the two peoples, Israelis and Palestinians, that are at  stake – their identity, their freedoms and their well-being. The majority of  Israelis and Palestinians are pragmatic, not fundamentalist.Last week I  met a Palestinian friend of mine who brought his 15-yearold son to our meeting.  I asked this kid from Ramallah: “Who are you for, Fatah or Hamas?” He replied:  “I am more for Barca [the Barcelona soccer club].” Similar answers would come  from Israeli kids. Tired of the politics of fundamentalism, war and violence,  they want the chance to just be kids. The choices to be made are for their  sake.The writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace and  founder of the YaLa Young Leaders peace movement, and served as Israel’s chief  negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
Barbara Hurwitz edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Transition</title>
<date>27/3/2014</date>
<content>
‘What a terrible thing war is,” Leo Tolstoy wrote in War and  Peace.Indeed, war is the worst human practice, in which mankind destroys  itself. Given the difference between war and peace, one wonders why peacemaking  and conflict resolution are so difficult. It would be easy if one could move  quickly from war to peace. Yet the transition is very slow and filled with  tangible and psychological obstacles. Transition suffers from the lingering  wounds and ailments of war, to such a degree that it sometimes makes peacemaking  impossible.




While war and peace are well understood as human, social, and  political phenomena, transition is not.The transitions after the end of  apartheid in South Africa, after the Dayton Agreement in the Balkans, and after  the Good Friday Agreement in Ireland were all very slow, with a lack of  political stability and even violence. In all these regions, it is taking a long  time for relations to change from hostility to coexistence, from violence to  cooperation; the wounds of conflict are often left open, especially with  suspicion and a desire for vengeance. If the transition period is not handled  well by the political leadership, it can be the spark that ignites a new  conflict.Concern over the nature of this transitory period may stand at  the core of the hesitation of leaders and negotiators in our region, in relation  to the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.Historically, we are actually  in such an unstable transitory period. Since the peace agreements with Egypt and  Jordan and the Oslo Accords, we have begun a prolonged period of conflict  resolution.The peace with Egypt is of tremendous strategic value, fully  vindicating the withdrawal from the Sinai to the 1967 lines. Egypt is the  biggest and most important Arab country. Without it, a regional war is virtually  impossible.We lost most of our soldiers at war with Egypt; since the  peace treaty, the lives of Israeli and Egyptian soldiers have been spared. Egypt  is now a partner in the struggle against terrorism, as we witness in relation to  Hamas and Gaza. Former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak played a critical role  in the agreements with the Palestinians. Yet the peace with Egypt is a cold  peace. We have witnessed little cooperation between the two countries, mainly in  trade and agriculture. The Egyptian public is, by and large, hostile to Israel,  very much out of solidarity with their Palestinian brethren under occupation,  but also out of the lingering contempt for Israel, dating from the days of  Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser.The peace with Jordan is also of  critical strategic importance to the eastern front. Cooperation with the  Hashemite kingdom has been somewhat better than with Egypt, especially in  investment, trade, and Israeli tourism.The king, like his father, sees  the stability of Jordan linked with security cooperation with Israel.Yet  Jordanian public opinion is also hostile. Two-thirds of the population is  Palestinian, making the fate of Palestine of paramount importance to  Jordanians.The Oslo Accords with the PLO represented a historic  watershed, putting an end to the nightmare scenarios of a Greater Israel or a  Greater Palestine. Cooperation between Israelis and Palestinians, in all walks  of life, is the highest compared to interactions with the rest of the Arab  world.With Palestine, though, we are still in the midst of the conflict  resolution process, which, due to the weakness of the two leaderships, is taking  far too long.In all three cases, we are not yet in a post-conflict era,  as the Palestinians, Egypt, and Jordan all await the permanent- status agreement  to resolve the Palestinian predicament.We are, therefore, still at the  beginning of a transition from war to peace, but we can learn important lessons  from this period for the sustainability of future peace.The first and  primary lesson is that without a permanent- status agreement with Palestine, we  will not reap the benefits of peace in the region.In the transition, the  psychology of the past burdens the progress towards reconciliation and  cooperation.Above all, a deep suspicion imported from the conflict era  makes the necessary level of trust impossible to achieve. Constantly questioning  the motivations of your neighbors makes working together for better security and  a better economic future almost impossible. Prejudice is no less dangerous, both  in the way Arabs perceive Jews and vice versa.Institutionally, in the  transition period, the military plays a disproportionate role and economic  players are still marginalized. Armies and security forces can, at best,  cooperate for some level of security, but cannot work on turning peace into a  daily reality. The main relationships on all these fronts are led by the  security authorities and not by the civilian authorities. As a result, economic  investment and cooperation suffer. This transition, as in other regions, suffers  from an inherent lack of stability and sporadic outbreaks of violence and  terrorism. It stems mostly from the enemies of peace who feel endangered by the  eventuality of a peaceful accommodation, mainly religious fundamentalist groups  of both sides.The transition is not a rose garden. It is a desert, like  the Sinai was for the people of Israel in their journey from Egyptian slavery to  the Promised Land. We have to be realistic in expectations, understand the  alternatives and handle the transition correctly based on common interests; only  then can we reach the promised land of peace.Above all, we must face the  realities of the Middle East, as well as the international consensus. A  permanent status agreement is a must. It is not true that we negotiated  permanent status in good faith. In the Oslo Accords, we committed to come to a  permanent status agreement in April 1999. That was 15 years ago and, in all  those years, Binyamin Netanyahu as prime minister has skillfully evaded the  necessary decisions to bring about an agreement.During most of these  years, settlements came first, peace with Palestine last. An agreement is not a  favor to the Palestinians; it is a necessary historic compromise that is very  much in our interest. It is possible with the existing pragmatic leadership of  Fatah, although it too has its fair share of responsibility in the missed  opportunities.Permanent status is probably our foremost existential  interest, touching upon our very identity. It is also the most important  strategic interest upon which our relationships in the region and the world will  be determined, to a large degree.The transition to permanent status will  be comprised of intense negotiations, critical decision-making, implementation  and a lengthy period of profound change, which must be handled well by the  government. To facilitate the transition, we and our Palestinian partners must  plan the economic future. The sustainability of peace will be greatly affected  by economic growth in Israel and Palestine.The economic future will  depend on better and more balanced cooperation between our two independent  economies. A more peaceful relationship will significantly affect tourism. Two  and a half million tourists to Israel and Palestine a year are a far cry from  the potential, given what we have to offer and in comparison to European  countries which see over 50 million tourists apiece.The economic future  will also be affected by an improved relationship with the world, given progress  on permanent status, especially with the US, EU and Japan. Regional  relationships and cooperation can be enhanced in the transitory period if the  region is convinced of the destiny of the peace negotiations.Security  must be strengthened by regional counter- terrorism cooperation. It also will be  enhanced by better economic realities in the West Bank and Gaza.When  there is more to lose, one cherishes stability.Alongside the tangible  transition, comes a more difficult and important transition – the psychological  one.Generations on both sides were educated to see the other as the  illegitimate brutal aggressor – Palestinian terrorists and Israeli occupiers. In  conflict resolution one must discover the best-kept secret of conflict – that  everybody is human, with similar fears and aspirations.The humanization  of all sides is an important condition for the success of peacemaking. The  easiest route is to harbor hatred and vengeance – which promises more cycles of  violence. In conflict, we not only kill each other physically, but we also erode  the human face of the enemy. A psychological transition can only happen through  a slow process and reconciliation by those who have the courage to meet each  other personally and put prejudice, suspicion and racism behind. It requires no  less courage than to meet in the battlefield.This transition demands  guidance from the leaderships to encourage a necessary people-to-people process,  something severely lacking today. It demands that we have the courage to change,  individually and as a nation. We all have to change profound personal and  collective attitudes – to stop thriving on victory and nationalism, to stop  blaming and hating, to cease to admire force and violence, to seek a humanistic  and empathetic approach to the other, to espouse equality as a principle value,  to dialogue and cooperate. This demands a real transformation, which takes time  in order to turn a conflict persona into a peace persona. In this transition, we  must also change our language – from the language of accusation and hostility,  if not outright racism, to a discourse of real mutual respect of each other’s  dignity.The collective identity must also go through a profound  transition – from a people who can dictate to our neighbors, to a people who  learn to compromise; from a people endangering our very democracy, to a real  democracy with a Jewish majority and equal rights to minorities. The same  transition must be undertaken by the Palestinians toward cooperation and empathy  with Israel and for the creation of an independent democracy.
Transition  between war and peace is long and critical. It must be managed both with a sense  of realism that there will be drawbacks and even violence and, more importantly,  by the creation of the right political, economic, security, and human  conditions. It may take decades, as it has elsewhere, but there is no shortcut  to peace.

The writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace  and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Two states – zero states</title>
<date>13/11/2014</date>
<content>
There are those, even at the helm of our government, who see the creation of a  viable Palestinian state as an existential threat to the Jewish  state.The opposite is true. Without a Palestinian state, Israel ceases  to be a Jewish state. Already today, without a two-state separation, close to 50  percent of the population from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River is  Arab. That was not the dream of our forefathers, nor the intent of our  Declaration of Independence.




We tend to say that we are at a crossroad, a  decision time, for or against a two-state solution. Yet in reality, the  government has taken a clear turn at this crossroad to the Right, in the  direction of a binational state at the expense of a Jewish state.A  Palestinian state cannot be established with the occupation and rule over the  daily lives and movements of more than two million Palestinians, with close to  400,000 settlers in the West Bank, with the IDF controlling the movement on all  intercity roads, passages and checkpoints in the West Bank. The Right has won,  so has Bayit Yehudi head Naftali Bennett, so has Yitzhak Rabin’s assassin Yigal  Amir.Israel is in control of all the land from the Mediterranean to the  Jordan River. This is a demographic and democratic disaster. In a few years,  Jews will be a minority in their homeland, while freedom and democracy will  exist only for Jews, which is leading us to be branded as an apartheid state.  This is a betrayal of the values of Israel’s founding fathers and the equality  promised in our Declaration of Independence.We have ceased being a  peace-seeking country, and are traumatized by our enemies and more so by our own  demons.In the family of nations, we have turned from an admired success  story to an isolated, criticized and soon-to-be boycotted outcast.The  reasons for this dangerous deterioration are of a psychological and political  nature. The majority of Israelis reject a binational state. Yet the same  majority is seeking a Palestinian state that is an illusion. A state that could  be democratic like Switzerland, pro-Israel like America, prosperous like Canada.  We would like to have a European peace in the heart of the Middle  East.In other words, we want to have peace with a friendly country. The  bad luck is that peace is made with enemies. It is imperfect and takes a long  time to realize, but produces long-term strategic benefits, as it did with  Egypt. Luckily it was Menachem Begin who was prime minister at the time and not  Benjamin Netanyahu. Netanyahu would still today be negotiating security  arrangements and would never evacuate the Israeli settlements from Sinai. Thanks  to the peace with Egypt, thousands of lives of young Israelis and Egyptians were  spared.Also, Israel’s political structure has changed. The messianic  radicals of Gush Emunim, in the past merely an effective lobby, are today at the  center of decision-making. It is not security concerns that move them, those are  excuses. They are motivated by an ideology that is based on a biblical promise  to be a chosen people in a promised land where others simply don’t count. This  has led them, and their partners, to a syndrome of superiority and an attitude  of outright racism toward Arabs. The only Arabs who may live in Greater Israel  are those who are subordinated to Israeli rule.In the last round of  peace talks led by Secretary of State John Kerry, it was the settlement policies  inspired by Naftali Bennett that made the difference. The peace effort was  buried underneath 14,000 housing units in the West Bank.In parallel, the  world has changed. The right of self-determination is universal today,  colonialism is part of history and the occupation of another people taboo. With  the continuation of today’s policies, we risk becoming a pariah  state.The gravest motive for this historical turning point is the moral  deterioration of the country. While Israelis treat one another with relative  respect, we treat our neighbors as human beings of lesser stature and with fewer  rights. There is a dangerous confusion between legitimate security concerns and  the need to control the lives of the Palestinians, between security and  occupation. Security can be enhanced by special security arrangements in certain  areas, and by security cooperation with our neighbors. But the daily harassment,  humiliation and subordination of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians is  shortsighted for security reasons, and morally despicable.The moral  crisis is at the root of the political shortsightedness.When one does  not treat others as equals, one is bound to follow self-defeating policies. It  can be different. Indeed it was. Until November 4, 19 years ago.The  underlying premise of the Rabin-Peres government was that Israel, for its own  interests, could not remain an occupying power and rule over the lives of  another people; that peace, leading ultimately to the sharing of the land, would  be a long process with tremendous obstacles. Yet the leadership at the time  believed that Israel’s long-term national security depended on the resolution of  the Palestinian conflict, in order to lead to a fundamental change of relations  with Egypt, Jordan and most of the Arab world. This in return would lead to a  strengthening of our relations with the United States, the EU and the rest of  the world.No one was under the illusion that the gradual agreements  signed with the PLO would lead to an immediate end of terror. It was clear that  the enemies of peace would use violence to stop it. The Oslo Accords indeed led  to a fundamental change in Israel’s regional and international  stature.Relations with Egypt normalized, King Hussein of Jordan signed a  peace treaty with us. As director-general of the Foreign Ministry at the time, I  oversaw the opening of six Israeli delegations in the Arab world, and a dramatic  improvement of political and economic relations with countries like China,  Japan, India and Brazil.Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres enjoyed a very  close relationship with then-US president Bill Clinton. His administration was  an enthusiastic supporter of the peace process and of Israel. All policies were  coordinated and strategized in the most intimate manner with the leader of the  free world.Israel’s day-to-day security did not improve, but its  long-term national security was dramatically bolstered.Also,  domestically, there was a pivotal change: less money to settlements; more to  education, technological development, the periphery and the Arab  sector.Israel had become, domestically, regionally and internationally,  a stronger a more respected state, which increased our strategic deterrence.  Above all, the Rabin-Peres policies made sure that we would maintain our  identity as a Jewish democracy on the moral high ground.With Netanyahu  and Bennett strongly moving in the opposite direction, not only Israel’s  security is at risk, but also its very identity.It is not that their  policy is leading us by mistake or coincidence in the direction of an apartheid  state; that is actually the intended policy of the government.Expanding  and planning settlement housing is intended to prevent a two-state solution.  Without a border, we are faced with the question of equal rights for Palestinian  Arabs, including the right to vote. Equality is the furthest away from those  people who treat Arabs not only as second-class citizens, but also as  second-class human beings.The attempt to create a Greater Israel is  today the biggest threat facing the country. It risks our identity and security,  as the alternative to a two-state solution is a no (Jewish) state  solution.
Uri Savir is co-founder of the Peres Center for Peace and  founder of the YaLa Young Leaders Peace Movement. He was Israel’s chief  negotiator for the Oslo Accords.

Barbara Hurwitz edited this column
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Savir's Corner: Warning – peace!</title>
<date>23/1/2014</date>
<content>
Listening these days to Israeli and Palestinian leaders, one might think that we  are all facing a mortal threat in the form of Israeli-Palestinian  peace.




Binyamin Netanyahu depicts the peace era as a tsunami of  existential threats – Tel Aviv will be under constant missile attacks from the  West Bank, planes will not be able to land in Ben-Gurion Airport, Palestinian  immigrants will flood Israeli cities, Hamas will conquer the West Bank and  Jordan will fall into the hands of fundamentalists.Abu Mazen (Mahmoud  Abbas) describes the same period as an ongoing Israeli occupation, an ethnic  cleansing of the West Bank and a Jewish conquest of the Jerusalem  mosques.They are in the process of making absolutely sure that not a  single soul in Israel or Palestine will back a peace deal. Both play on the most  powerful of human sentiments – fear of an unknown future.This rhetoric  is not only detrimental to the peace process, but is poisoning the minds and  hearts of the two constituencies, especially the young. If this is what the  people who are supposedly in the know believe, then peace is a danger, not a  promise.These pronouncements of the political leaderships are  unfortunately quite sincere; the good thing about our prime minister is that he  often says what he thinks; the bad thing is that he actually thinks what he  says. These “peace warnings” stems from a deep mutual  suspicion.Netanyahu and Abbas are mental victims of conflict rather than  conflict- solvers.Both are chefs d’orchestras with some virtuoso  performances by their colleagues, be it Saeb Erekat, with his ridiculous  implication that Israel wants to kill Abbas, or our “bogey man,” Defense  Minister Moshe Ya’alon, who, in a rare outburst of diplomatic gallantry, was  prepared to buy John Kerry a one-way ticket to Oslo for a Noble Peace Prize as  long as he doesn’t bother us with an American peace obsession. To be obsessive  about peace has become a insult.With such a mindset, peace will not  happen. Peacemaking needs tremendous courage. Unpopular decisions have to be  made with mutual concessions in order to achieve compromise. The post-conflict  era is generally characterized by prolonged instability in the transition from  warfare to cooperation. The real fruits of peace can often be reaped years after  the negotiations. Yet peace is of existential importance, a natural human  condition to fulfill individual and collective potential, as well as a moral  choice.It is happening elsewhere. There have been many relative  successes – South Africa defeated apartheid without significant bloodshed,  Northern Ireland achieved a seemingly impossible reconciliation between  Catholics and Protestants, the former Yugoslavia did the same for Muslims and  Christians, and, even in Rwanda, after the genocide in which one million people  were slaughtered, Hutu and Tutsi live in peace.None of these peace  processes is perfect – there remains some instability, some violence and some  development hurdles; yet in all of them, there is progress, economic development  and new hope.In these regions, the difference was made by leaders who  had the courage to break with conventional wisdom and make peace with the enemy  – such as did Nelson Mandela, David Trimble and Paul Kagame.Their peace  processes have proven that peace is not something that just happens or that has  an outcome that one can prophesize. Peace needs courageous decisions, the  creation of new partnerships and day-to-day work to turn peace into relative  security and economic development. Peace is imperfect, but the imperfection of  peace is better than the perfection of war.As the Kerry-led process is  now coming to a crunch, Netanyahu and Abbas must stop making maximalist demands  and describing only worst case scenarios.Peace is neither a curse nor a  gift from heaven. It must be crafted by leaders and supported by the people. It  is a test of leadership.For Israeli-Palestinian peace to succeed, it  must include several key components: • The permanent-status deal must address  future benefits for both nations.After the problems of the past are  solved, a new border is created between two states; people will expect peace  dividends, mainly in the form of a dramatic and significant upgrading of their  economic well-being, especially the young middle class. Peace must open up,  through investments and cooperation, educational and employment opportunities,  by linking the peace economies to the globalized world. Improved economies will  also strengthen security as people have more to lose.• A peace deal must  reflect a balance of interests – a win-win situation. Both sides want to  mistakenly win the peace negotiations; yet only when both sides gain equally can  peace be sustained in the long run.• Peace must reflect the interests of  the people and be legitimized by them. The current political leaders speak  mostly out of their immediate political interests, in nationalistic slogans. The  people must be included in the decision-making process, through peace  referendums, and in the peace-building process through people-to-people  cooperation.When Israelis and Palestinians meet, they generally get  along. Too few have had this experience. Peace must be participatory, through  joint programs such as city-to-city cooperation, youth exchange programs, and on  social networks.This will, with time, break suspicion and  prejudice.• There must be, on both sides, zero tolerance for violence.  Peace treaties tend to raise the voice of nationalistic and religious  opposition, which rebel with violence. Realistically, this cannot be totally  prevented, but the policies of the governments have to fight violent oppositions  without compromise.• An Israeli-Palestinian deal must be strengthened by  the rest of the Arab world. It would be the third peace treaty in the region  after the agreements with Egypt and Jordan. While the peace treaties did not  turn into warm, neighborly relationships, they were of tremendous strategic  significance for all parties, by saving lives, strengthening security, economy  and relations with the world.This can also be true for peace with  Palestine, the most important one. It must be coupled, according to the Arab  Peace Initiative, with full normalization of relations between Arab countries  and Israel, and lead to economic and regional cooperation.Such  cooperation will include linkages of infrastructure and international investment  in regional ventures.The economic growth rate in the region would grow  to above 5 percent.• The United States and Europe can contribute  significantly to a stable and sustainable Israeli-Palestinian  peace.US-Israel security relations could be upgraded up to a formal  defense pact.Israel’s position in NATO could be upgraded through a  partnership agreement, aside from tactical security arrangements. The Americans,  together with the EU, would, with peace, increase economic investment in Israel  and Palestine, upgrade trade relations and increase tourism.These  components can make peace into a sustainable equation of mutual interests. Peace  is dynamic and its content depends on the ability of leaderships to strengthen  their country’s national security through bilateral and multilateral  agreements.First and foremost, peace must be a people’s peace, to  reflect the interest of the people, mainly the next generations of both sides.  It is therefore necessary for our political leaders to stop frightening us about  the dangers of peace and start working for the opportunities of peace; stop  derogating our future peace partners and speak in a new language about the  values of peace. This is not a real-estate deal; it is a transformation of hate  and killings to mutual respect and life, from destroying economies to growing  them. Above all, it is an attitudinal and educational transformation to give up  on defeating the other side, on revenge, on superiority, and to embrace  equality, mutual respect and understanding.These leaders warn us of the  dangers of peace, mainly because they are afraid themselves of taking the  necessary decisions to make peace. It is they who have to be warned, that if  they don’t lead us in the direction of a peaceful future, they will be  replaced.The writer is honorary president of the Peres Center for Peace  and served as Israel’s chief negotiator for the Oslo Accords.
Barbara  Hurwitz edited this column.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Schabas is the perfect choice for Goldstone 2</title>
<date>17/8/2014</date>
<content>
On August 11, the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights appointed  the members to the latest Human Rights Council “investigation” of Israel.  Predictably, one of the appointees, law professor William Schabas, is well-known  for his association with many anti-Israel NGO initiatives.Given the  history of special animus towards Israel by the Human Rights Council, a body  dominated by dictators and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, it is no  surprise that it would appoint such a partisan figure to render judgment on  Israel’s operations against Hamas rocket fire and terror tunnels. But there is  another agenda at play in the Schabas appointment beyond yet more absurd  condemnations of the Jewish state by Iran, Syria, Cuba, Venezuela, and North  Korea.




One of the key components in the political war against Israel is  “lawfare” or the exploitation of legal frameworks to achieve objectives that  cannot be accomplished militarily. The goal is to delegitimize (and ultimately  end) Israel’s existence as a Jewish state and to punish the country for its  anti-terror operations.The lawfare strategy was developed at the NGO  Forum of the 2001 UN Durban Conference, which branded Israel a “racist,  apartheid state” guilty of “genocide” and “war crimes” and called for “the  establishment of a war crimes tribunal” and other measures.Lawfare  involves making accusations of “war crimes” and other international legal  violations in the hopes that these allegations can then be turned into some form  of legal “judgment” which can be used to imprison Israeli officials and  implement BDS. Almost always, these violations are based upon invented or  distorted concepts in international law. Another key component is to erase  Palestinian terror attacks on Israeli civilians and to immorally support suicide  bombings, missiles, shootings and other atrocities as  “resistance.”Shortly after the Durban Conference, NGOs operationalized  their strategy by issuing “war crimes” reports that are then used to push for UN  investigations, serve as the basis for universal jurisdiction lawsuits, underpin  governmental lobbying campaigns for BDS, and promote cases at the International  Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court.And so enters  William Schabas. Schabas has been an outspoken lawfare advocate for many years.  In a September 2009 interview discussing the Goldstone Report and the effort to  have Israeli indicted at the ICC, for instance, Schabas tellingly admits: “When  we look at all the crimes committed in Gaza during the conflict... they are  probably not, on a Richter scale of atrocity, at the top.And there are  many places in the world where worse crimes have been committed.Sri  Lanka, for example, in March or April of 2009 was much more serious in terms of  the atrocities and loss of life that was committed... I think the reason why  many people in the world are so upset...is not because of the  bombardment of facilities in Gaza... but because of our unhappiness about the  general political situation there... And so, we mix our dissatisfaction with the  situation of the Palestinian people in Gaza and the West Bank.”In other  words, the lawfare strategy is not about adjudicating actual crimes allegedly  committed on the battlefield, but rather exploiting legal frameworks to affect  political goals unrelated to the specific crimes at issue.Similarly,  Schabas penned the forward to a 2012 book, Is There a Court for Gaza.In  the piece, he calls the ICJ and the ICC tools to “nourish” Palestinian “advocacy  strategies.” He also opines that the “core of the Goldstone Report dealt with  the planned destruction of the entire infrastructure of a community, aimed at  punishing Palestinians in Gaza for their support of Hamas” and that “it was a  strategy that had already been used [by Israel] in Lebanon in  2006.”Notably, one of the book’s co-authors worked for the Palestinian  Center for Human Rights, the primary organization behind universal jurisdiction  lawsuits harassing Israelis, and represented the NGO at a closed meeting at the  ICC to lobby for prosecution of Israel.Schabas was also part of the  farcical, neo-Marxist “Russell Tribunal,” a kangaroo court organized by the  extreme BDS movement to put Israel and its allies “on trial.” During his  presentation, he proclaimed that Netanyahu would be his favorite candidate for  the ICC dock. He also suggested that “genocide” could be applied to the  Palestinian situation and repeated that Israel’s operations against Palestinian  rocket attacks and terrorism was simply to teach Palestinians “lesson” for  supporting Hamas.Given this record, it is no surprise Schabas was  selected by 65 fringe BDS and lawfare NGOs including Al Haq, Badil, ICAHD,  EAFORD, and many Islamic organizations, as the most “capable candidate” to  replace Richard Falk as the HRC’s resident Israel-basher.Now, under the  pretext of a UN-sponsored “war crimes” investigation, Schabas has a highly  visible platform to advance his political agenda. He gets to draft a report that  will without a doubt conclude that Israel is guilty. He will get to work closely  with NGO partners like HRW, Amnesty, PCHR, Al Haq, and other lawfare groups in a  non-transparent, unaccountable process. He will be able to recommend that the  ICC and ICJ take up his cause, that more universal jurisdiction cases be  brought, and that European countries should immediately enact BDS  policies.Schabas is therefore the perfect choice for the HRC mission. He  has expressed no hesitation in exploiting international mechanisms to achieve  political goals. He has already declared Israel guilty of “war crimes” and  “crimes against humanity.”He has no problem participating in the most  fringe anti-Israel initiatives. He erases the context of Palestinian  terrorism.Such characteristics define the very essence of the HRC and  its NGO lawfare partners.
Is there any wonder then that Israel refuses to  be part of this circus? 

The author is the Legal Advisor of NGO Monitor and the  author of ‘NGO ‘Lawfare’: Exploitation of Courts in the Arab-Israeli Conflict.’
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>‘Seeing from one side of the world to the other’</title>
<date>13/4/2014</date>
<content>
We live in a world of much information but little perspective; news cycles seem  to be getting shorter and shorter, and the explosion of electronic communication  and social media has further fragmented our understanding of the world around us  – making it all the more difficult to gain the proper perspective necessary to  understand life.The Gemara describes a fetus in the womb for the purpose  of teaching us important ideas about life. It describes how the fetus can “see  from one side of the world to the other.” What does this mean? It cannot mean  that the fetus has unlimited physical vision, but rather, that a human being, in  order to achieve greatness, needs to have vision; to see things in greater  perspective; that when we look at things, it should not be in a fragmented or  one-dimensional way, but rather we should see the full and broad  perspective.




We can apply this idea to Israel today, for example. We need  to step back and look at the state of Israel in terms of the enormous miracle  that it is, from the broader perspective of the sweep of Jewish history. We so  often get quagmired in the latest political wrangle around the negotiations, or  with the unjustifiable hate and criticism leveled at the Jewish state, or the  internal culture wars over the draft and Israeli identity, that we forget how  unusual and miraculous it is to have Jewish sovereignty in the land of Israel –  something that for almost two thousand years, Jews were not blessed with. Let us  step back and appreciate and thank G-d for all the miracles of Israel’s  breath-taking successes in virtually every field of human endeavor to create a  sparkling energetic society as it develops from strength to strength.  Perspective in life is everything.Also consider South Africa this year  on the occasion of its 20th anniversary of freedom and democracy. So often we  get caught up in the latest headlines and crisis and scandal, and yet this  milestone is an opportunity to step back from the fray of day-to-day politics  and governance, and to appreciate the twenty-year journey of South Africa; to  appreciate that the country has embarked on a journey from the tyranny of  apartheid where human rights were routinely abused, to a new dispensation where  institutions of freedom and democracy are well established in South Africa. That  is not to gloss over the problems, but it is to say: let us have a look at  things from a broader perspective.This idea is also crucial to  understanding our own lives and appreciating the blessings that we have. As the  Gemara says, a person should give thanks to G-d for every breath of air.  Perspective is to look at the broader picture of our lives, and in spite of  whatever problems and challenges we may be facing, to see our G-d-given lives in  their fullest sense, and not to allow ourselves to get pulled into one specific  problem that dominates everything else and causes us to lose sight of the big  picture.It is also about finding our sense of purpose and meaning in  life. The Torah is G-d’s system of wisdom and action that gives us a full  perspective on our lives – to understand who we are and where we come from, and  what our purpose is on this earth.Pessah, in particular, is a time of  perspective – when we go back to the beginning, to our formative moments as a  people, and in so doing, gain an understanding of the full sweep of Jewish  history, right up until the present day. On Seder night, we are commanded by G-d  to speak about the Exodus from Egypt.We don’t just recount the  historical facts, but tell the story in the manner in which G-d has shown us.  The Haggada is composed in such a way that in retelling the events and  re-experiencing the great miracles which G-d performed for our ancestors in  Egypt, we are actually putting the various fragments together to form a large,  integrated whole. For example, we do not look at the ten plagues as isolated  occurrences but see the pattern within them. As we go through the Haggada we  realize that the Exodus from Egypt was not an isolated event but an event which  occurred in the context of our people’s history, going all the way back to our  Forefathers and Matriarchs, Avraham, Yitzhak, Yaakov, Sarah, Rivka, Rachel and  Leah. On Seder night we do not just tell of the Exodus experience, but about how  we got to Egypt in the first place, the destiny of our people and the events  subsequent to our liberation – the giving of the Torah at Mount Sinai, entering  the land of Israel, the final redemption. We look at the full sweep of history,  not just at the isolated events being recounted at that moment.Through  this, G-d teaches us an important lesson – that we need to look at the broader  perspective and to contextualize the events of history in order to make sense of  them. Often we get pulled into the vortex of a particular event’s intensity, to  the point where we are not able to see the larger picture. But one of the great  teachings of the Torah is that nothing in this world is random; no event is an  isolated occurrence and everything is part of the Divine sweep of history. We  need to piece together the fragments so that they cohere in a meaningful way  which reflects G-d’s master plan.
The mitzva of retelling the story of  the Exodus from Egypt enables us to glean, and impart to the next generation, a  coherent, comprehensive picture of our people’s history and destiny. It is not  just about relating the individual incidents and miracles, but about seeing  things from a broader perspective. From the Haggada we learn to see ourselves as  central characters in the unfolding story of Jewish destiny, as guided by G-d;  we learn to see events not as random, fragmented headlines but as part of the  meaningful story of who we are and what our mission is in this world, to find  our clarity of purpose and sense of Divine mission, as we learn to “see from one  side of the world to the other.”

The writer is chief rabbi of South  Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Seeking the annihilation of a UN member: Initiators and accomplices</title>
<date>18/10/2014</date>
<content>
The announcement by Sweden’s new prime minister that his government plans to extend recognition to a “Palestinian” state raises major questions in both international and United Nations law.Israelis are frequently asked: “Why is Israel opposed to recognizing a Palestinian state? Detach yourselves from the Palestinians like the French detached themselves from Algeria and the two states will live in peace with each other as was originally envisaged under the 1947 Partition Resolution.”




In response, the Israelis ask two questions, one of which answers the other: 1. Why have the Palestinians waited for 65 years to seek the establishment of an independent state? 2. In the Algerian struggle for independence, were the Algerians proclaiming that they were bent on occupying and destroying France? For over sixty years the leaders of the Arab population of Mandatory Palestine rejected every suggestion that they proclaim an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel as envisaged under the 1947 General Assembly Partition Resolution. Instead, the Palestinian Arab leaders committed themselves to destroying the Jewish state and invited neighboring Arab states to join them in the act of annihilation.Years before Israel came into control of the remaining territory of the Mandate, the PLO, a terrorist organization, was created in 1964 with the goal of wiping Israel off the map. Hamas, of course, still proclaims this aim openly. What, then, has prompted Abu Mazen (Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas), to undertake what the Palestinians have adamantly spurned for over six decades? Clearly, Abu Mazen has simply shifted gears and has adopted a different strategy to achieve the goal that he shares with Hamas. His diplomatic route represents war by other means. It is a two-step strategy, modeled after the UN two-step approach to South West Africa/South Africa, by which the initial assault on South Africa’s colonial rule in South West Africa (Namibia) was followed by a delegitimation of the apartheid regime within South Africa itself.Analogously, and even after the formal repeal of the obscene “Zionism is racism” General Assembly resolution, the campaign within the UN to delegitimate Israel’s existence persisted, with an emphasis first on Israel’s “colonial” rule in the areas outside the pre-1967 armistice lines, followed by attempts to deny Israel’s right to exist at all.By stamping Israel as an apartheid state akin to South Africa, Israel could be prevented from successfully defending itself. Its responses to repeated armed attacks against its civilian populations could then more readily be deemed “aggression” rather than self-defense; all its use of force would be automatically labeled “war crimes;” and it could be boycotted, denied the right to obtain arms, or even to export the goods wherewith to pay for its existence.All international institutions would be enlisted to stamp Israel as an illegal entity.Operating in this context, the Palestinian Authority succeeded in getting the General Assembly to request an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the legality of the defensive wall that Israel was constructing. The Court was requested to add its seal of approval to the Assembly’s preset conclusions, and the Court willingly obliged.In its opinion, the Court asserted, inter alia, that Israel could not invoke the right of self-defense, as enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter, against Palestinian suicide bombings, since the provision only applies to defense against attacks from another state and not from a non-state entity. Unsurprisingly, the permanent members of the Security Council never endorsed such a proposition.To confirm that Abu Mazen has no intention of erecting a Palestinian state committed to living in peace with Israel, the following facts ought to be taken into account: 1. Abu Mazen refuses to acknowledge Israel as a Jewish state, since that would be to recognize Israel’s rights in the Land of Israel. He is prepared to recognize the presence of two states in Mandatory Palestine, both labeled Palestinian, but not a Jewish and Palestinian state. So long as he refuses to recognize Israel as a Jewish state, his intentions are blatantly directed to replacing that state with some other entity.2. He continues to deny that Israel has any historical attachment to Jerusalem. The Western Wall of Solomon’s temple, he asserts, is a figment of imagination.3. He published an Op-Ed article in The New York Times stating candidly that his purpose in proclaiming a Palestinian state is “lawfare.” He said: “Palestine’s admission to the United Nations would pave the way for the internationalization of the conflict as a legal matter, not only as a political one. It would also pave the way for us to pursue claims against Israel at the United Nations, human rights treaty bodies and the International Criminal Court.”4. He continues to insist that all “seven million Palestinian refugees” will enjoy the right of “return.”This is a euphemism for a program to annihilate the Jewish state with one fell swoop.5. He continues to complain that the Palestinians have suffered “under occupation for 63 years” – something that confirms that he is not content with a Palestinian state alongside Israel, but that the very existence of Israel represents “occupation” of Palestinian land. It lies at the root of Abu Mazen’s strategy.6. Abu Mazen’s lack of integrity is reflected in his failure to retract the Holocaust-denying thesis he presented in the doctoral dissertation that he completed at Moscow University. He has never apologized to the Jewish people for such a gross distortion of the historical record.7. Abu Mazen has concluded an agreement with Hamas for the establishment of a “united” Palestinian entity. Hamas openly espouses the destruction of Israel in its Charter, and Abu Mazen has not repudiated their right to adhere to it.8. If any further evidence was required, it was dramatically revealed when Abu Mazen, in his recent address to the General Assembly, charged Israel with aggression against Hamas, even though it was clear to him and the entire world that Israel had only acted in self-defense after its citizens had been targeted by hundreds of rockets. If his aim was peace, he should have been addressing aggression by Hamas and not addressing the United Nations.In sum, the Palestinian bid for recognition as a state is part of a process of bringing about the replacement of Israel with a Palestinian state extending from the coast to the Jordan River. This scheme manifestly violates United Nations law and international law. The United Nations, as its Charter proclaims in Article 2 (1), “is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its Members.” Under Article 2(4) all its members are pledged to refrain from the threat of force “against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state.”A scheme to replace Israel with a Palestinian state from the coast to the Jordan is a clear violation of the Charter. It may even smack of genocide. Any country extending recognition to a Palestinian state before a peace settlement has been attained between the parties clearly acknowledging the right of Israel to continue to exist as a sovereign independent state, violates the principles of the UN Charter and supports a genocidal scheme for the destruction of a member state. It acts as an accomplice to international aggression.
The writer is a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the author of South West Africa and the United Nations.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Show them the security fence</title>
<date>8/3/2014</date>
<content>
I remember when I first saw it. My jaw dropped. Not because I felt betrayed or  because I disagreed with its existence or its long-term implications or its  successes, but because it was close- but it should have been closer. Walking  uphill along a road whose name I can’t remember, with my back to the Kotel, I  hear a friend call my name. I turn around. And I saw two very different walls  illuminated by Israel’s bright summer sun.One wall symbolizing our  biblical past of destruction and other our right of self-determination, the  right to survive beyond our painfully redundant destruction, a destruction we  are now able to avert.




Unlike all of Israel in 1993, I did not wake up to  a new, unwelcomed and cold reality one morning in November. I did not watch the  news headlines of either intifada, I was too young, too naive, and too blinded  by my suburban induced coma which afforded me to wake up everyday in peace. This  was not the reality for Israel. I did not watch the streets of Jerusalem flooded  with blood, but for me, blood only existed in movies.Prior to my first  of four trips to Israel in 2009, I was a misfit in Hebrew school who only knew  of Israel what the awkward posters in my synagogue. And although I did not  physically or mentally or emotionally experience suicide bombings going off in  Jerusalem, I am smart enough to realize that the relative quiet in Jerusalem of  the past seven odd years, including my trips to Israel in 2009, 2011, 2012 and  2013 is not some magical miracle- it only exists because of a wall which is a  visual reminder that we create our own destiny.ONE WALL, the security  fence, blocked physically and emotionally by a bigger wall, a wall which has  clouded the perception of Jews in the Diaspora and has painted a picture of only  half of Israel story and only half of the greater Jewish story. Both a sense of  security to the Jewish People and the Jewish State, one a pragmatic sense of  security and one a spiritual reminder of a history lacking security, yet  together create an odd sense of security, a security denied to Jews worldwide,  that is, until 1948.This concrete wall, this unprecedented act not  against all Palestinians, but those selected minority bent on actively pursuing  Israel’s destruction has saved thousands of Israeli and Palestinian lives and  thus, cannot be understated.However, this wall is also a symbol used by  the BDS movement and its skewed reality which is “spreading faster than the  plague”, remarked Caroline Glick a year ago. But this plague has only  strengthened into a worldwide epidemic that can only be destroyed if the Jewish  world allows flagship programs like Birthright exposure to all of Israel’s  tragic and difficult realities which includes the security  fence.Replicas of this wall which is being called an “apartheid wall”  were displayed by mere stupidity on college campuses last weeks during Israel  Apartheid Week, a week, I believe, the Israeli media and government must view  with the same urgency as the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran or failed peace  talks with the Palestinians.A year ago, I would have said “not mine,”  but yes, my campus too, a campus with thirty-three percent Jewish students, is  under attack by students who wish to manipulate the facts against Israel and  view Israel as the problem of the Middle East, and the world, instead of the  solution.And yet I am brought back to my anger that after four trips,  four meaningful life changing trips, I am just barely, if at all, now seeing the  wall and not even up close. As I walked away from the kotel, I wish I was  walking the other way and I wish this culture of apolical Israel trips for  Jewish students joined me in our march towards the greatest representation of  Jewish sovereignty.Towards the trouble, towards the not so pretty, but  nonetheless towards the reality. I wish thousands upon thousands of Israel’s  newly-arrived visitors walked towards this wall too to learn about the reality  before others, and this will happen, try to screw the reality as is so painfully  being done on every college campus in America.And yet I see one wall of  the the biblical past and another of the Israeli forced reality and I feel  protected and yes, I will admit it, I even feel proud. Attack me for being proud  of an unprecedented picture of Jewish self-determination, but this is something  my ancestors never had.But, we have it and we must allow Jewish in the  Diaspora to see it. And I am not proud of the entire situation in the West Bank,  but proud that we, the Jewish People, have the political and militaristic  ability to protect ourselves. This accomplishment is slandered and denied on  college campuses everyday. The world, the Jewish world and the Israeli  government cannot forget that we are living in an abnormality of Jewish history-  and we must let each and every Birthright participant see it for  themselves.Yet, many trips to Israel shy away from one wall yet  gravitate to the other more glorified and pretty wall, the Kotel, in masses.  Purging emotions and prayers in the cracks her ancient bricks, the kotel, to  many Jews living in the Diaspora visiting Israel, is in essence Israel. Yet we  musn’t forget the reason we can lean ours heads against the kotel, close our  eyes and pray and not be afraid and be proud and attached to Judaism is widely  because of that wall beyond the Kotel.Living my entire life in Diaspora,  I missed out on a lot of Israeli tragedies, and yet I am unsettled by Birthright  alumni I speak to who do not know what the security fence is or why it exists.  And beyond Birthright, other programs must not be ashamed or shield the wall,  instead we must look for the beauty in the Israeli and Jewish tragedy, we must  view the wall not with shame but with pride because we now control our own  fate.
While I think Birthright is the solution to growing apathy in the  Diaspora, we must make sure that fears of politicizing Israel or creating ardent  lefties or righties does not force us to paint a vague picture of Israel and its  unimaginable daily struggle.

The author is a student at Binghamton University.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sinai today: Kerry’s sins</title>
<date>1/5/2014</date>
<content>
‘I will not allow my commitment  to Israel to be questioned by anybody,” said John Kerry in defending himself  following his use of the word “apartheid” in relation to Israel. He misses the  point.Consider a South African perspective. Just a few days ago, on  April 27, 2014, South Africa marked its 20th anniversary of freedom and  democracy since emerging from the tyranny of apartheid. On that day my wife and  I took our children to visit Robben Island, the home of the most infamous  apartheid-era jail. Visiting Robben Island on this historic occasion was very  sobering, and it gave our children the chance to see, among other monuments of  apartheid history, the tiny jail cell of Nelson Mandela, and the oppressive  prison quarters that held some of the other heroes of the anti-apartheid  struggle, including Walter Sisulu, Govan Mbeki and many others.




Robben  Island, with its bleak and harsh environment and grim prison, symbolizes the  brutality and evil of the apartheid regime.The visit moved me to reflect  on what apartheid really was, and it was in the context of these reflections  that I first heard of John Kerry’s use of the word “apartheid.”Simply  put, the word “apartheid” is sacred, and to use it inappropriately is a  desecration of the memory, and a trivialization of the suffering of the victims  of the real apartheid. If everything is apartheid then nothing is.In its  essence, apartheid was a stateplanned, state-enforced national system of racial  discrimination – the oppression of people and the denial of their basic human  rights on the basis of the color of their skin.The apartheid system was  devised and put into practice using all of the levers of government power –  parliament, judiciary, police and military – and resulted in a slew of  oppressive laws aimed at obliterating the economic, political and cultural  freedoms of an entire race of people.To hear John Kerry use the word  “apartheid” in the context of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict felt jarring and  offensive, especially this week as we reflect on where South Africa has come  from.It is a callous insult to the sacrifices and bravery of Mandela,  Sisulu and Oliver Tambo; an insult to the memory of Steve Biko, who was murdered  by the apartheid police, and Hector Pieterson, who died in his mother’s arms  during the Soweto Riots; and an insult to the fearless opposition of Helen  Suzman, who alone faced off against an overwhelming National Party majority in  parliament.It betrays in Kerry an awful ignorance of the apartheid  system. No one who truly understands the brutality and the systematic racism and  denial of basic human rights that made apartheid nefarious could possibly use  the word in a discussion relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict – a  territorial, political, religious, cultural dispute concerning national identity  and borders.John Kerry’s threat that Israel’s departure from his  negotiations will lead to apartheid is an appalling abuse of the word, which  represents so much suffering to so many people.As the historical record  clearly shows, Israel has displayed maximum commitment to achieving peace. Kerry  has given the Palestinian leadership the power to turn Israel into an apartheid  state. All they need to do is to scupper the negotiations through intransigence,  as they did at Camp David with president Clinton and on many other occasions,  and then leave it to people like Kerry to label Israel as an apartheid  state.As a rather desperate defense, Kerry has drawn attention to the  fact that Justice Minister Tzipi Livni as well as former prime ministers Barak  and Olmert have “all invoked the specter of apartheid to underscore the dangers  of a unitary state for the future.” Yet for these Israeli leaders to have used  the word “apartheid” in reference to Israel is just as unforgivable, and in  doing so they display the same scorn for historical precedent and the same  insensitivity to those who suffered under the real apartheid. To utter the word  “apartheid” in the context of Israel is beyond the pale and desecrates the  sacred memory of the victims of the real apartheid. And it places Israel in  grave danger.The Mishna in Pirkei Avot warns leaders: “Be careful with  your words, lest you become liable for exile.” This is a timely warning to  leaders like Kerry, Livni, Barak and Olmert. To carelessly fling around baseless  epithets can do great harm and can even lead to exile.Indeed, to mention  “apartheid” – the systematic, cruel racism implemented by a police state for the  purpose of destroying human dignity and freedom – in the same breath as “Israel”  – a beacon of commitment to human rights, freedom and equality in the Middle  East – is to falsely libel and delegitimize the Jewish state and its right to  exist.Such talk promotes a boycott campaign against Israel, which, if it  reaches its goal, will ultimately lead to the exile of the Jewish people from  their land and, God forbid, the destruction of the State of Israel. We dare not  underestimate the danger of the apartheid label.Leaders have to be  people of responsibility.And part of this responsibility is realizing  the power of words. Another Mishna says that God created the world with 10  statements.Words create worlds. And words destroy worlds. Words can  build and uplift, and words can denigrate and destroy.This one word  “apartheid” is so powerful because it symbolizes evil tyranny and international  sanctions, and to use it falsely in respect of Israel is grossly immoral and  dangerous.Make no mistake, the apartheid label can destroy the State of  Israel. I lived through the era of sanctions against, and international  isolation of, evil apartheid South Africa.When a country is treated as a  pariah by the nations of the world, the morale and will to continue of its  people is completely sapped.If the apartheid label, God forbid, sticks  to Israel, it will prove far more lethal than any of the enemy missiles aimed at  its citizens.So Mr. Kerry, this is not about your personal commitment to  Israel. It is about morally responsible leadership. You wistfully expressed the  childish wish “to rewind the tape.” As a responsible leader, your moral duty is  to repent for your sins. You and Barak, Olmert and Livni have desecrated the  memory of the victims of the real apartheid, and you have jeopardized the  position of the Jewish people in their ancient homeland.Repentance for  such terrible sins, our sages teach, demands confessing to the wrongdoing,  asking forgiveness from the victims and then from God, and finally repairing the  damage your sins have caused.Kerry and his Israeli cohorts must humbly  and sincerely beg the forgiveness of the people of South Africa and the people  of Israel.They must show the sincerity of their repentance by leading  the fight against the international boycott campaign and by speaking against  anyone who would dare abuse the sacred word “apartheid.” They must now make it  clear to the world that the “apartheid” word must be expunged from any civilized  conversation about Israel, that its use is beyond the pale of morally acceptable  behavior of any decent person.Anything less is not true repentance – and  is unforgivable.
The writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Sinai Today: The great apartheid lie</title>
<date>20/3/2014</date>
<content>
Joseph Goebbels, the minister of propaganda in Adolf Hitler’s Nazi government,  infamously said: “If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people  will eventually come to believe it.” These words best capture the efforts of the  anti-Israel activists who routinely accuse the Jewish state of perpetrating  apartheid policies against Palestinians.Over the years, these glorified  propagandists have relentlessly repeated the great apartheid lie across multiple  platforms. One of the most pernicious of these is the so-called “Israel  Apartheid Week,” which took place during the past two weeks, and which whips up  hate across campuses and cities throughout the world, as the Israel apartheid  lie is repeated again and again.




Indeed, the lie has now been repeated so  many times, that, as Goebbels predicted, people who are otherwise decent and  well-intentioned are starting to believe it.The apartheid lie is more  than “big enough” – in one word it falsely, outrageously accuses the Jewish  state of the one of the worst crimes against humanity. Yet even Goebbels, the  grand master of hateful propaganda who regularly repeated many defamatory lies  against Jews, would have been awestruck by the sheer scale and enormity of the  lies propagated globally by the anti-Israel activists.Goebbels would  have to humbly acknowledge how his modern-day protégés have been able to  completely invert the narrative and cast Israel as the primary  villain.He would be impressed, for instance, at the perverse genius of  successfully redefining a security fence, set up by Israel to prevent bombings  that killed thousands of its civilians – attacks which have now all but ceased  as a result - as an “apartheid wall.” He would take pleasure in seeing how every  defensive action taken by Israel to protect its citizens is recast as the war  mongering of an apartheid regime.Goebbels would also be proud of the  bald audacity of his protégés who peddle a lie that is so utterly bereft of any  factual basis. Within the sovereign borders of the State of Israel live one and  a half million Arab citizens who are the equal of their Jewish compatriots in  every conceivable way. They participate together in elections with all votes  being of equal import, irrespective of race, religion or ethnicity. Arabs hold  high-ranking positions throughout the various levels of government, including  parliament and the Supreme Court; in fact, it was an Arab judge who convicted  and sentenced Moshe Katsav, the former president of the State of Israel. There  are none and have never been separate facilities for Jews and Arabs; all across  Israel, schools and universities, benches and beaches, buses and hospitals, are  unsegregated in any way, and every Israeli citizen, no matter his or her ethnic  or religious origin, has complete and full legal rights.Beyond the  borders of the State of Israel, the areas known as the West Bank and Gaza Strip  are the subject of an ongoing dispute with complex territorial, historical and  religious facets.These territories belonged respectively to Jordan and  Egypt until Israel conquered them in the defensive Six Day War of 1967. While  the dispute has never been definitively resolved one way or the other, Israel  has always resolved to relinquish its claims on the territories for the sake of  peace – with the only question being, how and where to draw the  borders.At the heart of the apartheid lie is the assumption that Israel  can somehow dramatically and unilaterally bring about an end to the conflict as  President F.W. de Klerk did in South Africa in his historic 1990 speech to  parliament. The problem with this assumption is glaringly obvious. There is no  apartheid legal or political system for an Israeli prime minister to dismantle.  There is not a single apartheid law to abrogate. They simply do not  exist.The only action that can honestly be asked of Israel is to enable  the establishment of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza, which  involves demarcating borders, powers and a constitution.But Israel  cannot do this alone; such a state, if it is to offer a sustainable solution and  bring about lasting peace, can only be achieved through negotiations with  Palestinians. Recent history has born this out. Prime minister Ariel Sharon’s  unilateral disengagement from Gaza led to the establishment of a militant  theocracy under Hamas, which, since 2005, has fired more thousands of rockets on  Israeli citizens.Clearly, the only path to a Palestinian state is  through bilateral negotiations between Israeli and Palestinian leaders. There is  nothing Israel can do alone. And over the decades it has been the Arab world  that have refused to create a Palestinian state.Since 1947, when the  United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine laid down a workable two-state  solution to the conflict while it was still in its infancy, through to a  succession of unprecedented, all-encompassing offers put forward by Israeli  prime ministers Ehud Barak, Sharon and Ehud Olmert in recent years, all  opportunities to establish a workable two-state solution have been welcomed by  Israel and thwarted by the Palestinian leadership – yet Israel is being blamed  for the continued absence of such a state.Goebbels would be rubbing his  hands in surprised delight.The apartheid lie is a threat to the peace  process because it implies that unilateral Israeli action can solve the  conflict. By unfairly and falsely placing the sole responsibility on Israel to  bring the conflict to an end, the lie discourages Palestinians from negotiating  with Israel for the creation of their state. Indeed, why should Palestinians  negotiate in good faith when they can simply wait for the world to sanction and  boycott Israel for its nonexistent apartheid policies? The apartheid lie places  Israel in the vice-grip of a Catch-22. It demands that Israel ends the conflict  by dismantling its nonexistent apartheid policies, whilst at the same time,  making the only true path to peace – good-faith bilateral negotiations – all but  impossible.The end result – there is no end to the conflict, and Israel  is saddled with the blame.The great apartheid lie is one filled with  malice – and danger. Boycotts, divestments and sanctions, the actions  intertwined with the apartheid lie, pose an existential threat to Israel. The  lies Goebbels told about Jews proved to be lethal; by dehumanizing Jews and  destroying any natural human empathy others may have had for them, these lies  paved the way for the Holocaust.
The apartheid lie seeks to delegitimize  and dehumanize Israel, to prepare the way for the complete destruction of the  world’s only Jewish state. It is a lie that must be exposed – and rejected with  the moral outrage it deserves.

The writer is chief rabbi of South Africa.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>St. James Church creates a barrier to peace</title>
<date>1/1/2014</date>
<content>
In the courtyard of St. James Church in Piccadilly, London, stands a replica of 
Israel’s West Bank security barrier so colossal it almost blocks the church 
itself.The faux wall is part of a “Bethlehem Unwrapped” Christmas 
festival produced in association with an assortment of NGOs that are one-sided 
and dogmatic in their hostility toward Israel.




Misrepresenting Israel’s 
security barrier, the festival overlooks the reason it was built in the first 
place: to stop suicide terrorists attacking civilians in Israel. It also ignores 
the precipitous decline in terror attacks following the barrier’s 
construction.The festival features anti-Israel campaigners including 
comedians Jeremy Hardy and Ivor Dembina débuting the film Jeremy Hardy vs. the 
Israeli Army and the “Stand Up Against the Wall” comedy show. There’s also 
performances by musician Nigel Kennedy, columnists Mark Steel and Yasmin 
Alibhai-Brown, War On Want’s poet Rafeef Ziadah, and Jeff Halper of Israeli 
Committee Against House Demolitions, who once said, “I think it is impossible to 
have a Jewish state.”A search of the church’s website shows that 
regarding some of the most horrendous human rights violations in the Middle 
East, St. James has little or nothing to say. The 5,000 Syrians killed monthly 
in a civil war where the number of fleeing refugees has not been paralleled 
since the Rwandan genocide? No condemnation. Not even the chemical attack in 
August that killed hundreds of Syrian civilians could bring St. James to find 
moral indignation.The epidemic of “honor killings” of women in Turkey, 
Lebanon, Iran, Iraq, the Palestinian Authority, Egypt and Lebanon? St. James is 
mute. The persecution of Christians in Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Gaza? More 
silence.Instead, St. James chose to advance its “human rights agenda” by 
dedicating the Christmas season to this Bethlehem Unwrapped event, co-produced 
with a coterie of organizations that are dogmatically biased against 
Israel.ICAHD, War on Want, Amos Trust and Holy Land Trust are all strong 
proponents of anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaigns. 
Their rhetoric includes demonizing portrayals of Israel as an “apartheid” or 
“racist” state, which is part of the ongoing efforts to strip Israel of 
international legitimacy. Another co-producer, Interpal, is listed by the US 
Department of Treasury as being subject to Executive Order 13224, “blocking 
property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to 
commit, or support terrorism.”How can a church be associated with such 
groups and still claim a moral high ground? “All net proceeds” will be “donated 
to Amos Trust’s ‘Future Peacemakers’ Appeal, supporting the ‘non-violence 
training program’ of the Holy Land Trust (HLT) in Bethlehem.”This sounds 
positive, until one looks a little further. Sami Awad, HLT’s executive director 
and founder, has stated that non-violence is “not a substitute for the armed 
struggle.”This term, “armed struggle,” is a euphemism used by 
Palestinian terror groups and their supporters for murderous attacks on Israeli 
civilians.How much money was spent to create this pillory-Israel 
festival? St. James does not say.However, Bethlehem Unwrapped should be 
placed within the much larger context of how this alliance of churches, 
Christian aid societies, and faith-based NGOs are promoting blatantly hostile 
political campaigns against Israel.Taxpayer money, mostly European, is 
disbursed through the funding mechanisms of each country’s international aid 
framework.In turn, these government agencies allocate grants to various 
Christian aid societies, which then distribute funds to a broad range of 
humanitarian projects. In the Israeli-Palestinian sphere, however, they often 
transfer funds to highly politicized NGOs, many of which exploit moral 
principles for immoral objectives.The BDS movement long recognized the 
value of co-opting churches to amplify and legitimize their radical anti-Israel 
message.Their website declares, “Religious institutions are seen in many 
communities as embodying important moral and ethical principles... Not only will 
successful divestment campaigns [in the churches] financially weaken the 
Occupation, but they will raise both the public profile and legitimacy of the 
BDS campaign.”This Bethlehem Unwrapped festival is the latest 
manifestation of the process by which churches have been conscripted by 
anti-Israel activists to further their agenda, singling out the nation-state of 
the Jewish people in a manner that makes a mockery of universal human rights 
principles. As a result, St. James has also set back the historic 
Christian-Jewish post-Holocaust rapprochement.St. James Church and its 
associated NGOs may see themselves as peacemakers. Paradoxically, HLT’s Sami 
Awad said it best: “The most unhelpful thing you can do is be pro one side; it 
just adds to the conflict.” Awad’s statement is found, without irony, on the 
homepage of this exceptionally one-sided festival’s website.In all 
respects, the St. James festival is a failure and has indeed added to the 
conflict.These moral failures suggest that those who are responsible 
should focus on their own need for soul-searching before preaching to 
others.
The author is a 2013-2014 Research Fellow for the BDS in the Pews 
Project at NGO Monitor in Jerusalem.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Ten ways that BDS is different now</title>
<date>24/2/2014</date>
<content>
On American university campuses, the boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS)  movement is different in many ways and stronger than it was just a few semesters  ago. Here are 10 ways that things have changed lately: 1. There’s blood in the  water 
After years of defeat, the BDS campaign scored victories recently at the  University of California campuses at Berkeley, Irvine and San Diego, among  others. BDS resolutions are still mostly losers. These victories have been  largely symbolic, since universities inevitably reject such student resolutions.  Still, the wins license anti-Israel extremists to smear Israel with falsehoods  and distortions. With each victory, extremists are emboldened.




2.  Professors are engaged 
Worse, four academic associations have now also endorsed  anti-Israel boycotts, including the American Studies Association (ASA).  Fortunately, several faculty organizations oppose them. The American Association  of University Professors, hardly a pro-Israel organization, opposes all academic  boycotts. Three other faculty groups now forcefully advocate against BDS:  Scholars for Peace in the Middle East, the Israel on Campus Coalition’s Center  for Academic Engagement, and the new International Grass Roots Faculty Committee  For Academic Freedom and Integrity.

3. The map is wider 
This is not just  a West Coast issue anymore, if indeed it ever was. More East Coast and Midwest  campuses are involved. Indeed, there has been recent notable anti-Israel  activity at colleges and universities in nearly every corner of the United  States.

4. The groups are smarter 
Instead of just hosting an “apartheid  wall,” BDS activists will now typically host a series of anti-Israel events.  This requires better organization, more manpower, and greater  resources.They are also less likely to use explicit anti-Jewish epithets  like “kike,” instead derogating pro-Israel Jews as “Zio-Nazis” or  “ZiZis.”5. The battle is moving to the law schools 
Increasingly,  anti-Israel groups are moving beyond the main campus and conducting BDS events  at law schools. Fortunately, some law students are now organizing to oppose  this. The Louis D. Brandeis Center, for example, has recently established active  law school chapters at UCLA, the University of Pennsylvania and American  University, with more in formation.6. The backlash has begun 
Over 200  university presidents denounced the ASA’s boycott resolution, and they were  joined by several important academic organizations.The BDS campaign’s  recent successes have been pyrrhic victories in the sense that they have  galvanized opposition against them.7. Pro-Israel groups are ready 
There  are now several organizations fighting campus anti-Israel activity. To name just  a few, StandWithUs, Scholars for Peace in the Middle East, the Simon Wiesenthal  Center, the Zionist Organization of America, the Amcha Initiative, CAMERA,  Hasbara Fellowship, Hillel, and the Israel on Campus Coalition are all  active.8. Legislatures are taking action 
Congressmen Peter Roskam and  Dan Lipinski have introduced legislation to deny federal funding to universities  that boycott Israel. Similar legislation in New York and Maryland would restrict  the use of state funds to support academic associations that boycott Israel.  These developments show that the ASA resolution has activated lawmakers against  anti-Israel boycotts.

9. The US department of education is available 
In  2004, when I headed the US Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights  (OCR), the agency announced for the first time that it would pursue campus  anti-Semitism cases on behalf of Jewish students. This was a major about-face,  but my successors refused to enforce the policy for several years. In 2010, the  Obama administration reaffirmed it. Unfortunately, few cases brought under the  policy have succeeded. OCR however has recently signaled that its anti-Semitism  policy remains viable and that Jewish students with strong cases will face a  sympathetic audience in Washington.10. Lawyers are preparing 
Some  national legal organizations have been raising funds and hiring staff to support  the BDS campaign. At the same time, other prominent lawyers support Jewish  students and oppose BDS. The Louis D.Brandeis Center, for example, was  founded to protect Jewish students, and our lawyers are active nationwide. The  Zionist Organization of America is pursuing cases at UC Irvine, Rutgers,  Brooklyn College and elsewhere.Private attorneys, such as Joel Siegal  and Neal Sher, have represented Jewish students. The war is coming, but the  lawyers are ready.
The author is president of the Louis D. Brandeis  Center for Human Rights Under Law (www.brandeiscenter.com) and former  staff director of the US Commission on Civil Rights.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: Extremely UNnecessary: Falk’s big fat waste of time</title>
<date>19/2/2014</date>
<content>
Richard Falk’s final report to the UN Human Rights Council as Special Rapporteur  on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories was leaked this  week just as he was giving a speech at Princeton University.The gangly  Falk, gave his traditional pro-Palestinian rant to the assembled.




He  talked about South Africa and the importance of always being affiliated to “a  cause and political movement.” In short, he proved once again why his mandate  was never accepted, and made an asinine circus out of his mission; probably  harming the Palestinians far more than critiquing Israel’s actions.When  he was appointed in 2008 Falk was the latest incarnation of the UN Human Rights  Council’s “special” investigator only of Israeli actions in the West Bank and  Gaza. The very nature of the mission, most felt, was biased. He was the fifth  person to hold this position; his predecessor John Dugard had compared Israel’s  actions to apartheid.From the very beginning Falk, a professor emeritus  of international law at Princeton, made a mockery of his mission. It was almost  as if he set out to be so offensive as to make any supporter of the Palestinians  seem like a quack and thus delegitimize the Palestinians.In 2011 he was  accused of being a 9/11 “truther” when it emerged he had claimed there was an  “apparent cover up” and that there were “well evidenced doubts about the  official version.” In 2012, according to UN Watch, he posted a cartoon on his  blog showing “lady justice” holding the leash of a dog labeled USA wearing a  Jewish yarmulke with a star of David.The United Nations High  Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay, condemned the cartoon as  anti-Semitic. When attacked for his outlandish blog posts, he claimed that it  was part of “freedom of expression” and that “as an academic” he was merely  raising questions and that it was unfair to “deliberately connect it to my UN  mandate.”Falk plowed on. In early 2013, after the Boston bombings, he  claimed in the Foreign Policy Journal that “the American global domination  project is bound to generate all kinds of resistance... as long as Tel Aviv has  the compliant ear of the American political establishment, those who wish for  peace and justice in the world should not rest easy.” Thus he argued that the  Boston bombings were a kind of “resistance.” US Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice  responded that “someone who spews such vitriole has no place at the  UN.”The hate speech of Falk never prevented him from securing fancy  speeching engagements. In September 2013 he was at the University of Sydney and  in November he was hosted at Oxford’s International Relations Department. In  December of 2013 he was on a roll, on Russian TV explaining comments about how  Israel was “slouching toward nothing less than a Palestinian Holocaust” and  accusing Israel of an “intention that is genocidal.” For these tidbits, Canadian  Foreign Minister John Baird called for him to be removed for the “complete and  total absurdity of his service as UN Special Rapporteur.”Falk’s  worldview is a cobbled together parade of horribles. Things he dislikes are  invariably accused of “genocide.” So when the army deposed Mohammed Morsi in  Egypt he claimed on Al-Jazeera that the country was on the verge of genocide  last August, and that the government might have a “genocidal  mentality.”One of Falk’s greatest heroes is the Islamic devolutionary  leader of Iran, Ayatollah Khomeini. In a recent article in February on  Al-Jazeera he described meeting this “true revolutionary.” He recalls his 1979  sojourn: “We were seated cross-legged on the ground within his tent [and were  struck by] the strength of his arresting presence, especially his shining eyes  that seemed almost black. What struck us immediately was his active mind and  sharp intelligence... exhibited great strength of mind and will combined with a  demeanor of austere severity.”Falk’s essay on the greatness of Khomeini  is revealing. He discusses the fate of minorities in Iran, including Jews and  Bahai. Khomeini was blunt, saying, “the Baha’i’s are not a genuine religion, and  have no place in Iran.” Falk notes that the discrimination against Bahais  reached a “genocidal threshold.” However both minorities, Falk claims, “if they  possessed the resources, mainly emigrated to friendlier national  habitats.”Friendlier habitats? Was Falk, since 1979, a devotee of  Khomeinism? AS FALK wraps up his wasted mandate, he leaves behind a wreckage and  mockery of six years’ “work.” One of his parting words at Princeton, as tweeted  by journalist Henry Rome, was “I don’t think that [Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud] Abbas at this point can speak authoritatively for the  Palestinian people on issues of fundamental rights.”Basically, Falk was  a colonizer, in that he felt he knew what is best for the  Palestinians.Ironically, his whole presence in recent years has been an  unmitigated disaster for them. The leaked report illustrates the lack of  accomplishment and the fact that no western power will take it seriously reveals  his self-destructive role. Palestinians often do not see this. There is a  perception that the Falks and other foreign “pro-Palestinian” radicals such as  George Galloway, Baronness Jenny Tonge and Gretta Duisenberg benefit the  Palestinian cause. But these radicals – Galloway was a supporter of Bashar  Assad, and Duisenberg claimed that “the Jews... always seek to dominate the  information flow” – don’t do them any service.
Falk is a twisted circus  clown who should never be hosted by respectable institutions and should be put  in his place for the disservice he did Israelis and Palestinians (rather than  applauded for “helping” them); hopefully the international community will learn  from this six-year waste of time and resources.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Terra Incognita: Lessons from a 1940s anti-Semitic film</title>
<date>18/3/2014</date>
<content>
On November 29, 1940, the film Der Ewige Jude (“The Eternal Jew”) opened in  theaters across the Third Reich. It was a product of Josef Goebbel’s Ministry of  Propaganda and was produced by Fritz Hippler. The film was formulated as a  documentary about Jewish history.The Nazi party publication Unser Wille  und Weg lauded it as “providing a broad treatment of the life and effects of  this parasitic race using genuine material taken from real life.”




The  film can be easily found online with English dubbing and its timeless  importance, as an artifact of anti-Semitism, should not be ignored. To be sure,  it formed part of a larger propaganda effort, along with anti-Semitic films such  as Jude Suss and other pieces of Nazi “education.” But what makes Eternal Jew  important for us today is that it provides an immediately accessible lens  through which we can analyze current debates, to better understand that  anti-Semitism remains a potent force. What will surprise many is the degree to  which the Nazi stereotypes of Jews are not so different than current stereotypes  alive and well in polite society today.One of the interesting scenes in  the film shows a Jewish family at dinner, which the narrator claims is footage  from a Jewish cultural group about Purim. “The following is a Jewish Purim  festival...this harmless looking family celebration commemorates the slaughter  of 75,000 anti-Semitic Persians by biblical ancestors of our Jews of today...  educated Germans who are objective and tolerant, regard such tails as folklore,  but that is the race of Israel rubbing its hands over a feast of  revenge...today’s Israelites hide their murderous nature.”The use of  Jewish religious themes to defame Jews is a common trope in European media. For  instance, in August 2006 author Jostein Gaarder wrote an article in Norway’s  Aftenposten, claiming that the notion of being the “chosen people” guided  Israelis to do murder.“To act as God’s chosen people,” he wrote, “is not  only foolish and arrogant, it is a crime against humanity. We call it  racism...There are limits to our patience and there are limits to our tolerance.  We do not believe in divine promises as a rationale for occupation and  apartheid. We have left the Middle Ages behind. We laugh with embarrassment at  those who still believe that the god of the flora, fauna and galaxies has chosen  one particular people as his favorite, and given them amusing stone tablets,  burning bushes and a license to kill.”In a January op-ed by writer  Eamonn McCann in the Irish Times, the author claimed “[Ariel] Sharon’s ruthless  determination to cleanse the land of Israel of Palestinians was not rooted in  analysis of contemporary reality...but in the first instance as a duty conferred  on the Jewish people by Yahweh.”Deborah Orr wrote in the Guardian in  October 2011, after the prisoner trade for Gilad Schalit, that the fact that so  many Palestinians were traded for one Jew, “acknowledges what so many Zionists  believe – that the lives of the chosen are of hugely greater consequence than  those of their unfortunate neighbors.”Leora Eren Frucht, an editor at  Haaretz.com, wrote an op-ed in her newspaper on March 16 that shares some  similarities with the narrative presented in the 1940 film. She claimed the  Purim story was about how Jews “went on to kill 75,000 of them, including women  and children – them being Amalek, our archenemy. The many interpretations,  justifications and fancy philosophical footwork invested over the centuries to  make this sound okay have never made me feel any better about it. It’s genocide.  And genocide always begins with crude generalizations about a whole  people.”She then generalizes about Jewish people and Purim, claiming a  “price tag” attack in Jaljilya, an Arab town, was perpetrated by those who  “belong to my people.”ANOTHER DISTURBING topic covered in the propaganda  relates to Kosher slaughter. At the 57-minute mark the documentary has a warning  of “actual scenes, among the most horrifying ever captured... so that our people  know the truth about Jewry... sensitive citizens are advised not to  watch.”What follows is footage of ostensibly Jewish men slitting the  throats of cows. The narrator claims: “supposedly their religion forbids Jews  from eating ordinarily butchered meat... so they let the animals bleed to death  while conscious...Jews deceptively call this the most humane way to  slaughter...European science has long acknowledged the torturous character of  this type of slaughter... Jewish law has no love and respect for animals in the  Germanic sense...the national socialist movement has opposed this cruel torture  of defenseless animals.”It is interesting that this same argument, that  Jews are “cruel” to animals, is common in modern debates to ban kosher  slaughter. On March 16, The Daily Mail published an article claiming “meat from  cattle slaughtered in ‘cruel’ kosher ceremony is in your high street burger.”  The article claimed that the Jewish method of slaughter, “the practice of  slitting an animal’s throat and allowing it to bleed to death” had been  described as “inhumane” by vets. The article asserted that Jews view part of the  cow as “unholy” and that butchers sell “these ‘unholy’ parts to British  suppliers.”The Nazi propaganda film doesn’t address circumcision, but  this practice is also targeted by motifs that view it as “cruel” and  “foreign.”In a short passage in the film, the narrator also quotes  German composer Richard Wagner, who claimed, “The Jew is the demon behind the  corruption of mankind.” This is especially interesting because of the current  attempts to revive Wagner’s reputation and hide his anti-Semitism. A  commemorative event for Wagner’s 200th birthday held at the Jerusalem Theater  was the scene of a one-man protest in December of 2013. Reuters claimed that a  “crazed Israeli protester” disrupted the event.ONE OF the most popular  tropes in the documentary is the view that Jews are filthy people devoted to  chicanery.“Jewish home life reveals remarkable lack of creative ability  to civilize... they are filthy... seldom are Jews found doing useful work.” The  narrator claims: “The Jews are a people without farmers or workers, a race of  parasites.” The word “parasite” is used often; “the parasite nation of Judah is  responsible for a large part of international crime.” Jews are said to “cheat  the state of millions.” Religious Jews are targeted often, with one video  showing a Talmud Torah classroom, and arguing “the rabbis are not peaceful  theologians but political educators, the politics of the parasite race are  carried on in secret.”These anti-Semitic stereotypes of Jews have found  a welcome audience among some of those who claim today that haredi  (ultra-Orthodox) Jews are “parasites” who “do no useful work.”Julian  Kossof, a senior editor at The Telegraph, penned an article in 2010 claiming,  “ultra-Orthodox Jews are holding Israel to ransom.” He claimed that “huge  swathes of economically inactive adults [are] undermining the state itself.”  They were presented as cunningly avoiding their duty; “Military service and  paying tax may be duties of citizenship the haredim manage to  dodge.”Like the narrator in the 1940 film, they are presented as  conniving in secret; “Beyond their closed world there is nothing else of  interest – no art, no science, no culture, no history, no innovation, no  progress.” Kossof proudly recalls that his grandfather once pushed a haredi man  and called him a parasite.The term “parasite” was used by an Israeli  radio talk show host just last year, and by Deputy Finance Minister Mickey Levy  of Yesh Atid (he subsequently apologized).Writing in The Middle East  Report in the winter of 2013, Benjamin Beit-Hallahmi claimed that “to most  Israelis, the military exemption is another example of the ultra-Orthodox  parasitic lifestyle, connected with images of historical Diaspora  existence.”The way in which a portion of Israelis, and commentators,  have adopted this narrative of a “parasite” slander and castigates large  segments of the Jewish population as having a “Diaspora,” “non-working”  mentality is shockingly similar to the sentiments expressed in The Eternal  Jew.Although a return to the land and a newfound respect for farming  were integral to the Zionist movement, there is no reason for mass media to  accept the anti-Semitic trope that targets Jews as parasites.There is  one last line in the film that is worth noting. The narrator claims that “Jews  moved to Palestine and looted the culturally superior rightful inhabitants.” He  is referring here to the period of Exodus, but this notion that Jewish  immigrants to Palestine were “looters” who expelled “indigenous inhabitants” is  at the heart of today’s anti-Israel rhetoric.What Eternal Jew teaches us  is that it is important to always recall how anti-Semitism, in images and  discourse, works on many levels. Some may seem benign; but we should be wary of  all of them, especially in our own society.
Critique is important, but  not at the expense of falling into the abyss of equating the Purim story to  genocide, stigmatizing haredim as “parasites” or honoring anti-Semites like  Wagner.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The apartheid fallacy</title>
<date>29/4/2014</date>
<content>
US Secretary of State John Kerry was not the first to use  the “A-word” with regard to Israel. Former prime minister Ehud Barak used it in  2010 in Herzliya. Justice Minister Tzipi Livni used it last year in Eilat. Even  David Ben-Gurion used the word in a statement broadcast on the radio back in  1967, according to journalist Hirsh Goodman in his memoir, Let Me Create a  Paradise, God Said to Himself.Then-prime minister Ehud Olmert came  close, warning in a 2007 interview with Haaretz that without a two-state  solution, Israel would “face a South Africa- style struggle for equal voting  rights, and as soon as that happens, the State of Israel is  finished.”




Kerry used the “A-word” in a similar way to these Israeli  statesmen. The US secretary of state did not say we are an apartheid state. He  said we are liable to become one: “A two-state solution will be clearly  underscored as the only real alternative,” Kerry told a closeddoor meeting of  senior officials and experts from the US, Western Europe, Russia and Japan.  “Because a unitary state winds up either being an apartheid state with  second-class citizens – or it ends up being a state that destroys the capacity  of Israel to be a Jewish state.”Before he issued a semi-retraction in  which he said, “If I could rewind the tape, I would have chosen a different  word,” a number of Jewish organizations in the Diaspora condemned  Kerry.“Any suggestion that Israel is, or is at risk of becoming, an  apartheid state is offensive and inappropriate,” the American Israel Public  Affairs Committee said.“Israel is the lone stable democracy in the  Middle East, and protects the rights of minorities regardless of ethnicity or  religion.”AIPA C noted that Barack Obama, when he was running for  president in 2008, argued that injecting a term such as “apartheid” into the  discussion does not advance the goal of a two-state solution. “It’s emotionally  loaded, historically inaccurate, and it’s not what I believe,” Obama  said.We reject any double-standard claim to the effect that Kerry’s use  of the word is fundamentally different and more pernicious than its use by  prominent Israeli personalities.We would argue, however, that anyone who  uses the “A-word” to describe the political relationship between the  Palestinians and Israelis does not know what he or she is talking about and is  exhibiting intellectual sloppiness, if not dishonesty.Doing so belittles  the sheer evil of the Apartheid regime in South Africa. That regime was based on  systematic racial discrimination and was set up by white supremacists to  segregate and demean non-white populations.Secondly, using the “A-word”  in the Israeli-Palestinian context ignores the circumstances of the  conflict.Palestinians and their Arab allies have repeatedly carried out  military and terrorist attacks against the Jewish presence in the Land of Israel  before, during and after the creation of the state, as well as before and after  Israel took over control of the West Bank as a result of its victory in the Six  Day War, a war Israel did not initiate.Palestinians have consistently  rejected numerous attempts on the part of Israel at a peaceful resolution to the  conflict, starting with the 1947 UN Partition Plan, continuing through the 2000  Clinton parameters and the generous 2008 proposal presented by Olmert, and as  recently as last week with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s  signing of a reconciliation agreement with Hamas, a terrorist organization that  refuses to recognize Israel and is committed to violent struggle against the  Jewish state, no matter what its borders are.
While seeking to protect  itself from Palestinian aggression – including a wave of suicide bombings –  Israel has taken what it sees as the steps necessary to protect its citizens.  Some of these steps, such as the erection of the West Bank security barrier,  have been unpopular on the international stage. It is, however, inaccurate and  unfair to call this apartheid, no matter who you are.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The Gaza war and the new Holocaust revisionism</title>
<date>31/7/2014</date>
<content>
Who would have thought that Israel’s assault on Gaza would have led not only to  emergency meetings of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, but  also of the Diaspora Affairs Committee – where the rise of anti-Semitism, and  even the potential for another genocide against European Jewry, was openly  discussed? Central to this is the accusation of genocide, chanted against the  Jewish state by anti-Israel protesters.This represents a massive  left-wing-inspired assault on the Holocaust; a new form of Holocaust  revisionism.




There is a paradoxical double danger here, in that the  Holocaust is denied and/or distorted – and in the process, the way is opened for  another Holocaust.While many civilian deaths may be occurring in the  Gaza conflict, Israel’s self-defensive actions in Operation Protective Edge do  not equate to genocide in any way, shape or form. To argue that they are is a  form of Holocaust denial. If Gaza is like the Warsaw Ghetto, the Warsaw Ghetto  was like Gaza – and the true meaning of genocide in general, and the Holocaust  in particular, is lost.This distorted use and meaning of language has  dangerous implications. By redefining what genocide is to suit their anti-Israel  and anti-Semitic agenda, these demonstrators mangle what genocide was, and in  doing so open the way for genocide to be repeated. The way Israel’s current  “genocide” is liberally invoked makes Israel’s self-defense immoral, while  genocide against Israel, and her supporters and co-religionists, becomes moral  and legitimate.For if Israel is “Nazi,” “an apartheid state” and  “genocidal,” then aren’t new, dangerous levels of such actions made more  legitimate and likely to resonate more widely? Is the logical climax of the  demonization of Israel, so removed from reality, now coming to fruition? The  ironic danger here is that those who defame Israel with the label of genocide  are the ones who are actually advocating genocide; such as the anti-Israel mob  in the German cities of Dortmund and Frankfurt who shouted, “Hamas, Hamas, Jews  to the gas,” or those in Canada who roared, “Hitler should finish you off.” It  is like the Hebrew saying “Haposel bemumo posel,” he who says something critical  of others is actually talking about himself. History has taught that those who  call for the death of Jews should be taken at face value.Indeed, since  the Hamas-Gaza war began in July, Jews across the world have been physically  assaulted, with their attackers often throwing in epithets that “Hitler was  right.”In what had the makings of a contemporary pogrom, in the French  capital of Paris, Jews were left trapped in a synagogue as pro-Palestinian  protesters stormed over, calling for blood. Has anyone stopped to wonder what  would have happened to the men, women and children who locked themselves inside,  had the demonstrators succeeded in breaking through? The precedent for physical  violence was clearly set on July 23 at a friendly football match in Austria  between Israel’s Maccabi Haifa and the French club Lille, which had to be  abandoned after pro-Palestinian protesters jumped on to the field and attacked  the Israeli players. The sense of legitimacy in violence was out in the open for  all to see.Anti-Semitism can no longer hide behind a face of supposed  legitimate criticism of Israel.Fear has returned as a feature of Jewish  life in Europe and beyond. Jews may not be sitting on their suitcases (yet), but  they are waiting for the next inevitable physical assault. Jewish life in the  Diaspora is not as free today as it was before this war began.It is of  course not 1938, and the destruction of European and/or world Jewry is neither  imminent nor inevitable.However, we see in Turkey the ramifications of  the hateful language being used by a head of state, Turkish Prime Minister Recep  Tayyip Erdogan, leveling the genocide invective at Israel. Many of the  protesters and attackers of Jews and Israelis in Europe hail from Turkish  backgrounds, suggesting a nexus between the rhetoric of political leadership  with street-level violence, as the Turkish diaspora appears to be hearing  Erdogan’s message loud and clear.It is unlikely that Erdogan and his  intolerant supporters in the Turkish diaspora appreciate the irony that their  country, which accuses Israel of a fictitious genocide, not only committed  genocide against the Armenians but to this day refuses to acknowledge its  crime.AS CONTEMPORARY anti-Semitism scales new heights, the right of  Jews to live in their countries is being called into question.This  happened in an open letter in the pro-government Turkish daily Yeni Akit  addressed to the country’s chief rabbi, which said, “You came here after being  banished from Spain. You have lived comfortably among us for 500 years and  gotten rich at our expense.Is this your gratitude – killing Muslims?  Erdogan, demand that the community leader apologizes.”As Benjamin  Albalas, president of the Greek Jewish community observed, “The attitude in  Europe is promoting delegitimization of Israel… and is a first step toward the  intimidation of the Jews’ right to live in their own home countries.” If  genocide remains a long-term nightmare that will hopefully never come to pass,  is expulsion something likely in the medium term? We also see this  anti-Israel-driven anti-Semitism making further inroads in European  parliamentary circles, with the Hungarian right-wing Jobbik party.The  far Right usually pursues an anti-Muslim agenda in Europe rather than being  focused on Israel, but in Eastern and Central Europe, Jews hold a special place  for hatemongers. When in the wake of the Gaza war Jobbik joined the Left’s  battle cry against Israel by calling for a boycott of the Jewish state, we saw  the spreading of an alliance from far Left to far Right.Jobbik and their  ultra-nationalist ilk, which have a dubious approach to the history of World War  II, are now – in the context of Israel – the ones engaging in the language and  actions that Jews experienced at that nadir in history. Given their countries’  roles in the Holocaust, Central and Eastern European ultra-nationalists have a  vested interest in rewriting the history of the Holocaust. This “Israel =  genocide” campaign gives them another means to do so, and in the process spreads  the Holocaust-denying net from Left to Right, joined by some local Arab and  Islamic communities, united by this new anti-Israel agenda.All of this  inappropriately applied Holocaust imagery is, as Yad Vashem put it, a  desecration of the memory of the Holocaust. This desecration is itself a form of  anti-Semitism. As British Jewish writer Howard Jacobson said of the Warsaw  Ghetto analogy, “It is to wound Jews in their recent and most anguished history,  and to punish them with their own grief. Its aim is a sort of retrospective  retribution, canceling out all debts of guilt and sorrow. It is as though, by a  reversal of the usual laws of cause and effect, Jewish actions of today prove  that Jews had it coming to them yesterday… “Instead of saying the Holocaust  didn’t happen, the modern, sophisticated denier accepts the event in all its  terrible enormity, only to accuse the Jews of trying to profit from it, either  in the form of moral blackmail or downright territorial theft. According to this  thinking, the Jews have betrayed the Holocaust and become unworthy of it, the  true heirs to their suffering being the Palestinians.”It seems that not  even the memory of the genocide of European Jewry is sacrosanct on the continent  which allowed it to happen.This Holocaust revisionism and concomitant  genocidal incitement is not limited to Europe, with every part of the Jewish  Diaspora affected. Incredulously, we see how the language of the Holocaust is  even being used to deny Jews their right to own and mourn the Holocaust, while  simultaneously creating an environment in which another Holocaust can be  rationalized.As we ponder this, we should not forget that the Hamas  charter calls for the destruction of Jews – and it is telling that this is  something the anti-Israel protesters remain deafeningly silent about.It  is time for governments to recognize anti-Semitism for what it is, and act  against it – before the wheels of history start turning more quickly. 
The  writer is an associate professor in the Center for Citizenship and Globalization  at Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, and a documentary filmmaker at  www.identity-films.com. Twitter: @dannyb_m
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The greatest of friends</title>
<date>21/1/2014</date>
<content>
Shalom. And thank you for inviting me to visit this remarkable country, and  especially for this opportunity to address the Knesset. It is truly a great  honor. And if I may, Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my wife Laureen and the  entire Canadian delegation, let me begin by thanking the government and people  of Israel for the warmth of your hospitality. You have made us feel extremely  welcome. We have felt immediately at home.




Ladies and gentlemen, Canada  and Israel are the greatest of friends, and the most natural of allies. And,  with your indulgence, I would like to offer a reflection upon what makes the  relationship between Canada and Israel special and important, because the  relationship between us is very strong.The friendship between us is  rooted in history, nourished by shared values, and it is intentionally  reinforced at the highest levels of commerce and government as an outward  expression of strongly held inner convictions.There has, for example,  been a free trade agreement in place between Canada and Israel for many years,  an agreement that has already proved its worth. The elimination of tariffs on  industrial products, and some foodstuffs, has led to a doubling in the value of  trade between our countries.But this only scratches the surface of the  economic potential of this relationship and I look forward to soon deepening and  broadening our mutual trade and investment goals.As well, our military  establishments share information and technology.This has also been to  our mutual benefit.For example, during Canada’s mission to Afghanistan,  our use of Israeli-built reconnaissance equipment saved the lives of Canadian  soldiers.All such connections are important, and build strong bridges  between us.However, to truly understand the special relationship between  Israel and Canada, one must look beyond trade and institutions to the personal  ties of friendship and kinship.Jews have been present in Canada for more  than 250 years. In generation after generation, by hard work and perseverance,  Jewish immigrants, often starting with nothing, have prospered greatly. Today,  there are nearly 350,000 Canadians who share with you their heritage and their  faith.They are proud Canadians. But having met literally thousands of  members of this community, I can tell you this: They are also immensely proud of  what the people of Israel have accomplished here, of your courage in war, of  your generosity in peace, and of the bloom that the desert has yielded, under  your stewardship.Laureen and I share that pride, the pride and the  understanding that what has been achieved here has occurred in the shadow of the  horrors of the Holocaust; the understanding that it is right to support Israel  because, after generations of persecution, the Jewish people deserve their own  homeland and deserve to live safely and peacefully in that homeland.Let  me repeat that: Canada supports Israel because it is right to do so.This  is a very Canadian trait, to do something for no reason other than it is right  even when no immediate reward for, or threat to, ourselves is evident. On many  occasions, Canadians have even gone so far as to bleed and die to defend the  freedom of others in far-off lands.To be clear, we have also  periodically made terrible mistakes, as in the refusal of our government in the  1930s to ease the plight of Jewish refugees, but, as a country, at the turning  points of history, Canada has consistently chosen, often to our great cost, to  stand with others who oppose injustice, and to confront the dark forces of the  world.It is, thus, a Canadian tradition to stand for what is principled  and just, regardless of whether it is convenient or popular.But, I would  argue, support today for the Jewish state of Israel is more than a moral  imperative, it is also of strategic importance, also a matter of our own  long-term interests.Ladies and gentlemen, I said a moment ago, that the  special friendship between Canada and Israel is rooted in shared values. Indeed,  Israel is the only country in the Middle East, which has long anchored itself in  the ideals of freedom, democracy and the rule of law.These are not mere  notions. They are the things that, over time and against all odds, have proven  to be the only ground in which human rights, political stability and economic  prosperity may flourish. These values are not proprietary; they do not belong to  one nation or one people.Nor are they a finite resource; on the  contrary, the wider they are spread, the stronger they grow. Likewise, when they  are threatened anywhere, they are threatened everywhere.And what  threatens them, or more precisely, what today threatens the societies that  embrace such values and the progress they nurture? Those who scorn modernity,  who loathe the liberty of others, and who hold the differences of peoples and  cultures in contempt. Those who often begin by hating the Jews, but, history  shows us, end up hating anyone who is not them. Those forces, which have  threatened the State of Israel every single day of its existence, and which,  today, as 9/11 graphically showed us, threaten us all.And so, either we  stand up for our values and our interests, here, in Israel, stand up for the  existence of a free, democratic and distinctively Jewish state, or the retreat  of our values and our interests in the world will begin.Ladies and  gentlemen, just as we refuse to retreat from our values, so we must also uphold  the duty to advance them. And our commitment as Canadians to what is right, fair  and just is a universal one. It applies no less to the Palestinian people than  it does to the people of Israel.Just as we unequivocally support  Israel’s right of self-defense, so too Canada has long supported a just and  secure future for the Palestinian people.And, I believe, we share with  Israel a sincere hope that the Palestinian people and their leaders... will  choose a viable, democratic, Palestinian state, committed to living peacefully  alongside the Jewish state of Israel.As you, prime minister [Netanyahu],  have said, when Palestinians make peace with Israel, Israel will not be the last  country to welcome a Palestinian state as a new member of the United Nations –  it will be the first.Sadly, we have yet to reach that point. But, when  that day comes, and come it must, I can tell you that Israel may be the first to  welcome a sovereign Palestinian state, but Canada will be right behind  you.Ladies and gentlemen, support – even firm support – doesn’t mean  that allies and friends will agree on all issues all of the time. No state is  beyond legitimate questioning or criticism. But our support does mean at least  three things.First, Canada finds it deplorable that some in the  international community still question the legitimacy of the existence of the  State of Israel.Our view on Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state is  absolute and non-negotiable.Second, Canada believes that Israel should  be able to exercise its full rights as a UN member state and to enjoy the full  measure of its sovereignty.For this reason, Canada has spoken on  numerous occasions in support of Israel’s engagement and equal treatment in  multilateral fora.And, in this regard, I should mention that we welcome  Israel’s induction this month into the western, democratic group of states at  the United Nations.Third, we refuse to single out Israel for criticism  on the international stage. Now I understand, in the world of diplomacy, with  one, solitary, Jewish state and scores of others, it is all too easy “to go  along to get along” and single out Israel. But such “going along to get along,”  is not a “balanced” approach, nor a “sophisticated” one; it is, quite simply,  weak and wrong.Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world  where that kind of moral relativism runs rampant.And in the garden of  such moral relativism, the seeds of much more sinister notions can be easily  planted.And so we have witnessed, in recent years, the mutation of the  old disease of anti-Semitism and the emergence of a new strain. We all know  about the old anti-Semitism. It was crude and ignorant, and it led to the  horrors of the death camps. Of course, in many dark corners, it is still with  us.But, in much of the western world, the old hatred has been translated  into more sophisticated language for use in polite society.People who  would never say they hate and blame the Jews for their own failings or the  problems of the world, instead declare their hatred of Israel and blame the only  Jewish state for the problems of the Middle East.As once Jewish  businesses were boycotted, some civil-society leaders today call for a boycott  of Israel. On some campuses, intellectualized arguments against Israeli policies  thinly mask the underlying realities, such as the shunning of Israeli academics  and the harassment of Jewish students.Most disgracefully of all, some  openly call Israel an apartheid state.Think about that. Think about the  twisted logic and outright malice behind that: a state, based on freedom,  democracy and the rule of law, that was founded so Jews can flourish, as Jews,  and seek shelter from the shadow of the worst racist experiment in history, that  is condemned, and that condemnation is masked in the language of  anti-racism.It is nothing short of sickening.But this is the  face of the new anti-Semitism. It targets the Jewish people by targeting Israel  and attempts to make the old bigotry acceptable for a new generation.Of  course, criticism of Israeli government policy is not in and of itself  necessarily anti-semitic. But what else can we call criticism that selectively  condemns only the Jewish state and effectively denies its right to defend itself  while systematically ignoring – or excusing – the violence and oppression all  around it? “What else can we call it when Israel is routinely targeted at the  United Nations, and when Israel remains the only country to be the subject of a  permanent agenda item at the regular sessions of its human rights council?  Ladies and gentlemen, any assessment – any judgment – of Israel’s actions must  start with this understanding: In the 65 years that modern Israel has been a  nation, Israelis have endured attacks and slanders beyond counting and have  never known a day of true peace.And we understand that Israelis live  with this impossible calculus: If you act to defend yourselves, you will suffer  widespread condemnation, over and over again. But, should you fail to act, you  alone will suffer the consequence of your inaction, and that consequence will be  final, your destruction.The truth, that Canada understands, is that many  of the hostile forces Israel faces, are faced by all western nations. And Israel  faces them for many of the same reasons we face them. You just happen to be a  lot closer to them.Of course, no nation is perfect. But neither Israel’s  existence nor its policies are responsible for the instability in the Middle  East today. One must look beyond Israel’s borders to find the causes of the  relentless oppression, poverty and violence in much of the region, of the  heartbreaking suffering of Syrian refugees, of sectarian violence and the fears  of religious minorities, especially Christians, and of the current domestic  turmoil in so many states.So what are we to do? Most importantly, we  must deal with the world as we find it. The threats in this region are real,  deeply rooted and deadly, and the forces of progress, often anemically weak. For  too many nations, it is still easier to scapegoat Israel than to emulate your  success. It is easier to foster resentment and hatred of Israel’s democracy than  it is to provide the same rights and freedoms to their own people.I  believe that a Palestinian state will come, and one thing that will make it come  is when the regimes that bankroll terrorism realize that the path to peace is  accommodation, not violence.Which brings me to the government of  Iran.Late last year, the world announced a new approach to diplomacy  with the government in Tehran.Canada has long held the view that every  diplomatic measure should be taken to ensure that regime never obtains a nuclear  weapon. We therefore appreciate the earnest efforts of the five permanent  members of the security council and Germany. Canada will evaluate the success of  this approach not on the merits of its words, but on the implementation and  verification of its promised actions. We truly hope that it is possible to walk  the Iranian government back from taking the irreversible step of manufacturing  nuclear weapons.But, for now, Canada’s own sanctions will remain fully  in place. And should our hopes not be realized, should the present agreement  prove ephemeral, Canada will be a strong voice for renewed  sanctions.Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with this thought: Je  crois que l’histoire d’Israël est un très bel exemple pour le monde entier. I  believe the story of Israel is a great example to the world. It is a story,  essentially, of a people whose response to suffering has been to move beyond  resentment and build a most extraordinary society, a vibrant democracy, a  freedom-loving country... with an independent and rights-affirming judiciary, an  innovative, world-leading “start-up” nation.You have taken the  collective memory of death and persecution to build an optimistic,  forward-looking land, one that so values life you will sometimes release a  thousand criminals and terrorists to save one of your own.In the  democratic family of nations, Israel represents values which our government  takes as articles of faith, and principles to drive our national  life.And therefore, through fire and water, Canada will stand with  you.My friends, you have been generous with your time and attention.  Once more, Laureen and I and our entire delegation thank you for your generous  hospitality, and look forward to continuing our visit to your  country.Merci beaucoup. Thank you for having us, and may peace be upon  Israel.
CANADIAN PRIME Minister Stephen Harper addresses the Knesset on  Monday. (Reuters)
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The key to peace for Israelis and Palestinians is... identity</title>
<date>5/2/2014</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu insists that with “just six words” Palestinian  President Mahmoud Abbas could assure peace. Netanyahu proclaims that if Abbas,  and the Palestinian people he more or less represents, would “recognize Israel  as a Jewish state,” peace would prevail. But many view this as a ruse. In saying  “no,” the Palestinians would be blamed for the failure of the strong-armed peace  process that Kerry is indefatigably pursuing.“It is not mission  impossible,” says the US secretary of state, in a modest double  negative.




Is he despairing at last? Or is he still so naïve? Neither. He  gives evidence that the best way to predict the future is to create it out of  the present.He is an artist of negotiation who knows how to take  powerfully symbolic public statements – like “you must,” and “never” – and  reweave them into a new formula.Indeed, if Kerry can get a new formula  right, and I believe he may indeed be on the verge of just that (although it may  not look like it for a while), we may finally arrive at a moment in which  peacemaking as the art of possibility prevails. However, some new ideas must  precede this formula.First, the tired formula of “land for peace,”  captured in UN resolution 242, which has served as the basis of failed  negotiations for 45 years, can finally and fully be put to bed as the point of  departure. Trading land for peace is the end of the deal, not the beginning.  Next, we must finally wake up to the reality that the international system is  built less and less on the impermeability of nation-states – as hard billiard  balls bouncing off each other – and instead is constituted of a much softer  underbelly of identity-groups – ethnic, religious, sectarian, interest-based –  that cross state boundaries.Success in complex negotiations of this kind  is rooted in getting the formula right. On that foundation, details are then  negotiated as a process of consolidating core principles into specific  agreements about who gets what from whom, when and how. In short, the very  concrete details about land for peace.But in identity-based conflict, of  which the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is paradigmatic, a vision of peace must  come first. How is this possible when each side rejects so much of what the  other views as basic and existential? For Israeli Jews it is essential that  their Jewish identity, in all its complexity and proud and painful history, be  recognized. For Palestinians it is critical that their peoplehood – their unique  identity – is recognized and dignified and their people’s bitter dispersal is  finally ended. Yet there is a stubborn Gordian knot that must be severed where  these claims for recognition are mirrored by mutual  rejection.Palestinian refusal to recognize the Jewish identity of Israel  – as Abbas recently reiterated, it “is out of the question” – is viewed as  evidence by Israelis that Palestinians still hold to a genocidal agenda of “The  Strategy of Stages.”That refusal is seen as integral to a goal to  eventually eliminate Israel slice by slice.Israeli Jews’ demand for  recognition of the Jewishness of Israel, suggests to Palestinians that the Jews  just don’t understand that acceptance of this demand for recognition is  tantamount to renunciation of the Palestinians’ existential legitimacy. It  affirms Palestinian fears that Israel will, at best, continue to marginalize,  divide and conquer them in a “state” no better than the reviled Bantustans of  apartheid South Africa and thus will also continue to reject the specific,  complex and dynamic dimensions of Palestinian identity.So how then can  identity provide a new formula, or vision, for successful negotiations when it  seems it is the very source of their continued failure? Getting stuck over the  politically loaded demands or rejections regarding identity misses the  opportunity of using identity needs as the basis for formulating a mutually  acceptable and overarching vision. The details – where deals get made and  specifics eventually get done – would follow. There have been decades of work on  such details – hundreds of thousands of person hours and millions, if not  billions of dollars invested already – and for many on the inside, it is clear  that along the lines of details and parameters, there is great progress. It is  the larger vision that is still blurry.Thanks to Kerry, the two sides  are close, perhaps closer than ever to such a new vision that will make peace  possible. And identity is not the barrier but the key.What will it take  to make peace? In the same New York Times interview where Abbas said “no way” to  the demand to recognize Israel as a Jewish state, he also said that if Netanyahu  believes in it “everything will be easy.”The key to this belief, which  is at the root of the conflict, is also the way to peace: identity and mutual  recognition of how each side, without undermining the other, seeks its  affirmation and perpetuation.
The author is professor of conflict  management, resolution and negotiation at Bar Ilan University in Israel. He is  the author of the recent book From Identity-Based Conflict to Identity-Based  Cooperation, Springer, 2012.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The mayor of Ashkelon is not a racist</title>
<date>23/11/2014</date>
<content>
On Thursday, Ashkelon Mayor Itamar Shimoni announced that he would be imposing a  temporary halt on the work of Arab laborers renovating bomb shelters in a small  number of nursery schools in his city. He also said he would be posting security  guards at kindergartens near construction sites where Arabs are  employed.The storm that ensued makes the snowfall in Buffalo look like a  flurry.




Ironically, it is a tempest which caused a rare consensus among  Israeli politicians, nearly all of whom immediately denounced  Shimoni.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that there is “no place  in Israel for discrimination against its Arab citizens.”Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni asked Attorney-General Yehuda Weinstein to investigate Shimoni for  violating the Equal Opportunities in the Workplace Law.Interior Minister  Gilad Erdan, Economy and Trade Minister Naftali Bennett and Defense Minister  Moshe Ya’alon stressed that “only a tiny minority” of Israeli Arabs is violent  and warned against the evils of discrimination and racism.Finance  Minister Yair Lapid and Intelligence Minister Yuval Steinitz bemoaned the  souring of relations between Arabs and Jews due to the actions of a few  jihadists.Opposition leader Isaac Herzog said that even during difficult  times, Israel has not taken discriminatory measures against its Arab  citizens.Meretz leader Zehava Gal-On called Shimoni’s edict illegal and  immoral.United Arab List-Ta’al MK Ahmed Tibi said that security should  not constantly serve as an excuse for racism and apartheid.The Israeli  media also went ballistic, accusing Shimoni not only of criminal racism, but of  engaging in it to “regain the spotlight he lost” when Operation Protective Edge  ended and he was no longer in the news every day. They failed to mention that  the reason for his previous “fame” was that Ashkelon is situated a mere eight  miles from Gaza, and suffered from the highest number of rocket barrages fired  into the country by Hamas during the war.They also left out the part  about terror tunnels leading from Gaza into the Ashkelon coastal region, with a  shaft found under a kindergarten.A far more important omission during  the initial blitz on Shimoni was the context in which he was operating when he  made his decision to temporarily forbid Arab men from wielding sharp tools  around Jewish children. On Tuesday, two terrorists slaughtered four rabbis  praying at a Jerusalem synagogue, killed a policeman who had come to their  rescue, severely wounded several others and traumatized the survivors. The men  who committed the heinous act, using guns and meat cleavers, are holders of  Israeli identity cards. One of them worked at a nearby grocery  store.Three weeks prior to this massacre, which was celebrated widely in  the streets of Gaza and cheered in the Palestinian Authority press, civil rights  activist Rabbi Yehuda Glick – a leader in the campaign for Jews to be allowed to  pray on the Temple Mount – was gunned down by a terrorist outside of the  Menachem Begin Heritage Center in Jerusalem, where he had just given a lecture.  This would-be assassin, who had spent years in prison for previous terrorist  activities against Jews, was an employee of the restaurant at the Begin  Center.In the interim between these two events, several other innocent  Israelis were killed or wounded in stabbings and vehicular attacks, executed by  Arab men who live and work freely among the rest of Israeli  society.During this period, which is being called the “third intifada,”  terrorist states and organizations have been calling on Arabs in and around  Israel to harm as many Jews as possible.And last week, a shipment of  weapons headed for east Jerusalem, falsely labeled as Christmas ornaments, was  intercepted by Israeli security services.In addition, Hamas declared  Friday another “day of rage.”Many residents of Ashkelon thus heaved a  sigh of relief at Shimoni’s decree. Though the city’s official parents’ union  condemned it, parents with children in the nursery schools in question held a  demonstration on his behalf. Like Shimoni, they insisted that this was not due  to a lack of faith in the majority of the Arab population in Ashkelon (which  makes up 20 percent of the total), but rather to the current climate and special  circumstances.“I would rather be taken to the Supreme Court than, heaven  forbid, to the funeral of a kindergarten child,” Shimoni told Channel 2 on  Thursday evening. Finding himself under fire and at the wrong end of the law,  Shimoni backed down on Sunday. His new decision is to leave the Arab workers at  the kindergartens to complete the job of renovating the bomb shelters, while  moving the children from those specific pre-schools to community  centers.Shimoni may well find himself at the wrong end of the law. But  there is nothing in his behavior that warrants being labeled a racist. Willing  to face ostracism and possible indictment in order to protect the weakest sector  of his city from a palpable threat, he is exhibiting leadership.
The  writer is the author of  To Hell in a Handbasket: Carter, Obama, and the ‘Arab  Spring.’
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The pyromaniacs</title>
<date>2/11/2014</date>
<content>
Parts of Jerusalem are burning, and instead of taking measures to put out the  fire the extreme Right (and the not-so-extreme Right, for that matter) is  pouring fuel on the flames, while the Israel Police (not the fire brigade) is  trying to contend with the results. “We have tried the ways of the Left,” say  the pyromaniacs, “and these have failed. So it is now high time to try a  different way.” They are not only referring to Jerusalem.This approach  assumes that the choice Israel faces is between doing things “its own way”  without giving a damn what the gentiles say, or groveling to them while ignoring  the “true interests” (whatever these may be) of the Jewish people.




In  reality that is not the choice Israel faces. From the very start the Zionist  endeavor – that of establishing a Jewish state in the Land of Israel in which  every Jew (secular or religious, Ashkenazi or Sephardi, capitalist or socialist)  was welcome, and where persecuted Jews might find a haven – faced opposition and  a complicated international reality.The genius of both Chaim Weizmann  and David Ben-Gurion was that they knew how to navigate the boat which they  commanded in a judicious manner, taking advantage of opportunities (for example,  by accepting patrician plans for Palestine, even if they were unsatisfactory in  many respects), acting as far as possible on the basis of the principle of  “pacta sund servanda” (agreements must be kept) and other principles of  international law, and avoiding swallowing more than the nascent state could  digest.For example, when Ben-Gurion rejected a military plan proposed by  Yigal Alon toward the end of the War of Independence to conquer the West Bank –  which was militarily feasible – not only because this would be in breach of  understandings with king Abdullah of Jordan, but also because it would mean that  the Arabs would constitute a majority within the territory of the State of  Israel.The Zionist Right at the time – first the Revisionists and later  the Herut Movement – rejected this approach on similar grounds to those  proclaimed by the extreme Right today, insisting on a policy of “two banks to  the River Jordan,” a rejection of partition in any form, and contempt for the  policy of “giving in” to the wishes and whims of the gentiles. We do not know  whether the Revisionists and Herut could have done any better than the  socialists and liberals, or even whether they would have managed to establish  the state in 1948, had they been in control.However, we do know that  where the old Right differed from its current counterpart is that its leaders –  especially Menachem Begin – were true liberals and upholders of the Rule of Law.  It was Begin who fought against the use of the emergency regulations inherited  by Israel from the British Mandatory Government and used primarily against the  state’s Arab citizens, and for the abolition of the special military  administration – which was a form of apartheid – to which the Arabs of Israel  were subjected until 1966.Perhaps the best (and saddest) manifestation  of the difference between the old Right and the new Right are the current  attacks on President Reuven Rivlin for daring to follow the path of his teacher  and mentor Begin, including his decision to attend a service in memory of the  shameful Kafr Kasim massacre of October 29, 1956 (in the course of the Sinai  Campaign), in which 49 innocent Israeli Arab villagers were shot dead by a unit  of Mishmar Hagvul, which opened fire at them without warning, as they returned  from work to their village, unaware that a curfew had been declared in their  absence. The policemen involved were charged and sentenced to imprisonment, and  the whole episode was condemned by Ben-Gurion. How many Jewish Israelis today,  including those badmouthing Rivlin, know the details of this episode? For his  efforts to act as the president of all Israelis, not just Jewish Israelis, and  “daring” to admit that Israel too has been responsible over the years for crass  acts of criminal injustice, Rivlin has been referred to as a “Jew boy”  (yehudon), a traitor, who ought to be president of Gaza.A poster showing  Rivlin wearing a keffiyeh has appeared, reminiscent of similar posters of Rabin  just days before he was assassinated, 19 years ago.But back to our  pyromaniacs, who belong to the political camp that cannot stand any Jew who does  not believe that sticking fingers into the eyes of the Palestinians and the rest  of the world is the only true patriotic way for a proud Jew to act – not even  the president of the state, who rejects the two-state solution, but at the same  time really and truly seeks a formula for coexistence with the Palestinians, not  because he is a wimp, or a “self-hating Jew,” but because he believes that there  can be no one-state solution without coexistence.I don’t believe that  the one-state solution is possible or desirable under any circumstances, but at  least Rivlin is making an honest effort to create circumstances in which he  believes it might work. Nor do I believe that Israel will find peace and quiet  by calling for Jewish sovereignty on the Temple Mount, and threatening to build  the Third Temple there with 1.6 billion Muslims yelling bloody murder in the  background, and threatening to act; or by continuing indiscriminate settlement  activities in the West Bank, which not only the third world but also the EU and  our only ally – the US – vehemently oppose, even if to date they have done very  little to stop it (nothing lasts forever); or by continuing to bring Jewish  settlers into Arab neighborhoods in Jerusalem by very dodgy means, and  continuing to build Jewish neighborhoods on territories that were never part of  the municipal zone of Jerusalem before 1967, and are not recognized as part of  Jerusalem by anyone except the Christian Embassy in Jerusalem.Those who  are advocating and actively promoting all the above mentioned activities claim  that the “Oslo way” has failed, and that it is high time to try “something  else.”But why do they believe that setting fire to the region will bring  the desired result? True, the number of Jews (and others) killed in Palestinian  terrorist activities rose sharply after Oslo, but so did the number of Jews  killed and murdered by other Jews, and who knows whether without Oslo the  numbers would have been smaller and not larger? And how can any rational human  being believe that one can bring peace and quiet by denying that the  Palestinians have any sort of rights, and by taking away any glimmer of hope  from millions of Palestinians, most of whom are not supporters of Hamas, in a  situation where the phrase “the whole world is against us” is sadly turning into  bitter truth with our own encouragement? THERE ARE apparently many in the  national religious camp, including ministers Naftali Bennett and Uri Ariel, who  are acting as if they believe that God is on the side of the pyromaniacs, and  can be counted on to control the fire – the very same God who let one million  innocent Jewish children die in the Holocaust. However, let us not forget that  according to most of the haredim (ultra-Orthodox) the whole Zionist endeavor  runs counter to God’s will, as does angering the gentiles, and hastening the  construction of the Third Temple.And what about the secular Right? The  likes of Miri Regev answered that question by attending the meeting of the LIBA  Initiative for Jewish Freedom on the Temple Mount at the Menachem Begin Heritage  Center in Jerusalem the other day, after which an attempt was made to kill the  organization’s leader Yehuda Glick (to whom I wish a full recovery, despite his  disruptive activities).For several weeks there was no reaction from  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. However, on Saturday night he finally acted.  Not due to any lesson he learned from the incitement before the assassination of  Rabin, which he had failed to stop in time as leader of the opposition, nor from  the tragic results of the Mount Carmel fire back in 2010, which had caught him  unprepared as prime minister, but rather due to heavy pressure from the US and  Jordan.On Saturday night Netanyahu called up Knesset speaker Yuli  Edelstein to help him convince the Knesset members to avoid further inflaming  the situation – especially with regard to the Temple Mount. He will hopefully  also take some firm action among his ministers – especially those from Bayit  Yehudi. It is a shame, however, that foreign intervention caused him to act, and  not common sense.
The writer is a retired Knesset employee.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>There’s no need for a ‘Jewish state’ law</title>
<date>27/11/2014</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says that he wants Israel to be Jewish and  democratic. Regrettably, his controversial “Jewish State” bill will make Israel  less democratic, and his actions impeding a two-state solution will make Israel  less Jewish.There is no real need for a new law on Israel’s identity.  Not a bill like this, not with the proposed phrasing, and definitely not now.  Israel’s status as a Jewish, democratic state is already enshrined in its  Declaration of Independence, which explicitly defines Israel as a “Jewish  state,” and, among other things, guarantees “complete equality of social and  political rights to all its inhabitants.”




Netanyahu’s bill is no more  than a cynical ploy to mobilize his base, firm up his brand and neutralize his  troublesome coalition partners – and it could not come at a worse time for the  State of Israel or for relations between Israel’s Jewish and Arab  citizens.This bill is really for domestic consumption.With it,  Netanyahu is triangulating the centrists in his troubled coalition, and  appropriating for himself the populist nationalism of right-wingers like  coalition chairman Ze’ev Elkin, who put forward the most extreme of the several  versions of the bill that have been floating around.David Ben-Gurion,  who established the Jewish state, as well as Ze’ev Jabotinsky and Menachem  Begin, the fathers of the Israeli Right, would never have supported this bill.  Netanyahu and Elkin’s Likud Party is not the pragmatic, liberal democratic Likud  of Menachem Begin.With terrorist incidents nearly every day, violence on  the streets, and a radicalized right wing on the ascendancy, it is not hard to  understand Netanyahu appealing to his base. Elkin’s initial draft went so far as  to demote Arabic as an official language, which shows just how much contempt the  far Right has for our fellow Arab citizens. But the draft passed by the  coalition still omits explicitly protecting “equality,” and purports to force  the courts and the legislature to utilize Jewish religious law, to name just two  of the sins of this abysmal legislation.The current bill is dishonest in  its intent, lacks any sign of the deep thought that is required for a  constitutional document (Netanyahu’s own attorney-general slammed the measure  primarily for this reason) and is more concerned with politics than protecting  Israel’s Jewishness.And again, this bill is being presented at the worst  possible time. The city I call home, Jerusalem, has been a tinderbox for weeks,  and the country could easily slide toward another intifada. Even if Israel  needed such a law, the current proposal is so spectacularly ill-timed as to be  inflammatory and deeply irresponsible on Netanyahu’s part.I might have  supported a more moderate version of this bill, but I would only do so in the  context of a two-state peace agreement with the Palestinians, in which each side  recognized the legitimacy of the other’s national aspirations.Most  tragic of all is that Netanyahu is putting forward a bill ostensibly asserting  the Jewishness of the state while his actions are guaranteed to lead to the  opposite result. He scuttled negotiations with the Palestinians early this year,  and we are getting ever more distant from the dream of a two-state  solution.In the absence of a two-state solution, we are left with only  two alternative scenarios. Either Israel annexes the territories and grants the  Palestinians full civil and political rights, in which case Israel will  certainly not be a Jewish state; or we will all live together in one state that  protects the national and religious rights of Jews, under bills like this, and  does not sufficiently protect those of a national minority that will ultimately  become the majority.It is against these scenarios that US Secretary of  State John Kerry warned when he said Israel risks becoming an “apartheid state.”  I might not use exactly those words, but the fact is that Netanyahu’s actions  undermine the future of Israel as a Jewish state; and his “Jewish state” bill  undermines the democratic nature of Israel, and, just as important, its global  perception as such.An enlightened government would be calming tensions  now, and would be making conciliatory gestures toward Israeli Arabs. An  enlightened government would renew negotiations with the Palestinians without  preconditions.If Netanyahu genuinely wants to ensure Israel remains the  “nation-state of the Jewish people,” he would do so by taking actions like  seriously promoting a two-state agreement with the Palestinians, not by putting  forward superfluous, ill-conceived, jingoistic proposals like his version of the  “Jewish state” bill.
Hilik Bar is a member of Knesset, deputy speaker of  the Knesset, and secretary-general of the Labor Party.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Know comment: The sky is not falling</title>
<date>1/5/2014</date>
<content>
In recent months, the imperious US Secretary of State and  others have warned Israel that unless it rapidly proceeds to establish a  full-fledged Palestinian state in Judea and Samaria, the sky will come crashing  down on the Jewish state.The doomsday diviners are certain that unless  the “twostate solution” is promptly implemented, Israel will molder, or atrophy  into apartheid and inch into isolation.




Well, guess what, they’re wrong.  The wisdom and utility of a two-state settlement aside, its absence is not a  catastrophe. Israel will continue to prosper and achieve, despite long-term  lingering conflict with the Palestinians and notwithstanding the apocalyptic  agonizing of well-meaning friends like John Kerry.As Israel approaches  its 66th Independence Day next week, it is important to emphasize and  re-emphasize this; to shake off the bleak and sinister prognostications of our  “friends” and enemies.The gloomy, wintry forecasts are just not  accurate.A cold evaluation of Israel’s strengths versus our enemies’  threats leads to the conclusion that Israel is winning on all battlefronts,  overcoming every challenge, and advancing in all ways.Military threats  to Israel have greatly diminished, as Arab societies and armies crumble across  the Middle East. Soft power attacks on Israel – things like international  campaigns to divest from Israel and to sanction Israel – have mostly fallen  flat.The Chinese, the Indians, and even the Europeans are lining up to  buy Israeli technologies, not to boycott them.Palestinian attempts to  prosecute or confront Israel are a nuisance and ongoing, but they are mostly  empty threats, as the Palestinians are in disarray and deeply divided (despite  the flimsy, fake, rehashed Fatah-Hamas unity accord). The amorphous situation in  the West Bank is messy but manageable, and is far less bad than most  alternatives.The dramatic weakening of America and the US-Israel  relationship under President Barack Obama is of grave concern, but this is  temporary and reversible. And for Israel’s major challenge – the peril of an  Iranian nuclear bomb – that too will yet be dealt with, I believe, quite  firmly.In the meantime, Israel’s dramatic drive to succeed ever-more in  all aspects of life continues unabated, with spectacular results: outstanding  science and top-notch technology; leading brain scientists and rocket missile  defense systems; Nobel Prize winners; first-class doctors and world-class  healthcare; high levels of Torah study – only 70 years after the destruction of  European Jewry’s Torah world; a robust economy and strong currency; massive  foreign investment; innovative water desalinization programs and newly  discovered, massive natural gas resources; a super-vibrant social assistance  sector; multiple humanitarian missions undertaken abroad; and most of all,  sensational activism and high motivation of our magnificent youth.So my  net assessment of Israel’s strategic and internal situation is astonishingly  optimistic. Israel is stronger than any of its enemies. Neither the perpetual  Palestinian conundrum, nor the acute Iranian threat, nor the unstable regional  situation make me a pessimist. Nor do John Kerry’s miserable  prophesies.If anything worries me, it’s our domestic disputes, social  ills and spiritual deficiencies.Plus the hard-left negativism of  mainstream media. But these are our challenges to overcome. Their resolution  depends on our energies and wisdom, not on force majeure or the foibles and  dictates of others.And note: Israelis are neither crushed nor dispirited  by their challenges. They remain quite resilient and energized to build an even  better future.Listen to the words of the late, great Rabbi Dr.  ambassador Yaakov Herzog, speaking in 1971 about “The Permanence of Israel”: “We  face perils. No man can guarantee that fighting will not resume tomorrow, that  our soldiers will not have to fight again bloody battles. But we know we have  the strength to withstand them. The balance of arms is in our favor at the  moment… We may face political isolation and pressures, but we face all this in  the knowledge that we belong to a new epoch and that the Jew has changed – in  Jerusalem, in Israel and across the world.And though at times it looks  dark, the light will reappear.With firmness touched with generosity,  with strength uplifted by spiritual understanding, we can move ahead. With all  the difficulties, with all the pressures, we are the generation of redemption.  Let us indeed be worthy of this privilege that defies human logic and supersedes  human vistas.”So on this Independence Day, count your personal and our  national blessings.Life in Israel is full of meaning and delight –  adorned by sacrifice, commitment, achievement and joy – all the components that  make life satisfying and exciting, and certainly so for a Jew.
Despite  the overwrought friends, and the naysayers, boycotters and detractors – the  Heavens are shining, not collapsing, upon Israel.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>The World From Here: After Brussels: Assaulting the anti-Semitism-terror nexus</title>
<date>28/5/2014</date>
<content>
Shortly after the recent terror attack in Brussels that killed four people,  Brussels Mayor Yvan Mayeur noted that “it was no coincidence that the attack  took place at Belgium’s Jewish Museum.” Belgian officials were quick to brand  the terror attack as “anti-Semitic” and fueled by a “climate of hatred,” as  underscored by Joel Rubinfeld, head of Belgium’s League against anti-Semitism.  ADL’s Abe Foxman noted, “The rise in Europe of openly anti-Semitic political  parties the proliferation of clearly anti-Semitic expressions on social media  platforms and the disturbingly high levels of anti-Semitic attitudes in many  places in Europe contribute to a witches’ brew of hate.”These  assessments beg a larger question as to what drives these anti-Semitic  sentiments. True, Belgium stands out among EU states for the scores of young  Muslims who have traveled to Syria to join the ranks of radical Islamic  opposition groups. Stevie Weinberg of the International Institute for Counter  Terrorism also points out that Arab and radical Islamic groups and individuals  have played key roles in many of the nearly 20 major terror events that have  taken place in Belgium since the early 1970s.




However, in 2014,  demonization and delegitimization campaigns targeting Israel are the “elephants  in the room.” The incessant boycott, divestment and sanctions campaigns and  concomitant incitement against the existence of the nation state of the Jewish  people that are fueled by the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah, Gaza’s Hamas  leadership, Palestinian NGO groups and their supporters across Europe and the  throughout United States have contributed to an atmosphere of revulsion and  rejection of both the Jewish state and Jews in the Diaspora.New York  journalist Dan Friedman points out that in 2005 when Britain suffered a sharp  rise in anti-Semitic attacks, then-minister Natan Sharansky reminded us that  “years of hostile reporting and commentary about Israel... is now spilling into  the streets,” while his adviser on anti-Semitism noted that, “You can’t  brainwash people for four years that Israel is an illegitimate country and that  Israelis are like the Nazis and that Israelis are monsters and expect that  nothing will happen to Jews.”This culture of hatred is not restricted to  Europe. It has also become a force multiplier for anti-Semitic and anti-Israel  invective on US University campuses that help pave the path to deadly terror  attacks around the globe whether in, Brussels, Burgas , Kansas City , or in  Israel’s towns and cities.In Europe, anti-Israel animus has been driven  in no small part by Hamas activists and radical-left allies and supporters via  scores of Palestinian and European NGOs. They have spearheaded campaigns  to incite for the dissolution of Israel that are well documented on  YouTube.As mentioned previously, former Hamas commander Mohammed Sawalha  and Hamas activist Azzam Tamimi, both British citizens, have mobilized thousands  of protesters in mass demonstrations across London calling for Israel’s  destruction, publicly declaring, “We are all Hamas.” Referring to Israel, Tamimi  called on Britons to stand up and eradicate “this cancer from the body of  humanity” and publicly thanked Iranian regime founder Ayatollah Khomeini for  launching the international campaign to eradicate Israel.But flagrant  incitement against Israel and dissemination of anti-Semitic messages are also  the modus operendi of the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement in the  United States. Student BDS groups such as the 650 North American chapters of the  Muslim Students association and Students for Justice in Palestine to take just  two examples, promote the hateful and sometimes violent “Israel apartheid week”  crusades.These groups share similar goals to Hamas and some PLO terror  groups regarding Jews and the future of the Jewish state, albeit employing  different tactics. SJP has been shown to have connections to Hamas including  providing financial support.Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP),  with chapters on universities across the United States, has undertaken widely  publicized anti-Semitic campaigns of intimidation, harassment and threats  against Jewish students and others expressing any support for Israel. In fact,  on Israel’s Independence Day in May, at the esteemed Vassar College SJP members  tweeted an anti-Semitic graphic depicting US Jews as bloodthirsty monsters in  what was an actual World War II Nazi propaganda poster displayed in the occupied  Netherlands.Makor Rishon’s Amnon Lord reported that SJP’s “reign of  terror” at Vassar crossed all red lines and even included physically confronting  and threatening Jewish students who intended to fly to Israel’s Ben-Gurion  Airport in order to work with Palestinian “human rights” groups. SJP members at  NYU and UCLA placed eviction notices under the doors of Jewish students in  recent weeks. At Northeastern University, SJP students have regularly chanted,  “From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free” – a call for the destruction  of the Jewish state, and: “Resistance is justified when people are occupied” – a  justification of Palestinian terrorism against Israeli civilians.BDS  invective against Israel and the anti-Semitic incitement it exploits lays the  infrastructure for the next “Brussels” terror attack – which jihadi websites  continue to praise, while encouraging more “ attacks against  Jews.”Fortunately, some leaders and groups are acting forcefully against  BDS groups’ hatred, threats, intimidation and anti-Semitic activity. Vassar  College president Catherine Hale harshly condemned the SJP’s use of a Nazi  replica graphic and launched an official college investigation into the  organization. The New York-based Lawfare Project recently led a coalition of six  organizations who issued sharply worded letters to the presidents of NYU and  UCLA warning the universities that harassment and intimidation of Jewish  students exposes the universities to legal action under federal US civil rights  law. In March of 2014, Northeastern University expelled members of Students for  Justice in Palestine for their years-long campaign of threats, hate speech and  anti-Semitic statements.The nexus of anti-Semitism and terror must be  aggressively confronted. Israel, its allies, Jewish organizations and civil  rights groups in Europe and the United States should step up the fight against  these anti-Semitic delegitimization campaigns and confront BDS groups such as  the SJP with the same zero-tolerance approach with which they hunt down the  terrorists who just murdered four civilians in the Jewish Museum in  Brussels.
Dan Diker is a Research Fellow at the International Institute  for Counter Terrorism, Interdisciplinary Center, Herzliya and a Foreign Policy  Fellow at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Think about it: Anti-Semitism and the boycott of Israel</title>
<date>26/1/2014</date>
<content>
In his exceptionally warm speech in the Knesset last Monday, Canadian Prime  Minister Stephen Harper rightly pointed out that the attacks that Israel endures  in the international community regarding its alleged or actual wrongdoings are  totally out of proportion by any measure, and are frequently motivated by a new  variety of anti-Semitism that comes in the guise of hatred for Israel, which is  blamed for all the problems of the Middle East.Anyone who has any  understanding and knowledge about the Middle East knows that while Israel’s  existence has certainly affected the region’s status quo in general, and the  lives of the Palestinian Arabs (unquestionably mostly for the worse) in  particular, it is not responsible for the rise of the various forms of radical  Islam, inter-Arab conflicts that all too often have turned into bloody affairs  with hundreds of thousands of victims (many times more than the victims of the  Arab-Israeli conflict since 1948), the absence of democracy in the Arab world,  and most recently the disappointing results of the so-called “Arab  Spring.”




It even isn’t the only one responsible for the absence of a  Palestinian state. It was the Arab world in general and the Palestinians in  particular that rejected the 1947 UN partition plan which called for the  establishment of an Arab state in part of Palestine, and it was the Arab world  in general and the PLO in particular that refused, after the Six Day War –  before any Jewish settlement activities began in the occupied territories – to  have any dealings with Israel, when the Khartoum Arab Summit Conference of  September 1967 issued the famous “three nos” declaration: “no peace with Israel,  no recognition of Israel, no negotiations with Israel.”The new  anti-Semites are inclined to blame Israel for all of the above, and it doesn’t  matter whether they do so out of ignorance or malice. Anti-Semites are  anti-Semites, and their anti-Semitism has nothing to do with facts.Ever  since the conflict between Arabs and Jews began in the Middle East, with the  advent of Zionism, and certainly more so after the establishment of the State of  Israel in 1948, the Arabs have been responsible for fostering and encouraging  this brand of anti-Semitism, which formally claims that it is only the  Zionists/Israel who are the enemies of the Arabs/Muslims/Palestinians, and not  the Jews in general.HOWEVER, ALL too often both the Arabs and their  supporters have failed to stick to this distinction. The current wave of  Muslim-inspired anti-Semitism in France is ample proof of this.In his  speech Harper mentioned civil-society leaders (presumably civil-society leaders  in western countries) who call for the boycott of Israel (and one might add  Israelis as individuals) because of Israel’s policy vis-à-vis the Palestinians,  which in their opinion includes apartheid.He said nothing – either  positive or negative – about the Israeli policy, but insinuated that the motives  of the civil-society leaders are anti-Semitic, and the type of boycotts he was  apparently referring to were academic boycotts of Israeli academic institutions  and academics, and consumer boycotts of all Israeli products, services and  cultural activities.The impression one got from media reports of  Harper’s speech, and especially from the statements of various right-wing  commentators, was that he had said that all proposals for boycotting Israel in  one form or another are motivated by anti-Semitism.But that was not what  he said. Though Harper might object to the new trend in the policy of the  European Union and many of its individual member states, of not only boycotting  products produced by Israelis in territories occupied by Israel during the Six  Day War (that includes the West Bank, east Jerusalem and the Golan Heights), but  also of boycotting Israeli companies that are engaged in producing,  constructing, or providing funds and services that serve the Jewish settlement  activities in these territories – he said nothing on the subject.Though  it is no secret that Canada has objected to Israel’s settlement activities  beyond the Green Line ever since the Six Day War, as have all the other states  in the world, Harper said nothing about how the enlightened world ought to  confront Israel’s persistence in ignoring this unanimous opposition, which in  the past was mostly verbal, but is currently assuming increasingly more tangible  forms.Though it cannot be ruled out that among those who determine the  policy of the EU, and among the leaders of its member states, there are some  anti-Semites – of the old or new varieties – in general terms the new boycott is  not motivated by anti-Semitism, though it certainly pleases the anti-Semites,  and helps their own, more general boycott campaign.The new, targeted  boycott, if seriously implemented, will undoubtedly have a negative effect on  the Israeli economy, though certainly not a devastating effect. In the past  Israel survived a much worse and painful boycott – the Arab Boycott. With its  primary, secondary and tertiary manifestations, the Arab Boycott kept the  Israeli economy pretty isolated until the early 1990s, when the Madrid  Conference and Oslo Accords brought about a major change in Israel’s  international standing.How many still remember the fact that the only  Japanese car on sale in Israel was Subaru, that Coca Cola and Pepsi Cola refused  to manufacture in or sell to Israel, and most of the world petrol market was  closed to Israel? The purpose of those who imposed the boycott – the Arab states  – was to weaken and ultimately to destroy Israel, and companies in the western  world gave in for purely economic reasons, while the western governments didn’t  move a finger to declare cooperation with the boycott to be  illegal.Within the Israeli Finance Ministry there was an Economic  Warfare Authority whose main activity was to monitor the boycott. There was not  much more that could be done.Today the new boycott has been initiated by  western international institutions and governments – not the Arab states – and  its purpose is to try to get Israel’s government to change its settlement policy  in what they view as occupied territories, or alternatively to get the Israeli  business community to avoid supporting this policy by acting in these  territories as if they were an integral part of the sovereign territory of  Israel. The intention is not to destroy Israel.Israel’s business  community is naturally unhappy about the potential harm to the Israeli economy  from the new boycott, which is already manifesting itself. However, members of  this community are divided on ideological grounds with regard to what ought to  be done about it.lemOn the one hand there are those who believe that the  boycott’s sole motive is the objection to all aspects of Israel’s settement  policy, which is perceived as a major obstacle to an Israeli-Palestinian  settlement, and call for serious negotiations with the Palestinians toward a  settlement.One may assume that those who hold this position (mostly  supporters of the political Left and Center) will also do their best to end, or  at least limit, any business activities they might have in the territories,  though presumably most of them are not active in the territories.On the  other hand, there are those (mostly supporters of the political Right) who  believe that the initiators of the new boycott have ulterior motives that go  beyond Israel’s settlement activities, and that the settlement activities are  not the real obstacle to progress in the negotiations with the Palestinians, or  alternatively, reject any settlement based on territorial compromise and the  establishment of a Palestinian state.I wonder how the Canadian prime  minister would have reacted had he been asked for his opinion on this  debate.In his speech he elegantly avoided the issue of Israel’s  settlement policy altogether.
The writer is a retired Knesset employee  who worked for the Economic Warfare Authority in the early 1980s.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Time to remove the blinders</title>
<date>8/5/2014</date>
<content>
John Kerry is anti-Semitic, but  it’s unlikely that Ehud Barak, Tzipi Livni or Ehud Olmert are also members of  the Jew-hating society. That was the point made last week by not one but two  Jerusalem Post columnists identified with the extreme Right, in response to the  oft-repeated warnings that without a negotiated two-state solution, Israel is in  danger of deteriorating into an apartheid-like country.I guess we should  be grateful for the generous concession that previous utterances by Barak, Livni  and Olmert were not the result of anti-Semitism, but rather because of their  political ambition and quest for power. And Kerry? As the Post pointed out in an  editorial last week, while he may be intellectually lazy and ignorant of what  apartheid really is, he’s no anti-Semite.




Clearly, there’s no place for  the term apartheid in any description of or comparison between the situation  facing Israeli and the Palestinians, and the brutal situation that once existed  in South Africa.But anyone who travels between Jewish settlements and  Palestinian villages and towns in the West Bank can see that there are two  societies living there – one whose residents are waved through checkpoints and  enjoy total freedom of movement, and one whose residents are stopped, checked,  delayed, and live restricted lives.It’s easy and convenient to  rationalize that contradiction by saying they brought it on themselves, with  their war of terror that rained down on Israel in the second intifada,  necessitating the building of security barriers that crisscross the West Bank,  essentially creating two countries out of one patch of land.No, it’s not  apartheid, by any means. But those emergency measures that saved countless  Israeli lives has only intensified the unequal, unfair treatment toward  Palestinian West Bank residents.To all those cheering the demise of the  Kerry-led negotiations between Israel and the PLO, that status quo is just fine.  As long as Israelis aren’t being killed and suicide bombers are unable to enter  the country, then there’s no problem to be solved.It is part of a double  game that those on the Right enjoy playing. At the outset of negotiations, they  moaned that there’s no hope of making peace with Mahmoud Abbas because he  doesn’t control the Palestinian people or the terror-bent Hamas and Islamic  Jihad. What good would any agreement with the PLO be anyway? At the same time,  the second that Abbas tried to create a Palestinian consensus by bringing Hamas  into the government, the ready-made out was handed to Jerusalem on a silver  platter – with good reason, Israel rightfully can’t conduct negotiations with an  entity that includes Hamas as long as it subscribes to its goal of wiping out  Israel.That PA-Hamas gift for the Netanyahu government provided  incontrovertible justification for discontinuing the process that lead to the  clichéd “painful concessions” necessary to create a Palestinian  state.However, instead of sitting back and throwing up our hands and  saying “What can we do, it’s the Palestinians’ fault?” Israel now more than ever  should be taking the initiative.Binyamin Netanyahu is famous for saying  “I’m ready to meet Abbas any time or any place – we’re only 10 minutes away from  each other.” So do it! Make the call.It may be futile and lead nowhere.  Abbas may be ineffective at best, or a snake at worst. But shouldn’t our prime  minister be making every effort to woo the Palestinian Authority away from Hamas  and work tirelessly toward the two-state solution that he’s repeatedly stated  he’s in favor of? Yes, those like Kerry, Livni, Olmert and Barak may have erred  when they uttered the word “apartheid,” but they still got the sentiment right.  If Israel continues to control the lives of Palestinians in the West Bank, there  will be a continuation of what is happening there now – two classes of people –  one with rights and one without. It doesn’t really matter what you call it, but  it doesn’t reflect the values that a Jewish state should strive  toward.So thank you, Post columnists, for magnanimously admitting that  Livni, Olmert and Barak probably aren’t anti-Semitic. It would be even nicer to  go one step further: Not only are they not anti-Semitic, they are proud and  patriotic Zionists, who while in power and dealing with the Palestinian issue  did what they considered was best for the country’s future. And believe it or  not, it’s just possible that John Kerry and Barack Obama think that way as  well.These warnings we’re hearing of trouble ahead without a long-term  solution can certainly be ignored, or even chalked up to  anti-Semitism.
But they are real, and derive from a desire from those  making them to see Israel living in secure borders in peace. Slinging  “anti-Semitism” at anyone who disagrees with you like manure hoping it sticks,  or dwelling on the misuse of the term apartheid, simply ignores the problem, and  provides a facile escape from facing reality. It’s time to remove the blinders.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>UN: Turning back the clock to pre-1948 is the real endgame</title>
<date>17/12/2014</date>
<content>
Incitement against the Jewish state is directly related to the stabbings, raping and killing of Jews inside and outside of Israel.  But doing something to stop it requires confronting a very troubling fact: the global epicenter for incitement is the “human rights” leviathan, the United Nations.From November 24, 2014 until December 5, 2014, UN human rights headquarters in Geneva mounted a public exhibit that was pure incitement. UN-driven antisemitism that takes the form of seeking to demonize, disable and ultimately destroy the Jewish state.  




The exhibit was entitled: “La Nakba:  Exode et Expulsion des Palestiniens en 1948” – or “The Nakba: Exodus and Expulsion of the Palestinians in 1948.”  The occasion was the annual UN Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. Solidarity Day marks the adoption by the General Assembly on November 29, 1947 of the resolution that approved the partitioning of Palestine into an Arab and a Jewish state. The partition resolution was rejected by Arab states and celebrated by the Jewish people.  Thus the Arab war to deny Israel’s right to exist began. But in 2014, the UN overtly jettisoned the usual diplomatic lie that the 1967 occupation is the root cause of the Arab-Israeli conflict. The exhibit focused on the alleged crime of creating a Jewish state in 1948 and openly justified the rejection of the partition resolution.The display was located in the UN’s Palais des Nations just outside the home room of the UN Human Rights Council. It consisted of 13 panels in French and an accompanying catalogue with English reproductions of each item. The catalogue was distributed by UN conference services. It turns out that the highly controversial exhibit has been circulating in churches and community centers in Germany, Austria and Switzerland since April 2008.  Sought-after hosts like the City of Dusseldorf and the city library in Freiburg have refused the exhibit, which has also been formally criticized by the Mayor of Cologne. The organization in charge of “design and content” for the exhibit is “Flüchtlingskinder im Libanon,” translated, “Refugee Children in Lebanon.” Ingrid Rumpf (aka Ingrid Hull), head of the organization and curator of the exhibit, explained her motivation in a 2011 interview by comparing Israelis to Nazis: "My involvement in the Palestinian problem is significantly influenced by my confrontation with Nazism.”Over the years, the litigious Ms. Rumpf has evidently enjoyed casting herself as a victim, launching repeated objections to bad press and other criticism over the exhibit before German courts and administrative tribunals.In the exhibition catalogue, the organizer explicitly asks and answers the question: “Why did we create this exhibition on the Nakba?”  The answer given: to reeducate all those whose “perceptions” have been “hindered” by “German guilt” and “the mass media” in order to “evoke understanding” that in 1948, Palestinians were “robbed of their homeland and their property.”According to UN regulations, the exhibit was required to have been authorized by the highest UN authority in Geneva. UN guidelines spell out that a request – in this case from “the mission of Palestine” – must be sent to the Cultural Activities Committee of the UN Office in Geneva “who shall make recommendations for approval by the Director-General.”  Michael Møller of Denmark.  In other words, the UN itself approved an exhibit proclaiming that “the partition resolution violates fundamental principles of the UN Charter.” According to the exhibit, the problem with the partition plan was that it was prepared and adopted “without consulting the Palestinian people,” and “the General Assembly is not authorized to pass binding laws or create new states.”Actually, the General Assembly decision not to hand Arab rejectionists a veto over Jewish self-determination was deliberate and well-justified. And the partition resolution never purported to be a law or “create” a state. The resolution represented a stamp of moral and political approval for the creation of Israel, which was accomplished by a declaration of its own people almost six months later. The “source” identified in the exhibit for this bogus contention is one Norman Paech.  He is a former German Left Party parliamentarian, who distinguished himself by voting against a 2008 resolution establishing a committee to report on antisemitic crimes and to support the growth of Jewish life in Germany. A prolific inciter, Paech has also claimed that there is a “right to armed resistance” against anyone living in a Jewish settlement, Israel is an “apartheid state,” and Israel waged “a war of extermination” in Lebanon.The UN-sponsored exhibit contains a litany of other fabrications and hate speech.  These include: “The roots of the Palestine problem date back to the late nineteenth century, when…Zionism developed in Europe.” “The Balfour Declaration was legally, politically, and morally dubious.” The 1948 war consisted of “acts of terrorism…by the Zionists.” Jews were busy conducting "massacres," while Arabs were busy fleeing. The “leading Zionist representatives headed by the subsequent Prime Minister of Israel David Ben Gurion, planned and implemented the ethnic purge.”  The case for Arab rejection of a Jewish state, indicates the exhibit, is that “the Palestinians failed to see why they should be made to pay for the Holocaust.”The exhibit used the word “indigenous” only to describe Arabs and their “ancestral soil.” The presence of Jews, and the association of Judaism with the land of Israel, for almost 4,000 years were never mentioned.Palestinians, the exhibit claims, were “an entirely uninvolved people” in Nazi persecution of Jews. In fact, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Haj Amin al-Husseini, closely collaborated with the Nazis.  Living lavishly under German auspices during much of the war, and still considered a hero by many Palestinians, al-Husseini pressed Hitler to extend his solution of the Jewish problem to Palestine.  Nowhere in its history of Israel’s creation is there any mention that the armies of five neighboring Arab states – exclusively equipped with the standard weapons of a regular army – invaded the day old Jewish state on multiple fronts.  Instead, the exhibit gives a revisionist account of impoverished Arab “troop strength.”As for the 800,000 persecuted Jews who were forced to flee Arab states, the exhibit blames Israel:  “Israel’s expansionist policy had grave effects on the mainly peaceful coexistence of Muslims, Jews and Christians that had prevailed for centuries in the Arab countries of Asia and Africa. The result was massive immigration of Jews from these countries to Israel.”The exhibit concludes with the final message that Israel is the “lost homeland” of Palestinians to which they are “longing” to return.  The visual images include signs saying “no return = no peace” and pictures of a title deed and front door key.Nowhere does the exhibit talk about recognition of, and peaceful co-existence with, the Jewish state. The sources for all the falsehoods in this UN-hosted exhibit are clearly acknowledged and are a veritable who’s-who of anti-Israel and anti-Jewish extremists, like Ilan Pappe, Walid Khalidi, Uri Davis and Salman Abu Sitta.  A mere glance at their extensive contributions to bigotry would have revealed the exhibit’s fraudulence to UN officials, had they cared: Ilan Pappe: “1948…Zionist leaders…put the final touches on a plan for the ethnic cleansing of Palestine…[E]thnic cleansing ...has been practiced…by the Nazis…The problem with Israel…is its ethnic Zionist character.” Walid Khalidi: “The unity that currently exists in Jerusalem is the unity of an Anschluss…The Zionist leadership "accepted" partition, but this acceptance was only verbal. At the same time they prepared a master plan...for military conquest.” Uri Davis: “The core of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a conflict between a settler colonial state of Israel informed by political Zionist apartheid ideology and characterized by political Zionist ethnic cleansing practices, on the one part, and the indigenous people of the country of Palestine, the Palestinian Arab people, on the second part.” Salman Abu Sitta: “Palestine is the patrimony of Palestinians…In spite of British collusion and Jewish wealth…Palestinians will never accept foreign intruders…Zionism is a colonial project… Colonial projects cannot last. Zionism has implemented the largest comprehensive ethnic cleansing in modern history.” For her efforts in transforming such a group of pathological xenophobes into UN authorities, the day before the exhibit opened at the UN, the Palestinian Community in Germany awarded Rumpf with the “Palestine Solidarity Prize.”  The presenter thanked her for the exhibit and its message, which he encapsulated this way:  "The Palestinians are the last victims of the Holocaust.” Another showing of the exhibit earlier this year was opened by Hans-Christof von Sponeck – a former UN official disgraced by having personally benefitted from working against sanctions on Saddam Hussein’s Iraq.  In his opening remarks, von Sponeck said:  “Maybe the time will come when Palestinians…and Israelis…will join hands in mounting a joint Naqba & Shoa exhibition…”In defense of the exhibit, Rumpf herself lined up and distributed at the UN a list of supporters. They included Jean Ziegler, who launched the annual Muammar Qaddafi Human Rights Prize in 1989 four months after Libya bombed Pan Am flight 103, received the prize himself along with a French Holocaust denier in 2002, embraced and advised dictators from Castro to Mugabe, and called Gaza “an immense concentration camp.”The exhibit also proudly identifies the NGOs from which it “has received support.” They include organizations such as “Right for All,” which shout about Israeli “ethnic cleansing,” and “crimes against humanity, and claim that the problem all started with “the Zionist occupation in 1948.”  Their solution? “All Palestine must be liberated.”Recent work by exhibition backer the Association France Palestine Solidarité (AFPS) includes the publication of a series of “beautiful posters” – to use the words of its president Taoufik Tahani – on the Gaza war  in September 2014.  Posters like “Bibi dans son bain,” which portrays Israeli Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu soaking over his head in Palestinian blood.  And then there is exhibition backer “Collectif Urgence Palestine” whose website boasts a poster depicting Israel as a blood-dripping weapon that must be stopped. With the United Nations having welcomed the exhibit with open arms – notwithstanding its vile purposes, partners, supporters and fact-checkers – the organizers hit the jackpot. On November 23, 2014, Rumpf gushed:  “I very much hope that the Nakba exhibition will encounter in the future strong demand…[Its] appearance…in the Palace of the United Nations in Geneva, where it is shown on the occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, should completely remove serious doubts about its reliability...”UN rules state that cultural activities seeking a UN platform must “promote dialogue among civilizations” and “be compatible with the values, purposes and principles of the United Nations.” Apparently, a direct attack on the legitimacy of the UN member state of Israel is now interpreted in UN circles as consistent with the principles of the United Nations. Maybe, so long as those principles have nothing to do with truth, equality, and justice.The silence of UN members on this abomination is deafening.

Anne Bayefsky is the Director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust
Follow her on twitter @AnneBayefsky
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Washington Watch: Jordan: A fragile ally</title>
<date>19/2/2014</date>
<content>
Syrian, Palestinian, Iraqi and Sudanese refugees already constitute a majority  of the Jordanian population, and their numbers are growing steadily along with  the pressure on the kingdom’s overextended economic resources and  infrastructure.King Abdullah II was in the United States last week for  bicoastal discussions of the war next door in Syria and the threat of spillover.  He came away with money and the assurances that the sympathetic but  hyper-cautious Barack Obama was in his third year of pondering ways to deal with  the humanitarian disaster that don’t involve putting American boots on the  ground.




The administration has deployed Special Forces, Patriot missile  batteries, several F-16’s and millions in humanitarian assistance while trying  to keep a very low profile. Unconfirmed reports say the Pentagon is training  Syrian opposition forces at a base in the Jordanian desert.But the  greatest threat to the survival of the Hashemite regime may not come from Syria  but from across the Jordan River. A poll of West Bank Palestinians last summer  showed they leaned toward confederation with Jordan although they prefer waiting  until they attain statehood, which would put the two banks on a more equal  footing.Abdullah considers himself a stakeholder in the faltering  Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations and although Washington keeps him up to  date on talks and he’s in close touch with all three parties, he’d like a  Jordanian chair at the table, but won’t get it.The outcome of those  talks will have nearly as much impact for Jordan as for Israel and the  Palestinians.In some ways more so if the result is an irredentist  Palestine with an urge to expand to the east as the path of least  resistance.The existential threat to Jordan will be even greater if the  Islamist Hamas achieves its ambition to wrest control to the West Bank from its  bitter rival, the secular Fatah.A Hamas-led Palestine could be expected  to make alliance with the Jordanian Muslim Brotherhoods’ Islamic Action Front  (IAF), an increasingly powerful player in the kingdom. Both advocate the  annihilation of Israel, not negotiations, and the adoption of Sharia law.  Abdullah is certain the Egyptian Brotherhood, which spawned IAF and Hamas, has  been fomenting unrest in Jordan and wants to see him gone, Jeffrey Goldberg  reported in The Atlantic.Nonetheless, Abdullah remains a strong advocate  of the two-state solution and worries that time may be running out, leaving  Israel with a choice of apartheid or one-state democracy if it can’t reach an  agreement soon with the Palestinians.A major issue of contention in the  peace talks is Israel’s demand for a security presence in the Jordan Valley.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has rejected that and suggested a  NATO force. Hamas has declared it would treat any troops as an occupation force  no different from Israel, meaning targeted for attack. Jordan has said it would  not deploy its army along its 338 km. frontier with Israel and the West Bank to  protect Israel’s border, but that is what it already does when it protects its  own, and it will have to double the effort if the Israeli army is withdrawn and  replaced by others less reliable.Forces in the Jordan Valley, whatever  the source, will be more essential to protecting Jordan than Israel. Jordan is  weaker, more vulnerable to intrusions and the expansionist ambitions of a  landlocked Palestine.Abdullah is the most pro-American ruler in the Arab  world and an “indispensable” ally for the United States, Israel and the gulf  Arabs, Goldberg wrote, and “Israel, in some ways, is Jordan’s most important  ally.”In 1970’s Black September, Israel played a critical role in  thwarting Yasser Arafat’s attempt to overthrow King Hussein and a Syrian  invasion in support of that coup plot.Early in this decade’s “Arab  awakening,” “King Abdullah II was one of the first Arab rulers to understand the  explosive nature of the unrest in the Middle East and one of the first to  introduce political reforms,” according to Oded Eran, the former Israeli  ambassador to Jordan. “Like others in the Middle East, the king is probably  asking himself whether Washington can be expected to provide assistance beyond  money and military hardware.”The king also fears the IAF may, in the  name of Islam, try to “hijack” the political reforms he has instituted in the  wake of the Arab awakening, Eran wrote in the Israel Journal of Foreign  Affairs.Abdullah’s pace of reform may be slow, but it sends a message to  Jordanian people, said Dan Schueftan, a visiting professor at Georgetown  University: “The enormous suffering and chaos next door is because they rebelled  against the regime; we have started with reform, we will provide change, we hear  you; you may not get everything you want but you’ve been spared the tragedy and  suffering.”In light of the events in Egypt, Iraq, Syria, Palestinian  areas, and the ascendancy of fundamentalist regimes in the region, Eran said  “Israel would do well to aid Jordan economically as much as  possible.”Jordan’s greatest fear is that the estimated 600,000 Syrians,  200,000 Iraqis and thousands of Sudanese won’t want to go home when the  situations in their countries settle. In addition between half and twothirds of  its 7.5 million population is Palestinian, including Abdullah’s wife, Queen  Rania.Unlike other Arab countries, Jordan gives Palestinian refugees –  the largest number in any Arab country – full citizenship, although not full  equality with Jordanians. Most Jordanians want to retain that inequality, and  preferably to return to the other side of the river, but that is highly  unlikely.Many Hashemites, Beduin, Islamists, nationalists and tribal  leaders express growing concern that the Palestinian refuges and their  descendants will remain permanently, becoming a fifth column for a Palestinian  state on the West Bank that will try to expand to the East Bank.They  want Palestinians to have their own state on the West Bank and leave the East  Bank to Jordanians.
Unlike many Palestinians and Israeli nationalists and  settlers, they reject any suggestion that Jordan is Palestine.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Washington watch: Slamming the door to peace</title>
<date>1/10/2014</date>
<content>
Sorry, Shimon Peres, but despite your endorsements, Mahmoud Abbas just resigned  his post as partner for peace. His vitriol-laced United Nations speech accusing  Israel of “genocide,” “war crimes,” “racism,” “apartheid,” “state terrorism” and  “preparing for a new Nakba [catastrophe]” are not the words of a peacemaker but  of a man intent on slamming the door to peace.His obnoxious rant aimed  at demonizing and delegitimizing the Jewish state was matched by the speech by  Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, who managed to sound even more self-righteous  and less willing to compromise than usual.




Abbas’s speech was a gift to  Netanyahu. It said “I’m not serious, so you don’t have to be either.” The  reality is neither man was ever really ready to make the “historic compromises”  Netanyahu called for but once again avoided in his speech from the same stage on  Monday.Netanyahu would prefer to hang on to the status quo and Abbas  made it clear once again that he wants the rest of the world to impose his terms  on Israel while making no concessions of his own.The odd man out is US  President Barack Obama who, like many of his predecessors, was left seeking a  peace agreement the parties themselves didn’t want badly enough to make it  happen.Hopes that the Palestinian position would be more realistic were  quickly dashed, as were unrealistic Palestinian expectations that following this  summer’s Gaza war Washington would increase pressure on Israel to meet  Palestinian demands.Obama, who will see Netanyahu at the White House,  didn’t even bother meeting with Abbas this month, no doubt still smarting from  the Palestinian leader’s rejection of his plea last spring to endorse the US  framework for peace and extend the negotiations, which collapsed shortly  afterwards.Instead the State Department angrily condemned Abbas’ speech,  calling it “offensive,” “deeply disappointing,” “provocative” and  “counterproductive.”US Secretary of State John Kerry warned Abbas that  if he went ahead with threats to push for a United Nations Security Council  resolution setting a deadline for Israeli withdrawal, the United States would  veto it. And if he carries out his threats to go to the International Criminal  Court with war crimes charges he risks rupturing his financial and political  backing from Washington and others.Like Abbas, Netanyahu considers  himself blameless for the failure of the peace process and puts full  responsibility on the other side. The prime minister called for bypassing the  Palestinians and seeking “broader rapprochement” with other Arabs, something he  knows in a non-starter.He called for a “fresh approach from our  neighbors” but offered none himself. He played defense all the way, telling  everyone else what they should be doing but offering no initiatives of his  own.And all the while, Netanyahu endorses continued settlement  expansion, an unmistakable sign that he has no intention of allowing a viable  Palestinian state to be born. Knesset member Shelly Yacimovich said it would  have been better to answer the attacks on Israel with “a real, daring diplomatic  plan,” but instead “Netanyahu does not miss an opportunity to miss an  opportunity.”Similarly, Abbas failed to challenge Netanyahu with a  serious peace plan that could put the Israeli prime minister on the hot seat at  home and around the world. Instead he handed the prime minister a “get out of  jail free and go build more settlements” card thanks to a venomous attack that  even the Israeli peace camp denounced.Netanyahu will piously continue  pledging his desire for peace while bulldozing the West Bank because he knows  the more he stalls and builds the less land there will be for a Palestinian  state.Nahum Barnea, a leading Israeli analyst, writes the peace process  “is off the table. The gap between the parties is too big; the internal forces  opposing concessions are too strong. What we are left with is a battlefield  between an Israeli government which will forever stick to the status quo and a  desperate Palestinian Authority which is fighting it, with the world’s growing  support. It’s a recipe for an explosion.”Some of Abbas’ defenders said  he may have been standing in Manhattan but he was speaking to Ramallah and  Nablus and Gaza last Friday. The extreme rhetoric was to show he could be as  tough on Israel as Hamas, whose popularity in the West Bank soared after this  summer’s fighting, they insist, but underneath he is still the same moderate who  eschews violence and wants to negotiate a two-state agreement.He managed  to keep that a well-protected secret when he came to New York. It is a dangerous  gamble that could explode, literally. His inflammatory rhetoric could easily be  taken by the Palestinian street as a call to arms and a third intifada. In so  publicly venting his anger, hatred and frustration, he made peace more  inaccessible and violence more likely.
And Netanyahu, once again playing  the self-serving local politician instead of statesman, did his part to make  that explosion almost inevitable.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Washington Watch: Time out to think about peace</title>
<date>7/5/2014</date>
<content>
Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu should be one happy fella. He is a hero to his  far-right coalition partners who threatened to topple his government if he got  too serious about making peace with the Palestinians.For the second time  in five years he thwarted an American-led peace initiative that neither he nor  Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas wanted, and together they probably ended  chances for a renewed effort before a new administration takes over in 2017, if  then.




US Secretary of State John Kerry may be reluctant to admit defeat  for his energetic effort to bring the two sides together, but he once again  proved that we can’t want peace more than the parties themselves, and the truth  is neither Netanyahu nor Abbas took Kerry’s effort very seriously. Kerry says he  is going to take a time out to think about what went wrong.That was  answered by an unnamed senior American official – believed to be the head of  Kerry’s negotiating team, Martin Indyk –in an interview with Israeli journalist  Nahum Barnea in the Hebrew daily Yediot Aharonot. The American official focused  most of his criticism on the Israeli leadership.The talks were  “sabotaged” in several ways but “the primary sabotage came from the  settlements,” the source said.“Netanyahu was using the announcements of  tenders for settlement construction as a way to ensure the survival of his own  government” and to allow “ministers in his government to effectively sabotage  the success of the talks,” the official said. There were some 14,000  construction tenders and in addition Israel also was “expropriating land on a  large scale.”That served to convince the Palestinians that Israel does  not intend to let them found a state, the source said.Three Israeli  officials were singled out as the main saboteurs. Defense Minister Moshe  Ya’alon’s attack on Kerry as only looking for a Nobel prize was considered a  “great insult.” Yitzhak Molcho, Netanyahu’s lawyer and relative, was appointed  by the prime minister as “babysitter” for the nominal chief negotiator, Justice  Minister Tzipi Livni, and “repeatedly undermined her.”The most damaging  was Housing Minister Uri Ariel, the source said. His announcement of 700  additional housing tenders just before the fourth and final prisoner release was  due last month was “an intentional act of sabotage, one of many.” Netanyahu  appeared to acquiesce, if not support Ariel’s actions.Netanyahu's decision to renege on releasing the prisoners convinced Kerry “an agreement  would not be reached.” But it didn’t close the door to resuming talks; that  happened when Abbas decided to form a unity government with Hamas, a terror  group that not only opposes peace with Israel, but the very existence of the  Jewish state.The American official called Livni “a heroine” who “fought  with all of her might to promote the agreement” and probably the only minister  in Netanyahu’s government who actually supported the peace process. Netanyahu  had constructed his cabinet to protect him from any pressure to make peace; by  deciding to go to the far Right rather than bring in centrist parties he could  argue that any serious concessions to the Palestinians would bring down his  government. It left little doubt that peace was not a priority for his  government.Abbas made some concessions, the source said, but not enough  to satisfy Netanyahu, who “wouldn’t move more than an inch.” When Abbas felt the  Israelis didn’t “appreciate” his offers, he began “shutting down, locking into  his positions.”The American official, at least as reported by Barnea,  had little critical to say about Palestinian conduct that has soured the Israeli  public’s attitude toward peace, including incitement, the glorification of  terrorists, insistence on maximalist positions and the failure to prepare the  Palestinian public for the difficult compromises essential to making  peace.Netanyahu’s demand that Palestinians recognize Israel as the  nation state of the Jewish people may not have been as much of a deal breaker as  Israel portrayed it, the source said. The Americans were puzzled why Netanyahu  brought it up at the outset because by pushing it so insistently he seemed to be  using it to sabotage talks; they believed that Abbas’ opposition might have been  tactical, something to swap at a later stage for a major concession. That may  have been wishful thinking, but they never got a chance to find out.If  recognizing the Jewish state was Netanyahu’s litmus test for Palestinian  seriousness to make peace, halting settlement expansion was Abbas’  measure.Both men failed miserably, perhaps intentionally.The  Palestinians say that in Netanyahu they did not have a partner for peace, a view  apparently shared by many on the American team. But Abbas himself was no  candidate for the Profiles in Courage award, either. In the end, both leaders  emerged from the nine-month ordeal with exactly what they probably wanted – an  excuse to scuttle the talks and credible grounds for blaming the other  guy.Kerry had repeatedly said this could be the last chance to make  peace. He warned that Israel has a difficult choice to make between continued  occupation of 2.5 million Palestinians or being a democratic, Jewish state. His  use of the incendiary word “apartheid” was a poor choice, but the warning was  right on target. Most Israelis support the two-state solution, which Netanyahu  pays lip service to but fails to act on, and if a peace agreement is not  possible, now may be time to consider unilateral disengagement.What  next? “As of now, nothing is stopping the Palestinians from turning to the  international community. The Palestinians are tired of the status quo. They will  get their state in the end – whether through violence or by turning to  international organizations,” said the American official. Meanwhile, he  added, “we’re taking a time-out to think and reevaluate.”Kerry may  present an American proposal or there will just be “a period of reassessment,  reevaluation.”It’s difficult to see what he can achieve when neither  party is really interested.
The secretary of state has been indefatigable  in his Quixotic quest but for the time being it seems the Israelis and  Palestinians have decided to kick the can down the road. The trouble with that  is it is a very dangerous road. But now he’ll have time to deal with some real  crises.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Whose international law?</title>
<date>6/11/2014</date>
<content>
Yara Dowani, writing in The Jerusalem Post on November 4 (“More police are not  the answer in east Jerusalem”), invokes international law  repeatedly.First she refers to “the occupation.”




And then, when  alluding to the police and military presence in Shuafat, she writes: “If  Palestinians in Shuafat are throwing stones at the Israeli light rail while it’s  passing through, it is for a reason.That reason is very clear: the light  rail is considered to be illegal by international law, and allowing it to pass  through normalizes the illegal situation in that area. So I think it is totally  understandable and normal that Palestinians resist its presence.”This is  a startling – indeed shocking – statement on several counts. But let’s start  with the matter of “international law” – a term that is invoked very  freely.Dowani’s position, clearly, is that Israel is an “illegal  occupier” everywhere over the 1949 armistice line (often erroneously referred to  as the “1967 border”). That is the position embraced by the Palestinian  Authority and by the several nations that support the PA stance. But in point of  fact, it is not supported by international law.Everything from the 1949  armistice line east to the Jordan River is unclaimed Mandate Land – for the  League of Nations, in 1922, charged Britain with administering this area,  allocated as a Jewish Homeland. The Mandate was truly an article in  international law and has never been superseded. It is not possible for Israel  to be an “occupier” in land that was intended for Jews in the first  place.Security Council Resolution 242 – passed after the war in 1967,  when Israel had liberated eastern Jerusalem and all of Judea and Samaria from an  illegal Jordanian occupation – did not require Israel to return behind the 1949  armistice line. The final border, declared this resolution, would be determined  via negotiations. That was the position of the original armistice agreement  between Israel and Jordan as well: the armistice line was temporary and the  final border would be determined by negotiations.There is absolutely no  legal sanctity today to the 1949 armistice line.This is the case for all  of Judea and Samaria. As far as the area of Jerusalem where Shuafat is located  is concerned, there is yet another dimension to the legal story.Dowani  refers to “east Jerusalem,” which lends the impression that it is somehow  legally separate from “west Jerusalem.”Yet this is not the case, for, in  1980, Israeli basic law was amended to recognize all of Jerusalem, united, as  the capital of Israel.After all of this is said, there are yet other  points that Dowani makes – related to her first – that must be addressed: She  claims that because Israel is in Shuafat “illegally,” it is “understandable and  normal” that the Palestinian Arab residents there would throw stones at the  Jerusalem light rail, which, in passing through Shuafat, “normalizes an illegal  situation.”This is an outrageous position.There is no  justification – ever – for threatening the safety of civilians riding the light  rail.What is more, Dowani is highly selective in objecting to the rail  line as something that “normalizes” the Israeli “occupation” of the eastern part  of Jerusalem. For she seems to have no trouble with other aspects of Israeli  administration of the city.It is exceedingly likely that the stone  throwers possess Jerusalem residency cards.This gives them all sorts of  perks and benefits, which they receive gladly. I don’t see anyone suggesting  that they renounce these benefits in protest against Israeli “occupation” – even  though receipt of these perks “normalizes” the fact that Israel is the  administrator of Jerusalem.How’s that for having your cake and eating it  too? What I can envision, very readily, is what would have been said by  Palestinian Arab residents of Shuafat had the light rail circumvented their  area: they would have protested that this was “apartheid,” and that Israel  treats them shabbily.In truth, Dowani’s words about the presence of  soldiers and police everywhere provided me with a certain comfort.How  disingenuous she is when she asks what the police and soldiers and helicopters  flying overhead are looking for. Given the recent violence, it’s not possible  that she doesn’t know. She believes in freedom, she tells us. Well, I, as a  Jewish citizen of Israel and resident of Jerusalem, believe in freedom too: the  freedom to be able to move about the city everywhere without fearing rock  throwers and worse.
The author, a writer, author and blogger, is co-chair  of the Legal Grounds Campaign.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why does Germany fund demonization of Israel?</title>
<date>23/4/2014</date>
<content>
In speech after speech, German leaders restate their country’s “moral and  historic responsibility” toward Israel and the Jewish people after the  Holocaust. This is as it should be – the heirs to the Nazi regime cannot bring  the Six Million back to life, but they can help to protect Israel, the nation  state of the Jewish people, from attack. On this basis, the German government  has provided important defense technology, such as submarines, to strengthen  Israeli deterrence against Iran, and top officials, including Chancellor Angela  Merkel, have stated their opposition to the anti-Israel demonization, in the  form of unprincipled boycotts, lawfare (exploiting legal processes and  institutions), and waves of false “war crimes” allegations.However,  there is a vast gap between the words of the leaders and the actions of their  government – specifically in the form of taxpayer money provided to  non-governmental organizations (NGOs), political foundations and church groups  that are central to delegitimization. European money, in general, and German  funds in particular, pay for the fuel and ammunition for the political warfare  strategy adopted at the infamous NGO Forum of the 2001 Durban Conference, whose  participants declared their objective of “the complete international isolation  of Israel as an apartheid state.” In many parts of Europe, including Germany,  particularly on university campuses, churches and trade unions, this insidious  form of warfare has been successful in demonizing Israel.




One of the most  egregious examples is the German support for and cooperation with a notorious  “one-state” (meaning no Israel) NGO known as Zochrot, whose mission is to “raise  public awareness of the Palestinian Nakba” and to support the so-called  Palestinian “right of return.” Zochrot repeats modern blood libels, in the form  of accusations of “ethnic cleansing” and “forcible displacement and  dispossession of the Palestinian people.”The money, and therefore shared  responsibility, is provided from two official German sources: the Rosa Luxemburg  Stiftung (RLS – named after the Jewish radical of the early 1900s, and  affiliated with the political party Die Linke) and Misereor (the German Catholic  Church’s “humanitarian aid” framework).Zochrot is not an unfortunate  exception – there are numerous examples of German money used in support of  anti-Israel NGO campaigns. RSL lists over 20 “projects” with various political  advocacy NGOs active in the conflict, and many are involved in the Durban agenda  of political warfare against the nation-state of the Jewish people. The Heinrich  Boll Stiftung, another “political foundation” (associated with the Green Party),  supports a number of fringe Israeli groups that are used to justify demonization  and the false allegations of “war crimes” throughout Europe, including in  Germany, the United Nations Human Rights Council, and in the framework of the  International Criminal Court.Brot für die Welt–EED (the Protestant  Church’s aid framework), which gets the majority of its budget from the Federal  Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, has funded the Ecumenical  Accompaniment Programme in Palestine and Israel (EAPPI), which blames Israel for  the oppression of Christians, and promotes the promotes the Kairos Palestine BDS  document, and Coalition of Women for Peace, whose “Who Profits?” project  initiated numerous BDS campaigns in Europe.CWP is also supported by  Medico International (funded by the Foreign Office and other ministries,  ifaZivik – Institute for Foreign Cultural Relations, and EU frameworks) and  which pushes a strong anti-Israel agenda. In addition, EED joined MISEREOR in  endorsing the policy of labeling goods produced over the 1949 Armistice line, as  part of the wider BDS campaign.Since most of the details are secret, it  is hard to distinguish between a lack of due diligence on the part of the  officials responsible for humanitarian aid and NGOs, or deliberate support for  the demonization of Israel. In some cases, efforts are made to explain German  support for these campaigns in terms of opposition to the post-1967 “occupation”  or Israeli settlement policies – but Zochrot, the BDS groups and the wide NGO  network promoting Durban have a 1948 agenda, supporting the 66-year campaign to  roll back any form of Jewish national self-determination and sovereign  equality.When presented with detailed documentation, officials have  attacked the messengers, and responded with the absurd claim of “balance”, that  many of the German frameworks also support “pro-Israel” and “propeace”  activities, as if moral behavior in one sphere justifies immorality in  another.Instead of feeble and insensitive excuses, Germany has a  fundamental and immediate responsibility to stop all support for the political  war demonizing Israel. German and Israeli officials should cooperate in writing  a binding code of conduct to govern the activities facilitated by any funds that  originate with German taxpayers, including political foundations and church aid  frameworks. Words of support for Israel and the Jewish people must be matched by  deeds, including in the realm of “soft power” and political warfare.
The  author is a professor of political science at Bar-Ilan University and heads NGO  Monitor. The examples given in the article are documented in NGO Monitor’s  detailed report on German government funding.
</content>
</article>
<article>
<title>Why does the EU continue to fund anti-peace NGOs?</title>
<date>11/2/2014</date>
<content>
When  the head of the European Parliament Martin Schulz addresses the Knesset, he  might repeat the bleak words of the European Union’s Ambassador Lars  Faaborg-Andersen. The EU ambassador has declared that a failed peace process  would lead to more isolation for Israel, “not necessarily because of any  decisions taken at a government level but because of decisions taken by...  companies, ...pension funds, and... consumers.” A similar message, interpreted  as designed to add pressure on Israel, was also delivered by US Secretary of  State Kerry.The facts, however, demonstrate that in contrast to a  spontaneous process, the European Union and its member states are actively  promoting and funding the boycott and isolation of Israel. Perhaps because he  has only recently taken his post, and the EU systematically blocks release of  relevant documents, in violation of core democratic principles, officials such  as Ambassador Faaborg-Andersen conceal and distort the EU’s central role in this  form of political warfare.




For years, the EU has been providing millions  of euros to radical political advocacy non-governmental organizations (NGOs)  that, as repeatedly demonstrated, promote the images of Palestinian  victimization and Israeli oppression. In many cases, the reports and lobbying  efforts of these NGO are central to EU policy formation, forming a closed circle  in which biased anti-Israel narratives are reinforced.Although claiming  to support moral causes such as human rights, democracy and peace, these EU  funding policies actively promote boycott and isolation of Israel.And as  a result, the Palestinians have an easy alternative to the “painful compromises”  necessary for peace.The EU’s European Instrument for Human Rights and  Democracy (EIDHR) is a major vehicle for this form of political pressure. For  the years 2007-2010, (the last available data), EIDHR channeled more money into  Israeli-Palestinian issues than to any other country or part of the world – over  €11 million. It would appear that for EIDHR, human rights violations in Syria  and around the world are of relatively little importance.(Projects  focused on Israel/Palestine received 57 percent of EIDHR funding for the Middle  East, while Syria, Iraq, Iran, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the UAE received no  country-targeted funding.) Many of EIDHR’s projects involve organizations with a  clear and strong bias against Israel, as demonstrated by their political  activities and agenda, and part of the campaign that exploits apartheid and  similar labels.This campaign specifically seeks “the complete  international isolation of Israel... which means the imposition of mandatory and  comprehensive sanctions and embargoes, the full cessation of all links  (diplomatic, economic, social, aid, military cooperation and training) between  all states and Israel,” as stated in the Final Declaration of the discredited  NGO Forum of the 2001 Durban conference. This is a declaration of war, and it is  being funded by Europe.Furthermore, the basic rights of Israelis,  including the basic right to life without the threat of terrorism, are  systematically ignored and omitted in this framework.Although EIDHR is  supposed to promote human rights around the world, some people have more rights  than others, and Israelis are entirely excluded, as reflected in the funding  practices and the resulting policy pronouncements.A brief and partial  examination of the NGOs and activities that EIDHR funds illustrates the EU’s  central role. In 2011, EIDHR provided an Israeli NGO, the Coalition of Women for  Peace, with €247,668. CWP is a leader in the campaigns to demonize Israel,  including boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) and sponsoring “Nakba Day”  activities that repeat Palestinian narratives. CWP officials have participated  in events in which they carried flags of the PFLP terrorist  organization.The EU claims to fund “projects” and not NGOs, but this is  a technical response, as money is fungible and pays for salaries, travel and  publicity.Similarly, in 2010, a very small NGO known as the Israeli  Committee Against House Demolitions (ICAHD) received €169,661. ICAHD officials  play a major role in demonization via rhetoric such as “ethnic cleansing,”  “genocide,” “collective punishment,” and “apartheid.”The EU’s  Palestinian partners include the Holy Land Trust (€198,380), which is prominent  in supporting BDS and the Kairos Palestine document. The Kairos Palestine  document denies the Jewish historical connection to Israel and promotes church  involvement in BDS, delegitimization, and demonization – a perverse way to  support “human rights and democracy.”Similarly, Al-Maqdese (€200,000)  focuses on alleged “Israeli violations of Palestinians’ rights” in  Jerusalem.Al-Maqdese accuses Israel of “racist” practices, “ethnic  cleansing,” and “ruthless, unforgiving, inhumane and above all illegal” actions.  It also uses demonizing rhetoric, such as “Apartheid Wall” and  “ghettos.”While European Parliament head Martin Schulz is in Israel, he  and Ambassador Faaborg-Anderson should use the opportunity for a comprehensive  examination of the activities of each of the EU’s political NGO partners and  their impacts. They will be able to learn that the campaigns of incitement and  isolation of Israel in Europe are far from spontaneous reactions to the  “occupation.” The next stage, when they report back to Brussels, is to take  action to end the EU ’s role in political warfare targeting Israel, which  instead of promoting peace, is fueling the conflict.
The author is a  professor of political science at Bar-Ilan University and heads NGO Monitor.
</content>
</article>
